19-07-2020||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Boy tied to tree for eloping with girl, made to wear garland of shoes||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 19A boy, who eloped with a minor girl of a village near Koom Kalan, was caught by the girl’s family member and was tied to a tree.His face was also blackened and was made to wear a garland of shoes.The Koom Kalan police booked some persons, including two of her real uncles and two other accused.As per sources, the boy and the girl had eloped on June 8 and on Thursday (July 16), the duo was found by the girl’s family and they were brought to the village where the boy was beaten up and tied to the tree.A video of the incident has also gone viral.Investigation officer ASI Kuldeep Singh said a case was registered against the kin of the girl — Kewal Singh and Nacchtar Singh of Bonkar Gujjran village.Some unknown persons nominated in the case are also being identified.Nacchtar has been arrested and the police are conducting raids to nab the remaining accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/boy-tied-to-tree-for-eloping-with-girl-made-to-wear-garland-of-shoes-115138
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||254 new coronavirus cases take Punjab tally past 10K; state reports 8 new fatalities||Punjab’s coronavirus cases crossed the 10,000 mark on Sunday, reporting 254 new cases and eight deaths, the state’s COVID bulletin showed.Ludhiana (76), Jalandhar (60), Patiala (40), Amritsar (28) and SAS Nagar (25) accounted for 90 per cent of Punjab’s Sunday cases, the state’s COVID bulletin showed.Ludhiana also accounted for four of Punjab’s eight fatalities on Sunday. Hoshiarpur, Amritsar and SAS Nagar reported a death each, making up the rest of Sunday’s death count for Punjab.Punjab’s case tally now stands at 10,100 with 254 deaths.Ferozepur (13), Sangrur (12), Pathakot (7), SBS Nagar (7), Tarn Taran (7), Fatehgarh Sahib (5), Fazilka (5), Moga (5), Faridkot (4), Mansa (4), Kapurthala (4),  Gurdaspur (3), Muktsar (2), Hoshairpur (1), Ropar (1), and Barnala (1) all reported new cases on Sunday.Thirty-seven of Ludhiana’s 76 were contacts of previously diagnosed cases, 11 were categorised as ILI (influenza-like illness), nine were new cases with no contact or travel history, three were OPD cases, five were healthcare workers and one was a person who just returned from abroad. The bulletin said the state was still collating data for the rest of the cases from the district.Nine of Jalandhar’s 60 were contacts of already diagnosed cases and one was a new case.Fourteen of Amritsar’s cases were contacts, two were policemen, five were classified as ILI, five were new cases and two were domestic travellers.Of SAS Nagar’s 28, three were policemen, three were contacts, one was a healthcare worker, seven were classified as ILI, three were OPD cases, and five were new cases. District-wise breakup of cases now stands thus: Ludhiana (1863), Jalandhar (1676), Amritsar (1253), Patiala (921), Sangrur (733), SAS Nagar (541), Gurdaspur (310), Pathankot (275), SBS Nagar (265), Hoshiarpur (260),Tarn Taran (229), Ferozepur (228), Fatehgarh Sahib (201), Faridkot (200), Moga (199), Muktsar (172), Bathinda (177), Kapurthala (153), Ropar (159), Fazilka (154), Barnala (80), and Mansa (71).Death toll stands thus: Ludhiana (46), Jalandhar (33), Amritsar (64),  Sangrur (21), Patiala (15), Hoshiarpur (10), Gurdaspur (10), Pathankot (9), SAS Nagar (11), Hoshiarpur (8), Tarn Taran (6), Kapurthala (8), Bathinda (4), Moga (4), Ferozepur (4), Fatehgarh Sahib (2),  Muktsar (1), Barnala (2), SBS Nagar (2),and Ropar (1).Punjab has been seeing a steady rise in coronavirus cases in the past two months. June and July together account for 7,837 cases---that is, over 77 per cent of the state’s cases.The state has reported 4,532 cases in July alone.Three districts---Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar---account for 47 per cent of the state’s cases and 56 per cent of its deaths.  The state has 3,311 active cases, the bulletin shows. Sixty-three people are on oxygen support and 10 people are critical and on ventilator support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/254-new-coronavirus-cases-take-punjab-tally-past-10k-state-reports-8-new-fatalities-115113
19-07-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||ASI suspended over alleged misbehaviour with woman complainant||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 19The police have arrested an Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) posted here in connection with a case booked against him. The ASI has been placed under suspension for now.The accused cop, identified as ASI Ashok Kumar, posted in Sanjay Colony in NIT here, has been arrested and suspended after registration of a case under Section 354-D (stalking) and 67 of the IT Act (publication or transmission of any message in electronic form any material which is lascivious or appeals to prurient interest) on basis of a complaint lodged by a local woman resident recently.It is revealed that the complainant (woman), residing in Sanjay Colony, had lodged a complaint with the police on June 30 that her gold ornaments had been stolen by the sons of the landlord of her house after some dispute over vacating the house.It is alleged that while the ASI failed to take prompt action, he also allegedly misbehaved and stalked her by passing an objectionable message on her Whatsapp. “Commissioner OP Singh has ordered registration of a case against the ASI and his suspension till a probe was on after the complaint reached his notice recently,” said ACP Dharna Yadav, spokesperson of the police department.The complainant said the ACP and the SHO of the area had been served notices of supervisory failure and poor command and control, respectively.The ASI, who was produced in the court on Sunday’s noon, was remanded to judicial custody by the local court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-suspended-over-alleged-misbehaviour-with-woman-complainant-115089
19-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma||SHOs, two other cops test positive for Covid-19, panic in Lehra area||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 19After SHOs of Lehra Zail Post and Lehra police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday evening along with two other cops, there is panic in the Lehra area.Residents have demanded quick contact tracing and testing, while senior police authorities have given the charge of both police stations to other officers.As per sources, the ZP and Lehra police station SHOs had been unwell for last around three four days. After request from police authorities, health department officers took samples of all cops of both ZP and police station three days back.Last evening, the report of Sub Inspector (SI), who is posted as Lehra police station SHO and another SI posted as ZP incharge along with two other cops came out positive.Though all four have been put under quarantine in police quarters, area residents fear the outbreak as both SHOs had been meeting many residents from various parts of the area.“Health department should launch a door-to-door health survey at least in the surroundings of police station to ensure the prevention of spread of virus,” said a local shopkeeper.Another resident said since their area lacks required health facilities, Punjab government should take quick action.“Majority of residents of our area go to Sangrur or Haryana for minor ailments. If virus spreads in our area, it would cause major problems,” he said.Lehra DSP Roshan Lal said all four cops have been quarantined at police quarters.“There is no reason to panic as both police stations are fully functional and cops are recovering well,” said the DSP.Health department spokesperson said their special teams have started contact tracing and conducting tests of all suspected persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shos-two-other-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-panic-in-lehra-area-115081
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||After Punjab Minister Tript Bajwa, two Congress MLAs test positive for Covid-19||Two Congress legislators in Punjab have tested positive for COVID-19, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Sunday.Singh wished both of them a speedy recovery.“My colleagues @INCPunjab Mla Phagwara, Balwinder Dhaliwal ji & MLA Tarn Taran @DrDharambir  ji have tested positive for #Covid19. Wishing them a speedy recovery,” the CM said in a tweet.Earlier, Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa had tested positive for the virus. He was the first minister to have contracted the infection. Later, the minister's wife and son had also got infected.Punjab has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases for the past several days. The state's COVID tally stood at 9,792, with 246 deaths as on Saturday evening.Meanwhile, three people in Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s security in Chandigarh have tested positive for coronavirus, sources in Punjab’s health department said on Sunday.TNS/PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-punjab-minister-tript-bajwa-two-congress-mlas-test-positive-for-covid-19-115062
19-07-2020||New Delhi/Gurdaspur||Over 64-kg heroin seized from Ravi river along Indo-Pak border in Punjab||The BSF seized over 64 kg of heroin from the Ravi river that flows along the India-Pakistan international border in Punjab's Gurdaspur on Sunday, officials said.The contraband, weighing 64.33 kg, was found in 60 packets concealed in long fabric cloth tubes and tied to a bunch of water hyacinth floating in the river, they said.The consignment was "pushed" into the river from Pakistan to the Indian side and Border Security Force (BSF) troops deployed at the border outpost in Nangli, near Dera Baba Nanak, spotted it in the wee hours, the officials said.A 1,500-metre-long nylon rope was tied to the consignment of drugs in order to enable someone to pull it towards the bank, they added.According to Rajesh Sharma, Deputy Inspector General, BSF, the troops noticed some suspicious movement in the river around 2 am and swung into action.However, the smugglers managed to flee taking advantage of the darkness, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-64-kg-heroin-seized-from-ravi-river-along-indo-pak-border-in-punjab-115052
19-07-2020||Amritsar||Picture of semi-naked women in Jallianwala Bagh gallery riles many||A controversy has erupted over the placement of a picture of two semi-naked women striking different poses—similar to those depicted in Ajanta and Ellora caves—at an upcoming renovated photo gallery at the Jallianwala Bagh amid portraits of national heroes and first Sikh master, Guru Nanak Dev.The International Sarv Kamboj Samaj has lodged a strong protest with Prime Minister Narendra Modi—who is the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust President—and demanded the removal of the offending picture from the national memorial to the Indian freedom struggle.The Jallianwala Bagh complex is currently undergoing a massive makeover in this historical city of Punjab. Authorities say the renovation/restoration began on February 15 under the supervision of Archaeological Survey of India and will reopen to the public from July 31.The Centre has allocated Rs 20 crore in the first phase through the Ministry of Culture.The renovation work is supervised by BJP member of Parliament Shwait Malik, who is also a trustee of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust. He last visited the galley on July 17."The Jallianwala Bagh is no less than a pilgrimage centre for every Indian. Hundreds of people, comprising schoolchildren and families, visit it every day to pay respect to those who sacrificed their lives for the country," International Sarv Kamboj Samaj President Bobby Kamboj told IANS.He said it was a "shame for us when we came to know on Saturday that authorities had put on display the picture of semi-nude women in the gallery, which houses a collection of portraits and paintings of national heroes and Sikh gurus".He said the martyrs have been "insulted" by such display of an offensive picture in the gallery.In a letter to Prime Minister Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, he said the trust had also insulted the martyrs by setting up a ticket window right in front of the statue of Shaheed Udham Singh at the main entrance. It demanded the shifting of the ticket window as well.The objectionable picture is placed close to a portrait of Sikh monarch, Maharaja Ranjit Singh, also known as Sher-e-Punjab (Lion of Punjab) for his bravery and one of the most revered heroes in Indian history.A large portrait of Guru Nanak Dev is installed on the right side of that picture.A big statue of Sikh warrior Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, who had the distinction of consolidating the Sikh rule in India in 1711, has also been set up in the gallery along with depiction of glorious contribution of 'Gadri Babas' (revolutionary fighters) in the national freedom struggle."I have no information about the installation of the picture of two semi-naked women in the gallery," trustee Malik told the media on Saturday.In fact, he was caught on camera while standing in front of the offensive picture during his last visit to the gallery."I will inquire (about the semi-naked picture) and only then comment," he added.Located in the vicinity of the Golden Temple complex, the Jallianwala Bagh witnessed one of the bloodiest massacre of the pre Independence era when at least 379 civilians were gunned down on April 13, 1919, by British India Army on the orders of Acting Brigadier-General Reginald Dyer. Over 1,000 others were injured. The incident catalysed the Indians' struggle for freedom.Under renovation is an old well—the martyrs' well—within the park, which is a silent witness to the brutal killings on April 13, 1919. It is going to be put under a dome-shaped see-through fibre-glass canopy. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/picture-of-semi-naked-women-in-jallianwala-bagh-gallery-riles-many-115050
19-07-2020||New Delhi||Delhi Sikh body starts free ambulance service for Covid-19 patients||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has started free ambulance service for COVID-19 patients in need of mobility support in the National Capital.              In the first phase, 12 ambulances equipped with “ultra-modern medical facilities” have been rolled out for this purpose, the Sikh body said.DSGMC President, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, said more ambulances will be made available as and when required.At present, the ambulance service is available in north, south, east, west and central Delhi.“COVID-19 patients can avail free ambulance service by dialing 9811992175/9818676757 for West Delhi, 9899511581/8527154302 for East Delhi, 8010471440/9953333307 for South Delhi, 9868741345/8587944794 for North Delhi,” the DSGMC said.             Patients in emergency situations can also call the central control room on 9891403828/9953086923 or contact the nearest DSGMC-run gurdwara for free transportation, it said.    All the ambulances are equipped with essential protective equipment such as masks and sanitisers as per the government guidelines issued to contain the pandemic, Sirsa said.Earlier, the Sikh body had provided accommodation to around 200 doctors and paramedical staff deployed on COVID-19 duties in AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia, Lady Hardinge Hospital, at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj, Gurdwara Moti Bagh and Gurdwara Bangla Sahib. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-sikh-body-starts-free-ambulance-service-for-covid-19-patients-115038
19-07-2020||Patiala||Health officials face hostility in Patiala's containment areas, ASHA workers worst-hit||Health officials continue to face the wrath of residents in the containment areas in Patiala. ASHA workers—foot soldiers in the unprecedented fight against coronavirus—are the worst-hit because they are the ones who have to conduct house-to-house surveys.The Tribune accompanied ASHA workers in the survey of containment area Top Khana Mor.During the survey, residents shut doors as health workers came knocking to avoid screening. In some cases, ASHA workers were insulted by the people in the area. In one instance, a middle-aged man did not open the door despite repeated requests by the ASHA workers.In another household, in Sheehan wali Gali in the containment area, a woman flatly refused to reveal any details of her family. She said, “If there will be anyone symptomatic of the disease, we will let you know. Now, you go off and don’t disturb us.”The health department has also started a makeshift OPD in a Government school in the containment area. However, people are still apprehensive about getting a checkup at the OPD. Only four people reached out to the health officials for the checkup at the OPD in two days.Dr Mohammed Pravez, the doctor in charge of the containment area said: “We have almost completed the survey in the area and started OPD. The resentment has now reduced a little bit. We are expecting people will come forward.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-officials-face-hostility-in-patialas-containment-areas-asha-workers-worst-hit-115015
19-07-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Covid testing: Public can wait, but not the lawmakers!||Tarn Taran, July 18While the higher officials of the Health Department had issued orders not to give VIP treatment to politicians and bureaucrats, the officials have started doing the opposite, it seems.In a surprising development, the Health Department started collecting Covid-19 samples of the MLAs from their homes, while the general masses have been left out in the lurch.The samples have been collected from homes on the instructions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who had asked the authorities to collect the samples of all MLAs. The doctor wore a PPE kit and collected the samples and adopted all precautions. — Rohit Mehta, SMO, Tarn Taran Civil HospitalThe department, so far, has collected the samples of Dharambir Agnihotri, MLA from Tarn Taran, and Harminder Singh Gill, MLA from Patti. According to the information, ENT specialist Dr Sarabjit Singh collected the samples of Dharambir Agnihotri and Harminder Singh Gill from their residences.Rohit Mehta, Senior Medical Officer (SMO) of the local Civil Hospital, said this was done on the instructions of Chief Minster Capt Amarinder Singh, who had asked the authorities to collect the samples of all MLAs. The SMO said the doctor wore a PPE kit and collected the samples and adopted all precautions.However, the samples of other two MLAs — Ramanjit Singh Sikki from Khadoor Sahib and Sukhpal Singh Bhullar from Khemkaran, who stay out of the area, have not been collected.Meanwhile, the district administration is yet to start sample collection from the doorsteps of the general masses.Daljit Singh Dialpura, a farmers’ leader, said: “MLAs does not deserve a VIP treatment when lakhs of other people are deprived of medical facilities. Not only this, it is not safe for medicos even. The MLAs should themselves visit the Civil Hospitals to understand the pain and difficulties of the general patients.”Mahaveer Singh Gill of Patti also condemned the move of sending doctors to the residences of MLAs to collect Covid-19 samples, when the department had failed to implement the policy to send teams on the doorsteps of the general masses.Agnihotri tests +veThe Covid report of Tarn Taran MLA Dharambir Agnihotri came out positive on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said of the 347 reports received on Saturday, six came out positive. The number of active cases is 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-testing-public-can-wait-but-not-the-lawmakers-114777
19-07-2020||---||Man killed over Rs 50 he lost in ludo, 2 arrested||Amritsar, July 18A minor monetary dispute while playing ludo online proved costly for a youth who was allegedly abducted and murdered by two persons here on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Sukhjinder Singh, alias Bobby (30). The police had nabbed the two suspects, Vishaldeep Singh of Dashmesh Nagar and Mani of Mohkampura area.According to the police, the suspects hit Sukhjinder on his head with a stone killing him on the spot and later dumped his body at vacant plots in Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar here. A case of kidnapping and murder was registered against the duo.Avtar Singh, alias Sunny, victim’s brother told Sukhjinder was his younger brother. On Tuesday, he had a quarrel with the suspects over playing online ludo. He had reportedly lost Rs 50 to the suspect who had been demanding the money. He had allegedly smashed the glass of e-rickshaw belonging to Vishaldeep Singh. He said both have later entered in a compromise.He alleged Vishaldeep, however, kept a grudge and yesterday they kidnapped him on their e-rickshaw. The footage of a CCTV camera installed in the area revealed that the victim was initially reluctant to go with them. However, they lured him and took him somewhere. When he did not return, a complaint was lodged with the police. The police had registered a case of kidnapping which has been converted into that of murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-killed-over-rs-50-he-lost-in-ludo-2-arrested-114775
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||3 deputy directors under scanner for job scam||The role of several officials, including three deputy directors in the Directorate of Technical Education, has come under the scanner following the arrest of a junior assistant in a fake recruitment scam by the Vigilance Bureau (VB).The junior assistant, Paramveer Singh, was arrested two days ago by the VB. Sources in the department said since yesterday, VB officials have been quizzing other department officials in presence of the junior assistant. An FIR has already been registered in the two year-old recruitment scam.The VB probe has revealed that the merit list was tampered with and a bogus appointment letter was issued to the instructor by certain officials of the department. The recruitments done between 2006 and 2017 against 216 posts of instructor, service providing trainer and training officer, are under the scanner. Three officials, namely superintendent Gurpreet Singh, clerk Rajinder Singh and Paramveer Singh, have already been suspended. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-deputy-directors-under-scanner-for-job-scam-114884
19-07-2020||---||Rs 50 cr spent on flood control measures: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, July 18The state government has spent Rs 50 crore on flood preventive measures, including cleaning of drains this monsoon season.Disclosing this during his live #Ask Captain Facebook interaction, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said cleaning of 1,400 km of the total 2,100 km of drains in the state had been completed while the rest was being done expeditiously. Another 42 projects of flood protection were in full swing, he said.Observing that a heavy inflow of water at Bhakra dam last year due to melting of snow had caused floods in the state, the Chief Minister said the Bhakra Beas Management Board had been asked to increase outflow to create a flood cushion. He said outflows had increased to 30,000 cusecs two months ago and reservoir level stood at 1,335 ft, which was around 20 ft lower than the last year.Capt Amarinder said as Pong dam was rainfed, outflows had increased to the level of 15,000 cusecs, with reservoir level being at 1,335 ft, which was 8 ft higher than the last year. In the case of Ranjit Sagar dam, outflows have increased to 14,664 cusecs and the reservoir level was at 512 metres, which was around 1 ft more than the last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-50-cr-spent-on-flood-control-measures-punjab-cm-114885
19-07-2020||Faridkot||SAD leader booked for duping bank of Rs 75 cr||Nearly two years after Punjab National Bank accused Harinderjit Samra, a former chairman of the Faridkot Improvement Trust, and his family of cheating the bank of Rs 75 crore, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered two criminal cases against the SAD leader, his family members and some business associates. The loan was raised to set up a rice mill at Lambi in Muktsar. As per the FIR, Samra, his two sons Sukhveer Samra and Rajveer Samra, wife Bhupinder Kaur and Malkiat Singh of Faridkot cheated the bank by raising a loan of around Rs 75 crore on the basis of securities. However, the accused disposed of these securities without informing the bank. The CBI has booked 12 other persons who stand guarantee to the bank and nominated 14 officials of the PNB as accused for their alleged connivance with the accused. The CBI alleged that the accused transferred ownership of properties in the name of other family members to avoid loan liabilities as there was no restriction or entry in the revenue record regarding the transfer of properties. The bank wrote to the CBI that as primary securities were missing, recovery from collateral securities would be possible to the tune of Rs 23 crore against the outstanding amount of Rs 75 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-leader-booked-for-duping-bank-of-rs-75-cr-114886
19-07-2020||Hoshiarpur||289 constables join police force||A march past was held today on the occasion of the passing out parade of the 260th batch of constables of the Punjab Police, at the Police Recruits Training Centre (PRTC), Jahan Khelan, 10 km from the district headquarters. As many as 289 recruit constables — 256 men and 33 women — took part in the passing out parade.   The contingents followed social distancing norms during the march past. The first position was bagged by woman constable Amisha Sharma, while the parade commander was constable Harpreet Kaur.  Commandant Rakesh Kaushal said, “The PRTC, Jahan Khelan, is one of the best recruit training centres in India and trainees passing out from here are fully trained to perform duties assigned to them in a  professional manner.” He said the trainees had undergone a rigorous training of nine months and had been taught both practical and theoretical subjects. Talking about the modernisation of the PRTC, Jahan Khelan, the Commandant said, “Various modernisation projects are underway in this centre and very soon there will be smart classrooms and other state of the art training features  which will further optimise the training capacity of this centre.”  He said precautions regarding Covid- 19 and instructions in this regard were being followed at the centre. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/289-constables-join-police-force-114887
19-07-2020||Raj Sadosh||Pigeon with wing stamped  creates flutter near international border||Abohar, July 18Residents of Fatuhi village, located close to the international border in Sriganganagar, caught a pigeon whose wing bore a stamp in Urdu. The villagers took the pigeon to the nearby Hindumalkot police station, which handed it over to the Forest Department.Police station in-charge Majid Khan said a name and a cellphone number (code 0307) was stamped on the bird’s wing. Intelligence officials, who arrived shortly, scanned the pigeon.Two days ago, a 2-feet-long balloon with Pakistan International Airlines written on it was found in Chak 6-Q village, Mateeli Rathan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pigeon-with-wing-stamped-creates-flutter-near-international-border-114888
19-07-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda man kills wife, cousin||A man allegedly killed his wife and cousin with a sharp-edged weapon at Dhipali village here on Friday night. The duo was allegedly in an illicit relationship. The victims have been identified as Manpreet Kaur and Rajinder Singh. The accused along with his elder brother caught his wife and cousin red-handed at their residence and used farm implements to murder the duo. The police reached the spot and sent the bodies to the Civil Hospital to conduct autopsy. The police have registered a murder case against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-man-kills-wife-cousin-114889
19-07-2020||
||Afghan Sikh released, Centre thanks Kabul||New Delhi, July 18 India has thanked the Afghanistan Government for the safe return of kidnapped Sikh Nidan Singh Sachdeva and has decided to facilitate the return of Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members facing security threats in Afghanistan to India, said the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in a statement. There are about 1,000 Sikh and Hindus left in Afghanistan and the sense of insecurity was heightened after their massacre at Gurdwara Guru Har Rai in Kabul in May this year. At that time too, India had offered all possible assistance to the affected families. Nidan Singh, a leader of the Hindu and Sikh communities of Afghanistan, was kidnapped in Chamkani district of Paktia province on June 22. The MEA said, “We convey our appreciation to the Government of Afghanistan and tribal elders from the area, whose efforts secured the return of Nidan.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/afghan-sikh-released-centre-thanks-kabul-114890
19-07-2020||Minna Zutshi||Weaving their own stories||IN the narrow, winding lanes of the industrial city of Ludhiana, 62-year-old Chann Kaur proudly displays her ‘hathh da kamm’. Specialising in handcrafted handbags, she embroiders motifs like flowers, leaves, birds and butterflies on bedspreads, pillow covers, etc. Craft came naturally to Chann Kaur, and it helped her when she wanted to supplement her meagre family income. She took to making handbags of different shapes and sizes. After years of grind, she is now comfortable financially. Even during the pandemic, she was making four to five bags and wallets each day.For 60-year-old Gurcharan Kaur, a weaver from Kotliablu in Gidderbaha tehsil of Sri Muktsar Sahib district, however, it was Project Trinjan, an endeavour by the Kheti Virasat Mission (KVM), a non-government organisation, that came to her rescue. She was hard up financially after an accident left her young son critically injured. When her son succumbed to his injuries, she hardly had any source of income. Gurcharn’s skills in weaving brought her hope. She is now able to earn her livelihood, and even manages to provide for her grandchildren.Traditionally, Trinjan has been a space of togetherness, collective wisdom and shared skills — the space where women from villages gathered to spin a charkha, besides doing embroidery, weaving, knitting and crochet. This would be ‘their’ time — they would weave cloth, make durries, sing songs as well as narrate stories. They would talk, listen, learn, empathise and exchange bits of information from centuries-old knowledge and belief systems. Impromptu folk song renditions and folk-dance performances automatically helped preserve and safeguard folk culture. This was a symbol of women’s identity, freedom and creativity, and it helped them keep their emotional, cultural, ecological and societal connect intact. Over time, these spaces of togetherness started shrinking. Private spaces closed doors and enclosures became more common. Mechanisation, Green Revolution, individualism — the changes were too strong to be withstood.Connecting, yet againThe agro-ecological crisis, degeneration of environment and depleting soil health has once again brought back the focus on traditional spaces and sustainable lifestyle. Dr Davinder Kaur Dhatt, an art and culture expert who works in a premier rural educational institution in Ludhiana, points out: “Trinjan used to be a cathartic experience for women who would embroider, knit, weave as well as freely talk about their family life. They would make traditional specialties like seviyaan and wadiyaan and also share their culinary experiences with other women. All this got lost in decades of mechanical lifestyle. The pandemic has, at some level, forced us to rethink our values and priorities. A revival of community life, with its shared creative experiences, is on the anvil. ”Reviving the TrinjanMany non-government organisations are working towards women empowerment through the revival of traditional art and craft and skills. The Pingalwara Charitable Society, an organisation started by Bhagat Puran Singh in Amritsar, has been on the forefront of reviving Trinjan as a display of Punjabi traditional arts among the young. Competitions like charkha spinning, embroidery and weaving have been organised to acquaint young girls with these traditional arts and crafts that have been almost lost to the young people. “Our traditional wisdom enjoined women to be conversant with right food combinations and nutritional value of seasonal foods. It was a holistic approach, unlike the present-day focus on fragmented lifestyle,” says Dr Inderjeet Kaur, chairperson of the Pingalwara Charitable Society.Another such attempt is Project Trinjan of the Kheti Virasat Mission, which has within its ambit 300-odd women from 12 villages of Faridkot, Barnala and Sri Muktsar Sahib districts. Says Rupsi Garg, associate director of the KVM: “Women are important stakeholders in any family, society or nation. After the Green Revolution, chemical agriculture dominated and women did not find much space in this highly mechanised and market-dependent agriculture. Gradually, the culture of mutual learning and sharing started vanishing.“We need to organise these artisans and make sure that they get regular supply of raw material and regular income out of it so that they don’t have to look for any other work alternatives throughout the year,” says Garg. On an average, the women are able to make Rs5,000-Rs6,000 per month while working for four to five hours a day at their convenience, she adds.Despite restricted mobility during the pandemic, most women artisans earned well, thanks to support from informal community groups as well as such social organisations. The volunteers handheld women artisans by providing them the required raw material at their homes. The finished products were again picked up by the volunteers, thereby minimising the Covid risk to artisans.Empowering womenFiftyfive-year-old Sarabjeet Kaur Chaina’s job is that of field coordinator for various villages around Faridkot and Sri Muktsar Sahib. She coordinates and networks with women artisans whose expertise is making durries, spinning, weaving, basket-making etc. “Traditionally, if a woman (while making any art/craft/food item) ever got stuck at any step, another woman would chip in with suggestions, advice and help,” says Sarabjeet. “Women spinners are provided with pesticide-free raw cotton. Though the weavers do not require any formal training, yet from time to time, they are given suggestions on improving the finesse of the cloth they weave, ” explains Sarabjeet. She adds, “Meri income de naal naal meri pehchaan ban gayi. Koi vi mainu mere maa-baap de naam de naal nahi jaanda, na mere bacheyaan de naam naal (I got financial independence as well as my own identity).”From a space of vulnerability, weakness and isolation to a space of strength, togetherness and sharing, women are reclaiming their right to traditional skills. And in the process, giving a fresh lease of life to values like sharing, caring and compassion. Of course, economic empowerment is a natural and happy concomitant!Passion for spinningWhen 23-year-old Ramandeep Kaur spins her charkha, she feels relaxed and rejuvenated. Her stress ebbs away. A graduate in Computer Applications, Ramandeep took to spinning barely four years back.It started as a hobby that slowly became a part of her life. Now, nothing can wean her away from her charkha!Spinning has been almost a tradition in Ramandeep’s family that passed on, by default, from grandmother to mother to daughter.Ramandeep now wants to pursue spinning as a profession. She was in for a pleasant surprise when the volunteers from various social organisations approached her. She was given ‘work’ that not only gave her an opportunity to pursue the subject of her interest but also brought in money.This shy and reticent girl from Sri Muktsar Sahib takes pride in her passion for ‘hand-spinning’. Most girls of her age are not conversant with the art of hand-spinning nor are they inclined to learn it. But she is happy contributing her bit to the revival of traditional art and craft.Dye(ing), the natural wayFlowers, barks, trees, leaves are the raw material from which 18-year-old Rimpy Kaur extracts dyes. With a degree in Fashion Technology, this girl from Kotli village in Sri Muktsar Sahib is an avid advocate of natural dyes for fabrics. She uses all-natural plant materials to make dyes for the thread. She has experimented with marigold flowers, carrots, onion skin, babul tree bark (gum Arabic), pomegranate skin, and eucalyptus bark. The process of making natural dyes from barks of babul and eucalyptus trees takes a little over a month. She explains: “Soak the bark for a month. Bring the water to a boil. After boiling the water, strain the bark out and put the thread (to be dyed) into the water. After two to three hours, bring this to a boil again. Finally, pull the thread out and rinse it with fresh water.” Natural dyes are better for the skin and these help to reduce skin irritation and infections, says Rimpy. She plans to take up natural dyeing of fabrics as a commercial venture. “People visit my house to see the clothes being dyed naturally. They find it hard to believe that all the colours used are derived from plants and that no chemicals have been used. The natural colours are light and beautiful while being skin friendly. These colours have no harshness, she adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/weaving-their-own-stories-114864
19-07-2020||---||Bid to malign SAD: Youth body||Jalandhar, July 18Youth Akali Dal (YAD) chief Parambans Singh Romana today alleged that the Congress, AAP and Dhindsa camp were hand in glove with dera supporter Veerpal Kaur who had tried to tarnish the image of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. He said Veerpal’s claim had been denied by a former police officer, whom she had quoted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-malign-sad-youth-body-114874
19-07-2020||
||Attire row: AAP hits out at Akalis||Chandigarh, July 18 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president Bhagwant Mann today questioned the silence of the Badal family over the allegations levelled against Sukhbir Singh Badal regarding gifting of attire akin to the one worn by Guru Gobind Singh to the Sirsa dera chief. Mann claimed that by maintaining silence, the Badals seemed to have partially confessed to the charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attire-row-aap-hits-out-at-akalis-114876
19-07-2020||---||Woman’s suicide: Panel summons panchayat||Jalandhar, July 18The State Women Commission has summoned the panchayat of Bajuha Kala village in Nakodar on July 20 after a woman committed suicide alleging atrocities by the panchayat members.Minutes after recording an audio and video, a 35-year-old mother of three children on Thursday committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan of her house. In the clips sent to her brother, the woman alleged that she was taking the extreme step because her village panchayat refused to listen to her. She also alleged that the police didn’t help her, a charge denied by the cops.After a dispute with a neighbour, the woman, while taking up the matter with the panchayat, had alleged that rather than listening to her, the panchayat members beat her and sided with her neighbour. Nakodar DSP Navneet Singh Mahal said, “The case was marked to the SHO as soon as we got to know about the incident. A panch of the village has been arrested by the police and the remaining members will be nabbed soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/womans-suicide-panel-summons-panchayat-114881
19-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can’t discriminate with married daughter, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 18A daughter, upon marriage, does not cease to be a part of her father’s family, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled while holding that the denial of compassionate appointment to a married daughter was nothing but discrimination.Justice Augustine George Masih asserted there could never be discrimination and that too against a woman merely on the basis of sex, which included her marital status. The ruling came in a case where the daughter of a police official, who died in harness, was denied appointment on the ground that she being married was ineligible in terms of instructions dated November 21, 2002.Job on compassionate groundIn his order, Justice Augustine George Masih said there could never be discrimination and that too against a woman merely on the basis of sex, which included her marital status. The ruling came in a case where the daughter of a police official, who died in harness, was denied appointment on the ground that she being married was ineligible for it.Justice Masih asserted: “Had she been unmarried, or had it been the son, despite the marital status, the claim would have been considered. If this is not discrimination, what else can it be termed?”Justice Masih added that a son remained a son throughout, so did a daughter irrespective of her marital status. “If the son and the daughter continue to have these relations, which they attain on birth or on adoption, they cannot be deprived of such status merely because of their marital status...”Justice Masih also ordered the striking down of the word “unmarried” in the instructions as otherwise a daughter would be deprived of her constitutional right to consideration for compassionate appointment merely because of her marital status. Justice Masih asserted that Article 14 of the Constitution gave right of equal treatment in similar circumstances both in privileges conferred and liability imposed. But this did not mean that the state was not having the power of classifying persons and categories for legitimate purposes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-discriminate-with-married-daughter-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-114882
19-07-2020||---||Elections to 126 urban local bodies likely in October||Chandigarh, July 18The Punjab Government on Saturday decided to hold elections to the 126 urban local bodies (ULBs) in the second week of October, subject to the emerging Covid situation.Ruling out the possibility of conducting the polls next month in view of the increasing number of Covid cases, the government decided to time the polling between Dasehra (October 25) and Diwali (November 4), as procurement and festival season would start towards mid-October.Polls amid Covid pandemicA Cabinet sub-committee of the ministers, comprising Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Badal, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Vijay Inder Singla and Sunder Sham Arora, who held a meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh through video-conferencing, unanimously agreed to recommend holding the elections tentatively on October 11 to the State Election Commission.The Chief Minister told his Cabinet colleagues that it was expected that the Covid cases would peak in September. The state government is likely to push nearly Rs 1,000 crore into development works in the coming days, ahead of the elections. Initiating the discussion, Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra proposed to hold the elections while resorting to extreme precautions and preventive measures for the polling staff as well as the voters. He sought availability of funds for development works.The Local Government Department has been asked to take legal opinion on holding the elections in October, as it could have legal implications given the fact that the elections are due between September 5 and September 20, as the extended term of the administrators-led ULBs is ending by that time.The ministers deliberated that holding the elections in October would help the government gauge the mood of the urban voters as the Assembly elections were due in March 2022.During the meeting, the Chief Minister reportedly put forward figures on the lack of development works in urban and semi-urban areas and no relief to urban Hindu population. He had previously stated that the ULBs had fared poorly during the 2019 Assembly elections, when Navjot Singh Sidhu held the charge of the department. The government had then cited lack of development as one of the reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/elections-to-126-urban-local-bodies-likely-in-october-114883
19-07-2020||---||Protests banned, jobless teachers write slogans on public properties||Bathinda, july 18The Unemployed TET-Qualified Teachers’ Union and Multipurpose Health Workers’ Union have jointly started a slogan-writing campaign in Bathinda, Mansa and Fazilka districts.As a part of the campaign, teachers have started writing slogans on walls in public places, demanding regular jobs from the state government. Their main grouse is that despite repeated assurances, the government had failed to provide them jobs.Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, president of the teachers’ union in Bathinda, said, “We are left with no other option to make our voice heard as protest gatherings have been banned due to Covid. Our mode of sending the message to the government is different this time but our demands are the same. Many TET-qualified teachers are on the verge of crossing the age limit for a government job.” Yudhjit Singh, another leader of the union, said, “Around 60,000 posts of master cadre teacher are lying vacant but the state government filled just 2,182 posts. Each passing year is reducing our chances of getting a regular job. We have no option but to intensify our struggle. Writing slogans in public places will send a message to the government and society about our plight.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protests-banned-jobless-teachers-write-slogans-on-public-properties-114877
19-07-2020||Aman Sood||Year gone, no headway in dera follower’s murder case||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 18Almost a year after the murder of Mohinder Pal Bittu, the prime suspect in the 2015 Bargari sacrilege case, inside the Nabha jail, the victim’s family is clueless about the motive behind the attack.The police had claimed that Bittu, who was booked in the 2015 sacrilege cases and arrested in 2018, was killed by two inmates, Maninder Singh and Gursewak Singh, both serving life terms for murder, on June 22. They had attacked him with iron rods, killing him almost instantly.The victim’s family members claim that they have suffered due to politics over Bittu’s death and they are sure that the real reasons “of the sponsored death of their sole bread earner will never come out”.“He was murdered by two men inside a jail managed by the government. Till date, the government and the SIT have not identified the real culprits behind the murder in a high-security prison. Because he was a dera follower, no one wants the real reasons to come out,” a relative said.Bittu’s son Reminder Pal also refused to talk, claiming that they might never know the reasons why his father — owner of a bakery in Faridkot — was murdered. “I do not want to get into limelight again. We have suffered a lot. My father was murdered and no one knows why. No action has been taken against any jail officer till date,” he said.Bittu’s last rites were performed after hectic parleys ended the stalemate between the sect followers and the district authorities over the killing. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had ordered the formation of an SIT, headed by Ishwar Singh, ADGP Law & Order, to ascertain the conspiracy, if any, behind Bittu’s killing by prison inmates.The police have now presented a challan against four accused — Gursewak Singh, Maninder Singh, Jaspreet Singh and Lakhbir Singh Lakha — under Section 302 of the IPC, while Harpreet Singh was given a clean chit. “The investigations reveal that the accused murdered Bittu for his involvement in the Bargari case. The probe is over in the case,” Nabha DSP Rajesh Chibber said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/year-gone-no-headway-in-dera-followers-murder-case-114878
19-07-2020||---||Covid vicitms’ bodies swapped at Amritsar GMC||Amritsar, July 18In a major goof-up, officials of the Government Medical College (GMC) here sent a wrong body of a Covid victim to a family in Hoshiarpur on Saturday. The matter came to light when the family members of Pritam Singh (92) from Hoshiarpur, who died of Covid at the hospital here, insisted on seeing the victim’s face before the cremation.They were, however, shocked to find that that the body sent by the Health Department, wrapped in a PPE kit as per the protocol, was actually of a woman. Sources at the college said a 37-year-old Amritsar resident, Padma, and Pritam Singh, both died last evening. Due to wrong marking on the bodies, the body of Pritam Singh was sent to Padma’s family for cremation. As the covering of Covid victims was not allowed to be opened, the family of Padma cremated the body of Pritam Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-vicitms-bodies-swapped-at-amritsar-gmc-114879
19-07-2020||---||Not using forest land for industrial park: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, July 18Categorically rejecting reports to the contrary, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday declared that not a single tree would be uprooted nor would an inch of forest land be taken by the government for the development of an industrial park at Mattewara, Ludhiana.‘Waste won’t be discharged into sutlej’Chief Minister Capt Amarinder allayed apprehensions that waste from the industrial park would be discharged into the Sutlej and said a modern common effluent treatment plant would be set up as per the latest norms issued by the Central Government.There was no question of destroying the Mattewara forest, the Chief Minister said during his #AskCaptain Facebook live session. Statements made by certain people suggesting that the forest would be destroyed “are simply not true,” he said, adding that the government had taken 955 acres of the Animal Husbandry and Horticulture Department and gram panchayat. The acquired land did not include an inch of the 2,300 acres of the Mattewara forest, he said.Capt Amarinder also allayed apprehensions that waste from the industrial park would be discharged into the Sutlej and said a modern common effluent treatment plant would be set up as per the latest Central Government norms. The objective behind the planned industrial park was to create a vibrant industrial estate where people of Ludhiana and nearby areas could get jobs, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-using-forest-land-for-industrial-park-punjab-cm-114880
19-07-2020||Chandigarh||Phagwara MLA tests +ve, cases near 10,000 mark||Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal tested positive for Covid-19 today. Earlier on July 13, his son was tested positive. Both have been placed under home isolation.Dr Sandeep Dhawan, incharge of the isolation centre in Phagwara, said: “The samples of 19 immediate contacts of the MLA have been collected. His secondary contacts will also be tested for the virus.”Meanwhile, the situation in the state continues to remain grim as 350 fresh cases and seven deaths were reported in the past 24 hours. With this, the total number of Covid cases has reached 9,792 in the state. Three deaths were reported from Amritsar, one each from Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and SAS Nagar. The number of casualties due to the virus has reached 246. Besides, 63 persons are on oxygen support and nine are on ventilator support.The worst-affected districts were Ludhiana (72 cases), Jalandhar (71), Patiala (48), Amritsar (41), SAS Nagar (28), Sangrur (23) and Ferozepur (15). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/phagwara-mla-tests-ve-cases-near-10-000-mark-114875
19-07-2020||---||Punjab Government  faces heat over move on pay scales||Chandigarh, July 18A day after the Punjab Government decided to have new pay scales for all fresh appointments in its departments and other undertakings on the pattern of the Central Government, Opposition parties and various employees’ organisations today opposed the move.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) said the Congress government had miserably failed to safeguard the interests of employees of the state.In a statement, SAD spokesman NK Sharma said the state government employees got higher pay scales than their counterparts in the Central departments, but the Congress wanted to deny this benefit to the newly recruited in the name of saving some pennies.He said the SAD would oppose the anti-employee decision, which would harm the interests of the newly recruited employees. He said the government should first curtail expenditure on ministers and MLAs.Meanwhile, in a press release, the Punjab Government Pensioners’ Welfare Association said though the government had given extension to the pay commission up to December 2020, the latter had not given any timeframe for giving its recommendations.The inordinate delay in the implementation of the new pay scales, increase in allowance and pension revision, coupled with the delay in the payment of DA arrears had led to resentment among employees and pensioners, it said.SK Khosla, president of the association, said though the decision was meant for fresh appointments, the government’s intention would be made applicable to all employees and pensioners. “This is contrary to the promises made by the Congress during the 2017 Assembly elections,” he said.Rollback decision, demands AAP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-faces-heat-over-move-on-pay-scales-114873
19-07-2020||New Delhi||Not eligible for Khel Ratna, Bhajji clarifies||Veteran Indian cricketer Harbhajan Singh said on Saturday that it was he himself who asked the Punjab government to withdraw his nomination for the prestigious Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award.In a series of tweets, Harbhajan said that he is not eligible for the award, which is the highest sporting honour in the country."1.Dear friends I have been flooded with calls as to why Punjab Govt withdrew my name from Khel Ratna nominations. The truth is I am not eligible for Khel Ratna which primarily considers the international performances in last three years.'" 1.Dear friends I have been flooded with calls as to why Punjab Govt withdrew my name from Khel Ratna nominations. The truth is I am not eligible for Khel Ratna which primarily considers the international performances in last three years.  "2.The Punjab Govt is not at fault here as they have rightly withdrawn my name. Would urge my friends in media not to speculate. Thank you and regards," he tweeted.2.The Punjab Govt is not at fault here as they have rightly withdrawn my name. Would urge my friends in media not to speculate. Thank you and regards 🙏🙏  "Lot of confusion & speculation regarding my nomination for Khel Ratna so let me clarify. Yes last year the nomination was sent late but this year I only asked Punjab Govt to withdraw my nomination because I don't fall under the 3-year eligibility criteria. Don't speculate further." The Sports Ministry, in its document in which it explains the eligibility for anyone to be nominated for the Khel Ratna, among other points, says "spectacular and outstanding performances in the field of sports by a sportsperson over a period of four years immediately preceding the year during which the award is to be given shall be honoured with the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award." Lot of confusion & speculation regarding my nomination for Khel Ratna so let me clarify. Yes last year the nomination was sent late but this year I only asked Punjab Govt to withdraw my nomination because I don’t fall under the 3-year eligibility criteria. Don’t speculate further  Harbhajan's nomination for the award was rejected last year after the Punjab government had sent the documents to the Sports Ministry after the last date for the same had passed. This year, however, the nomination was filed on time, only for the state government to take it back with no explanation. Harbhajan was part of the Indian teams that won the 2007 T20 World Cup and 2011 World Cup. With 417 wickets, he is India's third-highest wicket-taker in Test cricket after Anil Kumble (619) and Kapil Dev (434). IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-eligible-for-khel-ratna-bhajji-clarifies-114698
