19-11-2020||Chandigarh||16 more Covid deaths, 792 fresh cases in Punjab||Sixteen more fatalities due to COVID-19 in Punjab pushed the death toll to 4,556, while 792 new cases took the infection tally to 1,44,177 on Thursday, according to a medical bulletin.There are 6,194 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, the bulletin said.The places which reported new coronavirus cases include Mohali (135), Jalandhar (122) and Ludhiana (108).A total of 510 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,33,427, the bulletin added.Thirteen critical patients are on ventilator support, while 139 are on oxygen support.A total of 29,46,382 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said.  — PTI
19-11-2020||---||SC restores advocate’s PIL against farm laws||New Delhi, November 19Having dismissed an advocate’s PIL against recently enacted three farm laws, the Supreme Court on Thursday restored it after the petitioner contended that Parliament didn’t have legislative competence to make laws on ‘agriculture’ as it was a state subject under Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.A Bench led by CJI SA Bobde had on October 12 dismissed Sharma’s PIL even as it issued notices to the Centre on several other petitions against the farm laws that have triggered protests in various parts of the country, particularly Punjab.“We will restore and keep your matter for admission after two weeks,” said the Bench after Sharma submitted that he couldn’t argue his case on the last date of hearing.“Mere passage of legislation cannot be a valid cause of action, the Bench had told Sharma.There are several petitions against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 which were passed by Parliament and assented to by President Ram Nath Kovind last month.The petitioners include, Congress MP from Trissur in Kerala TN Prathapan, DMK MP Tiruchi Siva, RJD MP Manoj Jha and Bhartiya Kisan Party.In its petition filed on October 5, Bhartiya Kisan Party contended that the new farm laws violated the basic features of the Constitution. The party submitted that agriculture was a State subject under List II of Schedule VII of the Constitution and therefore, Parliament didn’t have the legislative competence to make laws on the subject.RJD MP Jha contended the farm laws were “discriminatory” and will expose marginal farmers to exploitation by big companies. Siva had submitted the new farm laws would be disastrous for the farming community as they gave an “uneven edge over the farmers’ interest in favour of the sponsor or the farm service provider” while Prathapan said they opened the door for “corporate greed” of multinational companies to trample on the agriculture market.
19-11-2020||---||551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev: Special Sikh jatha to visit Gurdwara Nankana Sahib in Pakistan||New Delhi, November 19India will send a special Sikh jatha to Gurdwara Nankana Sahib in Pakistan from November 27 to December 1 on the occasion of the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) announced here on Thursday.However, there is no move as yet to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava indicated.The visit of a truncated jatha will be as per the 1974 bilateral protocol on visit to religious shrines between India and Pakistan. There was, however, no confirmation yet from the Pakistan side, he said.In view of the pandemic, all health related protocols will be strictly followed, Srivastava added.Pakistan had in June unilaterally reopened the corridor to commemorate Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s death anniversary but India had rejected the offer due to the pandemic.Pakistan had made the offer again in October but the MEA had pointed out that movement was suspended in the wake of the Covid outbreak.A decision on re-opening of the corridor would be taken in accordance with the Covid protocol and easing of restrictions, said Srivastava.India and Pakistan had signed an agreement in October last year to operationalise the Kartarpur Corridor to allow Indian pilgrims visa-free visit to the holy Gurdwara, located about 4 km inside Pakistan.The MEA also cites a technical hitch that Pakistan needs to make good. It has been over a year but Pakistan is yet to construct a bridge at Budhi Ravi Channel which is ready at the India end. Despite a technical meeting, there is no progress shown by Pakistan, officials have earlier said.
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder urges Centre to show magnanimity and support his govt in resolving rail blockade crisis||Stepping up his efforts to resolve the crisis, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged the Centre to show magnanimity and not link restoration of freight services with movement of passenger trains, and to support the state government in creating a congenial environment for ending the prolonged farmers’ agitation, which had grave repercussions for the state and the nation.It was the joint responsibility of both, the state and the Central governments, to provide a conducive environment for resolving the current crisis resulting from suspension of train services, said the chief minister, who is likely to hold meetings soon with the Kisan Unions in Chandigarh, as well as the prime minister and the home minister in Delhi.The chief minister said he intended to hold discussions with the farmers’ representatives, and also to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the issue, which was resulting in massive loss to the state exchequer every day, while causing irrevocable damage to industry and agriculture.He would urge both sides to take proactive steps to find an amicable solution to the problem, he added.The continued suspension of the rail movement was hurting not just Punjab but also the neighbouring states, he noted, adding that even the armed forces in Ladakh and Kashmir had been hit hard as their supplies had been seriously affected by the prolonged interruption of services.The situation needed to be resolved urgently, said Capt Amarinder, requesting the Central government to show generosity in the matter in the light of the farmers’ decision to consider lifting blockade of passenger trains too, once freight services are resumed in Punjab. At the same time, he said the farmers should also ease their blockade of passenger trains to enable the state government, which had extended its full support in their fight against the farm laws, to restore normalcy.Neither Punjab nor the nation could afford to allow the situation to continue indefinitely in this manner, he stressed, pointing to the crores of rupees in losses being suffered by the industry and economy in the state.The agriculture sector was also badly affected as the movement of foodgrains, fertilisers, urea etc. had been hit hard due to the rail blockade, he added.
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers protesting against agri laws to take highway route to Delhi on Nov 26||Farmers who are protesting against three new farm laws will reach Delhi on November 26 through five highways connecting the national capital as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march call.The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh and various factions of Bharatiya Kisan Union have joined hands and formed a ‘Samyukta Kisan Morcha’ to press the central government to scrap the three farm laws.The ‘morcha’ has the support of over 500 farmers’ organisations. Various farmer leaders met here on Thursday in connection with the November 26 ‘Delhi Chalo’ march.A seven-member committee has also been formed to coordinate the operations of the ‘morcha’. Addressing the media here, Yogendra Yadav, a member of the panel, and Swaraj India president, said on November 26, farmers will peacefully move towards Delhi through five highways—Amritsar-Delhi national highway (Kundli border), Hisar-Delhi highway (Bahadurgarh), Jaipur-Delhi highway (Dharuhera), Bareilly-Delhi highway (Hapur) and Agra-Delhi highway (Ballabhgarh).“Farmers will demand in one voice that the farm laws should be scrapped. Proposed electricity law should be immediately withdrawn,” Yadav said.“We hope farmers will be allowed to raise their voice in the national capital. If they are not allowed (to enter Delhi), then we have decided that wherever we’ll be stopped, we will sit there and launch a protest for an indefinite period,” he added.The protest call for November 26 and 27 was earlier given by AIKSCC, a body of more than 200 farmers’ organisations across the country.Lashing out at the Centre for “imposing economic blockade” on Punjab, Yadav demanded the government to resume goods trains in the state.Shiv Kumar Sharma, another farmer leader, dubbed the three farm laws as a “death warrant” for farmers.Replying to a question, BKU (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said if the Centre invites them for talks, they will go but will not withdraw their ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest call.Farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.They have been demanding that these new laws should be repealed. — PTI
19-11-2020||---||Father-son duo nabbed at Amritsar airport for carrying ‘saroop’ in suitcase||Amritsar, November 19Amritsar police have nabbed a father-son duo carrying Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroop’ in a suitcase at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport on Thursday.Jwala Singh and his son Jasvir Singh were taken into custody for violating the ‘Sikh Rayat Maryada’. They were said to be associated with Gurdwara Nanaksar Samadh Bhai sect.Both were to board a SpiceJet flight to New Delhi from where they were to take another flight for Pune.Before that, an autorickshaw driver suspected their activities, as the suitcase was covered with ‘rumala’ (a cloth placed on the saroop). He informed the SGPC and the police which intercepted them at the airport only.Taking prompt action, the SGPC’s team of preachers — Jagdev Singh, Tarsem Singh, Satwant Singh and Inderjit Singh — reached the airport and took the possession of the saroop that was later enshrined at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib in Amritsar.  Tarsem Singh said the ‘saroop’ was being sent to Pune at the instance of Baba Kulwant Singh of Gurdwara Nanaksar Samadh Bhai.After learning about the incident, a few religious groups also reached the airport.The police have booked them under Section 295 (destruction, damage, or defilement of a place of worship or an object held sacred) of IPC. Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal has taken strong cognisance of it and has demanded stern action against the culprits.Akal Takht has directed the administration and the police to initiate exemplary action against them so that no one could dare to repeat such a condemnable attempt again. Akal Takht has also announced to constitute a high level committee to conduct a thorough probe into the incident.“It was blasphemous act to ferry the saroop like a luggage. This unpardonable act should be dealt with sternly,” he said.
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||NHAI suffers Rs 150-cr loss due to Punjab farmers’ protest at toll plazas||National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has suffered a revenue loss of about Rs 150 crore so far on account of farmers’ protest at toll plazas in Punjab, a senior official said on Thursday.Farmers, who are up in arms against three central farm laws, have been staging sit-ins at toll plazas in Punjab since October 1.Protesting farmers are not allowing toll collection authorities to charge toll fee from commuters. Farmers, however, are permitting vehicles to pass through without any payment at the plazas.There are 25 toll plazas on national highways in Punjab.“The loss is about Rs 3 crore per day from all toll plazas in Punjab,” NHAI regional officer (Chandigarh) R P Singh told PTI.With farmers protesting at toll plazas for nearly 50 days now, the loss is about Rs 150 crore, he added.The NHAI has already taken up the matter with the Punjab Chief Secretary over the issue of farmers’ protest at toll plazas, officials said.The loss of revenue at toll plazas due to farmers’ protest could also cast a shadow over the upcoming road projects in the state, the officials pointed out.Different farmers’ bodies in Punjab have been protesting against the three farm laws.Farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws will pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.They are demanding that these new laws should be repealed.Farmers had resorted to ‘rail roko’ agitation and staged sit-ins outside some shopping malls, toll plazas and residences of several BJP leaders.The suspension of goods trains in Punjab has already affected the supply of fertilisers for the farming sector and coal for thermal plants.Industry alone has already suffered losses to the tune of Rs 30,000 crore in Punjab, as containers carrying goods have got stuck because of the non-operation of goods trains. — PTI
19-11-2020||Mansa||82-year-old Kargil martyr’s mother finally gets pension||An 82-year-old woman, Jagir Kaur, mother of Kargil martyr Naik Nirmal Singh, who attained martyrdom in operation Rakshak in J&K in 1999, has finally got her due as she has now started getting 25 per cent pension admissible to the Naik’s widow.Army authorities took up her case and she has started getting Rs 10,300 pension from last month. The pension has been fixed for Jagir Kaur, which is 25 per cent, while 75 per cent of the martyr’s pension will be provided to his widow.Earlier, after the death of Nirmal Singh, his widow wife was getting the entire pension.Jagir Kaur lost her husband and another son soon after.  The other sons did not take care of her and over the years Nirmal’s widow also parted away from her. Left with no option, Jagir had to take up MNREGA work in Kusla village in Mansa to earn her livelihood.Earlier this year, a video went viral on social media, which has brought this dramatic change in the life of this mother.In the video, she was upset over her poor financial condition and even said I have no money and hence work as MNREGA worker. After the video, many NGOs came forward to help her.NGO Nirvair Khalsa Aid of Yamunagar came forward to repair her house. Another NGO, Sarbat Da Bhala Trust, has started giving her a pension of Rs 5,000 per month from August onwards. Not only this, Rs 1.35 lakh has been donated in her bank account.On August 6, the Government Senior Secondary School of Kusla village was named after Shaheed Naik Nirmal Singh. In addition, financial help of Rs 51,000 was provided by Bikram Mofar, chairman, Mansa Zila Parishad, to the old woman.The family had got almost all facilities along with Rs 11 lakh monetary support from Army allowed to martyr’s families after Kargil war but, allegedly due to a dispute in the family, Jagir Kaur was left to fend for herself.Nirmal was in the 15 Sikh Light Infantry and died fighting for the country at the age of 21.Manjit Singh, Kusla village sarpanch, said “Jagir Kaur was forced to live alone due to some family dispute. The village panchayat and an NGO kept supporting her by providing wages from MGNREGS and whatever else they could.”
19-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Amarinder's son Raninder appears before ED; questioned for six hours||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 19Raninder Singh, son of Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate in the alleged Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) violation case on Thursday. He was questioned for over six hours.While Raninder Singh arrived at the ED office at 11 am, he left after six hours.This is the third time Raninder was summoned by the ED this year. He was unable to appear before the ED on October 27 due to a meeting in the Rajya Sabha, and on November 6 on health reasons. He was accompanied by Congress spokesperson and lawyer Jaiveer Shergill today.Raninder’s last appearance before the ED was on July 21, 2016.Emerging out of the ED office after questioning, Raninder told the media, “I am a law abiding citizen of the country and I have appeared in front the ED today. I am happy to appear at this time or any time whenever we are called by the ED or any government agency. We will continue to co-operate with the inquiry.”While key Congress leaders have time and again alleged political vendetta in the timing of his summoning by the ED; when questioned whether he thought there was any politics involved in the issue summoning, Raninder said, “I can’t comment any further on the issue as the case is subject to inquiry. I leave this to your judgment.”While commenting on the long duration of the questioning, lawyer Jaiveer Shergill said, “That is standard operating procedure of the ED. Earlier also, he has been questioned for five hours. We are extending all cooperation.”The ED probe concerns an investigation into assets acquired abroad and movement of funds – a case first investigated by the Income Tax department. The IT probe alleged there were discrepancies in the full disclosure of assets – a charge denied by Raninder.
19-11-2020||---||Scholars divided over birth month of Guru Nanak Dev||Amritsar, November 18Discussing a major controversy about the month of Guru Nanak Dev’s birth, eminent scholar Dr Asa Singh Ghuman released a book “Katak Kay Visakh? Kay Dovain?” here on Wednesday. A discussion was also conducted at Bhai Veer Singh’s residence at Lawrence Road in which scholars and historians threw light on various aspects of history of beliefs about the month of birth of Guru Nanak Dev.Dr Kulwinder Singh Bajwa, former head of history department, Punjabi University, Patiala, said Asa Singh Ghuman gave a deep analysis of “Janam-Sakhis” in his book. He also wrote about the British authors, who gave their opinion about the Sikh history and sacred text. The controversy over the month of Guru Nanak Dev’s birth is not new and Karam Singh historian written a book on it. After several decades, Giani Ishar Singh Naara critiqued the claims of Karm Singh historian in 1970 by writing a book “Vaisakh Nahi Katak Guru Nanak Avtar”. Dr Ghuman threw light on the claims of both writers and then gave the perspective of “Janam Sakhis”.Bajwa stated that Sikhs believe that Guru Nanak was Guru since his birth, while Ghuman gave a new insight that Guru born spiritually after taking dip in “Kali Bein” a rivulet at Sultanpur Lodhi. It would not be acceptable for Sikh masses.Speaking on the occasion, Sikh scholar Inderjit Singh Gogoani said, “The organised religions follow their traditions not opinion of historian. It is one of the opinions that Guru Nanak Dev born in the month of Visakh but Sikhs always celebrates it on full moon (Puranmashi) of Katak. The historians should keep doing researches but not reject the traditions.”Several other scholars gave their opinion on book and discussed the life and history of Guru Nanak Dev on the occasion.
19-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Going, going, gone! Historic wall around Golden Temple on verge of extinction||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, NOVEMBER 18Even as the government has spruced up a couple of gates to revive their heritage look, but the historic wall around the Golden Temple has almost disappeared. Over 200 years old historical wall around the city struggles to maintain its heritage character. Now, only vestiges can be spotted.Laxmi Kanta Chawla, former minister, Punjab Has the government usurped the historic wall? It may be claiming to elevate the city to a smart one, but the reality is something else. The reality of squalid condition prevailing in the city is visible behind the wall, which is being given a facelift. Many shops have emerged by eliminating the wallLaxmi Kanta Chawla, former Punjab minister, said: “Has the government usurped the historic wall? It may be claiming to elevate the city to a smart one but the reality is something else. The reality of squalid condition prevailing in the city is visible behind the wall, which is being given a facelift. Many shops have emerged by eliminating the wall.”Prof Dr Balvinder Singh, a conservation spatial planner and former head of Guru Ram Das School of Planning of GNDU, said, “No doubt, the wall is in complete neglect, it is encroached, broken from many places and even structures have been erected on it.” He stressed that a solution must be sought with which not only the wall, but also the character of the walled city can be protected. “Short-term solution is to establish Heritage Advisory Committee, Amritsar, on the pattern of Shimla Heritage Advisory Committee,” he suggested.At the same time there is a need to enact ‘Conservation Areas and Listed Buildings Act, Punjab’ on the pattern of British legislation.This can be used for all historic cities if we want to conserve our historic towns for the future generations. Ad hoc approach should be stopped and an integrated conservation plan should be prepared and implemented as per the legislation which is suggested.Maharaja Ranjit Singh took the administrative control of the city in 1804 and started constructing the wall in 1821.With the advice from Mohammad Yar Khan, building officer Ganesha Das initiated the works from Katra Maha Singh. In 1824, Sardar Desa Singh Majithia was deployed as in-charge of the project. Eminent landlord Ramnand (whom Maharaja used to call Baba ji and named a garden after him) gave Rs 7 lakh for it.Even Maharaja Sher Singh granted Rs 5.70 lakh after Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s demise. After getting control of Punjab, the British resumed the work on gates.In 1884, they increased the height of the wall to 12 yards and reshaped the gates and constructed police posts.
19-11-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice over FIRs against paddy arrival from other states||Chandigarh, November 18Acting on a petition alleging registration of a large number of FIRs on the ground of bringing paddy from outside Punjab in an unauthorised manner even though such prohibition was non-existent, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a petitioner-firm may bring its produce within the state territory.The Bench also made it clear that the firm would not be entitled to sell the produce at “any designated grain market, market yard, market place or any other area notified as principal market or sub-market yard of the market, special market or any other place meant and notified for the sale or purchase of agricultural produce”.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after M/s AK Enterprises filed a petition seeking directions to the state of Punjab, the Union of India and other respondents not to prohibit it from carrying on lawful trade in the interest of justice.Taking up the matter, Justice GS Sandhawalia issued a notice of motion. The Bench was subsequently told that a similar matter pertaining to the state of Haryana was pending for December 9.Directing the hearing of the case along with the Haryana matter, Justice Sandhawalia directed “interim order in the same terms, as would be applicable to the state of Punjab”. In the Haryana matter, the High Court had ordered that the petitioner may bring his produce within the territory of Haryana or Punjab. But he will not be entitled to sell his produce at “any designated grain market, market yard...”Similar case in HaryanaThe Bench was told that a similar matter pertaining to the state of Haryana was pending for December 9. Directing the hearing of the case along with the Haryana matter, Justice GS Sandhawalia directed “interim order in the same terms, as would be applicable to the state of Punjab”.
19-11-2020||---||Covid cases up by 802, 31 more die||Chandigarh, November 18The state reported 802 new Covid cases and 31 deaths in the past 24 hours.With this, the total number of Covid cases in the state has gone up to 1,43,395 while the number of deaths has reached 4,541.SAS Nagar district topped the list with 134 fresh cases, followed by Patiala (108), Jalandhar (97), Ludhiana (85), Amritsar (55) and Hoshiarpur (54). The number of active cases has gone up to 5,937.At present, 144 patients are on oxygen support while 17 are on ventilator support.Jalandhar district reported six deaths today, followed by Ludhiana (five), Sangrur and Hoshiarpur (three each), Muktsar, Ropar, Bathinda and Fazilka (two each), and Amritsar, Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Mansa, SAS Nagar and Pathankot (one each).
19-11-2020||---||BSF constable, two others held in drug seizure case||Chandigarh, November 18Acting into the investigations of the 11-kg heroin haul made yesterday, the Punjab Police today tracked down its trail leading to Pakistan-backed handlers and arrested a BSF constable, who was the main conduit, and two of his accomplices.The police also recovered weapons sent from across the border along with both drug consignments. With today’s arrests, seven persons have so far been arrested in the case.A .30 bore foreign-made pistol sent along with the drug consignment, a motorcycle and 745-gm heroin was recovered from Constable Barinder Singh, who was arrested from the BSF premises in Rajasthan in a coordinated operation by the Jalandhar rural police. Following his interrogation, two other accused, identified as Balkar Singh Balli of Srikaranpur, Ganganagar, and Jagmohan Singh Jaggu of Ganganagar, were arrested today. Another smuggled .30 bore pistol and Rs 8 lakh along with a Verna car have also been recovered from Balkar Singh.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said the BSF constable was instrumental in transferring the drugs across the Indo-Pak border and handing them over to the other accused. Constable Barinder Singh was presently deployed at 14-S Majhiwala Post, Karanpur, and is being subjected to joint questioning on the BSF premises in Rajasthan to establish his forward and backward linkages.Heroin worth Rs 38 cr seized in FazilkaFazilka: Sleuths belonging to 136th Battalion of the BSF seized 7.528 kg heroin near Bare Ke border outpost in the sector. The drugs, wrapped in seven packets, are worth Rs38 crore in the international market. A pistol, a magazine and seven live rounds of ammunition were also seized. Surinder Mehta, BSF DIG, Ferozepur sector, said the consignment was seized following specific inputs. oc
19-11-2020||Fazilka||23 kids get smartphones||Actor Sonu Sood has gifted 23 smarthpones to needy students of the border area under the campaign ‘Padhega Fazilka to Badhega Fazilka’.  Responding to the appeal made by border area students of Government High School, Asafwala village, Sood, with the help of his friend and Fazilka resident Karan Gilhotra, provided six mobile phones to the poor students for pursuing their studies online today. Earlier, 13 students belonging to slum areas had been provided the smartphones free of cost. — OC
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Delimitation: Govt to withdraw notifications||The state government today undertook before the Punjab and Haryana High Court that it would withdraw notifications whereby the state “changed the serial numbering of wards” of Bhawanigarh Municipal Council in Sangrur district. The petitioner, Honey Kansal, through counsel Puneet Gupta, had contended that the state illegally changed the serial numbering in contravention of the provisions of the Delimitation of Wards of Municipalities Rules, 1972. Appearing on his behalf, Gupta contended that the move was also in contravention of well-settled law laid by a Division Bench of the High Court in the case of ‘Rakesh Sharma vs State of Punjab and others’. The process was carried out without inviting objections from the affected persons of the wards. As such, it was also in violation of the principles of natural justice. The Bench disposed of the writ petition in view of the statement made by Puneet Goel, Director, Local Government, that it would withdraw the notifications and issue fresh ones. — TNS
19-11-2020||Karam Prakash||PRTC records 66% rise in daily income||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 18After facing losses worth crores due to the Covid-induced lockdown, the state-run Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) has recorded a 66 per cent rise in daily income in less than a month.PRTC’s daily income has gone up from Rs 60 lakh in October to Rs 1 crore in November. However, the average daily income of the corporation has not been able to touch the daily income of pre-Covid times, which was around Rs 1.25 crore.One of the major factors that caused an immediate rise in the daily income is the plying of interstate buses, which resumed last month. Around 30 per cent income of the PRTC comes from the interstate movement of buses.Jaskiran Singh, Managing Director, PRTC, said the financial situation of the organisation had improved as compared to the last month. He said the organisation was still incurring losses, though there was an improvement.The PRTC has not yet started its full fleet of 1,125 buses. He said, “As of now, 850 buses are plying. We will ply our full fleet of buses soon after consistency in occupancy.”
19-11-2020||Saurabh Malik---||All is not well with bail orders by Addl Sessions Judge: High Court||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, November 18 All is not well with the bail orders passed by an Additional Sessions Judge, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled. The Bench asserted it was strange to notice the manner in which the court of the Additional Sessions Judge allowed bail to two persons, while dismissing the plea of another person in the same case. Directing the placing of the matter before the Administrative Judge concerned, Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted in the case of one accused “attributed injuries”, the lower court camouflaged the fact by stating “medical corroboration needs scrutiny”. In the case of the other, the lower court observed “the fact whether this petitioner had conspired to eliminate the deceased is yet to be established”.  Justice Fateh Deep Singh added it was illustrative that all was not well with these orders. The state counsel had submitted that the lower court “for a motivated purpose” allowed the bail to co-accused and declined relief to the petitioner. It was “illustrative of the influence that the accused side wields in the system”. After hearing arguments and analysing the submissions, Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted the state’s apprehension that the petitioner might influence the trial was not unfounded, if allowed the bail. “In view of the same, this court does not feel inclined to allow the bail application, which stands dismissed,” the Bench added.  The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Amritpal Singh filed a petition against the state of Punjab for regular bail in a case registered in November last year for murder, criminal intimidation and other offences under Sections 302, 506, 148, and 149 of the IPC and the provisions of the Arms Act. The allegations against the petitioner were that he was instrumental in hatching a criminal conspiracy against the complainant side leading to the death of the victim. His counsel contended that the co-accused of the petitioner had been allowed regular bail by the lower court. The petitioner’s case was on a better footing than the co-accused. He was away to Nanded Sahib, Maharashtra, when the occurrence took place.
19-11-2020||Patiala||Rape charge against Bains politically motivated: LIP||The core committee of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) held a press conference here today and claimed that the allegations of rape levied by a woman against party leader Simarjit Singh Bains were baseless and politically motivated. Bains did not attend the press conference. Party leaders said he was leading a rally. Party core committee member Manwinder Singh Giaspura said the woman in question had earlier levied similar allegations against a real estate dealer who helped her purchase a house. He said, “She levied false allegations against him and later retracted her complaint by submitting it in writing. Now she has levied similar allegations against Bains.” Giaspura said Bains would go to Ludhiana and be a part of the investigation ordered by the Ludhiana Police Commissioner though no FIR had been registered yet. — TNS
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Amid farmers’ threat, BJP puts off functions in 10 Punjab districts||After the farmers’ threat, the BJP has postponed the foundation stone-laying ceremony of 10 district offices, including in Barnala, Mansa, Sangrur and Bathinda.BJP president JP Nadda was to lay the foundation virtually. Party state president Ashwani Sharma was to preside over the occasion. Punjab in charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam, co in charge Narinder Singh, national secretary Tarun Chugh, Union Minister of State Som Prakash were scheduled to participate in the ceremony.Sukhdev Kokri, general secretary, BKU (Ugrahan) had said their protest against BJP would continue till the farm laws were rolled back. — TNS
19-11-2020||---||It’s unfortunate, ‘rail roko’ must end: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, November 18Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has expressed disappointment over the adamant refusal of farm unions to completely lift their rail blockade, which had brought the state virtually to a standstill, causing immense hardships and losses.Reacting to the decision taken by the unions at Wednesday’s meeting, the Chief Minister said he had expected them to back down from their unyielding approach in the interest of Punjab, especially in view of the state government’s absolute support for their cause, and also in light of the Centre’s decision to engage with them on the issue of farm laws.The decision of the unions to maintain status quo with respect to their blockade of passenger trains, which was obstructing movement of goods trains also, was extremely unfortunate, Capt Amarinder said. “They should realise that things cannot not continue like this ad infinitum and if rail transportation continued to remain suspended any longer, the state will plunge into an irreversible crisis,” he said, adding that no government could afford such a situation.Pointing out that his government had backed the farmers to the hilt since the Centre introduced the agricultural ordinances, the Chief Minister said the Bills brought in the Vidhan Sabha were a major step towards negating the impact of the Central laws. Instead of reciprocating the gesture, the unions were standing firm on not allowing trains to move in the state without considering the grave financial and other implications it was having on the state exchequer, the industry, the people and the farmers themselves, he said.The industry alone had already suffered huge losses, noted the Chief Minister, adding that coming on the heels of the Covid disruption, this was putting the state under massive pressure.As for the agriculture sector, 60,000 gunny bags were stuck in Delhi and Rajpura, thus impacting the lifting of paddy crop from grain markets, the Chief Minister said. The suspension of train services had also prevented the supply of 40 lakh metric tonnes of parboiled rice from Punjab to Bihar and Eastern UP for PDS distribution, causing the Central Government to pick up the grain from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, he added.
19-11-2020||---||Punjab Cabinet to meet on November 25 over ULB poll||Chandigarh, November 18Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has decided to call a meeting on November 25 to discuss the conduct of impending elections to the 126 urban local bodies (ULBs). Earlier, the Council of Ministers today deferred a table agenda to discuss the matter.It came up for discussion during today’s Cabinet meeting held through video-conferencing. The ministers sought a special Cabinet meeting for discussion on the subject after the listed agenda items were discussed.Sources said Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra followed by other ministers urged the Chief Minister to call a meeting to discuss the subject. Amid the concerns raised by ministers, the Chief Minister decided to call the meeting on November 25. The Local Government Department has been asked to complete the delimitation exercise so that a final call can be taken on holding the elections.During discussions in the Cabinet, there was a consensus on holding the elections by end of January 2021. A formal notification by the government would be done only after the ongoing delimitation exercise in all ULBs was over and the state would intimate the State Election Commission about its readiness to hold the elections.Earlier, a Cabinet sub-committee of the ministers, comprising Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Vijay Inder Singla and Sunder Sham Arora had unanimously agreed to recommend holding the elections tentatively on October 11 to the State Election Commission. However, it could not be done due to the pandemic.The sources said once the delimitation was complete and government decides on holding the election, the Election Commission needs two months to complete the process before the schedule is finalised.
19-11-2020||---||Buildings, transport to be made disabled-friendly in Punjab||Chandigarh, November 18The Punjab Cabinet today approved the ‘Punjab Divyangjan Shaktikaran Yojana’ to provide a barrier-free environment to persons with disabilities by making government and public-centric buildings, public transportation and websites accessible to them.The scheme also aims at clearing the job quota backlog for persons with disabilities under the state employment plan. Minister for Social Security, Women and Child Development Aruna Chaudhary said the aim was to enrol all persons with disabilities for the unique disability IDs so that they could benefit from 30 existing schemes and programmes. Only 1.17 lakh have the IDs so far.As per the 2011 census, in Punjab, of a population of 2.72 crore, there are 6.5 lakh disabled persons — 3.79 lakh (58 per cent) males and 2.74 lakh (42 per cent) females. The number of disabled persons is the highest in the age group of 20-29 (1.17 lakh). A majority (20 per cent) of disabled persons have the disability in movement, 12.6 per cent visual disability and another 22.4 per cent disability in hearing.In the first phase, the focus would be on strengthening the existing programmes to ensure that their benefits reach the persons with disabilities, while in the second phase, 13 new interventions are proposed for the empowerment of such persons.Critical posts in Amritsar & Patiala GMCs okayedTo cope more effectively with the Covid-19 pandemic, the Cabinet gave approval for the creation of 16 posts of assistant professor (super specialist) in the departments of cardiology, endocrinology, neurology and nephrology of Government Medical Colleges of Patiala and Amritsar. The nod also given to temporary conversion of 25 vacant posts of direct quota of super-specialist professor and associate professor to assistant professor on contract basis and filling of 168 posts of technicians in various paramedical cadres in these two government medical colleges.Single-window to boost telecom infraThe Cabinet has approved new guidelines under a single-window policy for speedier permissions for installation of telecom towers and 'right of way' clearances for laying optical fiber cable. It has also enhanced the period for validity of permissions from existing 10 years to 20Agri education Act deferred to June 2021It was decided to defer the implementation of the Punjab State Council for Agricultural Education Act, 2017, till June 30, 2021. The main objective of the council is to specify the minimum standards for agricultural education and training to be followed by colleges/universities in the state.Remuneration of OSDs (litigation) hikedThe Cabinet has given its nod to the 20 per cent increase in the fixed remuneration/retainership fees payable to OSDs (litigation) from Rs50,000 to Rs60,000.
19-11-2020||---||Operate goods trains first: Unions to Centre||Chandigarh, November 18First allow goods trains to operate in the state, only then the proposal to resume passenger trains will be considered. This was the main decision taken by 30 farm unions which met here today to discuss the further course of action in the ongoing farmers’ agitation. After deliberating for over five hours, the unions said the Centre must show its good intent by allowing goods trains to operate.The union leaders said they were under pressure from the industry as well as the state government to stop the agitation on railway property (farmers are no longer on tracks or railway platforms, but protesting on railway parking and other lands) as the Union Railway Ministry and the Railway Board had refused to revoke the suspension of trains. “We would like to tell the industrialists that we are fighting for a just cause, which is directly linked to the state’s economy. The Centre is responsible for keeping train services suspended, not us,” said Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala of the Kirti Kisan Union, adding that the agitation would continue.During the marathon meeting today, discussion was also held on last week’s meeting with Central ministers in Delhi. It is learnt that all unions unanimously rejected the suggestion that the three laws would benefit farmers. They criticised the Centre for disallowing them the rally venue in Delhi for an agitation on November 26 and 27, and vowed to make the agitation a grand success.Ruldu Singh Mansa, president of the Punjab Kisan Union, who chaired the meeting today, said they also discussed the routes that farmers would be taking to reach Delhi as efforts would be made to stop their march to the capital. “All district committees will be meeting on November 21 to chalk out their plan,” he said, adding they would lay siege to Delhi from all sides.The union leaders also protested against the closing down of over 4,000 purchase centres for paddy even as the arrivals in mandis remained high. They demanded that all purchase centres be allowed to procure paddy as before.Rs 22,000-crore loss to industry
19-11-2020||Amritsar||Know your limits, SGPC tells BJP leader Harjeet Singh Grewal||The SGPC condemned BJP leader Harjeet Singh Grewal for passing “obnoxious” comments about Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, who had said that an “EVM government was ruling the country”.Grewal called Singh “an employee” of a political family and termed him “mentally ill”. Taking note of it, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said Akal Takht Jathedar occupied the highest temporal Sikh seat and no one should dare to defame him.“Any vague statement of a political leader could not be tolerated. Giani Harpreet Singh had mentioned about the prevailing political scenario at the Centre... Grewal should know his limits,” Longowal said. — TNS
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||SGPC ignoring its ‘founders’,  says Dhindsa||Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) president and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa today condemned the SAD (Badal) for ignoring Jathedars and the families of other great personalities who had made sacrifices for the establishment of SGPC during the commemoration ceremony of the SGPC’s centenary.Terming it a mistake, Dhindsa said families of many great personalities had made sacrifices and contributed in the establishment of SGPC and it was unfortunate to ignore them. He said the SAD (Democratic) had always stood by those who would take the community forward and could never forget those who had made sacrifices in the establishment of the SGPC. — TNS
19-11-2020||Bathinda||Farmers protest laws in Bathinda, Muktsar||A large number of farmers, labourers and women from Bathinda district today staged a dharna in front of the office of the Bathinda Deputy Commissioner against the Central farm laws.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) district president Shingara Singh Mann said the three centres of farm stir in Punjab were the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), the forum of 30 organisations and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, and the Union Government was taking advantage of the lack of coordination among them and trying to suppress the farmers’ struggle.“Union Minister of State Som Parkash’s statement about the possibility of the talks reaching a conclusion adds to this suspicion. An appeal will be made to all farm organisations to strengthen the coordination to defeat such maneuvers by the government,” he said.The demonstrators took out a protest march from the Deputy Commissioner’s office to the Gol Diggi area urging people of the city to join the struggle against the laws. In Muktsar too, a large number of farmers staged a protest outside the district administrative complex against the new laws. — TNS
19-11-2020||Amritsar||SAD sees no threat from BJP in Assembly poll, says Sukhbir||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said his party saw no threat from the BJP in the 2022 Assembly elections, even as it has decided to contest all seats.Paying obeisance at the Golden Temple along with his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, he said the SAD would abide by the directions of the Akal Takht. During the SGPC’s centenary celebrations, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had preached SAD to revive its Panthic agenda and SAD should start journey from Punjab to Panth so that no one could separate the mother (SGPC) from its son (SAD).Taking a jibe at the estranged alliance partner BJP, he said: “It was BJP’s long wish to contest all seats in Punjab. Like any other party, they too have right to do so,” he said, adding: “At least the Punjab unit of the BJP could have acted as a ‘mediator’ to convey farmers’ cause to the Centre, instead of trying to pacify farmers with the newly enacted farm laws.”Targetting the Congress government, he alleged there was not a single development work done in its four-year regime. Drug, liquor and sand mafia prospered in the state in connivance with its MLAs and the CM has given them free hand. — TNS
19-11-2020||---||BJP, SAD cross swords after Jathedar’s ‘EVM govt’ remark||Chandigarh, November 18A fresh row has erupted between the BJP and SAD over the former’s sharp reaction to Akal Takht Jathedar’s statement on Tuesday suggesting that the 2019 Lok Sabha polls were rigged.While BJP senior leader and a prominent Sikh face in the saffron party Harjeet Singh Grewal termed Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh “mentally ill and an employee of the Badal family”, the SAD asked the BJP leadership to take note of the irresponsible utterances being made against the Akal Takht Jathedar and ensure the honour of the head of the Sikh community’s highest temporal seat was not undermined in any manner.Both SAD and BJP had not made statements against each for quite some time after issuing strong statements against each when the SAD broke the alliance with the BJP in September. In his address on the 100th foundation day of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee on Tuesday, Giani Hapreet Singh said the Centre was trying to divide the Sikh Panth like the Congress tried in the 1980s. He insinuated the Central Government had come to power by misusing the EVMs. BJP leader Harjeet Singh Grewal said the issue raised by the Jathedar was outside the domain of his position. Talking to The Tribune, Grewal reiterated his criticism saying the Jathedar should stick to religious issues as he was a religious leader. “He (Jathedar) has forgotten that the SAD, which was a part of the NDA government, came to power through the same EVMs.”SAD senior vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema said, “The BJP central leadership should rebuff Harjeet Grewal immediately and the latter should take back his utterances and express regret for the same.”
19-11-2020||Fazilka||Traders buying Basmati at lower prices: Growers||Farmers blocked the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway near a flyover on the Ferozepur road today, alleging the private traders’ cartel was purchasing the basmati Rs 200 less as compared to the nearby town.“We are being offered Rs 2,700 per quintal when the same basmati variety is being purchased at Rs 2,900 to 2,950 per quintal in adjoining mandis,” alleged Pargat Singh Chackpakhi, district president, BKU (Sidhupura).Refuting the charge, Arun Dhuria, president, Rice Millers Association, Fazilka, said the rates were offered as per the quality of paddy. — OC
19-11-2020||---||Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor quits||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 18Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor Dr BS Ghuman today resigned from his post after over three years of service. He had been given an extension two months ago.Higher Education Secretary Rahul Bhandari said: “The Governor received his resignation late on Wednesday evening.”Sources said the VC had been visiting Chandigarh frequently as the university had been marred by excessive financial burden. His office had demanded a special grant of Rs 300 crore from the state government to tackle the financial situation.The Governor office had, on the other hand, constituted a three-member committee to look into the financial and administrative situation at the university in August that included Viswajeet Khanna, Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue, Higher Education Secretary Rahul Bhandari and Dr Ghuman.The university has, meanwhile, been witnessing uninterrupted protests by its teaching and non-teaching staff members over demands of timely release of salaries and pensions. Dr Ghuman was unavailable for comment.
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||NHAI told to pay Rs10K costs||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today imposed Rs 10,000 costs on the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in a land acquisition case.The Bench asserted the NHAI “strangely” filed an application for vacation of interim stay granted on October 16 and extended twice in its presence.“Thus, the application is dismissed being wholly misconceived with costs of Rs 10,000,” Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu asserted.Coming to the rescue of Raghvir Singh and 59 other residents of Khant village in Khamano tehsil of Fatehgarh Sahib district, Justice Sindhu on the previous date of hearing had directed the continuation of status quo regarding possession of their land. — TNS
19-11-2020||BLURB||National Fertilizers Limited ‘forces’ dealers to buy biofertilisers||Balwant GargTribune News ServiceFaridkot, November 18Amid acute urea shortage in the ongoing wheat-sowing season, two units of the National Fertilizers Limited (NFL) producing urea at Nangal and Bathinda are allegedly forcing fertiliser dealers to buy many organic fertilisers with urea.With no demand among farmers, the dealers don’t want to buy these organic fertilisers.As per the estimates by the agriculture department, Punjab needs about 15 lakh tonne urea for wheat and other crops during this rabi season. The total urea production capacity of both Bathinda and Nangal units of NFL is about 3,200 tonne daily.At the time when there is huge gap between the demand and supply of urea, the NFL units are dictating the fertiliser dealers to buy many bio-fertilisers (solid and liquid) with the urea.These bio-fertilisers include rhizobium, phosphate solubilising bacteria, azotobacter and city compost. City compost is prepared from the city garbage, said some dealers on the condition of anonymity.The Bathinda-based NFL unit has an agreement with a Sirsa-based company to purchase the city compost but the NFL always faces difficulty in selling this product in the absence of demand among farmers. But in this time of crisis when there is acute shortage of urea, the NFL is allegedly forcing fertiliser dealers to purchase these products with urea for promoting the use of compost and other bio and organic fertilisers.Denying the allegations, Tirtharup Mandape, production manager, NFL, Bathinda, said they were not forcing any dealer to purchase these products with urea. “We are working overtime to produce urea and we are producing about 1,650 tonne daily,” he said.
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab amends rules, jobs for martyrs’ married siblings||Amending the existing Policy of Appointments of Honour and Gratitude, the Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to provide jobs in the state services to married siblings of three unmarried soldiers killed in Ladakh’s Galwan valley in June.The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in recognition of the supreme sacrifice made by Sepoy Gurtej Singh, Sepoy Gurbinder Singh and Lance Naik Saleem Khan.As per existing rules, only dependent family members or next of kin are given government jobs in such cases. But in the case of the three soldiers no dependent family member existed, hence the government decided to make an exception and give jobs to their married brothers.Sepoys Gurtej Singh and Gurbinder Singh were killed in the Galwan clash while Lance Naik Khan died patrolling near the LAC. — TNS
