20-04-2020||Chandigarh||In U-turn, Punjab govt allows industrial activity in non-containment areas||In a flip-flop amid the coronavirus outbreak, the Punjab government on Monday allowed industrial activity in non-containment areas in line with the Union Home Ministry guidelines.The U-turn came within a span of 24 hours after it ruled out any relaxation in the curfew till May 3, barring the wheat procurement.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday asked the deputy commissioners to facilitate the opening of industrial units in non-containment areas by complying with detailed instructions issued by the state government on April 18, a government release said. The Centre in its revised guidelines to states for the containment of COVID-19 has allowed the construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings, water supply and sanitation and renewable energy projects etc. — PTI
20-04-2020||Patiala||Patiala health department struggles to track down source of 25 of 26 infections||Patiala health department has been unable to trace the source of 25 of the district’s 26 infections---a development that comes two days after the district reported 15 infections in the course of a single day.Sources in the health department screened around 3.5 lakh people since the district reported 15 cases in one day, but did not find anybody with symptoms.Health authorities said only one person in Patiala had travel history---he recently travelled to Dubai.The other cases continue to confound authorities---neither the social worker who had infected three of his own family members nor the book trader who infected 13 people, including his family members, travelled abroad. They also did not come in contact with any other positive patient, but had made several trips out of the city, health department said.Another loose end for authorities is a gardener who tested positive last week. The gardener was employed by several top bureaucrats of the district.  Authorities have yet to trace the source of his infection.A woman who tested positive in Rajpura is believed to have got the infection from her sons, but it is still unclear how the latter got the infection, a source said.The department blames infections of the book trader, the social worker and the Rajpura family on their travels outside the district.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said: “The social worker, the book trader, and the sons of the Rajpura woman all travelled out of the district, by their own information. It seems they got the infection from outside the district. We have already screened and tested all the close contacts of these positive patients.”
20-04-2020||---||ITI to be named after Nirmal Singh Khalsa: Amarinder||Chandigarh, April 20In a tribute to late Padma Shri and former Hazoori Ragi of Sri Darbar Sahib Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday announced his government’s decision to name the upcoming ITI at Lohian (Shahkot) after him.Khalsa had passed away due to coronavirus on April 2 at Amritsar. Amarinder, in a condolence to the family on Sunday, said he was deeply saddened over the untimely demise of the great Ragi, who was an expert in all Ragas of Sri Guru Granth Sahib.Sharing his heartfelt sympathies with the bereaved family, relatives and friends, as well as the lakhs of Bhai Sahib’s admirers in Punjab, country and abroad, Amarinder said Khalsa dedicated his entire life to propagating Gurmat Sangeet by performing kirtan across the globe.
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports only two coronavirus cases, tally stands at 246||Punjab reported only two coronavirus cases on Monday--- the lowest single-day report from the state since the outbreak began last month.Jalandhar and Mohali reported one case each on Monday.A contact of an already diagnosed case tested positive in Jalandhar, Mohali’s Nayagaon reported one more coronavirus case, taking the district’s tally 62.A 25-year-old man who tested positive lived in the same building as an already diagnosed case. This is Nayagaon’s sixth case.The development takes the state's tally to 246, with 16 deaths.
20-04-2020||New Delhi||Milkha Singh’s daughter fights COVID-19 pandemic from frontline in NY hospital||Legendary sprinter Milkha Singh’s daughter and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh’s elder sister has been running a “marathon” in New York—not on a track but at a hospital, battling the COVID-19 pandemic that has ravaged the world.Mona Milkha Singh is a doctor at the Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York, attending to emergency patients of coronavirus, which has so far claimed more than 40,000 lives in the US alone while causing over 1.5 lakh deaths worldwide.“She is basically an ER (Emergency Room) doctor in Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York city. So, when someone comes with the coronavirus symptoms, she has to treat them,” Jeev, a four-time European Tour champion, told PTI.“She checks the patients, stabilises them, performs intubation (insertion of artificial ventilation tube into a patient) before they are sent to special wards to quarantine the COVID-19 patients,” he added.The 54-year-old Mona passed out of Patiala Medical College before moving to the USA in the ‘90s. She has been working there for more than 20 years.“I am so proud of her. She says it is like running a marathon every day. She has been working five days a week, sometimes day shifts, sometimes night shifts, 12-hour shifts and it is tough but she has to do the job as best as she can.” The 48-year-old from Chandigarh said the job is a stressful one and sometimes he feels scared for her.“I feel worried. When you are treating people, anything can happen, so we talk to her every day. My mom and dad also keep checking on her.“We keep asking how she is feeling and if there are any symptoms. I tell her to stay positive and boost her immune system,” said Jeev, also a five-time Asian Tour winner.New York has reported nearly 250,000 confirmed cases and over 18,000 fatalities, forcing the government to extend its lockdown till May 15 to contain the fast-spreading disease.However, the lockdown is also giving rise to a lot of mental health issues among people, who also need equal attention.“With New York in partial lockdown, she gets a lot of patients who are suffering from depression as they are not used to staying at home,” Jeev elaborated.“There are people who come with bullet wounds, people who are having anxiety attacks, youngsters with drug overdose or old people getting heart attacks, basically any kind of emergency, she has to treat them all,” he said.The Chandigarh-based golfer also called for greater respect for the frontline workers, who have been attacked in India while performing their duties.“It is my humble request to every citizen of the world to respect the frontline workers because they are there to help us, whether it is the doctors, police, people who pick up garbage ... we must be respectful, kind and grateful to them and make sure they are taken care of,” he said.The dreaded virus has infected over 20 lakh people across the globe. — PTI
20-04-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Rainwater inundates grain markets in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 20Untimely rain led to water accumulation in grain markets in parts of Punjab, damaging wheat and halting the procurement process.As per reports, rain was accompanied with hail at some places. The wheat harvesting work also came to a standstill.__As showers lashed Patiala grain markets, farmers rushed to cover wheat. A farmer rued “lack of arrangements” on the part of market committee.At Diwana village grain market in Barnala district, a hailstorm was witnessed along with rain.There were also reports of water inundating grain markets and standing wheat crop in Moga district.The wheat brought in the grain markets got wet and the procurement agencies and commission agents were seen struggling to provide tarpaulin covers to the farmers to protect their food grains.In the Moga grain market, farmers who brought their food grains said the moisture content of wheat grains had increased due to the rain; therefore, the government must allow relaxation in procurement norms; otherwise, they feared harassment at the hand of procurement agencies and the commission agents.Moreover, the bringing of harvested crop in a phased manner due to ensuing lockdown had already put the farmers in a tight spot over procurement.
20-04-2020||---||No industrial activity in containment, hotspot areas: CM directs DCs||Chandigarh, April 20Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday clarified that industrial units being permitted to function in non-containment zones would be required to align to the state government’s earlier orders, as also the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs.The MHA guidelines are in consonance with the state government’s decision to allow certain units to function with labourers staying on-site, the Chief Minister pointed out, adding that the Centre had accepted Punjab’s suggestion on this count.Capt Amarinder, who had announced on Sunday, that there would be no relaxation in curfew in the state till May 3, on Monday asked the DCs to immediately clamp down on all activities that are contributing to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the containment zones and any other areas where the local administration sees a hotspot developing.At the same time, he asked the DCs to facilitate opening of industrial units in non-containment areas by meticulously complying with the detailed instructions issued by the state government on April 18 to facilitate opening of such industrial units that can operate in the light of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) orders.All MHA guidelines and conditions should be strictly complied with by the district administration, he added.Conditions laid down by the state government with regard to arrangement for stay, transport and food should be strictly met, along with meticulous compliance with all health advisories relating to the pandemic, the DCs have been told by the Chief Minister.The Chief Minister said the state government was deeply concerned about the plight of labour, including migrant labour, and of Punjab’s industry, most of which is tiny, micro, and small.He also said, “We are fully conscious of the need to ensure that the curfew imposed in the state has helped contain the spread of COVID-19, and therefore needs to continue for some more time.”The detailed instructions issued on April 18 were in this background and aimed at facilitating the opening of industrial units as permitted under the new MHA guidelines of April 15, he added.The MHA guidelines said that bulk passes may be issued for the industrial and other establishments/activities that have been permitted with effect from today. These have been allowed commence operations with stringent compliance to conditions regarding stay and transport of workers.It may be noted that as many as 11 different categories of industrial establishments have been allowed to operate with the condition that in case the industrial establishment employs 10 or more persons it shall make arrangements for stay of workers within its premises as far as possible and/or adjacent buildings. The transportation of workers to work place shall be arranged by the employers in dedicated transport by ensuring social distancing. Similarly, construction projects have also been permitted subject to some conditions, which implies that the related activities of stone crushing, mining of sand and gravel its transport, sale out-lets of cement, steel are also permitted though their working norms can be regulated.
20-04-2020||Muktsar||AAP leader Baldev Singh Azad passes away at 65||Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) Punjab unit vice-president, Baldev Singh Azad, passed away on Monday after a battle with liver cancer. He was 65.Singh was being treated at PGIMER in Chandigarh.Azad, a retired principal of Government Senior Secondary School (Boys), Lakhewali village here, was the son of freedom fighter Jangir Singh Azad.He was MA, MEd and the first in his family to join politics. After his retirement, he had joined the AAP. He was a well-renowned academician in this area. A Punjabi writer, he had authored four books. He had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly elections from Malout in 2017.Most of his family work in the government.Baldev Singh originally hailed from Lakhewali village and was presently residing at Muktsar town.Swaran Singh Lakhewali, younger brother of deceased, said, "Baldev ji's political activities were low from the past some time due to his poor health. He was suffering from liver cancer, passed away today at about 3 am at his Muktsar residence. The cremation will be held today."
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab rules out relaxation in curfew till May 3||The Punjab government has ruled out any relaxation in the curfew till May 3 barring wheat procurement.The move came after Chief Minister Amarinder Singh reviewed the current situation arising out of the coronavirus outbreak with senior officers from the administration and police department.On Sunday evening, the chief minister ruled out any relaxation in the curfew, except as needed to ensure the procurement of wheat, till May 3, when he will again review the situation, a press release said.With the decision, all exemptions given from April 20 to industries in rural areas, booksellers, dhabas, shopkeepers dealing in air-conditioners and those involved in sand and gravel mining and stone crushing have been withdrawn.The state government had allowed booksellers; dhabas; shops selling air-conditioners, coolers, fans; and those dealing in sand and gravel mining and stone crushing to operate.In line with the Centre's guidelines, industrial activity was also allowed in the state's rural areas, provided that the operators of industries, employing 10 or more persons, make all arrangements for the stay or transport of workers.Singh ordered strict enforcement of the curfew in all districts with no relaxation or concessions whatsoever even during Ramzan beginning this week. He also made it clear that no special curfew passes should be issued to the people on account of Ramzan. The chief minister directed deputy commissioners (DCs) to take firm steps to ensure that there is no crowding at shops selling essential items and all norms of social distancing are strictly adhered to, as per the latest release. The decision assumes significance in the backdrop of various relaxations given by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for non-containment zones in the country, effective April 20. However, taking into consideration the ground situation, the release said the chief minister was of the firm view that there should be no relaxation, except already announced by his government with respect to harvesting and procurement operations. Singh made it clear that all efforts should be focused on saving lives and ensuring that the procurement operations are conducted smoothly in a coronavirus-free environment.Any decision on the way forward will be taken after May 3, taking into account the situation prevailing then and the report of the expert committee set up to formulate the state's exit strategy, the statement said, adding that the panel is expected to submit its report this week.Amid concerns that the hygiene conditions were not up to the mark in the mandis, the chief minister has also ordered a health audit of these centres, where 185 lakh metric tonnes of wheat is expected to arrive till June, when the procurement will come to an end.This will infuse around Rs 35,000 crore, including the cash credit limit payment of Rs 26,000 crore received from the Centre, into the state economy, thus giving it the much-needed support to fight the COVID-19 battle effectively. Meanwhile, acting on the directives of the chief minister, DCs across the state are issuing separate notifications to maintain strict curfew restrictions in districts.Any violation shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code, 1860, the release said. PTI
20-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda police face curfew violators’ wrath||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 19The police are finding it tough to enforce curfew orders in Bathinda. Since March 22, there have been attacks on patrol parties and teams at checkpoints in the district.On April 17, a patrol party was pelted with stones at Beant Singh Nagar. On March 26, a Maur police station team headed by ASI Balbir Singh was assaulted in Kotli Khurd village when it tried to shut a shop. The crowd at the shop tore the uniform of two policemen.On March 25, a ration shop owner of Gobindpura village entered into a scuffle with ASI Jaskaran Singh and his team when he was told to down the shutters.On April 9, constable Paramjit Singh was roughed up when he stopped vendors from selling vegetables without permission. The police registered a case against the accused. On April 6, two villagers entered Ballianwali police station in a drunken state and attacked constable Rajwinder Singh.The police arrested one of them. Reacting to such reports, the IGP, Bathinda Range, Arun Kumar Mittal, said: “We are trying to create awareness among people so that they stay indoor. The police are enforcing the curfew for people’s safety.”Keeping people off the streets has become a difficult task. On April 10, constable Gurjiwan Singh had to face the wrath of two violators. A case was filed against the duo at the Maur police station.“In all such incidents, we have registered cases against the accused,” Bathinda SSP Dr Nanak Singh said.
20-04-2020||---||Punjab allows sand mining & crushing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 19To boost construction activity, the Punjab Home Department has instructed the deputy commissioners to allow sand mining and stone-crushing with effect from April 20. This is in line with the Centre’s decision to allow labour-intensive industry to operate.Strict enforcementWith Covid-19 cases on the rise, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh has ordered strict enforcement of curfew. However, shops selling schoolbooks have been allowed to open. So have dhabas. Shops repairing coolers and fans too will reopen.To ease pressure on students, Punjab has allowed shops selling books for school and college students to open. A government functionary said the sale of air-conditioners, coolers, fans and their repair shops had been brought under the ambit of essential goods/services and they had been allowed to operate.Industrial activity is being allowed in rural areas with riders such as providing accommodation or transport facility to labourers. Dhabas too have been allowed to open, but will serve only packed food. However, no activity is permitted in containment zones. All relaxations pertain to non-containment zones.
20-04-2020||Using a loudspeaker||On field duty||
20-04-2020||Fatehgarh Churian||Helping cops fight Covid battle||Stay updated with his tweetsJalandhar: The Twitter account of a senior bureaucrat has become a must-check for the journalists covering coronavirus updates these days. The officer in a typical journalistic language has been mentioning updates as "breaking news" and "just in" and giving latest data on test reports and death cases. He even tags his tweet as "good news" if there are all negative reports in some areas or some patients have cured and gone back home. He also clarifies doubts that most reporters commonly raise after the release of the daily media bulletin. The officer operates his account till late night and starts to report again early morning.Bacchus lovers take to hoochMuktsar: As liquor vends are presently shut, Bacchus lovers have started preparing illicit liquor at home. The district police have arrested four persons for preparing hooch in the last three days. An officer said as the police were busy in enforcing curfew, distributing ration among needy people and spreading awareness about coronavirus pandemic, some mischievous elements were preparing hooch, especially in rural areas. Rajbachan Singh Sandhu, SSP, Muktsar, said, "We are acting against the offenders and arrested some of them as well."Saying it with artAbohar: Usha (21) of Wahabwala village is making the most of her stay at home. She is using her skills in painting to give a message to society during these trying times as also to express gratitude to leaders doing everything to keep people safe. Among her latest creations are portraits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. She admires both for their initiatives taken to contain Covid-19 outbreak. A student of BA final year student at Gopichand Arya Mahila College, Usha has won several prizes at the state and national level art competitions. She has urged the government to appoint art and crafts teachers in all schools.Contributed by ravi dhaliwal, Deepkamal Kaur, Archit Watts and Raj Sadosh
20-04-2020||Sangrur||210 kg poppy husk seized||The Malerkotla 1 police have arrested one person and confiscated 210 kg of poppy husk from him.The accused has been identified as Mohd Rustam.“Our Malerkotla-1 police party have arrested Mohd Rustam from the Adampal road and confiscated 210 kg poppy husk from his truck. Besides this, Rs39,500 drug money has also been recovered from him,” said Sangrur SSP Sandeep Garg. — TNS
20-04-2020||Ropar||435 bottles of liquor seized, case registered||The Excise Department officials seized 435 bottles of illicit liquor stacked in labour quarters of a brewery near here on Saturday evening.The bottles were recovered from the labour quarters of a brewery located near Purkhali village. Sukhdeep Singh, Excise officialAssistant excise and taxation commissioner Sukhdeep Singh said following a tip-off, a team of department officials raided the labour quarters of a brewery located nearby Purkhali village and seized the bottles of liquor.Unidentified personS have been booked in this regard. — TNS
20-04-2020||---||2 held for smuggling heroin worth Rs 4 crore||Sangrur, April 19The district STF against drugs claimed to have arrested two persons with 800 gm of heroin, the market value of which is estimated to be Rs4 crore. An accomplice of the arrested accused, Saipy Singh, is reported to be on the run.The arrested accused have been identified as Kulwinder Singh and Sarbjit Singh.Harwinder Singh Cheema, DSP STF, Patiala, said on a tip-off, a team of Sangrur STF had laid a ‘naka’ near Lakhewal village on Saturday evening which led to the arrest of the accused.Cheema said the accused had bought the contraband from some unidentified persons of Haryana’s Kurukshetra.
20-04-2020||Faridkot||One held for issuing fake health cards in Faridkot||The police have arrested a person here for allegedly issuing dubious health cards for Rs1,500 under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana.The accused, identified as Inder Sain, runs a shop in front of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot.The beneficiary just has to bear the health card’s printing cost i.e. Rs30. However, the accused was charging Rs1,500 from each person. Saurabh Raj, Faridkot DC Faridkot DC Kumar Saurabh Raj said: “I got a tip-off and was told that the accused was issuing health cards to needy at Rs1,500.”The DC said the Union Government issued the cards for free, wherein beneficiaries could avail themselves of medical treatment up to Rs5 lakh at a hospital. The beneficiary had to bear the printing cost of the card only, that is, Rs30. — TNS
20-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Fazilka cops nab 507 for violating curbs||Fazilka, April 19Since the imposition of curfew in the state, the district police have arrested 507 persons for violating the curfew norms.The police claim that they were enforcing the curbs in a strict manner and are acting tough against those who fail to follow the lockdown guidelines.Harjit Singh, Senior Superintendent of Police, Fazilka, said 228 FIRs had been registered in this regard and 42 vehicles had been impounded. The arrested persons were released on bail later on.The SSP appealed to the residents to abide by the curfew norms and not to come out of their residences so as to curb Covid-19 outbreak.
20-04-2020||---||Hospital tagged for Covid, but MD post vacant||Muktsar, April 19A coronavirus positive patient, who after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi had came here on March 18, is presently admitted to the local civil hospital, but there is no MD (medicine) doctor to treat him.In such a situation, a doctor has been deployed here from Bathinda. Further, the doctors from Malout and Giddderbaha civil hospitals too have been told to render their services here.The local health authorities have written to the state government in this regard. “We don’t have any MD (medicine) doctor at the local civil hospital. Some alternative arrangement has been made for the time being. We have written to the state government for some immediate remedial measure,” said Dr HN Singh, Chief Medical Officer, Muktsar.
20-04-2020||Abohar||Youth under home quarantine dies||Parcel train via ChandigarhChandigarh: To facilitate the movement of goods during the lockdown, the Railways will run a Dewas-Jammu Tawi-Dewas parcel express train on April 22. It will depart from Dewas in Madhya Pradesh on April 22 and reach Jammu Tawi on April 24. On the return leg, the train will depart from Jammu Tawi on April 24 and reach Dewas on April 26. It will have halts at Chandigarh, New Delhi, Rewari, and other stations. TNS53 test negative in MuktsarMuktsar: Of the 54 samples collected in Muktsar so far, 53 have tested negative for Covid-19. The lone patient, an 18-year-old boy from Meerut (Uttar Pradesh) who had come here on March 18 after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, is admitted to the local Covid hospital, where his health is said to be improving. TNSAAP highlights farmers’ issuesChandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday expressed concern over the ongoing wheat procurement in the state. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, state unit president and MP Bhagwant Mann stated that the new coupon system introduced by the Punjab Government had proved a non-starter. He also said there was a need to announce bonus for farmers. TNSNirankari mission donates Rs50 lakhChandigarh: Extending a helping hand to the state government for its concerted efforts to fight Covid-19 and mitigate the hardships of the poor, the Sant Nirankari Mission has contributed Rs50 lakh to the CM Covid-19 Relief Fund. TNSHealth workers conduct surveyAbohar: Health workers have launched the second phase of the door-to-door survey in villages. Sushil Beganwali and Sunil Tondon, block extension educators, said health workers were reaching out to families to find out whether any NRI or people from other states had visited them in the past. OC
20-04-2020||---||No case in Bathinda district, yet no relaxation||Bathinda, April 19In spite of no Covid-19 case in Bathinda, District Magistrate B Srinivasan has said that curfew restrictions would not be lifted.Any decision on lifting the curbs will be taken after reviewing the situation. The present restriction calls for a complete lockdown. Shops, commercial establishments and industry, which are closed at present, will remain closed till further orders,” he said.Srinivasan added that if any relaxation would be given in Bathinda district, an order would be issued and conveyed to people through the media.On zero cases in the district, he said this was made possible because of strict decisions taken in time, strict enforcement of curfew and strong support from all citizens of the district.He thanked government officials, who were out in the field, and residents, who were adhering to curfew norms.Meanwhile, local MP and Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Sunday wrote to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, alleging lapse on part of the district administration and health authorities as a designated isolation and treatment centre of Covid-19 had been set up on the second and third floors of Advanced Cancer Research Institute in Bathinda.The decision of the district administration is also in violation of the global health norms and has put at risk the lives of hundreds of cancer patients undergoing treatment at the hospital, she said.She stated that cancer patients were prone to infections. The exposure of Covid patients on the same premises would substantially increase their chances of getting the infection. She sought immediate shifting of the isolation ward to some other premises.The minister has also claimed that with transport services being suspended due to lockdown, the cancer patients are unable to travel to far off places for treatment. Thus, this institute is a lifeline for them.Earlier on April 11, The Tribune had highlighted that cancer patients in the region have been hit hard with the suspension of the Abohar-Jodhpur express, also known as “cancer train”. Owing to the nationwide lockdown, many patients have not been able to travel to Bikaner for further treatment.Shift ward from cancer institute: MPLocal MP and Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Sunday wrote to the CM, demanding shifting of an isolation and treatment centre of Covid-19 set up at Advanced Cancer Research Institute in Bathinda. She stated that cancer patients were prone to infections. The presence of Covid patients on the same premises would substantially increase their chances of getting the infection.
20-04-2020||Patiala||PSPCL to recruit new directors||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is all set for a revamp with new technical directors set to join the department during the paddy season in June.The state government has advertised the posts of Directors (Commercial, Distribution and Generation) in the PSPCL, as the incumbents will be completing their three-year term soon.Meanwhile, the All-India Power Engineers’ Federation today strongly condemned the Power Ministry’s move to bring back the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, amid the Covid crisis. The ministry circulated the revised draft of the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, yesterday among all state governments and sought their comments within 21 days. VK Gupta, spokesperson of the federation, said the Covid crisis should have led to the nationalisation of all sectors, including power. “At this juncture, the step of the Government of India to privatise the power sector through the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act, 2003, is ill-timed and ill-intentioned,” he said.“While the economy of the country is paralysed and the administration is in the doldrums, the timing is not suitable for introducing amendments to any law,” he said. The federation has written to the Union Power Minister, demanding that the proposed date for feedback should be extended to September 30 as discussions are not possible due to the lockdown. — TNS
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Frontline duty not for cops over 55: DGP||Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta on Sunday announced several welfare measures for police personnel deployed on Covid-19 duty, and directed that no cop, who is either over 55 or with any pre-existing medical condition, should be deployed on the frontline.The DGP had directed all Commissioners of Police and Senior Superintendents of Police to follow a rotational system, wherein a weekly off is provided to every official working on the frontline. Efforts should be made to deploy the officials in such a manner that each one of them could get two days of rest after every 10 days.The DGP has requested the Chief Secretary to direct the state Health Department to provide a minimum of 4,050 PPE kits/suits and 18,000 N-95 masks to the cops immediately. — TNS
20-04-2020||---||Punjab CM used foul language: SAD||Chandigarh, April 19The SAD has criticised Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for using “crude and vulgar” language against Harsimrat.In a statement, senior SAD leaders Balwinder Singh Bhundur and Maheshinder Singh Grewal said, “It is unfortunate that the CM had stooped to such level. There is no other reason for him to use foul language against a minister who was only reminding the state government about the funds as well as food stock it has received from the Centre since March 20.”The SAD leaders claimed that it was Capt Amarinder who was misleading the people by claiming that Punjab had not received a single penny from the Centre on account of Covid-19 pandemic.
20-04-2020||Sameer Singh||Addicts using de-addiction pills to get high||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 19The improvised schedule of administering medicines to addicts to ensure social distancing amid Covid-19 outbreak at OOAT (Out-Patient Opioid Assisted Treatment) clinics does not seem to have served its purpose.Addicts in large numbers are visiting the government-run clinics for treatment as they have worked their way out to find an escape route and started using the de-addiction medicine (buprenorphine) to get high.Source claim addicts, as part of government’s take-home medicine initiative, have started taking medicines for up to two weeks in advance and then consume it all at once. Under the OOAT programme, an addict is required to take a daily dosage of medicine at the clinic under the supervision of a doctor.The government had recently directed doctors (psychiatrists) at OOAT clinics to provide medicine to addicts for up to 24 days in one go. But this decision while having served its purpose of ensuring social distancing, proved to be counter-productive as addicts have resorted to misuse of medicines.Sources say there are six OOAT clinics in Bathinda and addicts are turning up at the clinic after a gap of three to four days.Psychiatrists claim that the tactic won’t be successful as OOAT centres have been maintaining the record with regard to dosage provided to a particular addict.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Arun Bansal, a psychiatrist at district hospital and district nodal officer for OOAT programme, said, “While some addicts are misusing the drug by taking more than one dosage, a majority of them are following the prescribed schedule. We have an online system with real-time update of prescription. Those who finish their dosage before time are not being entertained.”Stocking medicinesSource claim addicts, as part of government’s take-home medicine initiative, have started taking medicines for up to two weeks in advance and then consume it all at once.
20-04-2020||Amritsar||Family demands CBI probe into ragi’s death||Anguished over the ‘ill-treatment” and “negligence” on the part of doctors during the treatment of Golden Temple’s former Hazoori Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, the family members demanded a CBI probe into the matter.Amiteshwar Singh, son of the deceased, said he would not hesitate to move the HC or even Supreme Court to get justice. “I was with my father as an attendant for three days and observed the insensitive behavior of the hospital staff. He was an asthma patient and the symptoms could match Covid-19. But the senior doctors never attended to my father, who died due to their negligence,” he said.He said the ACP who died of Covid-19 was given the state honour, but the government didn’t think of giving a similar treatment to his father, a Padma Shri recipient. Meanwhile, the bhog ceremony of the ragi was performed at Gurdwara Bebaksar Sahib here by the SGPC today. — TNS
20-04-2020||---||Punjab govt promotes COVA app, adds features||Chandigarh, April 19A unique in-built feature of COVA app is helping people of the state to stay safe. The app allows users to know their distance from the nearest Covid positive person. It also alerts the district administration if any Covid suspect or a person undergoing quarantine moves beyond 100 metres from her/his base location.While the app is helping the authorities enforce the lockdown restrictions, it is also enabling the people of the state to keep themselves, their family members and friends safe through a self-control mechanism.By geotagging positive patients, the app helps the district administration trace locations which a Covid positive person has visited during the last few days. If people, who have the app installed on their phones, turn on Bluetooth in their devices, then they would get an alert as soon as they come near a Covid suspect or a Covid positive person. It would also help the Health Department and the district administration in tracing the contact history of positive patients.For the app to be effective, Covid infected persons should also have GPS and Bluetooth turned on on their mobile phones, according to Vini Mahajan, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Governance Reforms and Public Grievances.The app’s dashboard enables the district administration to track the quarantined individuals and monitor their movements when away from their base location. The mobile numbers can also be used by telecom providers to track their movement even if GPS or Bluetooth is disabled.The telecom companies send hourly reports to the Health Department on breaches in each district.The app has garnered more than 10 lakh downloads till now. It has enabled both citizens and government officials to execute the lockdown and social distancing norms and at the same time, it is ensuring that its users have access to all essential services.Geotagging patients
20-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar sees 10-fold rise in cases since March 26||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 19With six new cases today, the number of Covid tally in Jalandhar has touched 47. In the past four days, the city has witnessed 22 new cases. It was declared a red zone on Thursday and the steady rise in cases has alarmed the authorities. With four cases on March 26, the number of patients has risen 10 fold.On Thursday night, samples of 98 persons, direct or indirect contacts of a man from a media house who was tested positive, were taken. As many as 5,668 people have been placed under home quarantine in Jalandhar.The district has witnessed an exponential rise in fresh cases, majority of them having no travel history. Barring eight patients, the source of infection in patients remains unknown.Amid rising cases, the district administration on Saturday said there was no case of community transmission in the district. Police personnel, MC officials and others were being examined. It has been announced that door-to-door sampling will be started in the city. Dr TP Singh, nodal officer, Jalandhar, said, “There is no community transmission in the district yet. All contacts of those testing positive are being tracked.”
20-04-2020||---||Letters trigger panic in Gurdaspur village, probe underway||Gurdaspur, April 19Letters purportedly written by the Tablighi Jamaat claiming that members of its sect had spitted on the doors of every household of the district’s Balwanda village triggered panic among villagers, even as the police claimed “it was the mischief of some anti-social elements”.The village falls in the jurisdiction of Bhaini Mian Khan police station. Incidentally, Bhaini Paswal village, from where Sansar Singh, who died due to Covid-19 on Friday, also falls under the ambit of the same police station.A religious gathering organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month had led to the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country.The letters, in the forms of handwritten pamphlets, were thrown in the verandah of one Shingara Singh on Saturday night. He immediately reported the matter to the police.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Swarandeep Singh said prima facie, it appeared to be the handiwork of some “anti-social elements”.A case under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, has been registered at the Bhaini Mian Khan police station against unidentified persons.“I have formed a special team led by an SP-rank officer to look into the matter. We have stumbled upon certain clues and we are working on them,” the SSP said.Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said he had ordered sanitisation of Balwanda village.SSP: Handiwork of anti-social elements
20-04-2020||---||10 more cases as Punjab scales up testing||Chandigarh, April 19With the state scaling up testing of suspected cases, 10 new patients were reported in the past 24 hours. The state count of Covid-19 patients has reached 244.According to the health bulletin issued by the government, six new cases were reported from Jalandhar and four from SAS Nagar.With six more people testing positive for Covid-19 in Jalandhar today, the total tally in the district has risen to 47. At least five of those testing positive include employees of a vernacular media house. All five are contacts of a 40-year-old Raja Garden resident who tested positive on April 13. The sixth person to test positive today is a 65-year-old new case from Basti Danishmandan.The five include male employees of the media house aged 39, 42, 27, 36 and 29 years. They had been working in the same office as the 40-year-old Raja Garden resident. Four people from the Raja Garden man’s family (five including him) have previously tested positive. They include his mother, daughter, nephew and sister.Two persons from the same organisation had also tested positive earlier in their native town in Himachal Pradesh.Apart from that with the surfacing of four more coronavirus positive cases in Nayagaon village in SAS Nagar district, the total count of Covid-19 patients there have gone up to 61.The new patients are family members of the Nayagaon resident, who was tested positive and had been admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh. They include mother and wife, aged 60 and 26 years, respectively, and a 19-year-old male and one-month-old baby girl.As per the department, so far the samples of 6,607 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 5,949 samples were found negative and the reports of 414 were awaited.
20-04-2020||Archit Watts||Planting for some, literary pursuits for others||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, April 19With no relaxation in sight as regards curfew restrictions, politicians are keeping themselves busy in one way or the other. Some have taken to gardening, while a few others are even spending time in religious or literary pursuits.Staying putWe are not used to staying at home. But the situation demands that we don’t venture out. We are following the government advisory or else we will endanger the lives of others. Political leaderFor instance, Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Amarinder Singh Raja Warring recently uploaded a video where he was seen operating a lawn mower at his Muktsar residence. Similarly, SAD’s Muktsar MLA Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi uploaded some photos of him watering plants in his lawn.SAD chief and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal reportedly performs “path” twice a day and interacts with party leaders and workers in different parts of the state through videoconferencing. Sources close to him said Sukhbir was daily attending and making 150-200 phone calls as well. “The Badal family is staying together at their Badal village residence and keeping themselves busy,” said the sources.Further, it is learnt that Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal is busy these days reading books and attending the meetings in Bathinda district to review the relief work and preparedness to tackle the pandemic. A leader, requesting anonymity, said it was a tough time. “We don’t have the habit to stay at home. But now, we can’t do anything except following the government advisory or else we will endanger the lives of others as well.”Biting their time
20-04-2020||---||Till May 3, no toll at plazas under Punjab||Chandigarh, April 19Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Sunday announced that the operations at toll plazas under the state government would remain suspended till May 3 in view of the Covid-19 lockdown.There are 23 toll plazas under the state government.Meanwhile, toll plazas under the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will be resuming toll collection on April 20 following an order of the Centre.“Besides allowing free passage to commuters, toll plazas under the state government will continue providing langar to drivers till May 3. As roadside dhabas and restaurants are shut because of the lockdown, the state government has ensured availability of food to drivers of vehicles carrying essential items,” the minister said.
20-04-2020||---||Day later, Harsimrat gives details of funds||Chandigarh, April 19A day after CM Capt Amarinder Singh called her “a liar” for claiming the Centre had released funds to battle Covid-19, Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today released details about the relief.‘GST dues released’The Centre has released Rs2,366 crore to Punjab on account of GST compensation and arrears, besides money under other heads after March 20 when the pandemic broke out. Harsimrat Badal, Union ministerShe said the state had been allowed to use Rs6,000 crore grant received as State Disaster Relief Fund. Besides, Rs3,485 crore was received by the government after March 20, she claimed, adding that she had spoken on the basis of documentary evidence.Harsimrat pointed out that the Centre had released Rs2,366 crore to Punjab on account of GST compensation and arrears, besides money under other heads after March 20 when the pandemic broke out. “The state has replied that all funds accruing out of GST collection is their money. It is the people’s money and the people are suffering. The state must prioritise spending of the funds to ensure Punjabis do not suffer,” she said.The minister released Centre’s communications listing out grants released to the state since March 20, including Rs638 crore as revenue deficit grant, Rs247 crore first instalment of disaster management grant, Rs41 crore under National Health Mission and Rs71.87 crore under emergency response and health preparedness package announced by the PM.
20-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Roadside workers fill in for agricultural labourers in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 19As thousands of agricultural labourers made their way back home in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other states as the lockdown was imposed, migrant workers plying “rehris” in cities and those working in shops and stores made a shift to agricultural fields in a “desperate attempt to sustain and survive”.Survival instinctWith farm labourers returning to their home, landlords started looking for migrants from cities. It works both ways. Farmers need migrants for harvesting and migrants need money to survive. Government officialRam Chander, his wife Lakshmi Devi, their two children and nine relatives recently moved to the district’s Dala village, where landlord Harpreet Singh Rinku Dal employed them to harvest his wheat crop. Earlier, they used to sell groundnuts, vegetables and plastic toys near the railway station here.A market committee official said, “There are hundreds of people like Ram Chander, who have moved to villages. Landlords are engaging them in their fields. They have no other option. This phenomenon is not Gurdaspur-centric. It can be seen all across the state.”Unlike many of his ilk, Ram Chander decided to stay back because he learnt that those who started for their home were stopped midway and forced to live on roads, famished.For the past several decades, Punjab’s agriculture has been depended on migrants.“Migrants contribute immensely to two key sectors of the state’s economy — construction and agriculture. Now that construction has come to a halt, migrants taking up agriculture-related works was inevitable. With experienced farm hands deciding to leave for their home as the curfew was imposed, landlords started looking for migrants from cities. It works both ways. Farmers need migrants for harvesting and migrants need money to survive,” an official said.Ram Chander admitted that as farm hands, he and many like him were relatively inexperienced, but said he would make up for that with hard work.
20-04-2020||---||Additional borrowing a short-term relief, says FM||Chandigarh, April 19Punjab has rejected the “stimulus package” announced by the Centre two days ago, claiming that “no meaningful assistance” has been announced for the states.‘Resources depleting’States cannot be left to fend for themselves, especially when Punjab’s tax revenues have dried up because of lockdown. The govt has just enough to meet its liabilitiesfor April. Manpreet S Badal, Finance ministerOn Friday, the Centre had allowed the states to borrow 60 per cent more through ways and means advances (additional credit extended by the RBI to states for tiding over temporary mismatch in receipts and expenditure). With this, the state can borrow an additional Rs500 crore as against Rs700 crore it is allowed to raise through ways and means advances.The state government, however, says this will give a short-term relief. On the contrary, it will increase both debt burden and interest liability of the state.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal told The Tribune that Punjab was already reeling under a burgeoning debt, while servicing of debt each year was taking a toll on the state’s precarious fiscal health.“We have been asked to borrow more. It is not a meaningful assistance for any state,” he said. Punjab’s outstanding debt till March-end stood at Rs2.28 lakh crore, while Rs17,625 crore has been spent on interest payments.The Finance Minister said India was just one step away from being a “junk state”, as evident from the recent credit ratings for the country.“We realise that the Centre is in a spot, trying to figure out if it should borrow more money or print currency. But state governments cannot be left to fend for themselves, especially when Punjab’s tax revenues have dried up because of lockdown,” he said, adding the state had just enough to meet its committed liabilities for April.Manpreet, however, hoped that for once, the Centre would pay heed to an appeal made by non-BJP-ruled states. “We had recommended that if the Centre does not have money to release the GST dues to the state, the GST council can borrow money and carry on levying cess on this sum by extending the tenure of compensation from 2022 to 2024. The issue was to be discussed in the next meeting, which could not take place because the country went into a lockdown,” he said.Punjab recently received Rs1,136 crore as GST compensation, but Rs4,400 crore is still pending.
20-04-2020||Arun Sharma||Growers in Punjab leave vegetable, fruit crop to rot in fields||Tribune News ServiceRopar, April 19The nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 is affecting fruit and vegetable growers of the district. While a strawberry grower is suffering a loss of over Rs1 lakh per day, several others dependent on vegetable cultivation are forced to sell their produce at throwaway prices.‘Losing Rs 1 lakh daily’Mere 200-250 kg of strawberry is being sold every day against the yield of 16 quintals per day. The wholesale price of the fruit is Rs100 per kg and I am suffering a loss of over Rs1 lakh each day. Paramjeet Singh, Strawberry growerParamjeet Singh, who has been growing four varieties of strawberry over 11 acres, said nearly 75 per cent of his crop was rotting in the fields. He said he didn’t pick the fruit due to negligible demand.“As main markets are being opened partially and hotels and restaurant continue to remain shut, mere 200-250 kg of strawberry is being sold everyday against 16 quintal yield per day,” he said.‘50% dip in demand’The situation is grim, and growers and sellers are at the receiving end.Due to the lockdown, factories, colleges, schools and restaurants are closed, leading to a dip in demand by 50%. Rohit Anand, Commission agent“The wholesale price of the fruit is Rs100 per kg and I am suffering a loss of over Rs1 lakh each day,” he said.Vegetable growers and commission agents are also in dismay due to the lockdown. Jinder Singh, a progressive farmer from Sandhuan village, said he had sown bottle gourd, cucumber and capsicum, which he had to sell for Rs8, Rs12 and Rs15, respectively. He said it was less than half last year’s price. He said his brother grew spinach, but had to use it as fodder because all restaurants, major consumers of the vegetable, were closed.Similarly, Gurinder Singh of Rurki village said he had cultivated cauliflower over two acres, which was being sold for mere Rs5 per kg.Rohit Anand, president of the Ropar Sabzi Mandi Commission Agents’ Association, said the situation was grim and growers and sellers both were at the receiving end. He said due to the complete lockdown, all factories, colleges, schools and restaurants were closed, leading to a dip of over 50 per cent demand. “It has resulted in price crash,” he said.
