20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Frame strategy for containment of COVID-19, don’t be complacent: Punjab CM to DCs, SSPs||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh asked the Deputy Commissioners (DCs) and district police chiefs on Friday to chalk out a comprehensive strategy for containment of novel coronavirus, which has so far recorded two COVID-19 cases, including one death.During a video conference with deputy commissioners and senior superintendents of police to review the state’s preparedness in combating the spread of the pathogen, the chief minister told them not to be complacent and work round the clock with utmost dedication and commitment.According to a government statement, Singh directed the chief secretary to issue detailed guidelines to the DCs to ensure strict vigil of people who are in home quarantine to prevent further spread of the virus.The chief minister also asked the DCs to ensure strict enforcement of quarantine and in case of any violation, cases under Section 188 (disobedience to order) of the IPC must be registered against those responsible.He also asked the DCs to personally check hospital preparedness as well as quarantine facilities and isolation wards, especially regarding their hygiene and cleanliness. Terming the fight against novel coronavirus a long-drawn battle, the chief minister emphasised on the need for putting the right structure and mechanism in place for its containment in a holistic manner.He also underlined the need for tracing protocols in terms of covering all passengers from flights that have landed in the state in the last one month to ensure that not even one coronavirus suspect case is left out.The chief minister appealed to the people to report about persons in their neighbourhood who have returned from abroad during the last two weeks as part of neighbourhood surveillance. PTI
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab allows PRTC, Punjab Roadways buses to ply on 48 routes||The Punjab Government on Friday allowed PRTC and Punjab Roadways to continue on 48 important routes in the state, but suspended operation of all private bus operators in the state until March 31.The order will come into effect at 12 midnight.READ: All autorickshaws and e-rickshaws are banned from operating in the state. All interstate buses are banned from entering the state, a notification issued by the transport department clarified.Goods Carriers and private service vehicles will be allowed to operate in the state.However, the department has suspended the work of issuing driving licences and conducting driving tests for the public until the end of the month. But the department staff will be asked to work and clear all pending work, State Transport Commissioner Amarpal Singh said.
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Door-to-door survey, traffic curbs in Anandpur Sahib after coronavirus positive man visits city||The Rupnagar district administration in Punjab on Friday imposed curbs on vehicle traffic and initiated a door-to-door survey in Anandpur Sahib city to check people with any symptom of coronavirus infection.The move was taken after it came to fore that a 70-year-old man, a resident of Nawanshahr, who tested positive for the deadly infection had attended Hola Mohalla functions in Anandpur Sahib 10 days ago.The septuagenarian who returned from Germany via Italy on March 7 died at a hospital in Nawanshahr district after severe chest pain.“We are conducting survey of all 4,100 houses in Anandpur Sahib city to check anyone showing symptoms (of coronavirus) or now,” Rupnagar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri told PTI.A total of 52 teams have been deployed for conducting the survey which may take at least two to three days to complete, she said.The authorities were also trying to identify those people with whom the 70-year-old man had come into contact and locate his place of stay at Anandpur Sahib, as part of the containment plan.“Residents of Anandpur Sahib are not being allowed to move out of their homes till the survey is done. We are just allowing them to move out for buying essential items,” Giri said, adding that all other shops, except essential items, grocery and medicine, have been closed down.The authorities have also closed all road entry points to the city and diverted traffic to other routes, officials said.During the annual Hola Mohalla celebrations, thousands of Sikh devotees from India and abroad assemble at Anandpur Sahib to pay obeisance at the Gurdwara Kesgarh Sahib and take a dip in the holy Sarovar.Meanwhile, Nawanshahr district authorities have identified 56 people in Pathlawa village who will be quarantined at home, the officials said. — PTI
20-03-2020||---||Awareness & incentives reduce stubble burning||As a result of awareness-cum-incentive based measures taken by the Punjab government, and support received from various private organisations, the problem of stubble burning has been contained to a large extent in the state in the last two years. These measures are likely to continue in the coming years to minimise the damage done to the environment.The state Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare has provided nearly 52,000 equipments for the management of paddy residue to farmers at a subsidy of between 50-80%. These include primary equipment for management of paddy straw like Happy Seeders, Super Seeders, Paddy Chopper Shredders, Mulchers and Reversible Mould Board Ploughs.Secondary equipment, that is required to facilitate the primary equipment, has also been provided to farmers and includes Super Straw Management Attachment with Combine Harvesters, Rotary Slashers/Shrub Masters/Cutter cum Spreaders, Zero Till Drills and Rotavators.In addition, 219 Balers and 192 Rakes have been provided as per the demand of farmers under Sub Mission on Agricultural Mechanization (SMAM) and RashtriyaKrishiVikas Yojana (RKVY). As a result of these measures, the number of paddy straw burning incidents reduced by 15 % in 2019, compared to the previous year. The area under residue burning also went down to 41.83%.Farmers have realized the value of using paddy stubble in improving soil health, thereby saving on fertilizer, weedicides / pesticides and ensuring better crop growth.  Now large patches of agriculture fields can be seen with wheat sown in paddy stubble all over the state.  Similarly, a large number of farmers have incorporated the stubble in the soil before sowing/planting vegetable crops such as potato and peas.Those taking the lead in not burning paddy straw have also been recognized and honoured at various platforms across the state to enlist the support of other farmers.(The above content has been received from the Punjab Government under The Tribune Space Marketing Initiative)
20-03-2020||The state government has operationalised the facility of e-auction of agricultural produce through the electronic National Agriculture Market (eNAM) to ensure better prices to farmers in 19 of the 37 mandis adopted for this purpose in the state. The remaining 18 are expected to be linked to the main server of eNAM portal soon.||eNAM network to fetch better prices to farmers||Since the Board of Directors of Punjab Mandi Board has approved the e-NAM scheme for trading in seven major commodities of Punjab - Potato, Basmati, Maize, Kinnow, Moong dal, Cotton and Green Peas - which are not procured by the government procurement, these are already being e-traded across the country from Punjab mandis.So far more than 2 lac farmers, 5,000-plus commission agents, and nearly 1400 traders registered with the portal have traded commodities worth Rs. 3,894 crore involving 13.17 lac tonnes of agriculture produce.In implementation of this scheme, the Government of India has provided Rs 5.55 crore from which infrastructure, including IT hardware like PCs, UPS, LED TV, printers, thermal printers, tablets, dedicated internet lease lines, etc., has been provided in all the 37 mandis.To popularize the scheme, and its immense benefits to all stakeholders, the Punjab Mandi Board has organized hundreds of camps and training sessions about the eNAM portal and mobile app.(The above content has been received from the Punjab Government under The Tribune Space Marketing Initiative)
20-03-2020||---||Soil health cards slash input costs||One of the focus areas for increasing farmers' incomes has been reduction in input costs. Punjab government in two different cycles has analysed 16.70 lakh soil samples and issued more than 24 lakh soil health cards to each and every individual farmer in the state.Subsequently, on the basis of data analysed block wise soil fertility maps have been prepared in terms of low, medium and high concentration of nutrients like organic carbon, phosphorous, potash, sulphur, soil pH, zinc, iron, manganese, etc. In addition, recommendations and remedial measures have also been prescribed in these maps.This has resulted in a substantial reduction in the consumption of fertilisers like Urea and Diammonium Phosphate (DAP) by farmers across the state, knowing the precise application of fertilisers to be made to compensate for the nutrient deficiencies. Still, the farmers have reaped bumper harvests.According to data gathered by the Punjab Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Department, consumption of Urea and DAP fell by 0.77 lakh metric tonnes and 0.33 lakh metric tonnes in Kharif 2019 as compared to Kharif 2018. Similarly, the consumption of these fertilisers dropped by 1.61 lakh metric tonnes and 0.70 lakh metric tonnes in Rabi 2019-2020 as compared to Rabi 2018-19. Thus, by reducing their consumption of Urea by 2.38 lakh metric tonnes and DAP by 1.03 lakh metric tonnes in the last Kharif and Rabi season, the farmers of Punjab were able to save an estimated Rs 400 crore.In campaigns aimed at sensitising farmers about the benefits of using the health cards and soil fertility camps, copies of block level maps have been displayed at prominent sites in each village across the state. Regular campaigns have also been launched during 2019-2020 to impress upon farmers the need for judicious use of Urea and DAP.The Punjab government has also taken strict measures to prevent the sale of spurious seeds and agrochemicals. The result is that not a single incidence of major pest/disease attack in the cotton and other crops has been reported so far i n the state during the last three years. Resultantly, productivity of all the crops is likely to cross all previous records.The total consumption of pesticides in the state has also shown a decline. During Kharif 2018 the consumption of pesticides was recorded at 3838 MT (Technical Grade), which cost Rs. 2000 crore to the farmers. However, during Kharif, 2019 usage of pesticides reduced by 675 MT (Technical Grade), giving an estimated benefit of Rs. 355 crore to farmers.(The above content has been received from the Punjab Government under The Tribune Space Marketing Initiative)
20-03-2020||---||Punjab farms to bloom with flowers||Flowers have a huge, and exponentially growing, demand in the domestic as well as international markets. Realising Punjab's the potential in reaping rich harvest of commercial grade flowers because of its subtropical climate and fertile alluvial soil, the state government has moved fast to set up a Centre of Excellence for Floriculture at Doraha in Ludhiana district in collaboration with The Netherlands government.The centre, coming up on 3 hectares of land owned by the state horticulture department, is expected to be completed this year at a cost of Rs 7.7 crore. It will provide excellent training infrastructure for capacity building of the growers with the use of contemporary and most suitable new technologies.Demonstration and hands on training to be provided to farmers on green house management, soil health, plant protection and managing environment using solar power, and production of cut flowers, potted plants, planting materials and nursery management is expected to lead to adoption of high value floriculture as a most profitable option for diversification in the state.The state government feels that farmers in Punjab have the ability to take up new technologies quickly, and therefore production of selected flowers in big volumes for export and the vast domestic market can give them far higher profits compared to traditional agriculture. The flowers to be grown in the hi-tech Dutch green house with automated climate control, irrigation and fertigation system are Rose, Gerbera, Chrysanthemum and Carnation. There will also be a hi-tech green house for containerised nursery production in soilless media.  Flowers to be taken up under open field conditions will be Marigold (African and French), Chrysanthemum (Standard and Spray), Jasmine (Motia), Red Rose & Pink Rose, Gladiolus and other bulbs, Tuberose and seasonal seed, cut flower and filler crops.(The above content has been received from the Punjab Government under The Tribune Space Marketing Initiative)
20-03-2020||---||Co-op sugar mills being revamped to increase area under sugarcane||With a view to motivate the farmers for increasing the area under sugarcane cultivation in Punjab to achieve the goal of diversification of crops, the state government has undertaken an extensive exercise to modernise and strengthen the existing cooperative sugar mills in the state.Punjab Sugarfed is setting up a modern sugarcane research centre at Kalanaur in the sugarcane rich Majha belt. In this direction, state Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa led a delegation of top officials of Sugarfed on a study tour of the country's biggest sugarcane research centre Vasantdada Sugarcane Institute Pune.The two biggest cooperative sugar mills in the state at Batala and Gurdaspur are being revamped by the state Cooperation department.  The capacity of the Batala sugar mill is being enhanced from the current 1500-3500 tonnes of cane per day (TCD) to 5,000 TCD at a cost of Rs 220 crore. The mill will simultaneously also start producing 15 MW of power.Another Rs 425 crore will be spent on modernisation of the Gurdaspur co-op sugar mill to increase its capacity of crushing sugarcane from 2,000 TCD to 5,000 TCD. The mill will also be in a position to produce 25 MW of power besides 100 kilo litres of ethnol per day.As a result of functional improvements made in recent times, cooperative sugar mills in the state crushed 2.19 crore quintals of sugarcane in 2018-19, and succeeded in improving the average recovery of sugar to 9.94 % as compared to 9.48% in the previous year.The Bhogpur and Morinda co-op sugar mills outperformed the other co-op sugar mills by achieving sugar recovery of 11% and 10.80%, respectively. Overall the sugar recovery of co-op sugar mills was 0.46% higher than the previous year and the mills produced 1.01 lakh quintals more sugar.The state government has also started marketing of the sugar produced in its co-op sugar mills. The state Cooperation Minister in a meeting with the Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh has proposed that Punjab can meet the supply of sugar being distributed through ration depots in the hill state. He argued that Punjab being an adjoining state, Himachal Pradesh by taking supply of sugar from it can save on transportation costs.  Apart from this the Budhewal co-op sugar mill has introduced its own 'Fateh' brand of 'gur' (jaggery) and 'shakkar' (jaggery sugar) in the market.(The above content has been received from the Punjab Government under The Tribune Space Marketing Initiative)
20-03-2020||---||Punjab on the path of Agricultural transformation||In a bid to transform the lives of farmers, the Punjab Government led by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has taken slew of path-breaking initiatives besides extending a helping hand to the beleaguered farming community and giving a big push towards crop diversification during its three years tenure in the office.The state government is ever committed to bail out the farming community already grappling with acute agrarian crisis since agriculture is the mainstay of Punjab’s economy and the agricultural backbone of India. Punjab alone contributes about 19% of wheat, 11% of rice, 5% of cotton, 10% of milk, 20% of honey and 48% of mushrooms grown in the country.Fulfilling its one of the major promises with the state farmers immediately after taking the reins in March 2017, Captain Amarinder Singh Government gave a debt relief worth Rs. 4624 crore to 5.64 lac small and marginal farmers indebted to cooperative and commercial banks. Besides, nearly one lac such more farmers would be extended debt relief shortly. Taking its pro-farmer stance way forward, Captain Amarinder Singh has also announced his Government’s commitment to provide debt relief worth Rs. 520 crore to 2.85 lac farm labourers and landless farmers of the coop. societies.The state government also honoured another promise to amend Section 67-A of Cooperative Societies Act to prevent Kurki of farmers for default on cooperative loans thereby giving a much needed relief to them. Likewise, compensation in lieu of crop damage (Kharaba) has also been increased from Rs. 8000 to Rs. 12,000 per acre to mitigate the hardships of the farmers.On procurement operations, Captain Amarinder Singh Government has ensured six seamless procurements of paddy and wheat in line with its ever top priority which led to an additional remuneration of Rs. 44,000 crore, an unprecedented achievement for our farmers.Giving the highest priority to the agriculture diversification under the visionary leadership of Captain Amarinder Singh, the state government has chalked out a time bound action plan of crop diversification to encourage farmers to come out of the rut of paddy-wheat rotation. Apart from this, nearly three lac hectares of paddy area would be brought under maize for which a budgetary allocation of Rs. 200 crore has already been made in the budget for year 2020-21.Intensifying its endeavour towards crop diversification for promotion of horticulture, fruit estates are being established at Verka (Pear Estate), Sujanpur (Litchi Estate), Wazidpur (Guava Estate) and Faridkot (Horticulture Estate). Work is also in full swing at upcoming Centre of Excellence for Floriculture at Doraha in Ludhiana district.Effective steps taken by the state government have ensured that about 6.84 lac acres under paddy cultivation are shifted to other kharif crops like cotton, maize and basmati. Another 7 lac acres have been planned to be shifted from paddy in the coming season. This measure will judiciously restore the water balance in the state. A pilot project of Direct Benefit Transfer of Electricity (DBTE) for agriculture consumers under the banner of ‘Panni Bachao, PaiseKamao’ scheme has now been extended to 11 districts to incentivize farmers to use less water and make monetary savings.The Chief Minister has already reiterated that free power would not be withdrawn to the farmers at any cost till his government is in power. A total allocation of Rs 12,526 crore has been made for agriculture and allied sectors in the budget, constituting a major share of Rs 8,275 crore for power subsidy in farm sector. In another pro-farmer decision, the government has slashed ‘mandi fee’ levied on the sale and purchase of fruits and vegetables from four to one per cent.To strengthen the rural link roads, the State Government has spent Rs. 3227 crore for the repair of 28,765 km of link roads of which 20934 km have been repaired whereas the repair of remaining 7831 km will be completed by June 30, 2020, which would immensely benefit the commuters especially the state farmers. Further, 960 culverts/bridges on the village link roads have also been upgraded at a cost of Rs. 215 crore and another 6162 km link roads would be repaired at a cost of Rs. 834 crore during 2020-21. Under Mandi Development Program involving an expenditure of Rs. 692 crore, as many as 151-principal yards, 284-sub yards and 1395-purchase centres would be upgraded by June 30, 2020 to ensure better facilities for marketing of farmers produce.(The above content has been received from the Punjab Government under The Tribune Space Marketing Initiative)
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab govt denies shutting down Internet, Amarinder warns against rumours||The Punjab government on Friday has denied reports to shut down Internet services in the state.Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has appealed to people not to believe in unsubstantiated information and has warned of strict action against rumour mongers and those spreading fake news.I request Punjabis not to share unsubstantiated news & information as it may create unnecessary panic. The following content that claims @PunjabGovtIndia is shutting down internet services is fake & action will be taken against anyone involved in spreading misleading information. pic.twitter.com/Rtx6Crzv4o  Earlier, Chandigarh UT administration has initiated steps to counter the scare triggered by the coronavirus, the authorities are also grappling with the “fake” information being dished out online. Officials have warned of stern action against those found behind such fake messages.Also read: Fake coronavirus messages being circulated in Chandigarh, admn warns of actionThe message being circulated on WhatsApp and other social media platforms triggered panic.
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali woman tests positive for coronavirus; total cases in Punjab 3||A 69-year-old woman, who recently returned from the United Kingdom, has tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total number of cases in Punjab to three, an official said on Friday.“The woman, a resident of Mohali, has tested (positive) for coronavirus,” Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan told PTI.“She had returned from the UK,” he added.Her samples were tested at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, the official said, adding that she would now be admitted to a hospital.“Samples of her two more family members will be taken for testing,” he said.One of the two earlier COVID-19 patients in Punjab has died. PTI6 villages in Garhshankar sealed because of coronavirusSix villages in Garhshankar were sealed on Friday because of coronavirus. Section 144 was imposed in Moranwali, Binjon, Aima Muglan, Aima Jattan, Possi and Sooni villages of the area.It is a case of community spread as a suspect from Moranwali village was a priest in the same dera at Pathlawa village where a man had died two days ago.In Moranwali, the dera priest and his family also showed symptoms of coronavirus infection.Two doctors from PHC Moranwali and their families also quarantined after they showed symptoms of fever and cough.
20-03-2020||London||Sikh man shoved out of UK supermarket||As a sign of the mounting chaos over panic buying amid the coronavirus pandemic in the UK, an elderly Sikh man was filmed being shoved out of a supermarket in east London after an altercation with the employees.The unnamed man can be seen in the recording, which was widely shared on social media on Wednesday, being pushed out of the Iceland store in Ilford after an argument with members of the staff. He is repeatedly seen saying that a staff member had pushed him."You pushed me," the elderly man is seen saying, before staff members demand that he should "get out" of the store. Many on social media responded with anger and sided with the older customer. — PTI
20-03-2020||Aparna Banerji||Nawanshahr village quarantined for 14 days||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 19Unprecedented containment measures have been put in place at a Nawanshahr village after its 70-year-old resident, with travel history to Germany and Italy, tested positive for Covid-19 and died yesterday.While 17 persons — 12 from victim’s family, three hospital staff and a resident from nearby Chikka village who travelled abroad with the victim — were put in isolation last evening at Banga’s Pathlawa village, the Nawanshahr administration today quarantined the village with a population of 2,200. The victim’s family includes three sons, their wives and six to seven children, among others.The measures have been put in place on a war footing to ensure containment of the virus. Police checkpoints had been set up at eight entry points, a doctor deputed and a vehicle pressed into service to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities to the village. All residents have been directed to stay indoors for the next 14 days.The victim along with two relatives and the Chikka resident had visited Germany in February and spent two-three days in Italy before returning to India on March 7. The villagers have set up a grocery shop and started two helpline numbers — one for health-related emergencies and the second for ration.DC Vinay Bublani said: “Samples of those who have or are displaying symptoms are being taken.”Sarpanch Harpal Singh said: “The doctor is gathering social contact history of all villagers.” Despite mandatory quarantine, the victim after arriving in India visited Anandpur Sahib, he said. He was taken to private hospitals in Jalandhar and Phagwara on Tuesday, before being referred to a civil hospital on Wednesday.Drastic measuresVictim met scores at DeraThe district administration is in a tizzy as the Banga resident used to perform kirtan at a dera in Pathlawa village twice every day. Villagers said as many as 150 persons visited the dera daily. Almost all of them had met him after his return to India on March 7.
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Rahul best bet to head Cong, says Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday made it clear that he was not interested in leaving the state for national politics and batted for Rahul Gandhi to lead the Congress and revive its glory.Speaking at a conclave to mark the third anniversary of his government, he said the choice of the next leadership rested with the Congress Working Committee.“Rahul definitely has it in him to steer the party as its leader, although at the moment he seems to be insistent about not taking over the party reins,” he said.Underscoring the need for a new leadership to emerge, the Capt said it was not fair to further push Sonia Gandhi, who had been keeping unwell. He said Rahul should not allow one defeat (2019 LS polls) to hold him back. “I lost my first two elections, but if I had gone and sat at home, I would not be where I am today,” he quipped.On the possibility of him being asked to take over as the new Congress president, Capt Amarinder said he did not want to leave Punjab and he found working for people in his state more attractive. — TNS
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Public transport shut as Punjab sees first death||With Punjab witnessing its first Covid death — a 70-year-old man from Pathlawa village at Banga in Nawanshar who tested positive and died yesterday — the Group of Ministers today decided to take stringent measures to prevent public from moving out of their homes for non-essential works. The victim with travel history to Germany and Italy had arrived in India on March 7.The GoM, which met today under the chairmanship of Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, banned all public transport (government or private) from midnight on March 20. Taxis and cycle rickshaws have, however, been exempt.All board examinations of classes X and XII have been postponed till March 31, and public dealings in government offices have been called off with immediate effect.The GoM decided to increase the number of isolation wards at public, private hospitals and medical institutions. Routine OPD services in hospitals have been postponed, but emergency services will continue 24x7. The classes of first and second year students in medical colleges have been postponed. It was also decided to restrict gatherings at functions such as marriages to 20. — TNSFlyers to be stamped
20-03-2020||Jalandhar||Coronavirus victim was dera official, met hundreds in 11 days||The Banga resident, who died on Wednesday, was a dera functionary and had met scores of followers since his return from Germany on March 7.He used to perform kirtan at the dera every morning and evening, and residents of Pathlawa village have regularly been visiting the dera for the past few days.Villagers said 150 people had been visiting the dera daily. Since, he along with the dera head and a sewadar returned from their 16-day Germany trip on March 7, almost all devotees in the village visited and met them in the past 11 days.An official said the flight of the trio came via Italy, and they had a two-hour halt there. The dera head and the sewadar have been quarantined. The entire dera has been sealed.Officials said they got information regarding their arrival from Germany on March 13, and they were brought under surveillance the next day. The surveillance plan of the administration and doctors was not to instruct them, but to adhere to self-isolation to ensure that they were not symptomatic.The administration said the victim was not a COVID-19 suspect till his death and the family believed he was having chest pain due to his age-related ailments.
20-03-2020||Sangrur||Panchayat members climb atop water tank||
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||SAD losing ground in state, says Cong||With the Shiromani Akali Dal losing more ground in the state, the Badals are issuing frivolous statements against the Congress on the issue of sacrilege, alleged Cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria.They claimed that everyone in Punjab knew that the sacrilege incidents took place because the Badals wanted to stay in power and that was their only motive.They said when the Badals realised that they were losing their political ground at a much faster pace, the father-son duo started issuing frivolous and misleading statements just to save their skin.The ministers said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had reiterated that the culprits of sacrilege incidents won’t be spared at any cost.
20-03-2020||Nurmahal/Nakodar||2 nabbed with sedative pills||The Bilga police have arrested a person for allegedly selling intoxicating tablets and capsules. Investigating officer (IO) Gursharan Singh said 1,400 tablets and 400 capsules were recovered from Kapal Dev, a resident of Dhardev village under Mehta police station, Gurdas Pur. The IO said a case had been registered against the accused under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. In another incident, the city police arrested a person with 60 intoxciating capsules. The accused had been identified as Jasprit Singh, a resident of Shankar village, said IO Jit Singh. — OC
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Onus of ensuring medical reimbursement on state: HC||In a significant judgment that will change the way medical bills of government employees are repaid by insurance companies, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has put the onus of ensuring reimbursement on the state.Justice Nirmaljit Kaur ruled the state was duty bound to ensure reimbursement as the agreement was between it and the insurance company and the premium, too, was also paid by it. The state was required to procure medical reimbursement from the company and to deposit the amount in the accounts of its employees.In case of non-payment by the insurance company, the state would be held liable to make payment and recover the amount subsequently.The ruling came on petitions by Maninder Singh Patwari and others. In one of the petitions, directions were sought for setting aside the order dated April 7, 2017, issued by the India Health Systems Corporation, whereby the petitioner’s claim was rejected on the ground that treatment was on reimbursement basis, subject to submission of claim within 30 days of discharge from hospital in accordance with guidelines under the Punjab Government employee scheme.Justice Nirmaljit Kaur said it was not disputed that the petitioner in one of the cases was suffering from kidney ailment. “It is for the respondent (state) to procure the medical reimbursement from Oriental Insurance Company and deposit the amount in the accounts of their employees. In case of any violation of the policy, it is the state being the employer as well as the signatory to the agreement, who should contest on behalf of their employees," Justice Kaur said while directing the insurance company to reimburse the bills with 9 per cent annual interest.
20-03-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Residents protest police ‘inaction’ in murder case||Family members and residents of Railon village today blocked the Fatehgarh Sahib-Chandigarh road to protest the failure of the Bassi Pathana police in arresting the alleged culprits responsible for the death of a youth.They said they would not cremate the body till all culprits involved in the killing of Yog Rah were arrested.Gurbaj Singh, brother of Yog Raj, alleged four youths of Railon village had taken away his brother on March 1. Later, one of the culprits, Babbu Singh, left an unconscious Yog Raj outside their house, he said. Yog Raj was referred to the PGI from Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. He died 12 days later at the PGI.DSP Sukhminder Chauhan said the police had registered a case against the accused and were conducting raids to nab them. — OC
20-03-2020||Fazilka||Kin seek action over delay in post-mortem||Locals of Singhpura village and kin of Dalit girl Nimita (19), who had committed suicide, held a protest on Wednesday and Thursday against employees of the district hospital over delay in conducting autopsy.It was on Thursday, two days after the girl’s body was recovered from a canal, that the board of doctors of the district hospital conducted the autopsy.The body was brought to the district Civil Hospital on March 17 to conduct autopsy, but the hospital authorities referred the case to Faridkot Medical College, saying they lacked infrastructure. Subsequently, on March 18, the Medical College authorities too refused to conduct the examination and referred the case to the district hospital.Overwrought, the kin of the deceased staged a protest at the main gate of the district hospital yesterday evening, demanding action against the SMO and the Health Department. The protesters lifted the blockade at 10 pm on Wednesday only to resume it next morning.Khatak said the deceased’s father, Sushil Kumar, had filed a fresh complaint against the SMO and doctors.Lal Chand, a local, said Nimita was allegedly having an affair with Ravi Kumar of Ghallu village. A case has been registered against the youth for the girl reportedly went missing after the youth accosted her on bike on March 13. — OC
20-03-2020||Badal (Muktsar)||Manpreet’s mother passes away at 84||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s mother Harminder Kaur passed away today at the family’s farmhouse at Badal village in Muktsar district. She was about 84-year-old.Their relatives said Harminder Kaur had a brain tumour and was getting treatment from the PGI, Chandigarh. “We came to know about the tumour at the last stage. On Wednesday, she had desired to come back to Badal village. Thus we brought her here last evening. However, she breathed her last at about 3.30 am,” said Jaijeet Singh Johal ‘Jojo’, brother-in-law of Manpreet.The body was kept at Manpreet’s farmhouse on the outskirts of Badal village, where a small religious ceremony was organised. Congress leaders like PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, Speaker Rana KP Singh, Cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Gurpreet Kangar, OP Soni, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Balbir Sidhu were present. Harminder Kaur is survived by her son Manpreet, daughter Rajpreet and husband Gurdas Singh Badal, a former MP.Manpreet Singh Badal tweeted, “I will encourage all to refrain from arriving in person for my mother’s funeral, given the severity and contagiousness of coronavirus. Instead of risking your health and your loved ones’ by congregating in a large gathering, please convey any condolences electronically.”The Chief Minister said: “She was a pious soul and a pillar of strength for the family.” — TNS
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Opposes CAA, says even I don’t have birth certificate||Strongly opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act as absurd and unconstitutional, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday said half of Punjab, including himself, could not produce birth certificates to prove their citizenship.Questions Gogoi’s RS nominationDubbing as “wrong and questionable” the nomination of former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi to the Rajya Sabha, the Chief Minister said: “Governments have to realise their responsibility, they can’t use institutions for political benefit, as appearedto be the case inGogoi’s nomination.”Pointing out that many people in Punjab came from Pakistan, Capt Amarinder asked if the Centre expected them to go to Pakistan to look for proof of birth.“Even I don’t have a birth certificate. These things did not exist when I was born,” said the Chief Minister, quipped that this would make him too a “doubtful character” under the Centre’s new census system.Making it clear that his government was totally opposed to these exercises, Chief Minsiter Capt Amarinder said while a routine census would be conducted in Punjab, it would not be based on religion, caste and creed. — TNS
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t want politics on sacrilege issue: Capt||Even as he called for a tough stance by the Centre against Pakistan-backed terrorism, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday said his government was committed to ensuring strict action against those responsible for Bargari and other sacrilege incidents.Sidhu very much part of Cong: CMCapt Amarinder Singh said while he had no idea what was in his (Navjot Singh Sidhu’s) mind, at the moment he was definitely a part of the CongressDescribing Sidhu as a likeable person whom he had known since the former was a child, the Chief Minister termed his decision to launch a YouTube channel as his own affair“If the Akalis think we are sitting quiet on the sensitive issues, they are mistaken,” said the Chief Minister, adding, however, that he did not believe in engaging in war of words with them, but wanted to remain focused on critical issues in the interest of the state.Capt Amarinder said his focus had been on tackling drugs, gang culture and political killings, all of which were rampant under the SAD-BJP rule, and this had been done effectively.Asserting that his government would now allow Pak-backed terrorists to foment trouble in Punjab, the Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, said he had been urging the Centre to be tough on Pakistan. “This cannot go on. Punjab is not Kashmir, and is well-equipped to fight back. The Army can continue fighting terror in Kashmir, but in Punjab, in addition to the BSF as the first line of defence, the 85,000 strong police force is well-equipped to deal with any threat,” he said, adding that the Army was also there for support as and when needed.
20-03-2020||Ropar||Suspect admitted to Ropar hospital||A 29-year-old local, who had returned from Dubai last month, reported symptoms of Covid at the Civil Hospital here on Wednesday. The suspect returned on February 28.Safety kits soughtChairperson of the Punjab Safai Karamchari Commission Gejja Ram on Thursday sought immediate supply of safety kits to ‘safai karamcharis’ as a precautionary measure against Covid-19.Civil Surgeon HN Sharma said the patient told the doctors that he was suffering from cough and cold for the last six days. However, he didn’t consult any doctor all this while. After he reported the matter, the doctors admitted him to isolation ward, along with his wife, on Wednesday afternoon.The Civil Surgeon said samples of nasopharyngeal swab and oropharyngeal swab of patients had been sent to PGI, Chandigarh, the report of which was awaited.
20-03-2020||Jalandhar||PIMS still working, students skip classes||Upset with the Baba Farid University of Medical Sciences authorities for not declaring holidays for medical students in the wake of Covid-19 spread, MBBS students of the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) have begun bunking classes.Several students have reportedly left hostels and gone back home. Seeing the scenario, the university authorities today ordered holidays for the first and second-year students, but not the third and final-year students.It is learnt that 50 of the 150 students of the third-year did not attend the theory classes today. A student from Hoshiarpur said, “I had no problem with attending the classes, but my parents are really worried about me. There is a regular OPD running on the campus and there is a common passage for patients, students and staff. So, we were highly prone to the disease. We appealed to the administration, but they expressed helplessness claiming that they would have to go by the varsity directions. So then we collectively decided to take off for some days.”PIMS principal Dr Kulbir Kaur said, “We have to follow government’s instructions. There was no mass bunk. Even today, 20 students complained of common flu because of the seasonal changes. We are taking all precautions against Covid.”
20-03-2020||Amritsar||Back from Pak, 43 quarantined||The health authorities have quarantined at least 43 persons, who returned from Pakistan through Integrated Check Post at Attari on Wednesday evening.The returnees have been quarantined at Swami Vivekananda Rehabilitation Centre, a 100-bed facility, which has been converted into a quarantine centre.Of the 43 persons, 29 had gone to Dubai to watch a cricket league, but later took a flight to Pakistan, from where they took the road route to India. The remaining are said to be students. The authorities allowed the Dubai-returned passengers only after getting a nod from the ministry.The screening of the passengers was delayed as the officers had to wait for the permission to allow the returnees to enter India. The health authorities, including civil surgeon, stayed put at Sri Guru Ram Das International airport waiting for the international flights to land. Meanwhile, the Health Department didn’t report any new case today.Aujla: Allow OCI card holders to enterAmritsar: MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla has urged the Ministry of External Affairs to allow Indian-origin children possessing Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI) cards to come to India. In a letter addressed to Foreign Minister S Jaishankar, he said in the wake of Covid-19 threat, many NRIs were stuck in India, but their children, who were foreign nationals by virtue of their birth, could not unite with their families due to the ban on the entry of foreigners. He requested the minister to allow OCI card holders to enter India so that they could be their parents. TNS
20-03-2020||Amritsar||Pakistan seals Wagah border, won’t take back its citizens||With Pakistan sealing the Attari-Wagah border on Thursday as a preventive measure to combat the spread of Covid, several Pakistanis who were cross over to their country got stuck at the Joint Check Post here.At least six Pakistani families, mostly Hindus, were not allowed to complete immigration formalities as there are restrictions on the movement of tourists on either side.The Pakistan authorities on Thursday issued a notification to close the Wagah border for two weeks. India has already sealed the border. Except for the diplomats of either side, no one can cross the border till further orders.However, Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) officials were trying to pacify the Pakistani families and persuading them to go back to their relatives’ houses in India till further orders.One of them, Dyal Chand of Balochistan, said his family of three had come to India a month ago and they were supposed to return on Thursday. “We never knew about the sealing of the border due to the Covid threat. I am a patient of diabetes and hypertension. I have run out of my medicines. Our visa was going to expire on March 22. Where will go? We don’t know anyone in Amritsar,” he said.Another Pakistan resident Pawan Kumar who belonged to Sindh (Pakistan) said that he along with his family had come to Rajkot (Gujarat) and that their visa was going to expire. “Technically, we cannot stay in Amritsar. My family has a visa for Gujarat only. So we have no choice, but to return to Gujarat,” he said.Luxmi Bai of Sindh said she came to India with her family on one month’s visa. “We are short of money and the visa will expire on March 22. We are in Catch-22 situation,” she said.Similarly, Munawar, Bibi and Nasreen, who came to Ferozepur to meet their relatives, had no choice but to go back to their relatives.ADC Himanshu Aggarwal said, “No Pakistani citizen has approached the district administration yet. Moreover, there is no advisory issued by the Centre in their case.”
20-03-2020||Jalandhar||Violating Covid protocol, 70-yr-old visited 3 towns||The 70-year-old man, who died on Wednesday and tested positive for Covid, violated the health authorities’ protocol to stay in quarantine after his trip to Germany and Italy.The authorities had tracked 745 people, including the 70-year-old, with travel history in Nawanshahr district.As per the protocol, people with travel history are placed under a mandatory 14-day quarantine.Coming back to India on March 7, he visited Anandpur Sahib and returned to his village on March 15. He also visited Jalandhar and Phagwara on March 17 for health complications. However, the Health Department was unaware of his movement.It was only on March 18 that he reported to Civil Hospital, Banga.The village sarpanch said, “The 70-year-old visited Anandpur Sahib after his return. I met him briefly twice. On March 17, he along with others had also gone to Jalandhar and Phagwara, but were sent back due to their travel history. Later, they approached the Banga hospital.”Civil Hospital staff said the family, which wanted to take away his body, only reluctantly agreed to leave the body for sampling.A doctor, staff nurse and an elderly ward attendant who came in contact with him are in isolation presently.Nawanshahr Civil Surgeon Dr Rajinder Bhatia said, “The man skipped quarantine on his own and the Health Department was unaware that he was leaving his house. The department was kept in the dark about his movement. As many as 56 people have been placed in quarantine and 19 direct contacts are also under surveillance. We shall also be taking samples of his family.”
20-03-2020||Amritsar||Passport office puts off appointments||Taking cognisance of advisories issued by the Ministry of External Affairs regarding Covid, the Regional Passport Office (RPO) here has postponed appointments of applicants till March 31.Regional Passport Officer Munish Kapoor said all applicants had been advised to visit Passport Sewa Kendra or the Post Office Passport Seva Kendra only under extreme circumstances.“It had been observed in the last three days that the number of minor applicants had increased due to holidays in schools and colleges, creating a rush as minors were also accompanied by their parents. To reduce the rush, all applicants have been requested to postpone their appointments,” he said.The Ministry of External Affairs is also in the process to give options to applicants to reschedule their appointments in the next 90 days.The condition of rescheduling an appointment for maximum three times has been waived. An applicant can reschedule his appointment as many times during the year.“No applicant in the RPO office is allowed for an enquiry regarding the application. During the processing of files, if it is felt necessary, passport officials will call the applicant for clarification,” he said. — TNS
20-03-2020||Sangrur||Singla: Use schools as isolation centres||The Education Department on Thursday offered to use government school buildings as quarantine centres for suspected coronavirus patients. The government has already closed all schools and postponed annual exams till March 31.Talking to The Tribune, Education Minster Vijay Inder Singla said, “Since we have schools in almost all villages, we have offered to the health authorities that they could use the schools as quarantine centres. The isolation of suspected patients is must if we want to contain the spread of coronavirus. After receiving request from the health officers, we will vacate the school.”He said the move would help the state in a big way. “Fearing forcible quarantine, many suspected patients are not coming forward. We want to allay such fears and local schools would serve as best isolation centres,” he said.Singla said they had postponed school examinations and relieved the staff of all schools till March 31. To prevent the spread of infection, they had decided to restrict the activities of all government, semi-government and private schools in the state, he said.“An awareness drive has been launched. Teams led by health and other officials are visiting every household in villages and cities to make residents aware of the disease,” said the minister.He said CM Capt Amarinder Singh had been taking feedback about the efforts of the Group of Ministers formed to prevent Covid outbreak in the state.
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||State bans public transport, puts off board exams||Taking note of the Covid spreading its wings in the country, the Group of Ministers (GoM) today decided to take stringent measures to prevent the public to move out of their houses for non-essential works.Safety firstTaxis and cycle rickshaws exemptedExaminations of Classes X, XII put off till March 31Gathering at weddings and funerals restricted to 20Dining in hotels, restaurants and dhabas bannedConferences, seminars in banquet halls prohibitedTake-away services and home delivery to continueHome quarantine for persons with travel historyNumber of isolation wards increasedThe GoM, which met today under the chairmanship of Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, decided to put a ban on plying of all public transport (government or private) from midnight on March 20.Likewise all board examinations of Classes X and XII have also been postponed till March 31. All public dealings in government offices have been called off.Mohindra said a meeting was held to review the emergent situation in view of the rise in suspected cases in the state. He said the GoM decided that it was time to take concrete steps instead of only issuing advisories. The GoM decided that there was an urgent need to prevent people to come out of their houses without any emergency. For this end, it was decided to stop the operation of all public transport (government and private buses), but taxis and rickshaws have been exempted.Another important decision taken by the GoM is to increase the number of isolation wards at different public, private hospitals and medical institutions and to strengthen the services by ensuring availability of medical and paramedical staff and adequate stock of medicines.Similarly, routine OPD services in hospitals have also been postponed, but emergency services will be continued 24x7. The GoM has also decided to close all dental colleges and hospitals with immediate effect till March 31.The classes of first and second year students in medical colleges have been postponed while the classes of third and fourth years would be continued.Likewise, the classes of first year students in nursing colleges have been called off till March 31, but the classes of nursing students from second year onward would be continued. Students of third and fourth year are being given first-hand training to tackle with Covid patients. The minister said the GoM had also decided to restrict the gatherings at functions like marriages and funerals up to 20. The organisers of such functions have been advised to adhere to hand washing protocol and proper cleanliness.GoM has also decided to strictly implement the home quarantine protocol for all NRIs and passengers who came from any country in the last 15 days to remain in isolation at their homes up to 14 days. It has also been decided to do mandatory stamping with indelible ink of all such NRIs and passengers in a bid to identify them in case they go out.The GoM has also generated appeal for all citizens to keep a check on the movement of any NRIs and passengers coming from other countries and immediately inform the authorities for keeping them under observation for the safety of the public.
20-03-2020||Ferozepur||3.25 lakh rail tickets cancelled in Ferozepur||In the wake of the growing Covid-19 scare, over 3.25 lakh passengers have cancelled their train tickets in the Ferozepur division of Northern Railway in the last fortnight. The division has reportedly incurred losses to the tune of Rs21 crore on account of refunds for cancellation of the tickets.Though the officials did not comment on whether the passengers got the tickets cancelled due to the Covid fears or other reasons, sources attributed it to the spread of the disease only.An official said most the cancellations were taking place due to a surge in Covid cases in the country. — OC
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Door-to-door awareness drive on: DGP||The police have launched a door-to-door outreach campaign through the recently deployed village police officers (VPOs) against the spread of Coivd.“VPOs are being appointed across the state and will be roped in to spread awareness over the matter in all districts soon,” said DGP Dinkar Gupta.In Amritsar, a total of 550 villages have already been covered in the past four days, with the remaining to be reached out in the next couple of days, said the DGP. “Nearly 889 VPOs are making rounds of their allotted villages to conduct meetings with sarpanches, school headmasters, granthis, watchmen, households, youth etc, to spread awareness for prevention of Covid outbreak,” he said, adding the VPOs have been trained to educate people about the virus.
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Allow testing by pvt labs, says CM||Warning of a worsening Covid crisis in the country, Chief Minister Capt Amainder Singh on Thursday urged the Centre to allow private hospitals and labs to conduct tests in order to ensure access to all people even as the state reported its first case of death due to coronavirus.Calling for a national-level fight against the pandemic on a war footing, Capt Amarinder said he would take up the issue of testing by private hospitals/labs with the Prime Minister on Friday during the latter’s proposed video conference with all Chief Ministers.With the number of coronavirus cases increasing, the Centre has to consider reviewing its policy, stressed the Chief Minister, making it clear that he did not agree with the current policy in this regard.Given the fact that Punjab had private labs in all major cities, it was not logical for a Covid suspect to have to travel to Chandigarh or some other place to get himself tested from a government facility only, he said, adding that only in case of doubt should such a person be required to go elsewhere for a second test.
20-03-2020||Jalandhar||Can’t believe he killed self, says uncle of virus suspect||A day after a 23-year-old youth allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the building of a Delhi hospital, his uncle said his nephew was very brave and he could not believe that he would end his life like this.The victim, who belonged to Siani village in Nawanshahr, had returned from Sydney yesterday along with his mother. He was taken to the hospital for a Covid test after he complained of headache. However, his report is still awaited.Speaking over phone, his uncle said, “I had gone to bring Tanveer and his mother home. I never imagined that they would return like this.”He said he was one of the most educated persons in the family and had gone to Sydney after clearing IELTS examination in the first attempt. “He was excellent in studies. He had been living in Sydney with his cousins for three years,” he said.The victim’s uncle said he had not told his mother about his death. She is quarantined at home for 14 days.“In the family, I have only told about his demise to his grandfather. His father is coming from Mumbai,” he said.Civil Surgeon Rajinder Prasad Bhatia said victim’s mother, who had come to Jalandhar, was being monitored by a team of doctors and had not shown any Covid symptoms so far. “She will be under observation for next 14 days,” he said.
20-03-2020||Chandigarh||Politicians step up guard, curtail tours, cancel meetings||In light of Covid threat, politicians in Punjab too have started taking precautions, keeping a safe distance from the public. Congress and Opposition leaders, who are often surrounded by supporters and a battery of officials, have reduced their public apperances to bare minimum.Social distancingOfficers have been asked to use digital interface such as videoconferencing to hold meetingsCM Capt Amarinder Singh has restricted his movement; those meeting him are sanitised and screened firstCongress MLA from Ludhiana Sanjay Talwar has reduced the duration of his public meetingsUnion Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has cancelled her meetingstill April 15Interestingly, some of the politicians are holding public meetings to create awareness on CovidThey have started greeting people “Sat Sri Akal” instead of shaking hands.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “It is a tough situation for us. It is difficult to turn away people visiting us for their works. I am taking precautions while meeting people.”The dedicated Group of Ministers, constituted by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder to take preventive measures against Covid, has so far not issued any advisory to their Cabinet colleagues and legislators. But ministers have started restricting their movement and are meeting fewer visitors.Officers have been asked to avoid physical contact and instead use digital interface such as videoconferencing to hold meetings. Only necessary meetings are being convened, a senior government functionary said.As a preventive measure, Capt Amarinder has restricted his movement and public meetings. Those meeting the CM are sanitised and screened on thermal imagers.“In the past three days, the Chief Minister attended two media conclaves to mark three years of the Congress government. Now, all media conclaves have been postponed till May. Chief Minister’s public meetings have been restricted,” said an official in the CM’s Office.Some legislators, for example Congress MLA from Ludhiana Sanjay Talwar and Rakesh Pandey, have reduced the duration of public meetings. They allow only a few persons, who have some urgent work, to meet them.A public rally of the Taksalis in Tarn Taran has been cancelled. In Amritsar, all public meetings scheduled for this week have been cancelled.In Bathinda, Union Food Processing Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has cancelled all her meetings till April 15.AAP MLA from Talwandi Sabo Prof Baljinder Kaur has also cancelled her public appearances except for the ones that cannot be put off.“There were a number of meetings and public appearances scheduled in villages of my segment. I cancelled all my meetings, but I am attending death and bhog ceremonies and weddings.”Political events in Sangrur and Barnala districts have been cancelled. The two districts have not seen any political activity for the past fortnight.Interestingly, some of the politicians are holding public meetings to create awareness on Covid. A case in point is AAP legislator from Jagraon Sarvjit Kaur Manuke and Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjeet Singh Bains.Bains says he is meeting people regularly, but taking preventive measures.In Gurdaspur, Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa says he has ordered his staff to put on hold all his public functions. “I have ordered sufficient stock of sanitisers at my house in Chandigarh’s Sector 39 and my native village Dharowali. Anybody visiting me will have to first use a sanitiser first.”Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said, “We have postponed all functions related to inauguration and other events. But I am working round the clock as I am part of the Group of Ministers.”Public Works Department Minister Vijay Inder Singla, who is also part of the GoM, is attending meeting on Covid.
