21-09-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 47 more deaths, 2,247 new cases in Punjab||Forty-seven more deaths due to COVID-19 in Punjab took the toll to 2,860, while 2,247 new cases pushed the infection tally to 99,930 on Monday.Nine deaths were reported from Amritsar, seven from Jalandhar, five each from Ludhiana and Pathankot, four each from Kapurthala and Patiala, and two each from Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Sangrur, according to the medical bulletin.One death each was reported from Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Muktsar and Rupnagar.Among places which reported the new cases are Amritsar (255), Ferozepur (249), Ludhiana (245), Mohali (233), Jalandhar (221), Patiala (151), Bathinda (149), Gurdaspur (101) and Hoshiarpur (87).There are 21,661 active COVID-19 cases in the state, according to the bulletin.A total of 2,811 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection.So far, 75,409 people have been cured of the disease.Fifty-nine critical patients are on ventilator support while 475 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 15,99,134 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI
21-09-2020||---||Multani murder case: SIT notice asks Punjab ex-DGP Saini to join investigation on Sept 23||Mohali, September 21Days after the Supreme Court issued directions to former Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini to join investigation in the Balwant Singh Multani murder case, the Special Investigating Team (SIT) on Monday summoned him to join investigation by September 23.Not finding Saini at his residence in Chandigarh’s Sector 20, the SIT pasted the notice outside the house and also gave a copy to his counsels — advocates HS Dhanoa and Misha Rohtagi.The notice pasted on the wall reads “Saini is summoned to reach Mataur police station in Mohali at 11 AM on September 23, 2020 to join investigation”.Pertinently, Saini was given relief by SC on September 15 by ordering interim stay on his arrest at the hands of the Punjab Police in the Balwant Singh Multani murder case and directed him to co-operate and join investigations with SIT.According to sources, the Punjab police said they are not aware about Saini coming out of the hiding to make himself available for joining the investigations. Multani, a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack.
21-09-2020||Lahore||Sikhs in Pak begin commemorating ‘Jyoti Jot’ of Guru Nanak at Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib||For the first time, the Sikh community in Pakistan has started commemorating the Jyoti Jot of Guru Nanak Dev at Kartarpur Sahib Gurudwara.Indian devotees gave it a miss due to the COVID-19 pandemic.Pakistani Sikhs, mostly from Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhawa, are taking part in the three-day events of the Jyoti Jot (death anniversary) of Guru Nanak Dev at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib that began on Sunday, said Amir Hashmi, spokesperson for the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) which looks after the minority holy places in the country.No Sikh from across the border has come to attend the festivities, he said, adding that the COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are being observed.This is the first time that the Jyoti Jot of Guru Nanak Dev has been observed at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib ever since it came into being.The Indian government was formally asked to let Sikhs attend the events but New Delhi rejected it apparently due to the coronavirus pandemic, said the official.The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbhandhik Committee (PSGPC) had also requested the Indian government to allow Sikh pilgrims to visit Kartarpur Sahib.Pakistan on June 29 reopened the historic Kartarpur Sahib Corridor three months after it was closed in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.The corridor allows Indian pilgrims to undertake visa-free travel to the historic shrine.It links Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur in India to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikh faith's founder Guru Nanak Dev. PTI
21-09-2020||---||Increase in MSP: Punjab CM terms it a ‘cruel joke’||Chandigarh, September 21Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday dismissed the Centre’s “paltry hike” in minimum support price for wheat and five other Rabi crops as a “cruel joke” on the farmers amid their growing apprehension about the abolition of the MSP regime following the passage of the new Agriculture Bills in Parliament.“This is callous. They have made a mockery of the farmers’ protests over the Farm Bills, which by all accounts will eventually pave the way for ending the minimum support price system and abolish the Food Corporation of India,” said the Captain Amarinder Singh.The Chief Minister said if the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre thought it would appease the agitating farmers with this trifling hike they clearly did not understand the situation.“You can’t just throw crumbs at someone who may be on the verge of losing his livelihood as a result of your shameful actions,” he told the Union Government.The Centre on Monday increased the MSP for wheat by Rs 50 to Rs 1,975 per quintal for the upcoming Rabi season .Also read: Centre announces MSP for 6 crops; Rs 50 increase for wheatThe farmers have been asking for a written guarantee that the MSP will not be tampered with, but instead, the Centre has handed out to them a measly offering, Amarinder said, adding that this once again showed how little the BJP and its allies, including the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), knew about the farmers and their problems.At a time when the farmers, in fact the whole nation, were not even sure that the MSP regime will stay, and for how long, making these meager hikes in the support price of a few crops amounted to trifling with their emotions, said Captain Amarinder.The verbal assurances and promises made by a government which has failed to implement even its written promises and commitments are totally meaningless, he said.Captain Amarinder urged the Central Government to take cognisance of the concerns of the farmers and address them with meaningful steps instead of such antics.The Chief Minister said that the farmers were at present worried about their future, and that of their families, and only want categorical and clear commitments, in black and white, that their produce will continue to be procured in the APMC markets at a minimum assured price.They want to be secure about their livelihood, which in any case has been progressively declining due to the Centre’s anti-farmer policies over the past six years, he added.Amarinder also regretted that the Centre had once again failed to announce a bonus at Rs 100 per quintal for paddy straw management to encourage farmers not to burn it.
21-09-2020||GS Paul||Akal Takht to confer ‘Jilawatan Sikh Yodha’ title upon Khalistan protagonist||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 21In a rare occurrence, the Akal Takht has announced to confer title of “Jilawatan Sikh Yodha” (Sikh warrior in-exile) on Gajinder Singh, one of the five men accused of hijacking an Indian Airlines plane to Lahore in 1981.Presently, Gajinder, the founding member of Dal Khalsa, has been residing in Lahore.It is learnt that the five high priests headed by Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, had decided to honour Gajinder for his contribution to the Sikh Panth, during the meeting held on September 18.Today, Akal Takht Secretariat officially informed the Dal Khalsa Head Office in Amritsar through a letter in this regard. Identical letter was sent to Gajinder’s daughter Bikramjit Kaur who lives in UK with her husband and two children.Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwarpal Singh Bittu said Akal Takht letter has authorised Gajinder’s daughter or any representative from Dal Khalsa to receive this honour at Akal Takht.Kanwarpal Singh said the Akal Takht letter has been forwarded to Gajinder too. “As per the contents of the letter, though the Akal Takht has authorised his daughter or Dal Khalsa office to receive the coveted title, it also mentioned that it would be the prerogative of Gajinder only to take a final call on the one who would receive the honour on his behalf,” he said.The final date of the customary ceremony would be announced in due course. “Probably, it would be scheduled during mid-October,” he said.Gajinder along with four others had hijacked the Delhi-Srinagar Indian Airlines flight IC423, with 111 passengers and six crew members on board, to Lahore on September 29, 1981 to protest against the arrest of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and death of 16 Sikhs in police firing at Chowk Mehta earlier that year.They were arrested by Pakistan agencies on September 30, tried and jailed. They were sentenced to life imprisonment by a special court in Lahore in 1986.After they got scot-free in November 1994, two of the hijackers returned to India, Gajinder decided to stay back, the two others took asylum in Switzerland.India had put Gajinder Singh’s name in the list of 20 “most wanted” terrorists in January 2002 and had been seeking his extradition from Pakistan.“After the Parliament attack on December 13, 2001, the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government had handed over a list of six most wanted persons, including him, and demanded that he be deported to India. However, the then Pakistan’s President General Pervez Musharraf had turned down India’s demand,” he said.This year the government has twice blocked Gajinder Singh’s Facebook page in India.Gajinder hails from Chandigarh and his wife Manjeet Kaur passed away in Germany in January 2019.
21-09-2020||Vibha Sharma||Don’t know why Harsimrat resigned from Union Cabinet: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 22BJP on Monday said they were not aware of the reasons behind Harsimrat Kaur’s resignation from the Union Cabinet and pointed out that the Akali Dal leader had only questioned about the legal aspects of the farm Ordinances when they were being discussed.Responding to a question regarding the resignation of Harsimrat Kaur, senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said: “She (Harsimrat Kaur Badal) has been a distinguished member of the Cabinet. She was a part of the Cabinet where it (farm Ordinance) was discussed. She asked whether it was legally possible, as the Law Minister I clarified…”“Why they (Akali Dal) did it, we don’t know. She has been a distinguished minister in the Cabinet and I would like to remember her like that,” Prasad added.Notably, Akali Dal resigned from the Cabinet saying that their concerns regarding the Ordinances were not addressed, terming the Bills replacing them anti-farmer.
21-09-2020||---||Covid recoveries match new cases for second day in Mohali: DC||Mohali, September 21A senior Congress leader from Dera Bassi and four members of his family were among the 150 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday taking the total count in the district to 8,512.The Congress leader and his family members have been advised home quarantine.Meanwhile, unlike the rapid surge in COVID 19 cases in past about 10 days, the district witnessed somewhat respite with pace of acceleration in new cases slowing down coupled with improvement in the corresponding recovery rate.On Covid-19 situation, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said 150 positive cases and 141 recoveries were witnessed today, while 134 positive cases and 112 recoveries were reported on Sunday.The break-up of positive cases is: Mohali urban-41 new cases, Kharar-11, Gharuan-26, Dhakoli- 50, Dera Bassi- 11, Banur-1, Boothgarh-3 and Kurali-7.There were two deaths, including 82-year-old female from Phase 10 who died in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, and was suffering from diabetes and Hypertension. The second deceased person was 46-year-old male from Dera Bassi who died in Indus Hospital and was sufferinhg from diabetes.As of now there are 8,512 Covid positive cases while 5,708 patients have been cured of the virus and discharged from various hospitals. There are 2,642 active cases with 163 deaths in the district.
21-09-2020||---||Farm legislation: Dissatisfaction of farmers can endanger peace and internal security, warns Ashwani Kumar||New Delhi, September 21In a strong warning to the Narendra Modi government following the passage of three agriculture legislations, former UPA minister Ashwani Kumar on Monday said “dissatisfaction of farmers in a sensitive border state of Punjab can endanger peace and internal security”.“The ramming through of the widely opposed farm Bills in both Houses of Parliament without debate and amidst pandemonium robs the enacted law of its democratic and moral legitimacy,” said the senior Punjab leader.“The haste and manner in which questionable legislation has been rushed through the legislative process exposes the dysfunctionality of Parliament and intolerance to dissent by the ruling dispensation,” he added.Kumar further said, “Insensitivity to the perspective of the agitating farmers on an issue relating to their survival and subsistence can lay the foundation of permanent alienation of the farming community and loss of faith in democratic protest as an instrument of grievance redressal.”“In a sensitive border state of Punjab, dissatisfaction of farmers can endanger peace and internal security."In choosing to ignore such grave implications, and  bludgeoning  protests against the new law, the Central Government has not been true to the first principles of responsive and accountable governance. A government at war with its farmers has forfeited its mandate," he added.
21-09-2020||New Delhi||SAD leaders meet President, urge to withhold assent to farm Bills||A delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), an NDA ally, on Monday evening met President Ram Nath Kovind and urged him to withhold assent to the contentious farm Bills passed by both Houses of Parliament.Coming out of the meeting, SAD leader Sukhbir Badal, told the media: “We have requested the President against signing the anti-farmer Bills passed in Parliament by force. We requested him to send back those Bills to Parliament.”Apart from Badal who led the delegation, Akali MP Naresh Gujral and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra were also present at the meeting. The delegation also submitted a memorandum to Kovind.The SAD has been a longstanding ally of the ruling BJP. SAD’s Lok Sabha MP and Sukhbir’s wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from the Union Cabinet on September 17, citing her party’s opposition to the three Bills.The two Bills Badal was referring to were The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, which were passed by the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. The Lok Sabha passed these Bills last week.  — IANS
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Cong holds protests across state against farm Bills||The Punjab Congress on Monday held protests across the state against the three crucial Central farm bills, alleging the proposed legislations would "ruin" the farming community.Congress workers raised slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre for bringing the “anti-farmer” Bills and also burnt effigies of the Central government.ਜ਼ਿਲ੍ਹਾ ਮੋਗਾ ਵਿੱਚ ਔਰਤਾਂ ਮੋਦੀ ਸਰਕਾਰ ਵੱਲੋਂ ਪਾਸ ਕੀਤੇ ਗਏ ਕਿਸਾਨ ਵਿਰੋਧੀ ਕਾਨੂੰਨਾਂ ਦਾ ਵਿਰੋਧ ਕਰ ਰਹੀਆਂ ਹਨ।Ladies in district Moga are protesting against the anti farmer laws passed by the Modi Government. #IRejectAntiFarmerAct#KisanVirodhiNarendraModi pic.twitter.com/5rNeynC70APunjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar led the agitation at Bassi Pathana in Fatehgarh Sahib and slammed the NDA government.“These Bills will ruin farmers,” he said, promising that his party would take every step possible to protect the interests of the farming community.Jakhar also hit out at Punjab's opposition party Shiromani Akali Dal, saying it took a “U-turn” over the issue of the farm Bills after sensing there was anger among farmers against the proposed legislations.“Earlier, they were trying to mislead farmers by saying that these Bills were in their interest,” he said.Jakhar also said he was happy that all farmer outfits have joined hands to oppose these Bills.Farmers' outfits have given a call for 'Punjab Bandh' on September 25 in protest against these Bills.In Hoshiarpur, state minister Sunder Sham Arora dubbed SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal's resignation from the Union cabinet as a “political stunt” and asked why she did not quit the Modi-led government when the corresponding ordinances were brought in.“We are with farmers,” he said.On Sunday, Rajya Sabha passed the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.The bills were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday. A third bill is yet to be passed in Rajya Sabha.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday had said that his government would take the BJP and its allies, including the Akalis, to court over the new “unconstitutional, undemocratic and anti-farmer” laws of the Central government.SAD chief Sukhbir Badal had urged the President not to sign the farm Bills and also requested him that they be returned to Parliament for reconsideration.Farmers in some states including Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against these three Bills.They have expressed apprehension that the three Bills would pave the way for dismantling the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. —PTI
21-09-2020||---||SAD protests abduction of Gurdwara Panja Sahib’s head Granthi’s daughter||Chandigarh, September 21In order to protest the prevalent miscreant forced religious conversion of young Sikh girls to Islam in Pakistan, Delhi’s Shiromani Akali Dal unit on Monday protested against the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi.The recent such case of Gurdwara Panja Sahib’s head Granthi’s daughter’s abduction has irked the Sikhs, who have demanded an immediate probe into the matter.The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) has intervened in the alleged abduction and forcible conversion of the religion of a young Sikh girl.Women, including minor girls from religious minority communities continue to face religious violence and persecution in Pakistan. USCIRF Annual Report 2020 notes that in Hindu, Christian, and Sikh communities, young women, often underage, continue to be kidnapped for forced conversion to Islam, and that 1,000 women are forcibly converted to Islam each year.The report further says that local police are often accused of complicity in these cases by failing to investigate them properly.In the recent past, minor girls belonging to families of Sikh Granthis have been reportedly abducted and forcibly converted to Islam. This includes the abduction and forced conversion of Jagjit Kaur, daughter of a granthi in Nankana Sahib last year, and more recently, the abduction of Mulbaul Kaur, daughter of a granthi of Gurdwara Sri Panja Sahib.  Taking cognisance of the incident, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal has sought the intervention of Union External Affairs Ministry to bring justice to the girl and her family.Nonetheless, the PSGPC officials along with the girl’s family members met Federal Minister for Religious Affairs Noorul Haq Qadri in the presence of Punjab’s Minister for Minority Affairs Ijaz Alam Augustine and chairman of the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) Dr Aamir Ahmad and apprised them of the disappearance of the girl.Meanwhile, a case was registered against an “unknown abductor” immediately after the girl’s father had filed a complaint.It was the girl’s father Pritam Singh, a granthi in Gurdwara Panja Sahib, who revealed the incident on social media that her daughter was missing for the past ten days. In his message, he had feared the forcible conversion of her religion.At the moment, it would be premature to confirm that the girl has converted to another religion. This can only be confirmed once she comes out to record her statement.
21-09-2020||September 21||'If Sikhs can wear turban, why can't Muslims wear hijab'; Singapore debates ban on Islamic veil at workplace||Every day before she starts her shift at a government hospital in Singapore, Farah removes her hijab -- the Islamic veil she has worn since a teenager.Although minority Muslim women can freely wear the hijab in most settings in Singapore, some professions bar the headscarf – and a recent case has triggered fresh debate on diversity and discrimination in the workplace.Now Farah has joined a growing number of Muslims – who account for about 15 per cent of Singapore's four million resident population – calling for the ban to end, with an online petition gathering more than 50,000 signatures."They told me I can't work here if I wear the tudung," said Farah, using the local Malay term for hijab, as she recounts her job interview two years ago for a physiotherapist position."I felt a sense of helplessness, it's unfair. Why has the tudung become a barrier for us to look for jobs?" asked the 27-year-old, who used a pseudonym for fear of reprisals at work.She accepted the job eventually but has to remove her headscarf whenever she is at work.Farah's case is not an oddity.There was outcry last month when a woman was asked to remove her hijab to work as a promoter at a local department store.Halimah Yacob, the country's first female president who herself wears the hijab, said there is "no place" for discrimination when asked her view of the case.The store reversed its policy, but many took to social media pointing out restrictions remain on wearing the hijab for some civil servants, including policewomen and nurses.LIVELIHOODThe debate surrounding the hijab is not new in Singapore, a modern city-state which takes pride in its multicultural and multiracial background. The country is predominantly ethnic Chinese, many of whom follow Buddhism or Christianity.In 2013, then Muslim affairs minister Yaacob Ibrahim said wearing a hijab at the workplace would be "very problematic" for some professions that require a uniform.The following year, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said the hijab issue was about "what sort of society do we want to build in Singapore", according to local media reports.Singapore's police force and the health ministry did not respond to repeated requests seeking comment.Referring to the department store case, Singapore's president said discrimination in the workplace was "disturbing" as it deprives a person from earning a living."People should be assessed solely on their merits and their ability to do a job and nothing else," Halimah wrote on her Facebook, which attracted more than 500 comments."During this COVID-19 period when concerns over jobs and livelihoods are greater, incidents of discrimination exacerbate anxieties and people feel threatened," she added.DIVIDEDThe hijab has been a divisive issue for Muslims worldwide.Many Muslim women cover their heads in public as a sign of modesty, although others see it as a sign of female oppression and in the Middle East women face jail for eschewing it.In Indonesia's conservative Aceh province, women without a headscarf have been censured. In Malaysia, Islamic authorities have probed a book about Muslim women who refuse to wear the hijab.But women's rights campaigners in Singapore say they want Muslim women to have freedom of choice.Such restrictions have hindered women's job prospects, especially when the coronavirus pandemic has pushed Singapore into recession and companies are laying off, they say."Women should be able to practise their religion freely without having to choose between having a job or to practise their religion," said Filzah Sumartono, a writer who helps run Beyond the Hijab, a website focused on Singapore Muslim women."This issue in Singapore is only being faced by Muslim women, it's a strong discriminatory policy against Muslim women," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.IDENTITYOthers urge consistency, noting that the turban - headgear worn by Sikh men - is allowed at work in Singapore."Why the double standard," asked Nur, a Muslim law student who signed the petition posted online in June. She requested not to use her full name to protect her privacy.The 22-year-old said her mother and sister, who work as a nurse and in a private security company respectively, are both banned from wearing a headscarf at work.She called on officials to explain the restrictions, saying countries such as Britain or Australia have changed tack, with disposable hijabs for nurses to address any hygiene concerns."I accept that racial harmony is very fragile, but it's not just acknowledging these differences exist and live with them.It's much more than that," said Nur, a co-founder of Lepak Conversations, an online group."It's about knowing these differences exist, accepting them and embracing these differences."Filzah of the Beyond the Hijab group said the restrictions can make it more difficult for women to enter the workforce."Some women don't feel comfortable removing a part of their identity just to be able to earn money," she said."Having to put this very difficult choice on Muslim women is unfair and unjust." Reuters
21-09-2020||New Delhi||Chill in SAD-BJP relationship escalates during discussion on farm bills in Rajya Sabha||The chill in SAD's relationship with its oldest ally BJP has advanced following the resignation of Union Food Processing Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal from the Council of Ministers against the two farm reform bills which were passed by Rajya Sabha on Sunday.During discussions on the bill in the Upper House, SAD MP Naresh Gujral objected him being allotted only two minutes to put forward his party's point of view."I have been given short time because my party has opposed the bills," Gujral said when the Chair reminded him in the middle of his speech that his party had been allotted two minutes to put its point of view.Opposing the bills, Gujral said the people of Punjab have historically fought against injustice, including against the Congress."The people will always fight against injustice. Do not consider people of the state weak," Gujral said, sounding a note of caution to the Union government.He said Punjab has contributed to the country in diverse ways, including its contribution to the food bowl."Farmers of Punjab feel that their interest has been sold to corporate houses," Gujral said.He said there is a trust deficit among the farmers concerning the government. The bills must be sent to the House's Select Committee for scrutiny, he said.
21-09-2020||Amritsar||Gurjeet Singh Aujla meets Rajnath Singh, seeks NOCs for stalled projects||Taking up matters pertaining to stalled development projects of the city related to the Defence Ministry, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla today met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.Aujla brought to his notice delay in the issuance of no-objection certificates (NOCs) for the construction of a railway overbridge (ROB) at the Vallah railway crossing; development of government senior secondary school, Vallah; repair of Vallah sabzi mandi roads; re-adjustment of barbed fence at the border to facilitate farmers and other defence establishment related issues.The Defence Ministry, vide a notification issued on November 11, 2004, had banned any construction within 1,000 yards of the ammunition dump. Traders uprooted from the old sabji mandi, situated outside the Hall Gate, were allotted space in the new market in 2004 but the majority of them were still operating from the makeshift location. Due to this, the area has been denied basic amenities such as sewerage, roads, etc. A railway crossing passing from the Vallah area also needs a ROB to resolve the problem of traffic jams. A minor section of the ROB comes into the domain of the restricted zone. The MP said the minister assured quick disposal of the issues. — TNS
21-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Punjabi TV industry’s doyen still making her presence felt||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20Husband: Ni ajj ki banaya?Wife: ZeherH: O Tun khaa laeen, meri roti ajj bahar haiW: Phitte muh tera, eho jehe daRemember these dialogues from Ashiqui Mittran Di, a skit featuring Harbhajan Jabbal and Jatinder Kaur?Actor, activist and feminist Jatinder Kaur made the character immortal. While remembering those days, she said: “Odon lokan nu hor kisam diyan jananiyan vekhan di umeed si. Bholiyan, chup kitiyan, mardan de pairan heth rehan valiyan. Main role kardi si tikkhi, zyada bolan vali te laraaki aurat da. Pind diyan aurtan mennu kehndiyan san tusi sadde dil di gal kar rahe ho, jo asi darde keh nahi sakde” (Back then, people had hopes of seeing other kind of women. Those who were docile, submissive, silent and domineered by their men. I played a woman who was outspoken and feisty. Women in villages would tell me I am saying things of their heart, things that we can’t say out of fear).”In the ’80s and ’90s, TV screens in Punjab’s homes lit up with her commanding presence on DD Jalandhar (then called Jalandhar Doordarshan) as an outspoken wife. Kaur played mother, wife and grand-mother and one-half of the hit DD couple which regaled the Punjabi audience all through the DD’s golden period. Her popular act ushered in an era of a feminism of sorts on the Punjabi television, introducing a woman who told a man his place and prodded women to speak up, thus empowering them.Brought up in a conservative household amid a deeply patriarchal society, Jatinder Kaur went on to win accolades as an actor with her on-screen exuberance and assertive presence. A theatre person at heart, she was mentored onto stage by the legendary socialist playwright Gursharan Singh, lovingly called Bhai Manna Singh.“Apne haq khovo, baaghi hoke inquilaab leaao,” (fight for your rights, be a rebel and bring in the revolution), these words whispered to her by Gursharan Singh altered the path of her life. Taking to acting as a response to the subversion of women, she spent her early years torn by the innuendos and insinuations directed at her by regressive peers. For them, acting was “Kanjaran wale kamm” (a low status profession).Jatinder Kaur says: “Back then, if boys arrived late from the school, no one would say a thing. But if girls got late by even 15 minutes, they would be bombarded with questions. Men were privileged. I often questioned what wrongs had the girls done. Why this discrimination being meted out to us. Mere andar ik saad rehnda hunda si, eh galla main kihnu dassan, kitthe karan (A fire was burning inside me, I didn’t know who do I say these things to and where). Then I met Gursharan bhaji, after which things started changing. I felt I had reached my destination. Before meeting him, I bothered a lot about people. He taught me to live life on my terms, snatch my rights and not accept what people had decided for me.”Kaur says: “I worked with him for 15 years. He actually cared what women felt. On my first village play with him, the audience comprised only men. Bhaji asked them: ‘Where are the women, I have come for them. My real audience is missing.’ I realised someone is there fighting for us, for our honour and our place in the social set up which tries to exclude us. That gave me strength and courage.”Hailing from Amritsar, Kaur has spent 20 years of her life working with Doordarshan Jalandhar. She was among the iconic DD actors who won legendary status, earning a huge popularity among the state populace. She was a part of Doordarshan’s first ever serial, ‘Supne te Parchanve’. Jatinder Kaur and Harbhajan Jabbal were also the iconic couple and indispensable DD entertainers who churned out several hits. Starting with ‘Mennu Sunai Nahi Dinda’, they moved onto series such as ‘Surmai Shaam’, ‘Kach Diyan Mundran’, ‘Rang Birangi’, among others. People wrapped up their work early to get free to watch them on TV in the night. Such was their charisma that to this date, many mistake them for an actual couple. “I actually went to a live interview, carrying a portrait of my real husband to tell them who my husband is. Even now, sometimes people mistake Jabbal as my husband. At a recent film shoot, a board outside my vanity read ‘Madam Jatinder Jabbal’. I asked them who was that lady because my name is Jatinder Kaur,” she shares laughing.Her marriage to Surinder Singh also involved the role of theatre. “I played a courtesan in Gursharan bhaji’s play called ‘Maas Lai Lao Maas’. It was a hard-hitting play, aimed at niche audience of writers, intellectuals, academics, etc, and not everyone would understand it. I asked this guy I liked to watch it. I knew a conservative and narrow-minded man wouldn’t be able to sit through it. So if he got up, I’d know his character. But not only did he sit through it, he appreciated it. I went on to marry that man,” she shares.Though her in-laws never accepted her (they didn’t like her profession) and fiercely opposed the union, her husband has remained a constant support all through her career, backing her art.Tending to her family amid pandemic
21-09-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Turning the tide a tough task: 200  lakh tonnes of paddy stubble produced in Punjab annually||HARVESTING has commenced for the paddy crop and so has the burning of its stubble. The government machinery is counselling farmers and informing them about the availability of straw management machinery to curb farm fires. However, farmers and farm unions are saying that they do not have any financially viable option to dispose of the stubble, so the farm fires will continue this year. A senior officer, requesting anonymity, admits: “Nothing can stop stubble burning until all parties, including the department of agriculture, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and the farmers work out an acceptable-to-all solution. Any solution, ultimately, will need the nod of the Centre. And this does not look like happening.”  A farmer from Lehra Bega village in Bathinda district, Gurtej Singh, says, “Fires have already started and you will see them all over Punjab in the coming days. We are made to spend extra on clearing stubble from our fields after the harvest, without any financial support, which makes farming unviable. We need machines and labour.”Official figures say the government provided about 51,000 machines on subsidy under the Crop Residue Management Scheme for the management of paddy residue during 2018-19 and 2019-20. Dr Manjit Singh, head of department of farm machinery at Punjab Agricultural University (Ludhiana), says the state government has received about 77,000 applications this year for just 23,500 machines, showing greater interest among farmers for the stubble disposal machines.Experts say the state has about 200 lakh tonnes of paddy stubble to manage each year. Going by the sheer volume of the work, farmers need to be incentivised by the government. Member secretary, PPCB, Karunesh Garg, says, “It is too early to give any figures for the farm fires this year. Data formulation will start around September 23.”Data from NASA shows that in November 2016, the number of crop residue fires was 51,150 in Punjab, but it came down to 28,078 next year during the same period. It rose to 39,231 in 2018 and fell to 26,260 in 2019.  There were reports of rampant burning of wheat stubble in April-May this year. Delhi has been complaining for long about the bad quality of its air during particular months. Punjab is blamed as the biggest offender. Punjab’s fires are bigger in number compared to adjoining states primarily because the area under paddy cultivation is more. In 2018-19, the area was 31 lakh hectares, while in Haryana it was 14.45 lakh hectares. This year, Punjab has about 27 lakh hectares under paddy.Bharti Kisan Union (Ugrahan) leader Ram Singh Bhainibaga says, “Unless there are financially viable alternatives for the already distressed farmers, paddy stubble will be burnt. We have time and again demanded a bonus of Rs 200 per quintal for the crop residue, which works to be about Rs 6,500 per acre. Otherwise, at the current rate of payment, a farmer saves little.” Farmers who are found  burning paddy are liable to be booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. An offender can be sentenced to a term of one month along with a fine. A senior officer says in 2019, 3,141 challans were issued for recovering around Rs 40 lakh on account of burning paddy. As many as 322 farmers were booked under FIRs. And a red pen entry was made against the names of 510 farmers, which means that they will not be able to avail special government benefits in future. The state has earmarked special sites in the districts for the collection of crop residue on common land/cattle pounds and gaushalas where farmers can store paddy straw. This stored basmati residue can be transported to places where it can be used as cattle fodder. The state already has 11 biomass power projects generating 97.50 MW. These are consuming about 8.8 lakh metric tonnes of paddy residue per annum. At least two more projects are planned. Eight bio-CNG and one bio-ethanol projects, using paddy straw, are likely to be commissioned between March 2021 and December 2022.Send your feedback to infocus@tribunemail.com
21-09-2020||---||Punjab leaders stopped from entering Haryana||Ambala, September 20The day the Parliament passed three contentious farm Bills amid protests by Opposition MPs, hundreds of Punjab Youth Congress activists who were on their way to Delhi to back protesting farmers were stopped in their tracks by the police at the inter-state border near here on Sunday.The police had to use water cannons to disperse the activists after the latter tried to march forward by breaking the barricades. In protest, the Congress members hurled stones at the police and set a tractor on fire.The activists led by Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, Youth Congress president Srinivas BV and Punjab Youth Congress leader Barinder Singh started off in tractors from Punjab. When they reached Sadopur border here, the police stopped them.Raising slogans against the BJP-led Central government, Srinivas said: “The BJP government has been taking anti-farmer decisions. It is under the false impression that it can suppress the voice of farmers.”Another leader said, “Punjab is part of India. Do we need a passport to enter Haryana? They (police and administration) cannot stop us to go to Delhi.”After protesting for nearly one-and-a-half hour, the Youth Congress leaders were taken away by the Punjab police. Subsequently, the road was opened for traffic.Ambala Range Inspector General (IG) Y Puran Kumar said, “Farmers’ organsiations had given a call for a ‘chakka jam’ in Haryana. In their solidarity, Youth Congress members wanted to join them. Since the Haryana Police apprehended a clash, Congress leaders were stopped at the inter-state border itself. The Punjab Police persuaded the protesters to not march forward.”
21-09-2020||Ravinder Sood||Pathankot-Mandi road project altered for early completion||Palampur, September 20The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has made various changes in its original detailed project report (DPR) of the 219-km strategic Pathankot-Mandi road widening project, paving the way for its early execution.The project that links Pathankot with Leh and Ladakh has been hanging fire for the past two years. Considering the defence requirements, the Centre wants to complete it at the earliest. The new Project Director has already joined duty at Palampur.Major towns bypassedNHAI has laid stress on minimum cutting of hills, avoiding inconvenience to people residing along the highwayThe distance between Pathankot and Mandi will reduce from 219 km to 171 kmNurpur, Mataur, Nagrota Bagwan, Palampur, Maranda, Baijnath, Paprola and Jogindernagar have been bypassed in the new projectA spokesman for the NHAI told The Tribune here that major changes had been made in the phase IV and phase V of the project, which is being executed in five phases between Pathankot and Mandi.“As per the original DPR, there was a proposal to construct a four-lane highway up to Mandi. Now, the NHAI has decided to construct four lanes only in its first three phases between Pathankot, Palampur, Baijnath and Chauntra while in the remaining two phases between Chauntra and Mandi, there will be only two lanes to avoid environmental degradation, and cutting of hills, as the area has a difficult topography comprising high mountains and is prone to landslides,” he added.Official sources said that the DPR prepared by Joint Ventures and Infrastructure Casta Limited, a private company, in 2016 would remain the same in the first 154-km section and would only be amended in the last 65 km falling in Mandi district.The NHAI has laid special stress on minimum cutting of hills, avoiding inconvenience to people residing along the highway and also avoiding dislocation of business establishments. The distance between Pathankot and Mandi would reduce from 219 km to 171 km when the four-lane road is completed. All major towns of Kangra district such as Nurpur, Mattor, Nagrota Bagwan, Palampur, Maranda, Baijnath, Paprola and Jogindernagar have been bypassed in the new project.The Pathankot-Mandi highway is one of the strategically important road in the country, as it links Pathankot with Leh via Manali.
21-09-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Akalis not in a hurry to break alliance with BJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) does not seem to be in any hurry to break the alliance with the BJP after the two parties fell out over the farm Bills. Though some members of the SAD core committee have made statements for immediate breaking of ties with the BJP, the party leadership wants to consult grassroots workers, before the core panel decides.RSS bodies raise farmers’ concerns“What is the hurry to break the alliance?” said SAD spokesperson Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema when asked when the core committee would meet next. Party president Sukhbir Badal and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had said the core committee would meet soon to decide on the issue. However, Cheema said a decision would be taken only after consultations.“The National Democratic Alliance is a body of several parties, not just the BJP, even though it is the largest. Breaking away from the alliance will not mean breaking away from the BJP only,” Cheema said.Earlier, there was a likelihood that the party might announce the decision to leave the BJP tomorrow after Sukhbir and Harsimrat pay obeisance at the Golden Temple along with core committee members, but the visit has been postponed now.A senior leader said unless there was some urgent provocation from the BJP or the ongoing farmers’ protest takes the turn for the worse, the Akalis would stick to the alliance for now. The leader said party patriarch Parkash Singh Badal had been defining the alliance as a symbol of the Hindu-Sikh unity due to which the party would not take any decision in haste.He said the Akalis could not forget several pro-Punjab and pro-Sikh decisions taken by the Narendra Modi Government during its two tenures. “All that is taken into account when you talk of breaking an alliance. However, the situation is fluid and can change any moment,” he said.Harcharan Bains, party national adviser, said though one thing was clear that no alliance could exist by compromising on principles, they would wait and see when the decision would be taken. “We will go to our workers and people, before the core committee meets to decide.”
21-09-2020||---||Boycott BJP leaders, manch urges villagers||Mansa, September 20As large numbers of farmers and commission agents have taken to roads to protest the three Bills passed in the Lok Sabha, Sanvidhan Bachao Manch has backed the farmers and appealed to people to boycott BJP leaders and workers and not allow them to enter the villages or towns of the state.Constituted to protest the Centre’s National Register of Citizens (NRC), the manch had staged indefinite protests across Mansa at that time. It had also constituted various democratic, farmer and constitutional orgainsations.Gurlabh Singh Mahal, a representative of the manch, said: “First, people should make BJP leaders understand that their decisions are anti-people. They should boycott the party and not allow its programme in any village or town of the state. If they do not understand, then their gherao should be done.”The SAD should end ties with BJP permanently, otherwise, people would ban their entry as well, he said.
21-09-2020||Ludhiana||Pro-corporate agenda  will be defeated: Unions||Agitated farmers burnt the copies of the Bills here and announced to hold “rail roko” on September 24, 25 and 26.Presiding over a meeting of various farmer bodies, Dr Darshan Pal, state president, Krantikari Kisan Union (KKU), claimed that all organisations of farmers were committedto fighting jointly against the ‘repressive and pro-corporate’ agenda of the Modi government.Harmeet Singh Kadian and Harinder Singh Lakhowal, president and general secretary, of the Kadian and Lakhowal factions of the BKU,respectively, alleged that the NDA government was bringing legislative measures to annihilate the traditional farming in the predominantly agrarian states. A joint Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee was set up to coordinate the programme chalked out forthe decisive battle against the Central Government.Meanwhile, the All-India Kisan Federation and Marxist Communist Party of India (United) met at Doraha to show solidarity with the farming community. The meeting flayed the way the Central Government passed the Bills in Parliament, ignoring the countrywide protests by the farmers. It was decided to observe a weeklong protest from October 1 to 7 throughout the country. In Punjab, the protest will be held on October 5. — TNS
21-09-2020||Bathinda||Why is Sunny Deol silent over farmers' issue, asks singer Ranjit Bawa||Punjabi singer Ranjit Bawa has questioned actor and BJP MP from Gurdaspur Sunny Deol over his silence on the farmers’ issue. “Sir, you are MP from Gurdaspur, @iamsunnydeol, you should do something for farmers, kam se kam kisan de haqq vich awaz maar do, tuhanu punjabia ne bahut hope naal MP banaya, me also from Gurdaspur, Majhe valeya jis nu vi jittaya mudke vadya e nahi, palo votan (sic),” Ranjit Bawa tweeted.Sir u r MP from Gurdaspur , @iamsunnydeol , so u should do something for farmers , kam se kam Kisana de haqq vich awaz maar do , tuhanu punjabia bhut hope nal MP banaya 🤨 m also frm Gurdaspur , Majhe valya ne jis ju v jiataya mudke vadya e nahi 😡 Palo votan  The singer has been speaking out for the farmers for the past few days. Meanwhile, several Punjabi singers such as Gurdas Mann, Malkit Singh, Jasbir Jassi, Pammi Bai and Harjit Harman have come out in support of the farmers.While Malkit Singh urged the Centre to reconsider the farm Bills, Gurdas Mann posted: “Kisan hai ta Hindustan hai. Sarbat Da bhala hovey.” Singers Pammi Bai and Harjit Harman met the farmers at the protest sties.भारत सरकार ने इस बात को मान्यता दी है कि किसान बेहतर मूल्य पर अपने कृषि उत्पाद को अपनी पसंद के स्थान पर बेच सकता है जिससे संभावित खरीदारों की संख्या में बढ़ोतरी होगी।#JaiKisan#AatmaNirbharKrishi
21-09-2020||Patiala||Thousands of farmers march across Patiala city||Mounted on buses, sitting in open tempos and walking across the city, thousands of farmers today took out a procession march against the farm Bills.The farmers continued their dharna at the PUDA grounds here and raised slogans against the Central and state governments for their “anti-farmer” policies.The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) held a protest march, blocking traffic in the city. “We have been deceived by both state and Central Governments. They have left us with no option but to organise protests across the country,” said senior farmer leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan. “We will not accept the new anti-farmer laws that are part of a long-term plan to kill the farming community by ensuring that only MNCs reap the benefits”, he stated. — TNS
21-09-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh : Will move court against draconian laws||Chandigarh, September 20Vowing to fight till his last breath to protect the interests of the state’s farmers, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said his government will take the BJP and its allies, including the Akalis, to a court over the Centre’s new unconstitutional, undemocratic and anti-farmer laws.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief Minister‘Will spell doom’ They (BJP and its allies) clearly don’t care for what these laws will do to the farmers... the BJP’s so-called ‘watershed’ moment will be the death of agriculture and endanger the county’s food security.“We will move the courts and fight the draconian legislations as soon as they get the presidential nod,” he said, expressing shock at the way the BJP-led Central Government rushed the farm Bills in the Rajya Sabha today.He questioned the rationale behind putting the Bills to a voice-vote, despite strong reservations by the Opposition and inadequate numbers in the House. “Why did the House not go for division of votes on the critical issue that has even divided the ruling NDA,” he asked.Captain Amarinder said his government would not allow the Centre to trample the rights and interests of the farmers through these legislations, designed to destroy the farmers and Punjab. “We stand with the farmers and will do whatever it takes to protect their interests,” he said.“They (BJP and its allies) clearly don’t care for what these laws will do to the farmers,” he said, while slamming the BJP-led government for selling the interests of the farmers to big corporates.“The BJP’s so-called ‘watershed’ moment will be the death of agriculture and endanger the county’s food security,” warned the Chief Minister. “By pushing the Bills through without consultation with the key stakeholders, and even without taking the Punjab Government, a major contributor to the county’s agricultural growth, into confidence, the Central Government has shown that it has no concern whatsoever for the farmers or farm sector,” he said.Pointing out that the Bills nowhere made any mention of retaining the MSP, Captain Amarinder said this clearly exposed the ill-intent of the Central Government.If they could not adhere to the clearly defined provisions on the GST, how could one trust them to uphold their verbal assurances on the MSP, he said.Claiming farmers were nowhere near getting the MSP on their foodgrains in the open market, the CM said it was unfortunate the Centre was ending the state-led marketing system.
21-09-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Key crops selling below MSP a worry for farmers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20It’s not without a reason that farmers in Punjab are strongly opposed to the farm Bills passed by Parliament today. They are convinced that with the legislations, the government will withdraw itself from purchasing foodgrains and farm produce, as corporates will be allowed easier access to the mandis.As the kharif marketing season nears, Punjab provides a perfect example of what happens when the government does not purchase produce or adopts a lackadaisical approach. As farmers try to sell cotton and maize (government has announced the MSP for both), and their basmati crop (it is not covered by the MSP), they realise how the market forces are against the interests of the producers.The two crops, covered under the MSP, are now being sold at rates much below the support price, while basmati growers too stare at losses this year as export market shrinks. “With the enactment of Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, corporates will be able to buy the produce, at rates they want. Look at what is happening in basmati being brought to mandis in the Majha region. PUSA-1509 variety is selling at almost Rs 500-Rs 600 per quintal less than the last year’s rates,” said Jagmohan Singh, a member of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee that is leading the farmers’ protest.Though basmati is not covered under the MSP regime, farmers rue that other crops are facing a similar fate because these, unlike wheat and paddy, do not have the backing of bodies like Food Corporation of India.“The MSP for cotton is Rs 5,515-Rs 5,825 per quintal. But we are getting just Rs 4,600 per quintal. A farmer in my village got Rs 4,800 per quintal. This is because the Cotton Corporation of India has not intervened and started buying the produce,” said Balwinder Sharma, a cotton grower from Malakpur Khyala village of Mansa.The situation is no different for maize growers. The MSP has been announced at Rs 1,850 per quintal, but farmers are getting Rs 700-Rs 1,000 per quintal in the mandis of Doaba.
21-09-2020||---||Angry farmers burn copies of Bills, to fight on||Bathinda/Muktsar, Sept 20More than a dozen farm unions, under the aegis of Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, burnt copies of the farm Bills at several villages in Bathinda district on Sunday.Dubbing the recently introduced Bills as anti-farmer, the protesting farmers demanded their immediate revocation.Farm unions staged protests in several villages, including Balhar Mehma, Kothe Budh Singhwale, Jandawala, Ablu, Mohala and Allike, in Goniana block and raised slogans against the Central Government.Balkaran Singh Brar, state president, Kisan Sabha, said: “By passing the farm Bills, the Central Government has pushed farmers, arhtiyas, labourers, masons of farm implements and other sections dependent on agriculture to the margins. The SAD did not oppose the ordinances earlier, and when the farm Bills were passed, it just withdrew from the Union Cabinet, not the alliance.”“The Congress, too, has failed to protect the farming community’s interest in the state for which we will have to bear the brunt in future. The farmers are now left with no alternative but to launch a full-fledged agitation. Farm unions across the country have been joining hands in the struggle and opposing the Bills, which would give the reins of the agriculture sector to corporate houses.In Muktsar, the farmers protesting at Badal village said no politician would be allowed to join their agitation.Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), who is leading the protesters here, said: “We have got some reports that Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who recently resigned as Union Minister, wants to join our protest. However, neither she nor any other politician would be allowed here.”The BKU state secretary said the police had increased their vigil and patrolling in the village. “We will now block the railway tracks from September 24 to 26,” he added.
21-09-2020||---||28,000 arhtiyas pledge support to protesters||Mansa, September 20As large numbers of farmers and commission agents have taken to roads to protest the three Bills passed in the Lok Sabha, Sanvidhan Bachao Manch has backed the farmers and appealed to people to boycott BJP leaders and workers and not allow them to enter the villages or towns of the state.Constituted to protest the Centre’s National Register of Citizens (NRC), the manch had staged indefinite protests across Mansa at that time. It had also constituted various democratic, farmer and constitutional orgainsations.Gurlabh Singh Mahal, a representative of the manch, said: “First, people should make BJP leaders understand that their decisions are anti-people. They should boycott the party and not allow its programme in any village or town of the state. If they do not understand, then their gherao should be done.”The SAD should end ties with BJP permanently, otherwise, people would ban their entry as well, he said.
21-09-2020||Sangrur||14,000 kg stolen wheat recovered, three arrested||The police arrested three persons and seized 14,000 kg of stolen wheat from their truck last evening. Two days ago, the Sherpur police had registered a case against six persons, including two Markfed employees, after wheat went missing from a local godown.Dr Sandeep Garg, SSP, said two days ago the police had received a tip-off that 280 bags containing 14,000 kg of wheat had gone missing from a Markfed godown from Sherpur.“Last evening the police arrested truck driver Bahadur Singh and owner of truck Harpreet singh and a local, Parveen Kumar, near Sherpur and seized the missing wheat from their truck. During investigations, it came to light that Markfed employees used to sell official wheat stock to a private person at lower rate and later showed the missing wheat as stolen,” the SSP said. — TNS
21-09-2020||GS Paul||PSGPC takes up Sikh girl’s abduction with authorities||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 20The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) has intervened in the alleged abduction case of a young Sikh girl.The PSGPC officials, along with the girl’s family members met Noorul Haq Qadri, Federal Minister for Religious Affairs, in the presence of Ijaz Alam Augustine, Punjab’s Minister for Minority Affairs, and Aamir Ahmad, chairman of the Evacuee Trust Property Board, and apprised them of the disappearance of the girl. ‘Akhand path’ onIn the wake of 'jyoti jot' diwas of Guru Nanak Dev, the PSGPC has initiated ‘akhand path’ at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur Sahib, in Pakistan on Sunday. The local sangat has started pouring in for the event, falling on September 22Talking to The Tribune over phone, Satwant Singh, PSGPC president, said the girl had gone missing from her house near Gurdwara Punja Sahib in Hasan Abdal, a city in Attock district of Punjab province in Pakistan.“The federal and provincial ministers and officials have assured us that she will be reunited with her family,” he said.Meanwhile, a case has been registered against an “unknown abductor” after the girl’s father filed a complaint. It was the girl’s father, Pritam Singh, a granthi in Gurdwara Panja Sahib, who revealed on social media that his daughter was missing for the past 10 days. He had also expressed fear of forcible conversion of her religion.Taking cognisance of the case, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal had sought the intervention of the Union Ministry of External Affairs to bring justice to the girl and her family.
21-09-2020||Anirudh Gupta||Terror groups’ bid to revive insurgency||Ferozepur, September 20In an apparent bid to foment trouble and revive insurgency in the state, Pakistan-based agencies have intensified their efforts to push arms and ammunition across the border using various methods.Highest seizure this yearLast week, the BSF recovered three AK-47 assault rifles, six magazines, 91 rounds (7.62 mm), two M-16 rifles, four magazines and 57 rounds (5.56 mm), two pistols, four magazines and 20 rounds (7.63 mm) near the New Gazniwala border outpost in the Ferozepur sector. On August 22, the BSF had gunned down five intruders near the Dall border outpost here. The BSF had recovered nine packets of heroin, AK-47 rifle along with two magazines, 27 live rounds, four pistols (9 mm Beretta) with seven magazines and 109 live rounds and two mobile phones from them.Sources said there had been a rise in smuggling of sophisticated arms along the border this year. BSF officials said till date, 32 weapons along with 57 magazines and 650 rounds had been seized along the border. In contrast, 20 weapons were seized in 2014, 17 in 2015, 12 in 2016, 23 in 2017, 12 in 2018 and 12 in 2019.This year’s recovery is the highest since the times of insurgency.Pertinently, the list does not include the weapons recovered by the Punjab Police and other security agencies that has also seen a manifold rise this year.Last year, the Special Task Force and the BSF had seized five AK-47 rifles, 10 magazines, 200 rounds, one Austria-made Glock pistol, 22 magazines and 20 rounds from the Mamdot area. However, it could not be ascertained whether this consignment of arms was smuggled across the border by land or through a water channel or was dropped by a drone.As per information, the BSF and other security agencies had been earlier seizing small arms, including Pakistan and China-made pistols which were generally sent along with drug consignments. “The recovery of highly sophisticated weapons during the recent times indicates that our hostile neigbour is making all possible attempts to revive insurgency in the state,” said an officer, adding that the investigation had further revealed that Khalistani and Islamic terror groups were working in tandem for the purpose.
21-09-2020||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana loses its brave little hero||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 20At 9, Anmol Singh Grewal along with friend had chased and nabbed thieves who had stolen bicycle of a friend in 2016. For his act of bravery, Anmol was honoured by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal at the Republic Day function here in 2018.Plea for needy during lockdownThe little hero passed away after suffering from an illness recently. According to his parents, he had developed dengue-like symptoms, including fever and low platelet count, leading to damage to his liver and kidneys.A student of Class IX at Sacred Heart Convent School, Anmol, now 13, was a good scout and loved to play sports, especially football. In the school magazine, he was highlighted as “Our Real Hero” for his bravado.He was among the nine-boy school team that was conferred with a state-level honour for winning the ‘Rajya Puraskar’ at the Punjab Scouts Camp in 2019.Besides being a bright student, Anmol won a number of awards in various competitions and achieved professional training certificates in computer graphics, web page development and office applications.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, he had shared a video urging people to help the needy and highlighted the pain of migrant workers who had to sleep on empty stomach while covering long distances to reach their home states.“We don’t know what happened to my son, but we have lost him. The doctors had told us Anmol suffered from dengue,” said his father Sarabjit Singh Grewal, an advocate.“After suffering from fever for two days, his body temperature had turned normal and his platelets count was 2.22 lakh per microliter of blood. After two days, he suddenly started vomiting and we took him to a clinic, but to no avail. He was then admitted to a private hospital where his condition deteriorated and his platelets count fell to 17,000 per microliter of blood,” he said.“The doctor concerned advised us to take him to a bigger hospital as his condition was serious due to dengue. We took him to SPS Hospital, where doctors told us his liver had got damaged. They started dialysis as his kidneys were also not working. I offered my kidney and liver for transplant, but Anmol passed away on September 16,” he said.The Health Department did not confirm dengue death. Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said District Epidemiologist Dr Ramesh, who had data regarding dengue cases, was unwell.
21-09-2020||---||Network pushing arms into Punjab busted, 7 held||Jalandhar, September 20In a major breakthrough, the police have busted an inter-state network involved in pushing illegal arms and ammunition into Punjab with the arrest of seven members from various districts. As many as 12 .32 pistols and 15 live cartridges have also been seized.Weapons seizedThe accused have been identified as Suraj (21) of New Rajan Nagar, Jalandhar; Vijay Kumar (25) of Bhikha, Adampur; Jobanjeet Singh (22) of Arjan Maanga village, Amritsar; Sahil Saini (27) of Prem Nagar, Pathankot; Amritpal Singh (24) of Bhoma, Batala; Keshav Khera (23) of Hakimi Gate, Amritsar; and Harmandeep Singh (24) of Kheri Veer Singh, Fatehgarh Sahib.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the police started a probe after receiving information on September 9 regarding a person sustaining a bullet injury and undergoing treatment at a local hospital. The suspect was identified as Abhinav Misra of Pilibhit, UP.“During the investigation, it came to the fore that Suraj had opened fire on Misra from an illegal weapon due to personal enmity. Following leads, the police nabbed Suraj, who told interrogators he along with Misra had been illegally pushing arms and ammunition into Punjab from Indore (MP).After subsequent investigation, the police busted the network and seized 12 pistols and live cartridges besides arresting their accomplices from Batala, Amritsar, Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib, Bhullar added.A case under Sections 307 and 188 of the IPC; 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act; 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act; and 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered.Vijay Kumar is already facing eight criminal cases, while Suraj, Jobanpreet and Keshav Arora were facing two cases each.Bhullar said he would recommend DGP’s coveted Disc Award for the team of CIA-1 headed by Harwinder Singh.
21-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||Fake Covid reports: SIT probe points to lab-hospital nexus||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 20The special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the Punjab Government to probe the fake Covid-19 report racket has submitted its progress report to the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The investigations carried out by the SIT have hinted at collusion between doctors of a private laboratory and a private hospital here. The racket was busted by the Vigilance Bureau in June after victims filed a complaint.Many put in isolation wards, infectedPolice Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, who is heading the SIT, said the progress report along with the medical board’s report had been submitted to the court. He, however, refused to divulge details.The court had sought a report from the medical board along with the SIT report in a sealed cover after the accused doctors and hospital owner approached it seeking quashing of the case and grant of bail. The court ordered no coercive action against them till the reports were submitted and also stayed their arrest.The government had announced an SIT probe into the case on July 12. The Vigilance had on June 25 booked five doctors of Tuli Diagnostic Centre and the owner of EMC Hospital on charges of attempt to murder, forgery and corrupt practices.The victims had alleged the laboratory had prepared fake Covid-19 reports to fleece them and put their kin in the isolation ward, as a result of which many contracted the infection.While the four-member medical board constituted in the case opined that “manipulation in the reports of the victims had been done”, the SIT pointed towards an “unholy nexus” between the private laboratory and the hospital, which needed to be probed thoroughly.According to investigations by the SIT so far, hospital owner Pawan Arora and lab owner Robin Tuli made 177 calls in one-and-a-half months from May to June. In contrast, they made just nine phone calls before this period. The SIT also found money transactions to the tune of over Rs 8 lakh from the hospital account to that of the lab during the period.
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab slight decline in deaths last week||After a continuous spike since July, there was a slight decline in deaths due to Covid-19 last week. Between September 7 and 13, almost 500 deaths were reported. However, the weekly toll came down to around 450 between September 14 and 20.The state reported 2,160 fresh cases and 56 deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the Covid tally has reached 97,689, while the total toll has reached 2,813. Besides, 72,598 patients have recovered. At present, there are 22,278 active cases in the state.In the district-wise break-up of the fresh cases, Ferozepur topped the chart with 256 cases, followed by SAS Nagar (225), Ludhiana (212), Jalandhar (197), Patiala (183), Pathankot (174) and Amritsar (126).The state reported 56 casualties in the last 24 hours. Among districts, Jalandhar reported eight deaths, followed by Amritsar and Fatehgarh Sahib (6 each); Ludhiana (5); Hoshiarpur, Patiala and Ropar (4 each); Mansa and Tarn Taran (3 each); Faridkot, Ferozepur, Kapurthala and Pathankot (2 each); Barnala, Bathinda, Gurdaspur, SBS Nagar and Sangrur (1 each). — TNS
21-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Amid losses, Kapurthala's science city all set to unveil section dedicated to Covid||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20Closed since March 18, the Pushpa Gujral Science City at Kapurthala is all set to showcase an exhibit on Covid once it reopens.With an average footfall of 3 to 3.5 lakh visitors annually, the science city has incurred losses to the tune of Rs 2 crore during the pandemic. However, to make up for the losses and to revive the passion for sciences among young visitors, the science city is all set to introduce a special section on Covid.The 250 sq m exhibit, coming up at a cost of Rs 70 lakh, shall feature the history of Covid-19 and all pandemics. It shall also feature a special section on Covid symptoms, its transmission and prevention, history of all major pandemics on earth, the lifecycle of the virus, causes of its emergence, interactive sessions on myths and facts and information on the vaccine trials.The science city, spread across 72 acres, is among the three science cities set up across the country. It is still lying closed. The science city authorities have written to the state and the Centre on the issue.Neeliam Jairath, Director General, science city, said: “We have had operational losses of Rs 2 crore during the pandemic. We have written to the Union Secretary for Science and Technology as well as the state government to be allowed to function whenever possible as per Covid norms. We have a marketing team, which will be approaching people so that more visitors can come in once it opens. We have intimated them that we shall operate as per Covid norms and shall conduct organised tours. The proposal for the Covid gallery is expected to liven things up once the science city opens.”Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, science city, said: “Our motive is to spread information about Covid so that students become advocates for disease prevention. The section shall detail a history of all communicable diseases.”
21-09-2020||---||Pupils applying under govt quota to pay same fee till further orders: HC||Faridkot, September 20Anticipating a loss of over Rs 50 crore on the account of tuition fee, Adesh Medical University has challenged a notification released from the Medical Education and Research Department. According to the notification, 50 per cent of the total 150 MBBS seats in the university are to be reserved under the government quota from this academic session onwards.LOSS OF OVER Rs50 CRThe fee fixed for the government quota seats is just one third of the fee charge for management quota seats. Gurminder Singh, adesh medical varisty’s advocate So far, 127 of the total seats were being filled under the management quota and 23 seats under the NRI quota, with no seats reserved under the government quota. While the students under the former category are being charged Rs 68.74 lakh for full course fee, pupils under the latter category are paying $1.10 lakh.As per the notification of the state government on September 2, the Adesh College will charge full course fee of Rs 18.55 lakh from students under the government quota, and Rs 47.70 lakh from management quota students. The number of NRI quota seats has been decreased from 23 to 12, with no change in the fee structure for such students.On the basis of NEET-2020 result, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, will commence admission process for all MBBS and BDS seats in the state from next month.The university, in a writ petition to the High Court, claimed that such appropriation of seats by the state government for unaided private educational institutions was “impermissible”.Gurminder Singh and Jatinder Singh, advocates for the university, pleaded that the fee fixed for the government quota seats was just one third of the fee charge for the management quota seats. Since the appropriation of seats was “impermissible”, the fee structure for the government seats was also “illegal”, they contended.While the decision on the petition is pending, the High court has directed that the university will be permitted to charge the management quota fee from students taking admission under the government quota seats subject to the stipulation that the differential amount quo the government quota seats will be kept, within two weeks of the completion of the admission process, in a fixed deposit by the university in its name. Also, a copy of the fixed deposit receipt will be furnished to the Medical Education Department.The fixed deposit will not be encashed till further orders from the High Court. The court has further directed the university that while granting admission to the students, it will inform the students that the reduction in the amount of fee prescribed for the previous academic year is the subject matter of challenge by the university in the High Court and that the differential fees, if any, payable by the students would be subject to the outcome of the petition in the High Court.The High Court has listed the case for hearing on December 14.
21-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||Programme held on vitality of vitamins||Abohar, September 20  To spread awareness about the importance of vitamins and nutrients, Poshan Maah or Nutrition Month programme was jointly organised by Krishi Vigyan Kendra in the Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering Technology (CIPHET) and Indian Farmers Fertilizers Co-operative Limited (IFFCO). CIPHET incharge Ramesh Kumar apprised participants about the importance of fruits and vegetable in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.  He advised people to have amla and orange, as they were rich in Vitamin C. “Due to the pesticide effect on fruits and vegetables, they should be washed with salt water before use,” he said. Dr Pankaj Kanaujia, a vegetable expert, explained the importance of vegetables and methods of growing them. Despite advances in meeting nutritional requirements since 1947, especially where micronutrients, such as, iodine and vitamins were concerned, 50 to 60 per cent of the population is anemic, he opined. IFFCO field officer distributed seed kits of vegetables among anganwadi workers, and told them to develop kitchen gardens.
21-09-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Sunny Deol’s heritage tag demand for Kalanaur sites infructuous: Govt||Tribune News ServiceKalanaur (Gurdaspur), Sept 20While Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol has sought ‘heritage status’ for certain landmarks in the historic township of Kalanaur, the Punjab Government equated his efforts as akin to “old wine in new bottle”.The town falls in the assembly seat of Dera Baba Nanak, represented by Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who claimed that the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) had already sanctioned Rs 7 crore for conserving three landmarks in the town, thereby rendering the MP’s plea as “infructuous” in nature.‘CLASSIC CASE OF OLD WINE IN NEW BOTTLE’The MP was informed the ASI conserves and preserves only important sites and not townships in their entirety. How can he take credit for projects which have been undertaken by the state government? It is a classic case of old wine in new bottle. - Sukhjinder Randhawa, Cabinet Minister A spokesman said the funds had been sanctioned from a Rs 100-crore grant given by the Central Government to the Punjab Government.Randhawa said: “The money is lying with the state government. It is just that some teething problems have surfaced. The ASI and the state government have already started work to classify the ancient Shiv temple and Banda Singh Bahadur Gurdwara as heritage sites while the work on Emperor Akbar’s coronation platform will commence soon. The actor should cross-check his facts before going public with them.”The minister said he had information that Deol, on February 25, 2019, had written to Minister of State for Culture and Tourism Prahlad Singh Patel, urging him to declare the entire township of Kalanaur as a ‘heritage town.’“The MP’s request remained in cold storage for nearly 18 months, as his letter got stuck in bureaucratic wrangling. On August 6 this year, Patel finally replied to Deol, expressing inability to get ‘an entire township declared as a heritage site’. The MP was instead informed that the ASI conserves and preserves only important sites and not townships in their entirety. How can the MP take credit for projects which have been undertaken by the Punjab Government? It is a classic case of old wine in new bottle,” Randhawa added.Pankaj Joshi, Deol’s PA, said: “If the ASI has given grants to the state government, why is the money not being spent? We regularly receive representations from Kalanaur residents that the condition of the historical sites is going from bad to worse. That is why we approached the Cultural affairs ministry.”
21-09-2020||Sameer Singh||Cotton purchase starts across Malwa mandis||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 20Cotton has started hitting “mandis” in the Malwa region with farmers from different villages beginning to bring their produce for procurement.As per mandi board records, more than 1,000 quintal cotton has been procured in the past one week in Bathinda and Mansa districts. Procurement will be done at seven Bathinda mandis and six in Mansa this season.I have sold two quintals at the rate of Rs4,635 per quintal, which is way below the MSP of Rs5,725. -  Karam Singh, Farmer Bring produce after Oct 1Farmers should bring their produce to mandis after October 1 when the Cotton Corporation of India begins procurement.-  Rajnish Goel, District Mandi Officer, Mansa  Farmers, however, rue they have not been getting remunerative prices for their yield since the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), the government nodal agency, has not started procurement yet.As a result, most of them are being coerced to sell cotton to private procurement agencies at rates below the minimum support price (MSP).Against the MSP of Rs 5,725 this year, a majority of the farmers has sold it at Rs 4,600 per quintal or even below.A farmer from Mansa district claims he was forced to sell cotton for as low as Rs 3,800 per quintal after a private agency cited low quality and high moisture content in the produce.Karam Singh, a farmer from Bir Behman village in Bathinda, says: “I have sold two quintals at the rate of Rs 4,635 per quintal, which is way below the MSP. The quality was rich but with the CCI yet to start procurement, I was forced to sell it at a lower price.”Dara Singh, Superintendent, Mandi Board, Bathinda, says: “The procurement is in its nascent stage. Farmers are bringing in cotton that is not fully bloomed yet and the quality is not that good enough to fetch higher prices.”Rajnish Goel, District Mandi Officer, Mansa, says: “Farmers must ensure the cotton is dry and the moisture content is within the 8 to 12 per cent range so that they can get remunerative prices for their produce.”
21-09-2020||Archit Watts||Locals at odds with strange village names||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, September 20What’s in a name, wrote William Shakespeare, but it seems that the nomenclature matters a lot, especially for residents of villages having weird names in the state.Many residents of villages such as Lalle, Bamb, Aakad, Kubba, Makhi, Bhoot, Amir Khas, Lande, Rode, Khuni Majra, Kala Bakra, Bhangchari, Kattianwali, Jhotianwali, Sappanwali, Gidderanwali, etc. sometimes feel embarrassed when they have to tell someone the names of their villages.For instance, a student from Billimar village in Fazilka district said, “I feel uncomfortable when I have to tell someone the name of my village, especially to the person who does not belong to the area. Some relatives even laugh at us. The village can be renamed as Raisinghpur because a number of people from the Rai Sikh community live here.”Similarly, Nishan Singh, a former sarpanch of Kuttianwali village in Muktsar district, which was renamed as Sheranwala village in 2014, said, “Once a saint accompanied by a large number of followers had come to our village, villagers offered them food. He then told us that we should work as lions, but surprisingly the name of the village is Kuttianwali. Since he called us sher (lion), we started using the word Sheranwala for our village. However, officially the village name was changed in 2014. We had requested the then Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal, who then took up the matter with the Centre.”There are a number of villages with funny names, some of these even named on animals, such as Jhotianwali, Gidderanwali, Sappanwali, Koharianwali, Beganwali, Killianwali, Kawanwali, Kirianwala, Billimar and Amir Khas in Fazilka district; Kattianwali, Chhapianwali, Bhangchari, Kabarwala, Lande Rode in Muktsar district; Fidde, Lalle, Bhedanwala, Kirianwala, Ittanwali and Katora in Ferozepur district.Similarly, there are some villages with bizarre names such as Kuttiwal, Giddar, Bhagi Bandar, Lelewala in Bathinda district; Andianwali in Mansa district; Khote, Lande, Rode and Izzatwala in Moga district; Khuni Majra and Ghoga in SAS Nagar district; Moranwali in Faridkot district.
21-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Needy kids get wings, lay eyes on making it big in football||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20After losing his father, Arjun discontinued his studies in Class V and joined his mother in playing ‘dhol’ at marriages to lend a helping hand to the family. Now 14, he is a promising football player.Arjun, along with several other children who have suffered in their lives, have been brought together under one platform — Principal Harbhajan Singh Training Centre, Barian Kalan in Jalandhar. The training centre was started with one mission, to not let young children get indulged in drugs and instead, make them adopt sports and channelise their energy. One doesn’t expect these small kids, who hardly have televisions at their homes, to even know of any international players. They do not have enough money to afford a diet and football kit for them, but ask them who they adore in the game and they name their favourite players — Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi.Daughter of daily wagers, Sonia (10) is the only girl among 50 boys at the centre. She is a Class VI student. Ask her who her favorite player is and comes a prompt reply, “Ronaldo”. She is an ardent fan of the Portugese player and idolises him.Karan is another player whose mother is the only breadwinner in the house. He aspires to become an Army officer, for which he has taken up the sport. His only pair of worn out shoes injured his foot recently, but he carried on with the practice without any break.The talent of these young kids has been recognised by former BSF football coach Suraj Bhan Handa. It was his view to start the training centre. “These small kids have a lot of talent in them. I just didn’t want them to lose their way because of problems and absence of proper direction. We,” Handa said.
21-09-2020||---||Achievement Survey  of state schools begins||Chandigarh, September 20The School Education Department has made all arrangements for the Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS), to be conducted from September 21 to October 3. The survey would assess the learning outcomes of students of government and government-aided schools.State Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla has directed officers of the department to make the survey a complete success. All officers and teachers have been assigned duties for the survey and services of Guardian of Governance are being sought for the same. The survey would be conducted for classes I to XII. For Class I students, there will be 10 questions from each subject while, for classes II to V, there will be 15 questions from each subject. Each question will be of two marks. For students of classes VI to X, each paper will have 20 questions and one paper would be of 40 marks. The primary school survey examination would start on September 21 and end on September 25 while the survey of students from classes VI to X would be from September 21 to September 26. Survey for Class XI and XII would be from September 21 to October 3.
21-09-2020||Abohar||Two farm workers drown in reservoir||Two farm workers drowned after they slipped into a reservoir in a field at Sriganganagar on Saturday.Investigating officer Sub-Inspector Gopal Singh said Tek Chand (20) and Khazan Chand Meghwal (22), who had been hired by farmer Gurjant Singh at Chak 8BGD village for harvesting crop, reportedly slipped into the reservoir while drawing water.The bodies were handed over to the victims’ families after an autopsy. — OC
21-09-2020||Abohar||Man booked for abetting suicide||A day after a woman (23) reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her house near Jammu Basti here, her father got a case registered at the City-1 police station, accusing her husband Lakhwinder Singh of abetting suicide.The victim was taken to the Civil Hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Her in-laws claimed the woman had gone into depression after her house got damaged last month due to heavy rain.Her father claimed Lakhwinder used to harass her. Upset over his behaviour, she committed suicide. — OC
21-09-2020||Strap||Class 9-12 pupils can visit schools outside hotspots||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20Partially modifying the Unlock 4.0 guidelines in compliance with the directives of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the Punjab Government today allowed students of classes 9 to 12 to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from teachers.Yesterday, the government, while allowing opening of higher education institutions for PhD scholars and postgraduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratories and experimental works from September 21, had stated schools, colleges and coaching centres would remain closed.The permission today would be subject to the written consent of parents/guardians from September 21 as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on September 8.The state Home Department has also permitted skill or entrepreneurship training in national skill training institutes, industrial training institutes (ITIs), short-term training centres registered with the National Skill Development Corporation, State Skill Development Missions or other ministries of the Government of India or state governments.Also, activities of National Institute for Entrepreneurship and Small Business Developments (NIESBUD), Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE) and their training providers have been allowed from September 21, subject to strict adherence of the SOPs.The MHA orders issued on August 29 and the subsequent guidelines issued by the state government on September 9 imposing additional restrictions, including curfew, in urban areas on Sundays would continue to be in operation.Order modified* The government had on Saturday said schools, colleges and coaching centres would remain closed* It has partially modified the order in compliance with the directives of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs
21-09-2020||Vishav Bharti||Obesity, ageing population behind Punjab’s high fatality rate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20Large number of people suffering from non-communicable diseases, obesity and increasing elderly population are the main reasons behind the high Covid fatality rate in Punjab, experts maintain.Various surveys in the past have found that the number of patients suffering from non-communicable diseases in the state is among the highest in the country.The surveys conducted by the state Health Department and central agencies have established that every third person in Punjab suffers from at least one non-communicable disease, including hypertension, diabetes, cancer, obesity, etc. Among these, hypertension and diabetes are the most prevalent.“High prevalence of non-communicable diseases and other factors put the lives of a large number of people at risk in the present scenario of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, School of Public Health, PGI, Chandigarh.In Punjab, around three Covid-positive patients out of every 100 confirmed cases lose the battle for life. Thus, the Covid fatality rate in the state is one of the highest in the country.In all, 2,813 persons have died in the state due to Covid in the past nine months. Around 90 per cent of such victims were suffering from co-morbidities.National Family Health Survey17.5% population in the15-49 years age group suffers 'slightly above normal to very high' hypertension26% population in this group obese & 8.7% diabetic10% of state’s population is aged above 60
21-09-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Malwa arhtiyas to boycott BJP||Tribune News ServiceMansa, September 20The arhtiyas in Mansa have announced a boycott of BJP leaders and members to protest the Modi government’s “black Bills on the pretext of agriculture reforms”. They have put up banners at their protest site, declaring so.Sham Lal Dalwa, president of the Arhtiyas’ Association, Budhlada, claimed the Bills would not only destroy the farming community, but also those connected with agriculture directly or indirectly. “We will block the Bareta road on Monday,” he said, adding the BJP had betrayed Punjab’s farmers as well as arhtiyas.The arhtiyas’ associations in Bathinda and Maur have also announced to support the farmers’ agitation.Shingara Singh Mann, BKU Ekta (Ugrahan) secretary, said both farmers and arhtiyas would boycott BJP leaders in all villages across Punjab. “Our joint struggle will be intensified. We will not allow the new laws be enforced at any cost,” he warned.
