21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Excise officers among six arrested in GST evasion racket in Punjab||Punjab Vigilance Department on Friday claimed it has unearthed a massive tax evasion and drugs smuggling racket where a number of officers of the State Excise and Taxation Department were allegedly taking monthly bribes from businessmen and transporters for transporting goods in and out of Punjab without paying the Goods and Services Tax (GST).DGP BK Uppal, who is also the chief director of Punjab’s Vigilance Bureau, and Director LK Yadav said six people, including four excise officers he identified as Varun Nagpal, Satpal Multani, Kalicharan and Japsimran Singh, and Excise Inspector Ram Kumar were arrested over bribery charges.The sixth person was identified as Shiv Kumar, an employee with a transport company.Two FIRS have been lodged against the accused at the Vigilance Bureau under the Prevention of Corruption Act and other sections. The Vigilance Bureau conducted raids all over the state to nab the accused.Uppal said further investigations were on. “We suspect it is a multi-crore scandal where the accused were causing huge loss to the state exchequer at a monthly bribe of Rs 2 lakh for safe passage of the goods.”As per the FIRs, the racket ran on system of codes where the accused coded a truck of goods as “passer” and let it pass without paying the taxes.“In some cases, tax of lower slab of the GST of the product transported was levied. In others, officials conspired with businessmen to record movement of a commodity with lower tax value than the actual good supplied.The accused also provided accurate information on ‘safe escape routes’ for the transporters so that they don’t have to pay tax at the designated counters and provided immunity from checking on the way also.Uppal said the Excise and Taxation department was fully co-operating with the investigation and had helped the Bureau in tracing the scandal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/excise-officers-among-six-arrested-in-gst-evasion-racket-in-punjab-129394
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders Section 144 in state to check all gatherings of more than 5 except weddings, bhogs||A day after announcing a fresh set of lockdown restrictions in the state till August 31, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered imposition of Section 144 to prohibit all gatherings of more than 5 persons, other than marriage and bhog ceremonies, warning of strict action against organisers of such gatherings.Making it clear that he would not hesitate to take any harsh steps necessary to save lives, he warned of even more stringent measures after August 31 if needed to check the spread of COVID-19 and save lives of the people of Punjab.He appealed to all political parties to avoid any gatherings, including protests. In case of any violation of Section 144, the organisers who are putting people at risk by organising such gatherings or allowing people to gather without masks will be arrested, he said, warning of total strictness in this matter.The chief minister also requested all religious and community leaders to ask their followers to take all restrictions/precautions as imposed and not to violate Section 144, in the interest of the state, which was witnessing an increase in Covid cases.He also directed the police to strictly enforce prescribed number and social distancing at marriage and bhog ceremonies.The Covid cases in the state had gone up to 37,824, on account of increased testing, said Capt Amarinder, disclosing that 20,290 samples were tested yesterday, of which 1,741 were found positive – a positivity rate of 8.5%.The average daily increase for the last seven days was 1400 plus, he pointed out, adding that 37 people had died yesterday, taking the total number of Covid deaths to 957 and mortality rate to 2.5%.Gatherings of more than 5 people barring marriages & bhogs are prohibited under Sec 144. Appeal to all including political organisations to adhere. Request religious leaders to ask followers to take precautions against #Covid19. If needed will take stricter decisions post 31 Aug.  There were, as of yesterday, 349 patients on oxygen and 39 on ventilator support, which was a cause for concern, said the chief minister, adding that the maximum number of cases last week were reported from Ludhiana, Patiala, Jalandhar, Mohali and Bathinda.The statistics paint a gloomy picture, Capt Amarinder said during today’s edition of Facebook Live #AskCaptain, warning that if people do not take necessary precautions , things will only get worse.Unfortunately, people were now taking things lightly, forcing the government to take harsh measures, some of which were announced yesterday, said the chief minister, adding that 3000-6000 cases of people being challaned for not wearing masks on a daily basis.It may be recalled that on Thursday, the chief minister had ordered re-imposition of several lockdown restrictions in the state, including weekend lockdown, daily night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am in all cities/towns, shutdown of 50% non-essential shops in the 5 big towns of Punjab (Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar and Mohali) on daily basis, all government and private offices to work at 50% strength, and private cars to ply with not more than three persons with  buses and public transport to ply at 50% capacity.“Why don’t we understand that the precautions are necessary for saving your lives and those of other Punjabis,” said Capt Amarinder, urging people to pay heed to his repeated appeals.Noting that the state was headed towards a peak, he said by September 3, the cases in Punjab are projected to go up to 64,000, and cross one lakh by September 15. Deaths will also increase, with experts estimating over 1,500 deaths by September 3, he warned, hoping that the people will listen to him and take due precautions.“We don’t have to let Punjab go the America way,” he added.Stressing that testing and timely treatment was the key, Capt Amarinder said it was important to report to hospitals within 72 hours of onset of symptoms. There was no stigma attached to it, and he had also got himself tested twice, he added.The chief minister also reiterated his appeal to recovered patients to donate plasma for saving the lives of others. Many police personnel and PCS officers have already pledged their plasma, he pointed out, urging all citizens who had been cured of the disease to do it too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-orders-section-144-in-state-to-check-all-gatherings-of-more-than-5-except-weddings-bhogs-129378
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM appeals to striking govt Group C and D employees to return to work||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday appealed to striking employees of Group C and D of the Secretariat and districts to return to work, saying the government was trying to fulfil their pending demands despite the pandemic situation and the fiscal crisis prevailing in the state.During today’s Facebook Live #AskCaptain session, the chief minister urged the employees, on strike for the past one week, to end their protest and return to work in the interest of the state, which was going through extremely tough times.Even amid the prevailing crisis, the government was looking into their demands, Capt Amarinder assured the employees, who went on strike after withdrawal of their mobile phone allowances.The employees have not reported for work since then, seeking resolution of their pending issues, including restoration of the allowances.The chief minister said his government was committed to the interests and welfare of all its employees and would resolve their concerns as soon as possible, given the prevailing circumstances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-appeals-to-striking-govt-group-c-and-d-employees-to-return-to-work-129374
21-08-2020||---||Punjab reports 1,513 fresh COVID-19 cases, 34 deaths||Chandigarh, August 21A total of 1,513 COVID-19 positive cases and 34 deaths surfaced in Punjab on Friday, taking the state tally to 39,327.Ludhiana reported the maximum number of cases at 242 followed by Patiala (201), Jalandhar (169), SAS Nagar (143), Sangrur (102), Bathinda (90), Amritsar (80), Kapurthala (70), Ferozepur (69), Gurdaspur (49), Moga (43), 39 each in Barnala and Fatehgarh Sahib, Muktsar (27), Pathankot (26), SBS Nagar (25), Ropar (20), Fazilka (18), Mansa (16), Hoshiarpur (15), Tarn Taran (11) and Faridkot (19).The state has 14,443 active cases while 23,893 patients have been cured and discharged from various hospitals in the state.Of the 39,327 cases, the maximum number of cases have been reported from Ludhiana (8,580) while Jalandhar recorded (5,011), Amritsar (3,120), Sangrur (1,819), Patiala (4,531), SAS Nager (2,414), Gurdaspur (1,332), Pathankot (835), Tarn Taran (620), Hoshiarpur (961), SBS Nagar (543), Ferozepur (1,412), Faridkot (763), Muktsar (553), Fatehgarh Sahib (839), Moga (1,089), Bathinda (1,679), Kapurthala (748), Ropar (624), Fazilka (623), Barnala (871) and Mansa (360).Meanwhile, with 34 more deaths reported, the death toll in the state has climbed to 991. Of the 34 deaths, eight are reported from Ludhiana, five from Patiala, four from Kapurthala, three from Amritsar, two from Moga and one each from Barnala, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Mansa and SAS Nagar.Of the total deaths, Ludhiana has reported 289, Jalandhar (117), Amritsar (121), Sangrur (64), Patiala (103), SAS Nager (44), Gurdaspur (32), Pathankot (18), Tarn Taran (27), Hoshiarpur (27), SBS Nagar (14), Ferozepur (19), Faridkot (5), Muktsar (5), Fatehgarh Sahib (16), Moga (12), Bathinda (4), Kapurthala (30), Ropar (9), Fazilka (5), Barnala (15) and Mansa (3).Meanwhile, 856 more patients were cured and discharged today. They include 97 from Jalandhar, Patiala (218), Amritsar (44), 19 each from Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib, Bathinda (115), Pathankot (41), 48 each from Tarn Taran and Moga, Muktsar, Mansa and SBS Nagar (12), Ferozepur (3), Fazilka (4), Kapurthala (142), and Muktsar (11) and Barnala (35).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-1-513-fresh-covid-19-cases-34-deaths-129371
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||SIT adds Section 302 against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini||In further trouble for former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Friday added Section 302 of the IPC in the case of disappearance of a former CITCO employee, Balwant Singh Multani.As per the court orders, the SIT has given three days prior notice to Saini after adding Section 302 to the FIR.The SIT’s action came when Mohali court gave it permission to add Section 302 of the IPC after two former UT cops, Inspector Jagir Singh and Assistant Sub Inspector Kuldeep Singh, yesterday recorded their statement before the court under Section 164 of the CrPC, on turning approver in the disappearance case.The two former UT cops have also claimed in their statement in the court to have been eyewitnesses to the torture to Multani under custody of former DGP Saini and later shifting him in a Gypsy in an unconscious state. They also alleged that later they were told that Multani went missing.The two cops were also allegedly asked to declare Multani as missing and absconded, following the orders of DGP which they did, they alleged before the court.Earlier, three former UT cops, Inspector Jagir Singh, Sub Inspector Harsahai Sharma and Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Kuldeep Singh had filed an application in the court seeking permission to turn approver and be pardoned in the ongoing probe against them in the Multani case.However, the court of CJM on August 7 turned down their plea for the want to approach from the proper channel — that is the investigating agency the Special Investigating Team (SIT) — which can make a request to the court tendering for pardon for the accused.The SIT with the support of special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula and district attorney Sanjiv Batra on August 14 had moved an application on behalf of the three accused to declare them approver after which the court declared two out of three as approvers.Inspector Jagir Singh is also co-accused along with Inspector Anokh Singh in another FIR registered at Kharar Sadar police station on July 27 on charges of fabricating the evidences booked under Section 195-A (fabricating evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the complaint of Kharar (Sadar) station house officer, Inspector Sukhvir Singh.Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh are also co-accused in the previous FIR registered at Mataur police station against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini.Inspector Anokh Singh was arrested by Mohali police against fresh FIR and after taking him on three days police remand, he was sent to judicial custody. Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh are out on bail in this case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-adds-section-302-against-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-129362
21-08-2020||Raj SadoshAbohar||Two kids killed, four of family hurt as roof collapses due to rain at Punjab's Abohar||Two children were killed on Thursday night after a roof of their house collapsed on them at Jammu Basti, near an ancient mud fort here, due to heavy rainfall. The children's parents and their sister were left in the incident.   The family was identified as, 36-year-old Rinku Ram, his 32-year-old wife, Chameli Rani, 12-year-old daughter, Nisha, 10-year-old son, Aman, 8-year-old son, Sahil, and 4-year-old daughter, Mani. The family was sleeping in the courtyard at approximately 2 am when the rain started to create havoc. When the drizzling started again, the family moved into their room, then suddenly the room collapsed, and the family got trapped inside the rubble. While Nisha and Aman died on the spot, their mother, Chameli, and father, Rinku Ram, were left with fractured legs. The other children, Sahil and Mani, were also badly injured. Neighbours reacted to the noise, cries, and helped them out. The family was moved to the Civil Hospital after an emergency ambulance arrived at the spot.The doctors declared Nisha and Aman as brought dead. The bodies were kept in the mortuary for autopsy.All the injured are being treated. Nar Sewa Narayan Sewa Samiti volunteers were joined by Youth Congress activists Nirmal Singh Richi and Jasvir Kaur of Jammu Basti in making arrangements for medical aid to the financially weak family.BJP legislature Arun Narang’s son Karan, former Councilors HarcharanSingh Pappu, and Balwant Singh also reached the hospital and enquired about the affected family.PPCC President Sunil Jakhar and former District Youth Congress president Sandeep Jakhar conveyed sympathies with the family and told the Senior Medical officer to ensure free and best possible medical help. They assured to take up the issue for compensation with higher authorities. A few days earlier, a couple lost both their kids in a similar incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-kids-killed-four-of-family-hurt-as-roof-collapses-due-to-rain-at-punjabs-abohar-129334
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police Headquarters in Chandigarh sealed for fumigation||The Punjab Police Headquarters in sector 9, Chandigarh were sealed for three days for fumigation on Friday amid the coronavirus pandemic.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the move was for routine fumigation and disinfection and purely a preventive and precautionary measure.Five policemen had tested positive for the contagion last week. The DGP clarified that headquarter was not sealed but restricted entry was enforced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-headquarters-in-chandigarh-sealed-for-fumigation-129330
21-08-2020||Vijay Mohan||Mohali INST scientists develop new nano-particle-based treatment for kala azar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21Patients affected by kala azar, one of the most neglected tropical diseases, may soon find relief in an oral medicine from India. Scientists from the Institute of Nano Science and Technology (INST), Mohali, have developed a nano-medicine by combining different compounds for combating the disease.Scientifically called Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL), kala azar is a disease in which a parasite migrates to the internal organs such as the liver, spleen or bone marrow and, if left untreated, will almost always result in the death of the host, according to medical literature.It is a major health problem in India with an estimated 1.5 lakh new cases per year and also a serious concern in many other developing countries. About 95 per cent VL cases in the world are reported from Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Nepal, Somalia, South Sudan, and Sudan.While general symptoms of VL include fever, weight loss, fatigue, anaemia and substantial swelling of the liver and spleen, infliction of the disease can also be asymptomatic in some cases. Since it is spread by insects and parasites, VL is a community problem and requires individual and society participation in its control.In their project, supported by the Department of Science and Technology - Science and Engineering Research Board’s (DST-SERB) Early Career Research Award, INST scientists have developed an oral nano-medicine with the help of surface-modified solid lipid nano-particles-based combinational system for treating the disease.According to the INST team, till date, there is no study reported where a combination of two anti-leishmanial drugs has been delivered through nano-modification as a potential therapeutic strategy against VL. This work suggests the superiority of the combination prepared by them as a promising approach towards the oral delivery of anti-leishmanial drugs, the Ministry of Science and Technology said on Friday.The INST team was led by Dr Shyam Lal. Anti-leishmanial drugs Amphotericin-B and Paromomycin were encapsulated in solid lipid nano-particles and further modified with a Hydroxypropyl-Cyclodextrin compound. The nano-particle combinatorial drug delivery system developed by them enhanced the efficacy of the formulation by reducing intracellular amastigote growth in cells without causing any significant toxic side-effects.This study by the INST team, published in the journals ‘Scientific Reports’ and ‘Materials Science and Engineering C’, may lead to product and process patents, enhancing indigenous capability for developing innovative therapy against neglected diseases. The usage of lower therapeutic dose of the purified drugs through nano-modifications will greatly help in reducing toxicity, which has been a major hindrance in the existing conventional treatment, when administered orally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-inst-scientists-develop-new-nano-particle-based-treatment-for-kala-azar-129319
21-08-2020||New Delhi||SC rejects bail plea of Tarn Taran blast accused Malkit Singh||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected the bail plea of pro-Khalistani group member Malkit Singh alias Shera, one of the accused in connection with the Tarn Taran blast last in September last year.A Bench led by Justice NV Ramana dismissed the plea of Shera who had sought bail on medical grounds, contending that he was diabetic.The NIA filed a charge-sheet before a special court in Mohali against nine accused, including Malkit Singh in March this year.Vikram Singh of Kadgill village and Harpreet Singh of Bachre village were killed in the blast, while one Gurjant Singh lost his eyes in the blast on the outskirts of the Pandori Gola village in Tarn Taran district on September 4, 2018.Earlier, the Punjab and Haryana High Court an NIA court in Mohali had dismissed his bail plea||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-rejects-bail-plea-of-tarn-taran-blast-accused-malkit-singh-129306
21-08-2020||Stuck at home? Are you desperately wanting to go out to explore the city||Punjab’s war heroes beckon you, come explore, virtually…||Gallery 1: OrientationThe first gallery in an introduction to the great civilisation of Punjab and its brave warriors. It details about the battle of Alexander and Porus, which was fought in 326 BC between Jhelum and Chenab rivers of Punjab. It also includes a brief introduction of the Sikh Gurus along with their life and principles. A 12-minute movie on the introduction of Punjab and the Sikhs is also showcased.Gallery 2: Rise of Sikh EmpireIt highlights the role of Guru Hargobind Sahib, the sixth Sikh guru, and his contribution to the “martialisation” of the Sikhs. All four battles have been showcased along with the concepts of Akal Takht, Miri Piri. The life and battles of Guru Gobind Singh and his four sons have also been displayed. Mai Bhago, the warrior women who fought the battle of Muktsar, has also been shown prominently. The graphic presentations beautifully reveal the emergence of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, the history of Sikh misls and their rule.Gallery 3: The Sikh Empire and Anglo-Sikh WarsThe gallery showcases the rise of the Sikh empire under Maharaja Ranjit Singh and his achievements, his major battles along with the Ropar Pact, journey of Kohinoor and Anglo-Sikh wars.Gallery 4: World War-I and World War-IIThe gallery is still under-construction, which would display the contribution of Punjabis in World War I and II.Gallery 5: Battle of J&K in 1947-48It depicts the bravery of Indian soldiers during the Indo-Pakistan War of 1947-1948, known as the first Kashmir War. It shows the contribution of soldiers, who were responsible for protecting Srinagar.Gallery 6: Indo-China War (1962) & Indo-Pak War (1965)It showcases the Indo-China war in Ladakh region and North East, in which Subedar Joginder Singh posthumously received India’s highest military gallantry award — the Param Vir Chakra. While in the 1965 war, the role of Abdul Hamid in Khemkaran Sector has been given a peculiar display. The Indian Army destroyed 91 tanks of Pakistan. At the gallery, fiber glass tanks have been made to give it a real war effect. A statue of then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri has also been installed.Gallery 7: 1971-Indo-Pak War & Liberation of BangladeshThis gallery depicts the bravery of Army men at Longewala border. A statue of Kuldeep Singh Chandpuri has also been installed. A fiber model also exists, in which jawans are seen celebrating the victory by dancing on tanks.Gallery 8: Kargil War (1999)Last but not the least, a recently constructed gallery shows the glimpses of the Kargil War. Modern techniques have been used to showcase the actions of wars on Tiger Hill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-war-heroes-beckon-you-come-explore-virtually%E2%80%A6-129247
21-08-2020||---||Punjab retains top spot in North Zone||Chandigarh, August 20Moving up a notch, Punjab has been placed sixth in the country in this year’s Swachh Survekshan. Punjab’s national ranking last year was 7 — a major improvement from 2017 when it was among the 10 bottom states.CM lauds residentsChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh hailed the state’s efforts in improving the overall ranking in the Swachh Survekshan. Terming it an outcome of large-scale citizen participation, he credited the achievements to the behaviour change campaign and trained manpower.At the same time, the state, for the third consecutive year, has retained the top spot in the North Zone, which comprises Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.Other achievementsThe Swachh Survekshan 2020 was conducted at the national level in 4,242 urban local bodies by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs from January 4 to 31. It was conducted to assess cleanliness i.e. the management of solid waste, ODF status, including citizen feedback and involvement.Another achievement of the state in the national cleanliness survey is the selection of the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation among the best big cities in innovation and practices category and the Nawanshahr Municipal Council, ranked fourth among the cleanest cities in the North Zone, scoring a hat-trick by retaining the first position in cleanliness in the population category in the North Zone, said Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra.Special Chief Secretary, Local Government, Satish Chandra said in comparison to the 2017’s baseline survey, 12 of 16 Punjab cities with more than 1 lakh population had improved their rankings. Not only this, in the zonal ranking for smaller cities, of the total 1,009 urban local bodies in three different categories, 59 had figured in top 100 in their respective categories.Meanwhile, Mission Director Ajoy Sharma said the innovations made by Punjab had led the municipal councils of Nawanshahr, Mansa and Ferozepur emerge as low-cost decentralised models of solid waste management. The municipal councils of Nawanshahr, Mandi Gobindgarh and the Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation had emerged as the model of low-cost legacy waste remediation, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-retains-top-spot-in-north-zone-128989
21-08-2020||---||Eco-friendly measures push Jalandhar Cantt to top slot||Jalandhar, August 20From the 12th rank among 62 cantonments across the country last year, Jalandhar has sprung a surprise by getting the top position in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, conducted by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.By implementing eco-friendly initiatives, such as segregation of waste from houses, use of compost, rainwater harvesting and ban on plastic strictly, the cantonment board managed to score the highest 3,670 points this year. A team of the Central Government had visited various pockets of the 15.2 sq km cantonment area in November last year and verified all factors and parameters set for the survey.Jyoti Kumar, CEO, Jalandhar Cantonment, attributed the recognition to the hard work of the sanitation staff and the joint efforts of residents and NGO Green Hearts, who are working for the cause with dedication. “Our sensitisation programme on waste segregation was carried out in an effective manner. All those residents who could not understand how segregation was to be done were given demonstrations outside their homes. The garden waste was managed within the garden, with aerobic and anaerobic pits for green and dry foliage,” he said, after attending an online ceremony of the department in Delhi.In the cantonment, there has been much strictness over carrying plastic bags and awareness drives have also been carried out in the residential areas. Jute handbags have been distributed and the residents have been urged to carry them along when going to markets. Fines have also been imposed on violators.All residents here have been given blue and green dustbins, with strict orders to hand over the green waste separately to sanitation employees engaged in the door-to-door lifting of garbage.As the sale of compost could not be possible, the same was used in hospitals, schools and government buildings. All government buildings also got rainwater harvesting systems installed for recharging groundwater. While Jalandhar Cantt made a mark, Jalandhar city remained far behind at 119th rank. It was placed at 166th rank last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/eco-friendly-measures-push-jalandhar-cantt-to-top-slot-128990
21-08-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda cleanest in Punjab, but slips to 79th ranking||Three Punjab cities — Bathinda, Patiala and Ferozepur — featured in the list of top 100 clean cities of India in the Swachh Survekshan report released today.Bathinda scored an all-India rank of 79 and number 1 rank in Punjab. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder’s hometown Patiala bagged the 86th position in India and number 2 rank in Punjab. Bathinda city has got the first place in the state and has been ranked 79th among 4,041 cities in the survey, conducted by the Union Ministry of Urban Development.The results were announced in New Delhi. Followed by Bathinda and Patiala, Ferozepur has been ranked 96th (3,389 points), Jalandhar 119 (3,096), Muktsar 135 (2,962), Moga 148 (2,836),SAS Nagar 157 (2,790), Hoshiarpur 207 (2,379), Malerkotla 208 (2,372), Pathankot 257 (2,063), Batala 286 (1,909), Barnala 317 (1,676), Khanna 333 (1,517) and Abohar 380 (965).In last year’s survey also, Bathinda had topped the state and was placed at the 31st rank in the country. This year, Bathinda has been able to maintain its first rank in the state but has slipped to 79th rank in the country. Several steps in solid waste management were taken by the Bathinda Municipal Corporation (MC) ahead of the survey and it scored well in collection and transportation, processing and disposal, sustainable sanitation, innovation and best practices. The MC also did well in making the city open-defecation free. The well-maintained public toilets in the city also won it many points, but it lost marks in the category of garbage disposal. The MC had applied for a three-star rating in the category but was given a zero.The city did well in resolving the complaints and taking public feedback on the Swachhata mobile app. Awareness among the masses was also created by holding camps on cleanliness. MC Commissioner Bikramjit Singh Shergill said, “We have been able to retain the first spot in the state in the survey, but we were eyeing a spot in the top 10. Sadly, we were not able to get it due to nil rating in the garbage disposal category. We have raised objections, but did not get any reply from the authorities concerned.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-cleanest-in-punjab-but-slips-to-79th-ranking-128991
21-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||High court lists remedies for victims of police inaction||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a complainant or a victim of a crime was not without remedy against deliberate inaction, unreasonable delay, failure to collect evidence, shielding of offenders and undue sympathy of police officers towards them.Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi also made it clear that the complainant/victim could apply to the Judicial Magistrate, empowered to take cognisance of the offences in question on a police report, for monitoring of investigation.Fair probe mustThe investigation has to be fair, prompt, transparent and judicious to both the victim as well as accused. - High court The Magistrate, in turn, could issue appropriate directions for expeditious completion of investigation. The complainant/victim could also file a complaint under Section 166A (b) of the Indian Penal Code, dealing with punishment for non-recording of information, against the investigating officer for knowingly disobeying any direction of the law regulating the manner in which he was required to conduct the investigation.Referring to Section 197 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Justice Tyagi asserted sanction was not required in case of a public servant accused of any offence alleged to have been committed under Section 166A of the IPC.Justice Tyagi added the complainant/victim could alternatively file a petition in the High Court for transfer of investigation to an independent agency such as the Central Bureau of Investigation. “However, it may be observed here that in a substantial number of such cases, the complainant/victim of a crime is not able to pursue these remedies due to the lack of awareness and legal aid at the initial stages,” Justice Tyagi added. Dismissing as withdrawn two petitions filed for grant of anticipatory bail in a case registered for extortion and other offences under the provisions of the IPC and the Information Technology Act, Justice Tyagi asserted the Supreme Court in its judgments observed that the investigation was required to be fair, transparent and judicious as it was the minimum requirement of rule of law and justice might become a victim if the investigation was unfair.“It follows that investigation has to be fair, prompt, transparent and judicious to both victim as well as the accused. Ineffective, unfair, obscure, inexpedient and delayed investigation negates and is the antithesis of the rule of law affirmed by Article 21 of the Constitution,” Justice Tyagi added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-lists-remedies-for-victims-of-police-inaction-128992
21-08-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Bootleggers having free run, cops hand in glove, allege residents||Tarn Taran, August 20The tall claims of the police on curbing the illegal liquor trade, following the tragedy that left more than 100 people dead, have “fallen flat” as residents of various villages claim that the business is flourishing with impunity.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale, however, claimed that stringent measures were taken to curb the illicit liquor trade after the Pandori Gola village hooch tragedy though he admitted that it would take time to stem the problem. “The illegal trade has been running for many decades and it is not possible to end it within 15 days,” he added.2nd suspect in hooch tragedy heldDuring a visit to Jodhpur village, a resident said the only difference today was that people had to travel a certain distance for procuring country-made liquor while it was available on the doorstep earlier.Meanwhile, CPI leaders Prithipal Singh Mari Megha and Devinder Sohal said the supply chain of illegal liquor had not broken as claimed by the administration. The duo alleged that the border area of Algon Khurd village was the main source of illegal liquor supply to the nearby market, where it was sold to customers. Challenging the police, Gurbhej Singh, former sarpanch of Palasaur village, said there were 150 points in his village where illicit liquor was being sold. He said he was ready to show these places to the administration but with the assurance that action would be taken against the accused.However, most of the villagers preferred to remain tight-lipped fearing that the trade was running under the shelter of the ruling party leaders and the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bootleggers-having-free-run-cops-hand-in-glove-allege-residents-128993
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||MGNREGA funds siphoned off: Akalis||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today alleged that Rs 1,000 crore MGNREGA funds had been siphoned off by Congress legislators in connivance with government officials. He demanded that an independent inquiry be held into this issue to nail the culprits.In a statement here, the SAD president alleged it was shocking that Central funds meant for the poor had been embezzled by Congress legislators. He said an inquiry by a Central team had already detected gross irregularities in two districts of the state and requested Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar to forward the case to the CBI for a thorough probe.Sukhbir claimed that as per the modus operandi, material component was billed to companies owned by cronies of Congress legislators. He said material worth crores in each case was shown to the purchased from the firms on paper only. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mgnrega-funds-siphoned-off-akalis-128994
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Call all-party meet on SYL, says AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president Bhagwant Mann today demanded that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should immediately convene an all-party meeting on the issue of SYL.In a joint statement, Mann and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the meeting would send out a message to the Union and state governments that Punjab was united on the issueand did not have a single drop of excess water to share with any other state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/call-all-party-meet-on-syl-says-aap-128995
21-08-2020||
||Punjab failed to rein in  mafia: Youth Congress chief||Jalandhar, August 20 Days after Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo openly alleged that the Congress government in the state had failed to fulfil the poll promise of restraining the illegal activities of sand, cable and transport mafias, similar views were today aired by Punjab Youth Congress chief Brinder Singh Dhillon. In city for the launch of a campaign against the SAD over the sacrilege issue, Dhillon said his party had failed to keep a tab on the mafias. “We still have more than a year in hand and if our government does not act even now, we will surely face adverse consequences in the 2022 elections,” he said. On the outbursts by Bajwa and Dullo against whom the party leaders had demanded action, Dhillon said: “Unlike them, I have not used any public forum to express my views. I opened up only after you asked me a question. It is only during meetings with the CM that we express our views.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-failed-to-rein-in-mafia-youth-congress-chief-128996
21-08-2020||---||6 booked for arms smuggling||Faridkot, August 20Five years after the police gave a clean chit to six persons from whom it had recovered eight illegal foreign-made weapons, the Faridkot police today booked all these persons on the recommendations of the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of the Punjab Police.All the accused are politically connected and influential persons and two of them are owners of gun houses in Chandigarh and Karnal.The buyers of illegal weapons have been booked under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 472 and 392 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act. The accused are Satish Kumar of Chandigarh, Raj Chopra of Karnal, Pankaj Bansal of Moga, Bhupinder Singh of Muktsar, Amit Goyal of Delhi and Rohit Chabra of Kotkapura.With the arrest of two notorious gangsters, Ranjit Singh Dupla and his associate Gurcharan Singh, alias Rinka, who were facing 18 criminal charges, including kidnapping, attempt to murder and smuggling weapons in UP and Punjab, in October 2014, the police had recovered eight foreign-made weapons which the gangsters had sold to the influential persons in Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-booked-for-arms-smuggling-128997
21-08-2020||---||Survey finds antibodies in 27% people in containment zones in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 20A total of 27.7 per cent people in Punjab’s containment zones are found to be positive for Covid antibodies, indicating that they have already been infected and recovered from the virus.The survey findings, submitted to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh during a Covid review meeting on Thursday, showed that the SARS-CoV2 antibodies’ prevalence in the containment zones to be the highest at 40 per cent in Amritsar district, followed by 35.6 per cent in Ludhiana, 33.2 per cent in SAS Nagar, 19.2 per cent in Patiala and 10.8 per cent in Jalandhar.This was Punjab’s first exclusive survey, which was conducted in five containment zones from August 1 to 17, in a systematically selected random sample population of 1,250. The earlier surveys were more generalised and were conducted by the state government in coordination with the ICMR.The survey report came on the day when Delhi released its second sero survey findings, which showed nearly 29 per cent seroprevalence in the national capital.For this exclusive Punjab survey, the selected containment zones, which had reported the highest number of Covid cases, were located one each in Patiala, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar districts. The sample included 250 people from each zone, and from each selected household, one adult above the age of 18 was randomly chosen for the survey. Rapid antibody testing kits were used during the survey.Overall, the seroprevalence of SARS CoV-2 antibodies was found to be 27.7 per cent in the containment zones where the highest number of Covid-19 cases had been reported. However, in the remaining parts of the cities, prevalence of the SARS CoV-2 would be lower and in the rural areas the prevalence would be even lower, as per the report of the survey.Dr KK Talwar, head of the health advisory expert group, said a team of trained field assistants and laboratory technicians collected the data under the supervision of a medical officer. ASHA/ANM facilitated the survey by identifying the households in the zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/survey-finds-antibodies-in-27-people-in-containment-zones-in-punjab-128998
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to ramp up testing to 30,000/day||In a bid to ramp up the state’s Covid battle preparedness further amid spike in cases, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday ordered increase in testing to 30,000 a day, with at least 10 persons in the immediate circle of every positive patient to be tested.Reviewing the situation through a video-conference with top health and medical experts and officials, the Chief Minister directed the Health Department to supply ventilators free of cost to medical colleges and private hospitals. He asked the department to provide manpower such as anesthetists to the hospitals, which had witnessed an increase in Covid patients in the wake of cap on treatment rates by the government.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan informed the meeting that tenders had been floated for the procurement of nine more RT-PCR machines and the same were expected by next week. She also stressed on increasing rapid antigen testing, as well as augmentation of level 3 bed capacity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-ramp-up-testing-to-30-000-day-128999
21-08-2020||
||At Longowal’s anniv, leaders slam SAD||Sangrur, August 20 Rebel Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders led by Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Dhindsa today organised a function in Longowal town of the district to pay homage to Sant Harchand Singh Longowal on his death anniversary. The leaders targeted the Badals while Lehra MLA Parminder Dhindsa said more SAD leaders were likely to join their group.  “SAD (Democratic) and its leaders will always work to promote the true principles of its former presdent Sant ji. Sukhbir Singh Badal and his team have forgotten the principles and they will have to pay a big price for it in the coming days,” Dhindsa said during a function at a gurdwara.  He alleged that sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib took place when the Badals were in power in Punjab while copies of the holy book also went missing during their tenure. “Whenever anyone asks Sukhbir about his failures, he has no answer. He always tries to avoid such questions, but he cannot run away more as we have all the evidence to expose his misdeeds,” Dhindsa said. Meanwhile, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot also paid homage to Longowal. The minister said the state government had decided to organise a low-key function to mark the day as mass gatherings had been banned due to the spread of Covid. He said Longowal had laid down his life for the peace and prosperity of Punjab and he would be remembered by the people for centuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-longowals-anniv-leaders-slam-sad-129000
21-08-2020||Jalandhar||Book breeder’s sister for animal cruelty: Activists||A day after Kapurthala resident Gurinder Singh was arrested for crushing a dog dog under his car, activists of the People for Animals (PFA), Amritsar, demanded FIR against his sister for allegedly tossing dogs across a wall. Gurinder Singh is presently out on bail.  Activists of the PFA visited his house in Kapurthala along with the police and rescued 12 dogs. Shalini, a PFA activist, said, “We saw 15 dogs at his house while two of them have died. His sister tossed a dog across a 9-ft wall. The police filed an FIR against the man but his sister hasn’t been booked.”  Sultanpur Lodhi DSP Sarwan Singh Bal said investigation was on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/book-breeders-sister-for-animal-cruelty-activists-129001
21-08-2020||---||4 district account for  63% deaths in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 20In the continuous surge in Covid cases, the state again reported 1,741 cases and 37 deaths in the past 24 hours.With these cases, the total count has reached 37,824, while the total number of casualties has reached 957.As far as cases are concerned, Ludhiana topped the state with 398 cases, followed by Jalandhar (242), SAS Nagar (169), Bathinda (148), Ferozepur (133), Moga (94), Patiala (81), Amritsar (75) and Barnala (58).Apart from that, 345 patients are on oxygen support and 39 are critical and are on ventilator support at present. In terms of casualties too, Ludhiana is the worst hit with 10 deaths, followed by SAS Nagar, Patiala and Sangrur (5 each), Jalandhar (3), Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and SBS Nagar (2 each) and Gurdaspur, Kapurthala and Muktsar (1 each).The record jump in the caseload came on a day when the state government announced extension of night curfew by two hours in all cities from August 21. Earlier on August 17, the state had reported a maximum daily increase of 1,704 cases.Four districts — Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and Amritsar — account for 55 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases and 63 per cent of the total fatalities in the state.As per the Health Department, a total of 334 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. So far, 23,037 people have been cured of the infection. There are 13,830 active Coivd-19 cases in the state as of now.With the collection of 20,290 more samples for testing, the figure of total samples taken so far for testing has reached 8,39,947 in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-district-account-for-63-deaths-in-punjab-129002
21-08-2020||Fazilka||Heroin worth Rs 20 cr seized near border||The sleuths of 96 Battalion of the Border Security Force have recovered 4 kg of heroin worth Rs 20 crore in the international market near Mohar Sona border outpost of the district on Thursday evening.Official sources said during a search, the BSF team recovered four packets from the agricultural fields of a farmer, Bhagwan Singh, of Retewali Bhaini village. The consignment was allegedly pushed from the Pakistan side into the Indian territory. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs-20-cr-seized-near-border-129003
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Medical council used as milking cow, claims chief||In a letter to the Chief Minister, Dr AS Sekhon, president of the Punjab Medical Council, has alleged that the council is being “used as a milking cow” by the Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER). He said he did not want to embarrass the Chief Minister by moving the Punjab and Haryana High Court against his own government.Dr Sekhon, a close associate of Capt Amarinder Singh, requested the CM to “save him from humiliation and insult” at the hands of the DMER. He claimed he was facing humiliation at every step, whether it was appointments in the council or relieving certain employees.Dr Sekhon wrote: “All councils are used as milking cows by the Department of Medical Education. These are virtually funding the office of Director, Medical Education and Research, Punjab.”He said the councils were also providing temporary manpower to different offices of the Medical Education Department, besides providing vehicles for the Director, Medical Education, and others. “The maintenance and construction of the Medical Education Bhawan was also borne by the councils,” he said.He said: “If the dignity and authority of the councils is not respected, then I suggest all councils should be dissolved and powers be given to the department itself.”There are five different councils — homeopathic nursing, medical, pharmacy and ayurvedic — which are under the DMER. “To maintain the dignity of the council and my chair only two options are left, either I resign or file a writ petition in the HC against our own government,” he told the CM.DK Tiwari Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, refused to comment, saying he was not aware of any such letter. Dr Sekhon didn’t attend calls despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-council-used-as-milking-cow-claims-chief-129004
21-08-2020||---||High court calls for action against erring cops, mining officers||Chandigarh, August 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed prosecution and disciplinary proceedings against mining and police officers in “appropriate” cases of gross neglect, unreasonable delay or culpable misconduct in illegal mining matters.Taking up an illegal mining case, Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi called for prompt action on the complaints by police/mining officers in accordance with law. “In case of gross neglect, unreasonable delay or culpable misconduct on the part of the mining officers or police officers in filing of complaints, registration of FIRs and investigation of the cases, action for their prosecution in appropriate cases be also taken in accordance with law, besides initiation of disciplinary proceedings against them. Appropriate instructions should be also issued in this regard,” Justice Tyagi added.Justice Tyagi also called for making provisions for online complaints on the portal of the department concerned. “It will be appropriate that a provision be made for making complaints by the public with photographs of illegal mining sites and vehicles illegally transporting minerals on the portal,” Justice Tyagi added.Tyagi asserted there was urgent need for creating widespread awareness against undesirable human interference and generating public commitment and support for the cause.Referring to an affidavit by Director, Punjab Department of Mines and Geology, Justice Tyagi asserted a good number of effective steps had been and were being taken by the government/department for checking illegal mining in the state.But economic offence of illegal mining, thriving on unlawful enrichment, could be prevented only with public cooperation, participation, commitment and support, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-calls-for-action-against-erring-cops-mining-officers-129005
21-08-2020||---||Former UT cops record statements in Balwant Singh Multani case||Chandigarh, August 20In the disapperance case of Balwant Singh Multani, the two former UT cops who have turned approvers recorded their statement before the Judicial Magistrate-cum-Duty Magistrate at a Mohali court today.Two days ago, the former UT cops, Inspector Jagir Singh and Assistant Sub Inspector Kuldeep Singh, had moved court to turn approvers and were pardoned in the case, involving former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini.Before getting their statements recorded, the Judicial Magistrate asked the two cops whether there was any pressure on them to turn approvers. They said it was their own decision.Now, the SIT is all set to add Section 302 of the IPC to the FIR registered against the former DGP and others at Mataur police station in the alleged disappearance of former CITCO employee Multani. The case is expected to be taken up tomorrow.As per the court orders, the SIT will have to give prior notice to Saini after adding Section 302 to the FIR. Saini is out on bail in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-ut-cops-record-statements-in-balwant-singh-multani-case-129006
21-08-2020||Tribune Reporters
||Rain havoc in Abohar||Abohar/Mansa, August 20 Several streets, main roads, markets and almost all state and Central Government offices were waterlogged as rain lashed the district from 6 am to 9 am while intermittent showers continued for another two hours.  Locals had to bear power cuts from around 7 am till 3 pm. Normal life was affected as people were forced to stay home. As water entered hundreds of houses and commercial complexes, several goods were damaged. A resident in Krishna Nagari, Raghav Nagpal, said for the first time, rainwater had entered his home that was at 2-ft higher than the street level. Nanak Nagari, Gobind Nagari, Anand Nagari, Indira Nagari, Idgah Basti, Arya Nagar, Thakur Abadi and Jain Nagari were among the most-affected localities. The subdivisional administrative complex, office of the Superintendent of Police, City police stations, fire brigade office and Civil Hospital were also inundated. In some offices, old records were also damaged.  The fresh rainfall has increased the worries of farmers in Muktsar district, who had suffered huge losses due to rain last month.  The Agriculture Department officials said special girdawari was underway, but as per the preliminiary report, nearly 8,500 acres were affected. “There is no fresh loss due to today’s rain, but the last month’s rainfall had caused loss to crops in nearly 8,500 acres. The farmers in some villages have sown paddy crop. However, nearly 4,000 acres are still unsown,” said Jalour Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Muktsar. Some farmers said there was forecast of more rain in the next 24-48 hours. “We are worried about waterlogging. The administration has not made any arrangements in this regard yet,” a farmer said. Some roads were also inundated in the town today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-havoc-in-abohar-129007
21-08-2020||Abohar||Youth killed over property dispute||Pramod Kumar (24), a farmer, was allegedly killed over a property dispute in Rajanwali village near here.On the basis of Sanjay Kumar’s statement, the Wahabwala police on Thursday registered a case under Sections 302, 307, 148 and 149 of the IPC and 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act.Rajinder Kumar Delu, Sunil Kumar, Amit Kumar Delu, Sanjeev Kumar, Ved Prakash, Birbal, Ajay Kumar and Manoj Kumar Jhurarkhera are among the 15 people named in the FIR.The police said Sanjay Kumar’s son Om Prakash had earlier expressed apprehensions that Amit and Rajinder might attack him due to an ongoing land dispute. DSP Bhupinder Singh had reportedly tried to get the rival factions to settle the dispute amicably but to no avail.Last night Amit, Rajinder and others fired indiscriminately at their rivals during which Pramod died on the spot and Sanjay was injured. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-killed-over-property-dispute-129008
21-08-2020||Muktsar||Protesters seek arrest of rape accused||A large number of people under the banner of the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union today staged a protest outside the Lambi police station, demanding the arrest of accused in an alleged rape case.  They claimed that the police had not even registered the case under relevant Sections of the IPC. Tarsem Singh Khunde Halal, a farm labourer activist, allegedthat some persons of Mithri Budhgir village had raped a girl and made the video viral, but the police did not take appropriate action.  “We demand arrest of the accused and registration of a case under relevant Sections of the IPC,” he said.  The police had yesterday arrested Lachman Singh Sewewala, general secretary, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, in an old case. The protesters demanded his release as well. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesters-seek-arrest-of-rape-accused-129009
21-08-2020||Sangrur||Congress leader alleges bid to defame her, case lodged||Congress leader Daaman Thind Bajwa, secretary of the All-India Youth Congress, has alleged that some persons have circulated a letter in Sunam in an attempt to tarnish her image.  On her complaint, the police have registereda case under Sections500, 501, 506, 507, 509 and 120B IPC against the unidentified accused.  “Foul language has been written in the letter. I have full faith in the police and hope that culprits would be nabbed soon,” Daaman said. Sangrur SSP Sandeep Garg said: “We’ve handed over the matter to the SP (D) to ensure speedy investigation.” Various organisations have demanded action against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leader-alleges-bid-to-defame-her-case-lodged-129010
21-08-2020||Abohar||Sacrilege case registered against Abohar couple||The Khuyiansarwer police have registered a case against Darshan Singh and his wife Bimla Rani of Gidderanwali village for allegedly damaging a ‘saroop’ of the Guru Granth Sahib. Davinder Singh, chief of local Gurdwara Sangatsar, has stated in his complaint that the couple also made a video of the torn pages.    Preliminary probe indicated that the couple was wanted by the police in connection with an  liquor smuggling case and to build pressure, they allegedly indulged in sacrilege. The police had recently conducted raids in the village to nab bootleggers and smugglers but had to return empty handed as they were assaulted by miscreants. A case had been registered after the assault too — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-case-registered-against-abohar-couple-129011
21-08-2020||Bathinda||Officials in quarantine in Bathinda and Mansa, work hit||The working in Bathinda and Mansa has been affected as many top officials have either tested positive for Covid or are under home quarantine.In Mansa, Sardulgarh SDM Rajpal Singh, MC executive officer Vishal Jindal and SP Satnam Singh have tested positive, while DC Mohinderpal, SSP Surinder Lamba and ADC (G) Sukhpreet Singh Sidhu are in self-quarantine.The situation has become worrisome as hours after the Independence Day function inMansa, more officials tested positive. In Bathinda, SSP Bhupinderjit Singh tested positive and others are in quarantine. The routine work has been affected as public dealing has been restricted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/officials-in-quarantine-in-bathinda-and-mansa-work-hit-129012
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||7 pm to 5 am daily curfew in Punjab as caseload surges||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered extension of weekend lockdown with daily night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am in all 167 cities and towns of the state from tomorrow. The move came on a day the state reported the highest ever spike of 1,741 Covid-19 cases.Read also: Ban on gatheringsThe CM also ordered a total ban on all gatherings, except weddings and funerals across the state till August 31. Government and private offices will work at 50 per cent capacity till then. These directives were issued by the CM during a video-conference with top officials to review the Covid situation in the state.“Enough is enough,” said the CM, adding that “we need to be tough without affecting the state’s economic activity”. In the five worst-affected districts of Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and SAS Nagar (Mohali), restrictions on vehicular capacity have been imposed again, with buses and other public transport to operate with 50 per cent capacity and private four-wheelers not to carry more than three passengers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-pm-to-5-am-daily-curfew-in-punjab-as-caseload-surges-129057
21-08-2020||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Punjab 6th cleanest; Haryana 2nd among states with under 100 local bodies||Indore was adjudged India’s cleanest city for the fourth straight year in the Swachh Survekshan Awards-2020 announced today.Among the northern states, Punjab moved up by one notch to sixth position in the overall ranking, a major improvement over 2017 when it was among the 10 bottom states. The Ludhiana Municipal Corporation topped among the best big cities in innovation and practices, while the Nawanshahr Municipal Council scored a hat-trick by retaining the first position in cleanliness in the 25,000 to 50,000 population category for north zone.Haryana was adjudged the second cleanest state having less than 100 urban local bodies. Karnal, CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s hometown, retained the tag of the cleanest city in the state. Besides, it topped the cleanliness list for the north zone in the 1 lakh to 10 lakh population category. The city improved its nationwide ranking from last year’s 24 to 17. The other top cities were Rohtak (35), Panchkula (56) and Gurugram (62).Jalandhar Cantonment was declared the cleanest cantt, while Chandigarh was awarded the best union territory in citizen feedback. For the fourth straight year, Jammu was declared one of the dirtiest cities, getting the 224th position among 382 cities with under 10 lakh population. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-6th-cleanest-haryana-2nd-among-states-with-under-100-local-bodies-129099
21-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: No lewd queries to rape victims||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear to judicial officers in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh that lewd, filthy and indecent questions cannot be put to rape victims and the trial court should not allowed the same.The High Court was hearing appeals filed by accused in an alleged sex scandal. The observations came in reference to certain questions asked by an advocate during cross-examination. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted that such queries, in opinion of the High Court, could not have been asked to a rape victim to prove the innocence of the accused.Justice Sangwan asserted that it had been held a number of times by the Supreme Court that the court should be vigilant that the defence counsel should not adopt the strategy of continuous questioning of the prosecutrix on rape detail, while conducting cross-examination and the court should not sit as a silent spectator, while the victim of the crime was being cross-examined.Justice Sangwan also asked the High Court Registrar-General to circulate among all presiding officers and designated courts dealing with cases of crime against women in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh the observations regarding lewd, filthy and indecent questions to the prosecutrix, which could not be allowed by the trial court in violation of the directions given by the Supreme Court. Justice Sangwan also referred to the apex court judgment in the case of “Punjab vs Gurmit Singh”.Justice Sangwan also quoted the judgment as saying that there had lately been a lot of criticism regarding the treatment of victims of sexual assault during cross-examination. The provisions of the Evidence Act regarding relevancy of facts notwithstanding, some defense counsel adopted the strategy of continual questioning of the prosecutrix on details.“A victim of rape, it must be remembered, has already undergone a traumatic experience and if she is made to repeat again and again, in unfamiliar surroundings, what she had been subjected to, she may be too ashamed and even nervous or confused to speak and her silence or a confused stray sentence may be wrongly interpreted as discrepancies and contradictions in her evidence,” read the SC judgment quoted by Justice Sangwan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-no-lewd-queries-to-rape-victims-129069
