21-05-2020||---||Deportation of 'terror convict' sends security agencies into a tizzy||Amritsar/Hyderabad, May 21Security and intelligence agencies in Amritsar are in a tizzy following the deportation of an alleged terror convict with links to Al Qaeda.Ibrahim Zubair Mohammad is one among the 165 people who arrived at Amritsar airport on Wednesday after being deported from the United States due to unprecedented health crisis.Zubair (41), who hailed from Hyderabad, was quarantined at Swami Vivekanand isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on arrival. As per information, he will be interrogated by security agencies after the quarantine period is over.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore confirmed that the person by the name of Ibrahim Zubair Mohammad was among the deportees and was currently in the quarantine centre at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.Dr Jugal Kishore though said he was not aware about Zubair’s alleged links with the terrorist outfit.“I had a talk with Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, but the local police do not have his previous history,” he said.“For us, he is like other passengers who were shifted to quarantine centres on their arrival from the US,” Dr Jugal Kishore added.The Police Commissioner, meanwhile, said Zubair was not wanted by the local police nor did they have any input regarding his alleged links with Al Qaeda as being circulated on social media.SDM Deepak Bhatia said he had only facilitated the transportation of passengers from airport to quarantine centres.When asked about Zubair’s allaged links with terrorist organisations, Bhatia said that would be in the knowledge of the Police Department.A document circulating on social media, purportedly of a US court in Ohio, claims that Zubair along with his brother Yahya Farooq Mohammad was among four persons convicted by the court for alleged terror financing and supporting Al Qaeda leader Anwar Al-Awlaki.An engineering graduate from Hyderabad, Zubair married a US citizen and became a permanent resident of the US in 2007.He was arrested in 2011 and deported to India after completion of his imprisonment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deportation-of-terror-convict-sends-security-agencies-into-a-tizzy-88028
21-05-2020||New Delhi||HC extends 1984 anti-Sikh riots convict’s parole by another 3 months||The Delhi High Court on Thursday extended by three months the parole granted to Captain Bhagmal, convicted and sentenced to life term in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, saying he was over 90 years of age.Bhagmal’s parole, last extended on March 20, was expiring on Thursday.Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said, “Keeping in view the fact that age of petitioner (Bhagmal) is more than 90 years, I hereby extend the parole of the petitioner for a further period of three months on the same terms and conditions as imposed vide order dated March 20, 2020.”          The high court said Bhagmal shall surrender after expiry of the three month parole.He was convicted and awarded life term for the murder of five members of a family in Raj Nagar area of Delhi Cantonment on November 1, 1984, after the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra opposed the plea for extension saying that the convict was on parole since September 19 last year and it was already extended once on March 20, 2020 for two months.Bhagmal had sought extension of parole on the ground that he was over 90 years of age, his medical condition is very poor and therefore, he was vulnerable to COVID-19 infection. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-extends-1984-anti-sikh-riots-convicts-parole-by-another-3-months-88023
21-05-2020||Ludhiana||Punjabi actor Satish Kaul seeks help, says struggling for medicines, basic needs||Veteran Punjabi star Satish Kaul, who has acted in several Hindi films and shows including “Mahabharat”, says he’s currently facing financial woes and the nationwide lockdown has only made the situation worse for him.The actor, whose credits include working in over 300 Punjabi and Hindi films and played the role of Lord Indra in “Mahabharat”, said contrary to rumours, he’s not in an old age home.“I’m staying in a small rented place in Ludhiana. I was staying in an old age home earlier but then I’m here at this place with my good Samaritan Satya Devi. My health is ok, I’m doing fine but the lockdown has made matters worse.“I’m struggling for medicines, groceries and basic needs. I appeal to the industry people to help me. I got so much love as an actor, I need some attention now as a human in need,” Kaul told PTI.The 73-year-old actor had also worked in films like “Pyaar Toh Hona He Tha”, “Aunty No 1” and show “Vikram Aur Betaal”.Kaul had moved to Punjab from Mumbai and had started an acting school around 2011. The actor said that project wasn’t a success.“It came to a halt and whatever work I was doing later was affected after I fractured my hip bone in 2015. For two and a half years, I was bed-ridden in the hospital. Then I had to check in to an old age home where I stayed for two years.”    Kaul said he feels grateful that people had showered him so much love when he was in his prime and doesn’t have any “regrets” now.“It’s ok if they’ve forgotten me. I got so much of love and I’m grateful. I will forever be indebted to the audience for that. Right now, I wish I am able to buy a decent place of my own where I can stay.“The fire to act is still alive in me. It isn’t over. I wish someone gives me a role even today, any role, and I would do it. I’m raring to act again,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-actor-satish-kaul-seeks-help-says-struggling-for-medicines-basic-needs-88002
21-05-2020||Patiala||In their 70s and 80s, Punjabi University pensioners threaten to fast-unto-death over pension amounts||Retired pensioners of Punjabi University, many in their 70s and 80s, are yet again forced to protest for monthly pension benefits.The retirees have now resolved to fast-unto-death if the university fails to credit their benefits for the month of April pending for over 21 days now.Punjabi University, facing lack of funds for long, has been struggling in meeting its expenditures.The university faced similar protests by the pensioners in January this year after it failed to deposit pension amounts of mere Rs 4.25 crore for the month of December till the 24th of January.The retirees, including retired assistants, gardeners, peons, clerks and professors, then wrote letters to the Chief Minister’s Office as well.Gurcharan Singh, a retired pensioner of the university said, “We are holding a protest for two hours daily now. We will fast-unto-death if the university fails to credit the monthly pension amounts of April soon.Sham Singh, president of Punjabi University Retired officers’ welfare association, said they were facing issues as it was the only source of livelihood of many.“Many class B and C retired employees are getting meagre amounts. They are struggling in the times of Covid pandemic as the pensions are not credited in time. It is high time that the university should credit the monthly benefits on time.”Sansar Singh Janjua, another retired professor of the university, said, “We have met the Vice Chancellor, the Registrar and Finance Officer several times over the issue but to no avail.”Dr Manjit Singh Nijjar, University Registrar, when contacted said, “The pensioners had met us today and we assured them that the pending amounts will be credited at the earliest when we are able to collect funds from grants or any kind of fees from students.”He said the university did not have funds to provide the pension amounts.“We have not received any funds in the last two months including amounts earlier collected as part of providing transcripts, late fees and others. Payment of pensions is on our priority list now”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-their-70s-and-80s-punjabi-university-pensioners-threaten-to-fast-unto-death-over-pension-amounts-87996
21-05-2020||Minna Zutshi||CIPHET develops portable fruit and vegetable washer-cum-purifier||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 21The ICAR-CIPHET here has developed a low-cost portable ozone-based fruit and vegetable washer-cum-purifier – Ozo-C.“During the Covid-19 pandemic as people bring home fruits, vegetables, the fear of contracting coronavirus looms large. To ensure food safety when we buy such commodities from the vendors and bring them home, a suitable gadget with standard protocol is required,” said Dr Ranjeet Singh, one of the scientists who helped in developing the Ozo-C.According to Dr RK Singh, Director, ICAR-CIPHET, portable Ozo-C, based on Ozone technology, is an excellent ozonator which removes pesticides, bacteria, viruses and harmful chemical from the surface of fruits, vegetable, sea food and meat.“This compact device may find a place in every kitchen, hotel, small scale fruit and vegetable processors and vendors, where it can play a vital role in reducing the risk of infection, especially during this pandemic period,” said Dr RK Singh.This portable Ozo-C has been designed and developed by Dr Ranjeet Singh, Dr K Narsaiah, and Surya Tushir under the guidance and support of Dr RK Singh.User friendlyThe system works on principle of silent “discharge method”. It uses electric discharge to produce ozone by splitting the normal oxygen molecules in the air into single atom. These atoms recombine with air (O2) to form ozone (O3). The device was made with a unit cost of Rs 3500 and it has been successfully demonstrated at the ICAR-CIPHET for use.This ozone-based device comprises PVC box, air blower, ozone generator, ozone air distribution system, timer and on-off switch.The device is simple and user friendly, according to the scientists from CIPHET.Explaining its stepwise working, the scientists said: Take a container and put fruits and vegetables in it. Fill the container till water level is above fruits and vegetables to be cleaned. Dip the silicon tube with air stone into the container. Set the time of operation (15 -30 minutes based on commodity) and switch on the power supply.The device will automatically stop at the end of the set time. Remove the stone and throw the treated water. Finally, clean and rinse the fruits and vegetables with running water. The cleaned fruits/vegetables are now ready for consumption. We can also store the items for later use, the scientists added.Compact designThe device is compact in design and weighs 1.8kg. Its ozone output is 100-200 mg/h and its output air pressure is 0.2 kg/cm2. The device operates on a 220 V-240 AC single phase power supply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ciphet-develops-portable-fruit-and-vegetable-washer-cum-purifier-87984
21-05-2020||---||Mohali district becomes coronavirus-free||Mohali, May 21Grappling with the coronavirus infection for the last two months, Mohali district achieved the feat of having zero active cases with the discharge of two patients from PGI, Chandigarh, on Thursday.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said as of now, there is no active case in the district. He added that there were a total of 105 positive cases in the district out of which 102 patients have been discharged and sent home after treatment and three patients have died due to the deadly disease during the last days.He said among the patients discharged on Thursday, 30-year-old is from Nayagaon while 24-year-old belongs to Milkh village.Giving a note of caution to the district residents, Dr Manjit Singh said although district has become free of coronavirus cases but people should not assume the deadly disease has been fully contained and eradicated. “The threat of coronavirus is still there. The fact that the curfew has been lifted, relaxations given or there is not a single case of the disease in the district does not mean that the disease has gone away forever. If we adopt a careless attitude and do not use precautions, the disease can strike us again in no time,” warned the civil surgeon.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said all the necessary precautions and guidelines should be followed to stay away from the disease and added that every person should cover his or her face with masks, handkerchiefs, piece of cloth etc. He asked people to maintain necessary distance from each other and wash hands frequently.Girish Dayalan said appealed to the people not to leave their homes and only go out when there is an urgent need and asked them to visit hospitals in case of any serious problem only.Instead, they should contact the health department’s helpline 104 for the expert advice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-district-becomes-coronavirus-free-87975
21-05-2020||Amritsar||TV reality show contestant’s father booked on rape charge||The father of a TV reality show contestant has been booked for allegedly raping a 40-year-old girl, police said on Thursday.The case against accused Santokh Singh Gill has been registered at Beas police station on an online complaint from the victim, Beas Deputy Superintendent of Police Harkrishan Singh said.The accused, however, is yet to be arrested, Singh added.The DSP said in her compliant, the Jalandhar-based victim has alleged that she had visited Gill’s house on May 15 to meet her boyfriend, when she was raped by him.She alleged Gill took her out in his car on some pretext and raped her in the vehicle.Police said investigations were underway. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tv-reality-show-contestants-father-booked-on-rape-charge-87973
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s COVID-19 death toll rises to 39; tally 2,028||A two-month-old boy died of coronavirus in Punjab, taking the death toll to 39, while 23 fresh infections pushed the total number of cases in the state to 2,028, officials said on Thursday.The infant, who was suffering from pneumonia, died at a hospital in Amritsar on Wednesday, a health official said in Amritsar.His test report came back positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, the official said.Four pregnant women in Gurdaspur district were among 23 fresh coronavirus cases that were reported on Thursday.The women tested positive in Batala, taking Gurdaspur district’s case tally to 129.Of the 23 fresh cases, seven were reported in Hoshiarpur; five in Amritsar; four in Gurdaspur; two each in Ludhiana and Pathankot; and one each in Barnala, Kapurthala and Patiala, a medical bulletin said.Batala senior medical officer Sanjiv Bhalla said two pregnant women are among the four who tested positive for COVID-19 in the city.The pregnant women have been admitted to an isolation ward, he said.The other two women gave birth on May 19, Bhalla said.Blood samples of the two newborns would also be taken for testing, he added.According to the bulletin, 25 coronavirus patients -- 13 from Jalandhar; eight from Muktsar; two each from Fazilka and Mohali—were discharged after recovering from the infection.With this, the total number of cured persons in the state has reached 1,819.There are 170 active COVID-19 cases in the state, the bulletin said.Amritsar has the maximum number of COVID-19 cases in the state at 313, followed by 210 in Jalandhar, 171 in Ludhiana, 155 in Tarn Taran, 129 in Gurdaspur, 105 in SBS Nagar, 104 in Patiala and 102 each in Mohali and Hoshiarpur.Sangrur has reported 88 cases, Muktsar 65, Faridkot 61, Rupnagar 60, Moga 59, Fatehgarh Sahib 56, Fazilka and Ferozepur 44 each, Bathinda 41, Kapurthala 34, Mansa 32, Pathankot 31, and Barnala 22.A total of 59,618 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing so far in the state. Of these 53,871 samples are negative and reports of 3,719 are still awaited, the bulletin said. — TNS/agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-39-tally-2-028-87946
21-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal ||Fake doc conducting gender test in Gurdaspur arrested after 36-hour operation||Tribune News Service Gurdaspur, May 21A fake doctor allegedly carrying out illegal sex determination tests was arrested after a 36-hour operation, including a high speed four-hour car chase, that culminated in Ludhiana.Gurdaspur Civil Surgeon Dr Kishen Chand planned the operation and was involved in the car chase. An ASHA worker acted as a decoy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-doc-conducting-gender-test-in-gurdaspur-arrested-after-36-hour-operation-87937
21-05-2020||---||Punjab ordinance ropes in private clinics to fight  virus||Chandigarh, May 20Intensifying its frontline battle against Covid, the Capt Amarinder Singh government in Punjab today notified an ordinance to bring private clinical establishments under the ambit of its fight against the pandemic.The notification brings all clinical establishments having capacity of more than 50 beds under the provisions of the ordinance. This is in line with the decision taken by the Council of Ministers at its meeting on April 10.A government spokesperson said the ordinance would provide a mechanism for registration and regulation of clinical establishments in a professional manner to ensure compliance of minimum standards of facilities and services as well as transparency in the functioning of these establishments.To implement the provisions of the ordinance, a Punjab State Council for Clinical Establishments would be set up under the chairmanship of Administrative Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, with its Director to function as Member Secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ordinance-ropes-in-private-clinics-to-fight-virus-87617
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||More labourers opt to stay put as industry resumes operations in Punjab||As economic activity in the state resumes, the high attrition rate among the labourers opting for reverse migration is giving hope for oiling the wheels of the industry that came to a grinding halt because of the lockdown.25,000 leave in 20 trainsOfficial data shows that dropout rate in reverse migration is increasing. As against 30,000 migrants leaving the state on Monday in 25 special trains, nearly 25,000 left on Wednesday in 20 trains. Officials said this was because of resumption of economic activity.Across different parts of the state, the government authorities are reporting that at least 30-40 per cent of those who had registered to board the Shramik Special trains have failed to turn up for the journey back home. This shows that the “hustle and bustle” in the unorganised sector of the economy has begun.Official data shows that dropout in reverse migration is increasing since Monday. As against 30,000 migrants leaving the state on Monday in 25 special trains, nearly 25,000 left today in 20 trains. Till date, almost 240 trains have taken the migrants to states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh, said Vikas Pratap, state nodal officer for the Railways. He said given the size of the state, they had managed to do rather well in arranging a safe passage for the stranded migrants. Government officials maintain that the attrition is because of resumption of economic activity, especially in Ludhiana (industrial production) and Mohali (construction and industrial).Since May 4, when the industry reopened to limited production, many workers are being summoned to work. Gautam Dhall, an auto and tractor parts manufacturer in Ludhiana, who employs 2,000 persons in his unit, said they resumed operations on May 4 with 30 per cent of the staff. “I am now working with 50 per cent staff and many workers are expressing their desire to return to work. They realised that there is no economic activity back home and prefer to work here,” he says. Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, Mohali, says the higher dropout rate in migrants, which in his district have gone up to 40 per cent, is a positive development. “Initially, 5,000 migrants were registering for one train, having a capacity of 1,188. We have already dispatched 12 trains to other states. Till a few days ago, there was an attrition rate of 30 per cent. Since the past two-three days, against the total capacity of trains, 100-150 seats are vacant because of the dropouts,” he said.Meanwhile, in containment zones, migrants are still desperate to return to their native places. Even as industrialists are offering them bonuses and other incentives to stay back, they are unwilling to stay put. Arvinder Singh, MD, Laal Quila Rice Mill in Amritsar, said: “I do not know how the industry will function. The migrant exodus is worse than the lockdown. The manufacturing sector could have seen immediate resurgence post curfew, but the exodus will hit us hard and for a long time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-labourers-opt-to-stay-put-as-industry-resumes-operations-in-punjab-87510
21-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Doctor, wife say faced tough times upon return from US||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 20When Dr Pyara Lal Garg and his wife boarded flight from San Francisco for homeland after being stranded in the US for more than 50 days, there was no way they could have realised they would be landing into difficulty.Quarantined at an institutional facility after reaching India, the two moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court virtually claiming that they had been placed under room arrest with little facility. But after almost five days in institutional quarantine, the two have decided not to pursue the matter.Their petition, however, unfolds a tale of problems faced by the returnees. Dr Garg and his wife have stated in the petition how they ran out of medicines in the US and had to spend huge amounts before they could fly to India, only to find themselves literally cold-shouldered in a room “cut-up from the whole world”.Retired professor from Patiala Government Medical College and Hospital, the paediatric surgeon says they flew to the US on March 11. They were to return on March 24. But flights were cancelled following Covid outbreak. Suffering from heart ailment and knee problem, they exhausted their quota of medicine and had to purchase fresh stock at “huge expense”. Their medical insurance also expired due to unplanned extension in stay.“All these expenses were unanticipated, leading to financial burden and mental agony,” said their counsel Ashok Kumar Nabhewala, adding that the petitioners had to purchase new ticket for $1,360. They finally got clearance on May 11 with heavy charges of $2,724. The amount spent on previous tickets was also not refunded. Declared fit to travel, they landed in New Delhi on May 15. In Chandigarh, they were taken to Hotel Shivalik View, but not allowed lift facility. Advised against strenuous activity, they moved to quarantine facility in Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctor-wife-say-faced-tough-times-upon-return-from-us-87511
21-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||No band, baaja, artistes struggle to make ends meet||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 20Raj has been playing dhol and other instruments at weddings for the last 15 years, but he has now decided to leave the family profession and work as a labourer in a factory. Because of the pandemic, Raj has been forced to borrow money from his relatives and friends to support his family.“I have a family to look after. I am devastated. Kuch nahee bacheya. Kadi nai socheya si, apne pushtaini kamm nu chhadna payega. Asi loka nu khushiya dittiya, ajj aap khatam ho gaye. (Nothing has been left. Never thought I will have to leave my family profession. We gave joy to people but have been ruined now),” says Raj.Many like Raj say that they will now look to work as labourers in factories, while some others say that all their lives they had only learnt to play bands and nothing else.They have a feeling that now marriages won’t happen the way they used to be, so their livelihood finished. “No one would want band artistes and dholwalas now,” Raj sums up.Chandar, a band artiste by profession, breaks down as he shares his plight. His life had become a challenge. He is now fearful for his family’s future. “Hum doosron ki khushi mein khush hone waley hain, aaj humari zindagi mein andhera hai. (We used to be happy in others happiness, but today our lives are in the dark)”Chandar has a band team and plays trumpet in marriages and other big events. But now, since no big marriages are taking place amid the pandemic, band artistes are looking for other ways to survive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-band-baaja-artistes-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-87512
21-05-2020||Patiala||Farmers look for less labour-intensive options for sowing||The recent exodus of workers due to the lockdown has put paddy growers in a difficult situation. They are now looking at local labour and direct seeding of paddy for less labour-intensive farm operations.In many villages, rich landlords who usually depended on migrant labour to transplant paddy are already looking for alternatives to sow paddy on 29.30 lakh hectares. Additionally, this year, the number of mechanised paddy transplantation machines has doubled to about 1,100 and farm unions are also advocating the use of these machines to help farmers reduce labour pangs.“I have tried getting in touch with many of my labour contractors who have been coming year after year. However, none of them is willing to come this season. So, I have decided to go for direct seeding which has greater accuracy as compared to conventional transplanted rice. It gives the best yield and quality when sowing is done in June,” said Jagdish Singh Garcha, a landlord.“Paddy was grown on 29.30 lakh hectares in Punjab last year. The state has decided to shift 2.50 lakh hectares from paddy to other crops this year. In addition, a new method of paddy sowing called the direct seeding of rice has been recommended by the Punjab Agricultural University and the government proposes to bring 5 lakh hectares under this system that does not require intensive labour,” said Secretary, Agriculture, Kahan Singh Pannu.Farm unions and paddy experts told The Tribune that the technology would save irrigation water, labour and power in contrast to the conventional method of raising a rice nursery and then transplanting seedlings in a water-filled field.“Barring some hiccups, sufficient rural labour in Punjab is available to fill the vacuum created by the unavailability of migrant labour as has been demonstrated in the wheat procurement operation this season. Fortunately, migrant labour engaged with potato and vegetable growing farmers is available in rural areas which will be engaged in the transplantation of paddy also,” Pannu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-look-for-less-labour-intensive-options-for-sowing-87513
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Facilitation centre for returnees at Delhi airport||The state government has set up a facilitation centre at the Delhi airport to help people from the state coming back on special flights from abroad to return to their respective districts.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said the transport facility had been arranged at the centre to ensure the comfortable return of stranded people to their native districts, where they would be required to stay in quarantine for 14 days and tested for Covid-19.Those found negative would be sent home for another two weeks of self-quarantine, while those who test positive would be shifted to isolation centres, Capt Amarinder said in a statement.Around 20,000 stranded people are expected to return to Punjab under the Vande Bharat Mission. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/facilitation-centre-for-returnees-at-delhi-airport-87514
21-05-2020||Abohar||Farmers oppose flow of water into Pakistan||Upset over the fact that water from Punjab was being “allowed” to flow into the Kasur area of West Punjab, a province in Pakistan, the Kisan Sangharsh Samiti (KSS) has sought intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat into the matter.Samiti spokesman Subhash Sehgal said in the past, Bhakra Dam had a storage capacity ranging from 1,462 to 1,690 feet, Pong Dam 1,260 to 1,420 feet and Ranjit Sagar Dam 527 feet, all of these were constructed to meet the needs of farmers. However, in the past two decades, the Bhakra Beas Management Board had reduced the water level in Bhakra Dam by 15 feet to prevent flooding. Due to poor management, thousands of cusecs of water was allowed to flow to Pakistan in May. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-oppose-flow-of-water-into-pakistan-87515
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab covid recovery rate 89 per cent, cautious CM says `don't fritter this away'||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh took to social media to announce a major success in the battle against Covid-19.In his tweet, the Chief minister announced that the state's recovery rate had touched 89 per cent with only 211 active cases now in the state. The CM also announced that the doubling rate of cases have improved to 100 days. He compared the national and state figures stating that as against 14 days doubling period across the country, the Punjab's rate had improved to 100 days. In the fight against #Covid19, Punjab’s recovery rate now stands at 89% with only 211 active cases. Wish them all a speedy recovery. Our doubling rate of cases has improved to 100 days. But Please follow full precautions to ensure that our hard work isn’t frittered away. pic.twitter.com/LqKMi41jQ8  Earlier on Wednesday, the state health authorities discharged another 152 Covid-19 patients. With this, the total number of people who have been cured of the infection had reached 1,794 in the state.At least 88 were discharged in Ludhiana, followed by 30 in SBS Nagar, 15 Patiala, eight Fatehgarh Sahib, four Jalandhar, three Mansa, two each in Gurdaspur and Pathankot. The total number of patients discharged from Ludhiana till date is 117. Dr Rajesh Bagga, Civil Surgeon, said all Nanded pilgrims had already been discharged. Besides, 57 rapid response teams today screened 189 persons and 134 of them have been isolated.Meanwhile, three new cases were reported in the state, taking the count to 2,005. As per the state media bulletin, one case each was reported from Ludhiana, Gurdaspur and Jalandhar. A 69-year-old woman died of Covid-19 in Jalandhar on Wednesday. She is the city’s seventh casualty. With two more positive cases, Jalandhar’s tally reached 217. The deceased, a resident of Ishwar Colony, Basti Sheikh, had tested positive on May 13. She was also previously admitted to Kidney Hospital, where many staff members had tested positive. As per the Health Department, so far samples of 57,737 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 51,956 were found negative and reports of 3,776 were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-covid-recovery-rate-89-per-cent-cautious-cm-says-dont-fritter-this-away-87516
21-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Pathlawa, Punjab’s first Covid hotspot, now infection-free||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 20Two months after the last positive patient from the village was reported, Pathlawa today got a reason to celebrate as the administration removed all containment zone restrictions from the village.The DC, accompanied by a district team, removed all barriers in the village put in place for the past two months to restrict villagers’ movement. The village, which reported the first death in the state, was today declared Covid-free.To celebrate the occasion, a ‘jattha’ of 12 villagers set out to donate ration worth Rs 15 lakh at the Golden Temple in Amritsar as a gesture of thanksgiving to the Almighty.As many as 16 patients were reported from Pathlawa, of whom one died and rest discharged. The last positive case was reported on March 26. A bus with members of the Bhai Ghanaiya Trust and Ek Noor Swai Sevi Sanstha headed off to Amritsar with ration to be used for langar at the Golden Temple.Nawanshahr DC Vinay Bublani said, “All containment restrictions from Pathlawa village, the first hotspot of the state, have been removed. However, all safety measures are being taken to keep the virus at bay.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pathlawa-punjabs-first-covid-hotspot-now-infection-free-87517
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lessons to be broadcast on TV: Minister||State Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday held a live Facebook interaction with students, parents, teachers and other stakeholders where he answered a number of questions. While interacting, Singla tried to address all  questions and issued raised by people. He said in view of Internet-related problems, the department had decided to start broadcast of curriculum on DD Punjabi for students of Classes III to V and IX and X. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lessons-to-be-broadcast-on-tv-minister-87518
21-05-2020||Sangrur||Singer faces arrest, raids on||In more trouble for Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala and suspended policemen, the Sangrur police have started conducting raids to arrest them.“After the addition of Sections 25 and 30 of the Arms Act to the FIR against Moosewala and others, their act has now become a non-bailable offence. We have formed special teams and started conducting raids to arrest the accused,” said Gurmeet Singh, SP, Punjab Bureau of Investigation.On the directions of Patiala IG Jatinder Singh Aulakh last week, the Sangrur and Barnala SSPs had deputed SP-rank officers for an investigation into the matter. “Our seniors are supervising the investigation. No one will be spared for violation of law,” the SP said.On May 4, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range in Badbar went viral on social media, the police, on the directions of DGP Dinkar Gupta, had registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against Moosewala and five policemen.Within 24 hours, another FIR was registered against all under the same sections at Dhuri Sadar police station after another video showing Moosewala firing from his private pistol at Laddai Kothi shooting range surfaced. “We are conducting a thorough investigation,” said Sandeep Goel, SSP, Barnala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singer-faces-arrest-raids-on-87519
21-05-2020||Our Correspondent||5 hurt in furnace unit blast||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 20Five labourers sustained injuries due to a blast in a furnace unit at Mulanpur village falling under Sirhind police station. The injured were rushed to the Mandi Gobindgarh civil hospital.One of the victims, Guli, said the blast took place last night when he along with other workers was putting scrap in boiler.Amarjit Singh, ASI, said the five workers were injured identified as Ganour Mahatoo, Bhupinder Kumar, Banti Masih, Satish Kumar and Guli. He said two of them were referred to Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala and three were admitted to Mandi Gobindgarh civil hospital. He said after recording their statements, action would be initiated against the owner.The victims said they were given an assurance that the factory owner would meet all expenses of their treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-hurt-in-furnace-unit-blast-87520
21-05-2020||Faridkot||Mid-day meal cooking cost up by 11 per cent in Punjab||The state government has revised the cooking cost for mid-day meal for over 26 lakh students in primary classes (I to V) and upper primary classes (VI to VIII) in government schools, increasing it by 11 per cent.The per day per student cooking cost has been increased from Rs 4.48 to Rs 4.97 for primary classes and Rs 6.71 to Rs 7.45 for upper primary classes. Last year, the cooking cost was increased by about 3 per cent in June.The revised cost will be effective from May 15, read a letter issued by the manager, Punjab Mid-Day Meal Scheme, to all district education officers. The cooking cost under the scheme involves purchase of cooking oil, pulses, vegetables and condiments. Under the national programme, 60 per cent of the cooking cost is shared by the Centre and 40 per cent by the state.However in UTs, the cost is borne 100 per cent by the Centre, while in Himachal, J&K and Uttarakhand, the share is in 90:10 ratio. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mid-day-meal-cooking-cost-up-by-11-per-cent-in-punjab-87521
21-05-2020||Moga||Vigilance Bureau nabs Punjab's Junior Engineer  for taking bribe||Sleuths of the Punjab Vigilance Bureau have arrested a Junior Engineer (JE) of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) posted at Dharamkot sub-division here on Wednesday for accepting a bribe of Rs20,000 from a local farmer in return of sanctioning a new power transformer for his tubewell.DSP, Vigilance, Kewal Krishan said Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Daburji village, was facing problems in running his tubewell due to voltage problem. Subsequently, he approached local officials of PSPCL to install a new transformer ahead of the paddy season.JE Gulsher Singh demanded a sum of Rs35,000 from Gurpreet to get the latter’s work done. Gurpreet gave Rs15,000 to the accused. However, later, he approached the VB officials and filed a complaint.The VB officials caught the accused red-handed today when Gopi was paying the remaining amount to the JE. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vigilance-bureau-nabs-punjabs-junior-engineer-for-taking-bribe-87522
21-05-2020||---||Excise officials dump 1.3 lakh litre of ‘lahan’ into Sutlej river||Ferozepur, May 20In violation of the environmental laws, the state Excise and Taxation Department in a joint exercise with the Ferozepur police have dumped at least 1.30 lakh litre of ‘lahan’ (raw material used to prepare liquor) into the Sutlej near Hussainiwala international border in Ferozepur district on Wednesday.SP (D) Ajay Raj, along with Excise and Taxation Officer (ETO) Karambir Singh Mahla, Excise Inspector PS Virk and other local police officials, raided many places at Habibke Pattan, Arifke and other nearby villages located along the Indo-Pak border in the morning and recovered at least 1.30 lakh litre of ‘lahan’ and 3,000 litre of distilled country-made liquor.Talking to The Tribune, Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner HS Sandhu and ETO said it was one of the biggest seizures of ‘lahan’ and country-made liquor in the state during the past few years.Mahla said it was not possible to collect ‘lahan’ in utensils, as it was mostly stored in pits covered with tarpaulin, therefore it was dumped into the river.He said: “The distilled liquor, which was recovered in utensils and rubber tubes, has been handed over to the Police Department so that a case can be registered against unknown persons engaged in the illegal business.”Phillaur: In a major crackdown against illegal liquor trade, the Jalandhar (Rural) police registered 59 FIRs at various police stations, arrested 41 liquor smugglers and recovered a huge quantity of hooch during the last 72 hours.Talking to The Tribune, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the Nakodar police and cops of Shahkot, Mehatpur, Lohian, Bilga and Phillaur conducted raids and seized 1,446 quintals of ‘lahan’, 1,514 litre of illicit liquor, 39 litre of country-made liquor, 95 litre of english liquor, besides manufacturing equipment were also recovered.In Nakodar, two liquor manufacturers-cum-smugglers identified as Bholi, a resident of Shankar village, and Sukhdev, a resident of Kular village, were arrested and 124.5 litre of illicit liquor, 945 litre of lahan, two ovens and four drums were recovered from them on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/excise-officials-dump-1-3-lakh-litre-of-lahan-into-sutlej-river-87523
21-05-2020||---||30,000 litres of hooch destroyed in Lambi||Muktsar, May 20Infamous for having illicit liquor dens, it looks like Kattianwali village in the Lambi Assembly segment is unlikely to shed its tag, as nearly 30,000 litre of hooch was found and destroyed there on Wednesday.Of the six accused, only two were arrested and the remaining managed to flee from the spot.Besides this, 14 drums carrying raw material to make hooch, two ‘bhathis’ (distilleries), 20 bottles of illicit liquor were seized.The team, led by Superintendent of police (Operation) Balwinder Singh, along with excise officials, conducted a raid today near a drain in the village and found that the liquor was being brewed illegally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/30-000-litres-of-hooch-destroyed-in-lambi-87524
21-05-2020||Bathinda||1K farm fire incidents in Bathinda||The large-scale burning of wheat stubble by farmers in the region appears to be going on unchecked despite the government’s directive.The Punjab Pollution Control Board has reported 1,035 cases of wheat straw burning in Bathinda district alone.The board takes the help of satellite imaging to identify the sites where residue is set on fire. After getting the images through remote sensing technique, a team is sent to the spot to ascertain the area of the land on which the stubble was burnt.The Maur police have taken a strict action against two farmers of Sandoha village here for allegedly burning wheat straw.Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said: “The farmers are also in favour of conserving the environment, but the process of using stubble involves a huge cost. We want the state government to extend financial help of Rs2,500 per acre and to ensure eight hours of regular power supply along with providing farm equipment on subsidy.”DC B Srinivasan said: “Teams have been constituted, which are visiting the spots and imposing fines on erring farmers found burning wheat straw in the fields.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1k-farm-fire-incidents-in-bathinda-87525
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Give financial relief to poor: BJP’s Joshi||The state government should announce a financial package for relief to all sections of society on the lines of the ones announced by Karnataka and HP, said BJP leader Vineet Joshi.He said barbers, washermen, cobblers, plumbers, electricians, drivers of autos, taxis, and buses, rickshaw pullers and other daily wagers should be given one-time compensation as Rs5,000.“The past 58 days of curfew and lockdown has affected the livelihood of lakhs across the state. Farmers who grew fruit and vegetables suffered huge losses. They should be given Rs25,000 per acre compensation,” said Joshi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-financial-relief-to-poor-bjps-joshi-87526
21-05-2020||Amritsar||Pak intruder nabbed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-intruder-nabbed-87527
21-05-2020||Muktsar||1 held for extortion bid||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-held-for-extortion-bid-87528
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Telemedicine in gynaecology from June 1||Free guidance for competitive examsChandigarh: The Punjab Employment Generation and Training Department has taken various online initiatives to provide career guidance, counselling and coaching for competitive exams during the lockdown. Employment Generation and Training Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said despite curfew and lockdown in the state due to corona, the Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgar & Karobar Mission has started free online classes, coaching and training programmes for unemployed youth of the state. TNSAssn hails nod to pharma industrial parkChandigarh: The Punjab Drugs Manufacturers Association expressed gratitude to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for accepting their demand for setting up of a dedicated pharma industrial park crucial for overall development and promotion of bulk drug manufacturing industry mainly in post-Covid scenario with foreign entrepreneurs preferring India instead of China. The CM has approved setting up of a 133-acre industrial pharma park at Wazirabad village of Fatehgarh Sahib. TNSPCS officers donate Rs11 lakh to cm fundChandigarh: The Punjab Civil Services Association contributed Rs 11.29 lakh to the Punjab CM’s Covid Relief Fund. A delegation led by association president Rajiv Gupta handed over the check to the Principal Secretary to CM Tejveer Singh in his office here on Wednesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/telemedicine-in-gynaecology-from-june-1-87533
