21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Several Punjab districts, including Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr, pass lockdown orders||District administrations of Jalandhar, Patiala, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Bathinda, and Nawanshahr have ordered lockdowns over the next few days on Saturday, as coronavirus cases in Punjab spikes to 13.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar announced that the lockdown would begin at 7 am on Sunday to midnight of Wednesday.Read updated story here: Punjab orders state-wide shutdown till March 31 to check spread of coronavirus“Only one person from a family would be allowed to move out for availing the essential services,” the officials said.All commercial establishments except those that sell essentials remain shut,Sunday happens to be the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi has appealed the public to join what he called a “janata curfew” from 7 am to 9 pm on Sunday. Only emergency service vehicles will be allowed on roads both within and outside city limits.Similar lockdown orders came from Patiala, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Bathinda and Nawanshahr. The lockdown will be effective in Patiala until March 24 and in Bathinda until March 27. Patiala Deputy Commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit advised the public against paying heed to rumours, especially those on social media.The development comes as Punjab’s coronavirus cases rose to 13 on Saturday, with 10 more cases being added in a single day.Seven people associated with a deceased coronavirus victim in Nawanshahr tested positive. Three people also tested positive in Mohali, taking Mohali's tally to four.
21-03-2020||Jalandhar||7 people associated with Nawanshahr coronavirus victim test positive||Six family members of a 70-year-old man who died recently of coronavirus in a village in Nawanshahr tested positive on Saturday, officials said. One person was tested positive on Friday. The members include his three sons, daughter, daughter-in-law, and granddaughter among other relatives. The deceased lived in a joint family of 17 members.Coronavirus cases in Punjab rise to 13.Earlier, a Dera priest, in Moranwali, was also tested positive for coronavirus. He is admitted to an isolation ward at Civil Hospital in Hoshiarpur.The 70-year-old man and Moranwali resident were both priests in the same Dera at Pathlawa village.The Dera priest’s wife, son, daughter-in-law and their two kids were showing symptoms of coronavirus infection. They are kept under quarantine.Reports of the priest’s family are pending.Epidemiologist, Dr. Shyam Veda said: “We are seeking histories and identifying new people everyday as per information provided and any new patients who come to the fore will be subsequently put up for sampling.”   State Programme Officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, Dr. Gagandeep Singh Grover said: “The tally of the state has risen to 13 today. Seven new cases to test positive today include six of Baldev Singh’s family members and a contact. As per directions from Government of India, we are also going to increase testing substantially which has already begun today. So far 181 people in the state have already been tested with 13 of them testing positive. All those with a history of foreign travel and all high risk, symptomatic and those in contact of or high risk cases who met positive cases will also be tested in the coming days".Earlier, the 70-year-old man, who recently came back from Germany died on Wednesday, sparking fears of yet another death from coronavirus.Also read: 70-year-old man’s death in Nawanshahr village sparks coronavirus fearsHe was admitted into Banga Civil Hospital after he complained of chest pain, Dr Prince Janagill, the medical officer who treated him, said.He died at the hospital later in the day.Janagill said that man’s family later revealed to the hospital that he had travelled to Germany and Italy recently, and had returned on March 6.“It was while sharing his details that the family intimated us that he had come back from overseas. All the requisite measures as per COVID-19 protocol were followed thereafter. While the patient did not visibly display any coronavirus symptoms, he has a history of diabetes and hypertension as well. For now, it seems to be a case of heart attack. Whether he had coronavirus would be made clear once the report arrives," he said.The man was diabetic and had hypertension—two factors that are believed to significantly affect mortality in coronavirus patients.The doctor said neither the patient nor any of his family members showed any symptoms of the virus, but his travel history prompted the hospital to take immediate action.The hospital had immediately followed coronavirus quarantine procedure and isolated six people—a doctor, a nurse and a ward attendant assisting them as well as three of the man’s family members. News of the man’s death and the subsequent quarantine has caused some panic and fear in his village.
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab DGP warns against WhatsApp forwards, spread of fake news on coronavirus||Taking a strong note of the unsubstantiated rumours and fake news being spread on the COVID-19 pandemic, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta on Saturday warned that those found guilty of indulging in such acts would be penalised and dealt with under the relevant provisions of the law.In an advisory issued here, the DGP warned people against spreading baseless rumours and falsehood, with a series of dos and don’ts against using mobile phones and social media platforms to spread mischievous and unsubstantiated information, which could create unnecessary panic and hardship to all around.These are tools that help keep everyone connected and informed, he said, warning people against just sending forwards, or posting/spreading fake news.Gupta requested the general public not to create panic/unrest through malicious forwards and social media posts.The DGP advises*Do not just send forwards. If you yourself are not sure of the information or the source of the information in the message, DO NOT FORWARD to friends and family.*Show restraint in what you post on social media or send on WhatsApp. DO NOT SPREAD FAKE NEWS.*Seek authentic sources or government helplines for information. DO NOT BELIEVE RUMOURS.Pointing out that COVID-19 pandemic affected each one of us, Gupta said it impacted our daily lives and affected our livelihoods. The virus can be devastating for our families, our friends and our communities, he warned, adding that the safety and welfare of each one of our family members, our work colleagues and everyone around is of paramount importance, with the authorities doing their best to battle the problem.
21-03-2020||---||Coronavirus: Punjab tells PSPCL to ensure 24x7 power to all medical institutes, quarantine centres||Chandigarh, March 21In view of coronavirus, the Punjab government has instructed the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited to ensure 24x7 power supply to all medical institutes and quarantine centres in the state.The instructions have been issued by CMD BS Sra. The institutions include medical colleges, hospitals and dispensaries. Special helplines have been set up for the medical institutes where any case of snag in supply can be reported for its immediate redressal.All cash counters of the PSPCL in all sub-divisions of the state have been closed till March 31. The due date for payment of bills of up to Rs 10,000 has been deferred till March 31. For bills over Rs 10,000, consumers have been urged to pay the bills using digital mode, or drop the demand drafts in drop boxes to be set up by the PSPCL at various places.
21-03-2020||Karam Prakash||Fearing community transmission, Punjab scales up testing for coronavirus||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 21Fearing community transmission of coronavirus, the state health department has already scaled up testing to ensure containment of the virus.Over the past three days, the health department tested 43 people in the state, thereby taking the number of tested patients from 115 to 158, on Friday. The move has come after the dera man in Banga village of Jalandhar district, who had contacted hundreds of people before he died, came to light. The incident has already made the health department go into a tizzy. In a rapid response, the health department changed the strategy from testing only symptomatic patients to testing all close contacts of a positive patient.Earlier, the health department was testing only those suspected patients which were showing symptoms of COVID -19. However, it involved high risk of community transmission. Reason: In many cases, coronavirus can be asymptomatic. Experts say the virus may have entered your body but you do not show any symptoms at all. Unaware, one has coronavirus, the suspected patient goes around spreading it. Experts insist that to contain the spread of coronavirus, testing of asymptomatic patients is a must. Stage of community transmission not yetWhen asked about the potential community transmission after the Jalandhar incident, Dr Gagan Grover, state nodal officer, coronavirus programme, denied the situation of community transmission given the fact that test results of the close contacts of the Jalandhar man were awaited. However, he said testing had already been scaled up in the state. “The reports of close contacts of the Jalandhar man are awaited; therefore, can’t comment on community transmission. However, the positive cases have travel history to affected areas,” Dr Grover said.
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||3 more positive cases of coronavirus in Mohali, total 4||Three more people in Mohali have tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total in the district to four, an official said on Saturday.“Three more people have tested positive in Mohali,” Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said.Among the fresh cases is the sister of a 69-year-old Mohali woman who tested positive on Friday, he said.Another person who tested positive had come in contact with a Chandigarh-based 23-year-old coronavirus patient, Dayalan said.The other person is a 42-year-old resident who had recently returned from the United Kingdom and was admitted to a government hospital in Sector 16 in Chandigarh, the official said.The first coronavirus positive patient in Punjab had a travel history to Italy and the second person, who died on Wednesday in Nawanshahr, had returned from Germany via Italy. Seven associates of the Nawanshahr victim have also now tested positive.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a fiscal package to combat the coronavirus crisis and permission to get tests done at private hospitals and labs in the state.The CM had expressed grave concerns over the escalating COVID-19 crisis during a video-conference convened by the PM with all the chief ministers to review the situation.Singh has asked the deputy commissioners and the district police chiefs to chalk out a comprehensive strategy for containment of the disease. PTI
21-03-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Applicants make beeline at passport sewa kendras in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 20Even as several airlines have shut their operations and many countries have stopped issuing visas, Doaba residents continue to make a beeline at passport sewa kendras here.Even today 1,000 applicants turned up at three passport sewa kendras in the city. This despite a fact that Regional Passport Officer (RPO) Raj Kumar Bali had yesterday issued an advisory to the applicants to get their appointments rescheduled in the wake of coronavirus spread.The passport staff had reportedly even got messages sent to the registered applicants to postpone their appointments. Many of them had even been called up on their registered contact numbers requesting them to put off their visit. But no such step came as a deterrent for the applicants.As hundreds queued up yet again today, RPO Bali visited a sewa kendra to make a personal request to the applicants to go back home and come some days later as situation would improve. “I told them that if they would go back, it would be good for them as well as the staff as they would otherwise be more prone to coronavirus infection. I even tried to convince them that there was no point applying these days as all travel facilities were lying shut. Further, I told them that they could avail infinite number of appointments for passport application and their files would not be affected even if they skipped appointments. Despite clarifying so much, only two applicants in queue went back while the rest all stood quietly and got their work done today itself”, the RPO said.Even the police staff at the office told the applicants that the police verification could take time these days as even the cops were deployed in surveillance of those who had come to India from coronavirus-affected countries.Shreya Jain, who had come for passport application of her daughter, said, “This was the most suitable time that I could apply for her passport as her school was off. So, I could bring her along easily. We are wearing masks. So it will not be much of a problem”.
21-03-2020||Ambika Sharma||Sanitisers' shortage: Price of alcohols used as raw material capped||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 20In a bid to check the multifold rise in the prices of alcohols used in the manufacturing of sanitisers, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution has notified it as essential commodity under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. This will enable the Ministry to regulate its prices, distribution, production as well as quality.New normsAs per the notification issued yesterday evening, the prices of the alcohols used in the manufacturing of hand sanitisers shall not exceed the price prevailing on March 5 without the concurrence of the Central Government. These directions will remain in force till June 30 as hand sanitisers are considered significant for preventing infections due to virus and bacteria.
21-03-2020||Sameer Singh||Resort owners in Bathinda booked for big gathering at wedding function||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, March 20A team of police personnel from the Canal police station reached a resort situated along Ring Road and asked the family members who were holding a wedding function to cut the attendance of guests to a minimum of 20 members. The move was taken as a precautionary measure in the wake of the Covid-19 scare.The police also booked owners of the resort and dispersed the gathering by asking the guests to leave the venue. The guests were left disheartened after being asked to leave the function mid-way through. Seeing that police personnel were enquiring about owners of the resort, many guests were even seen sneaking through different routes while making their way out of the resort.As per the police, there were more than 250 guests at the wedding function. By letting a wedding function (or any public event) be organised with more than 20 people, the resort owners had violated directions issued by the government in view of Covid-19. The police said they had booked the owners and appropriate action would be taken against them.Notably, it was wedding of Ranjit Singh’s daughter at Grand Vivaan resort situated along Ring Road where groom Simarjit Singh along with family members and guests had come as part of the wedding procession (baraat) from Lal Singh Nagar.ASI Gursahib Singh said, “They ignored the directions issued regarding public gatherings in the wake of coronavirus and no measures to sanitise the place were made. So, we have initiated action against the owners of the resort.”DSP Gurjit Singh Romana said, “Owners of the resort, Satish Garg and his son Risabh Garg, have been booked under Sections 336 and 188 of the IPC for flouting the directions being issued in view of the Covid-19 scare. We have given permission to the family members of the would-be groom and bride at the wedding venue while guests were asked to leave the venue. The matter would be investigated further.”Punjab ministerial union for closure of offices till March 31The Punjab State Ministerial Service Union has written a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and other senior state officials demanding that the officials working in the government departments, except those working for Covid-19 awareness, should be granted leave till March 31.Megh Singh Sidhu, president of the union, in his letter stated that coronavirus had affected most countries of the world and now it had started spreading its tentacles in India and around four cases had been reported in the state. The Punjab Government was making all-out efforts to check its spread in the state and it had ordered the closure of malls, clubs, and other public places.Even public transport had been shut and many trains cancelled, but no steps had been taken for the employees working in the departments of the state government. As many employees came from far-off places (from a distance of around 100 km) by bus or train, now it would be difficult for them to reach their offices without public transport. Moreover, no equipment had been given to the government employees, who deal with public daily, for their safety against coronavirus.People, who come from the city and villages, directly handed over their files to employees, putting their lives to the risk of contracting the disease.Megh Singh Sidhu said due to such reasons they were asking the state government to close all the offices till March 31 so that employees could stay back at their houses and be safe.
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||The editor who refused to testify against Bhagat Singh, his associates||“I consider it revolting to my conscience to answer any question or make any statement as a witness so long as the accused are not here to cross-examine me and scrutinise my statement,” replied prosecution witness No. 347 to the Special Tribunal constituted to try Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru in the Saunders murder case (later known as the Second Lahore Conspiracy Case).About Rana Jang Bahadur SinghHailing from UP, at the young age of 16 he joined Gandhi’s non-cooperation movement. He was initiated into journalism in 1924-25 by Maulana Mohd Ali. During 1925-27, he edited Nation, a weekly from Lahore. Later, he joined The Tribune and served the newspaper for 21 years. Taking over as Editor in 1946 during the turbulent days of Partition, he boldly stood against communal forces.The court wanted to know if revolutionary Bhagwati Charan Vohra had got the constitution of Hindustan Socialist Republican Army (HSRA) printed by The Tribune. The prosecution witness was shown draconian provisions of the Indian Penal Code, but he remained unfazed: “I am sorry I cannot answer the question. I cannot disobey my conscience.” The brave witness was The Tribune Assistant Editor Rana Jang Bahadur Singh. He, like the legendary Kalinath Ray, later served as Editor of The Tribune.The tribunal wanted to know whether the newspaper had helped in printing the HSRA constitution. The document was later hailed as a vital intellectual contribution of the revolutionary movement to the freedom struggle. Later, Singh recalled that his stand was in consonance with the demand of justice. In an interview to The Cambridge University’s South Asian Archive in 1975, which was put in public domain recently, he said, “I appeared before the tribunal as a witness on behalf of The Tribune. I had decided not to give evidence because I had learnt that Sardar Bhagat Singh and his comrades had, for certain very convincing reasons of their own, refused to appear before that tribunal.”He said he had gone prepared to undergo whatever penalty the tribunal prescribed for contempt of court. “Came back home happy that I had been able to respect the dictates of my conscience.” The simple episode, he said, was illustrative of the fact that everybody was then inspired by the wave triggered by the political action of these revolutionaries. “Even if I didn’t like the murder of the policeman, I could not reconcile myself to giving evidence against those who were on trial.”Recounting his association with the revolutionaries, Rana Jang Bahadur Singh said many of them were frequent visitors to his house in Lahore’s Krishna Nagar. “Since I was a bachelor and my house was a very convenient place, they used to assemble there quite often. And I also remember that they had left a box. I never knew what it contained but it was after years, when I was married, that it was revealed to me that the box had explosives.”Sharing his bond with martyr Bhagwati Charan Vohra, he said, “These young men, among whom Bhagat Singh towered, had set their heart on propagating their views.” Following her husband Bhagwati Charan Vohra’s death, Durga bhabhi stayed at Rana Jang Bahadur Singh’s house for three weeks, writes Kama Maclean, Associate Professor of South Asian and World History at University of New South Wales, Sydney. Shortly after, Durga Devi left Lahore, disguised in a burqa. When Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru were executed on March 23, 1931, there were mass protests across India. “I feel the stellar role of Jang Bahadur Singh vis-a-vis martyr Vohra has gone unsung in history,” says Chandigarh-based chronicler of freedom movement Malwinderjit Singh Waraich.“Vohra first took the manuscript to the editor of The Tribune for the purpose of being printed, but the editor concerned, having read its contents, declined to do so. Thereupon, it was taken to Lala Salig Ram, proprietor of Arorbans Press, Lahore, who printed it. The manifesto was one among the incriminating documents recovered from various houses occupied by the revolutionaries,” says Waraich.
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Need foodgrain distribution policy for states, says Ashu||Punjab Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has written to the Union Food Minister to press for a comprehensive policy for proper distribution of foodgrains in starvation-prone states of the country. Highlighting the recent starvation-related deaths in Jharkhand in his letter to Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Ashu dwelled over the paradoxical situation of overflowing food stocks in Punjab awaiting release on one hand and people dying of hunger in the other state. “The news is an eye-opener for us for bringing a suitable policy to ensure proper distribution of foodgrains in starvation-prone states,” Ashu said in his letter. Seeking personal intervention of the Union Minister, he highlighted the issue of immediate liquidation of Punjab’s food stocks. Our godowns are full with foodgrains, Ashu said, adding the stocks, being prone to rotting and damage due to vagaries of nature, warranted immediate policy intervention to ensure availability of grains for poor people in such deficit states. — TNS
21-03-2020||Abohar||Brick-kiln staffer robbed aboard train||A brick-kiln worker, who had boarded a train from Bathinda on Friday, was reportedly robbed of by two unidentified miscreants.  The victim, identified as Satpal Kumar (26), is a resident of Sadulshehar.  The incident came to light when another passenger found the victim lying in an unconscious state in train’s washroom. Subsequently, he informed the train guard, who in turn told the Government Railway Police (GRP).  The victim was rushed to the Civil Hospital when the Bathinda-Lalgarh (Bikaner) train had reached Hanumangarh at 1 pm. After gaining consciousness, Kumar said two unidentified persons, who were standing outside the toilet, tied his mouth using a piece of cloth, thrashed him badly and took Rs43,000 from him.  Preliminary investigation reportedly indicated that the miscreants had deboarded the train before it reached Sangria. — OC
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Officer harassed, report sought||Punjab State Commission for Women chairperson Manisha Gulati has sought a report from the Jalandhar DC on alleged misbehaviour with a woman PCS officer posted in Jalandhar. A news report alleged an RC agent misbehaved with the officer and used foul language against her. The chairperson said the DC had been asked to submit a report by March 25. — TNS
21-03-2020||---||Minister: Will help rescue women stuck in Muscat||Amritsar, March 20External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has stated that the Indian Embassy at Muscat will provide all required documents to the Sarbat Da Bhalla Trust, being run by philanthropist Dr SPS Oberoi, which will foot money to secure the release of 104 young women stuck in the Gulf country.Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Amritsar Lok Sabha MP, today met the minister in New Delhi.He said since there was no legal provision in the Indian Constitution to provide money, the Sarbat Da Bhalla Trust would provide money to secure the release of these young women.He requested the External Affairs Minister to direct the Indian Embassy to provide all required documents of these women. Jaishankar assured him that the Embassy staff would contact Dr Oberoi in a couple of days to provide all documents. Aujla said these women were stuck in Muscat and were being treated as bonded labourers.
21-03-2020||Our Correspondent---||Five arrested  under NDPS Act||Nakodar, March 20  The Shahkot police today held two men for allegedly peddling drugs, and recovered 20 gm of heroin from them.  The accused, identified as Balwinder Singh and Palwinder Singh, are residents of Burrewal village.  The Bilga police today nabbed a Bihari migrant for peddling drugs and recovered 400 gm of opium from him. The accused, Saroj Rai, was residing in Ludhiana’s Mullan Pur Dakha village. The Lohian Khas police on Friday nabbed a person with 190 intoxicating tablets. The accused, Manjindar Singh, is a resident of Chacha colony. In another incident, the Nakodar Sadar police on Friday held a man with 120 intoxicating tablets. The accused, Ravindar Kumar, is a resident of Shankar village. All accused had been booked  under the NDPS Act.
21-03-2020||Our Correspondent---||Youth rapes 3-yr-old, booked||Abohar, March 20 A three-year-old girl was allegedly raped on Thursday afternoon by a 20-year-old youth, who served at a brick-kiln falling under Goluwala police station in Hanumangarh.  Father of the girl escorted his daughter to a police station on Thursday evening and lodged a complaint against Raju for allegedly taking his daughter to a nearby field and raping her.  The victim was playing near a brick-kiln when the accused accosted her and took her along.  After committing the crime, the accused fled away.  Investigating Officer Bishan Sahai said the victim had been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Hanumangarh, on Friday. Preliminary investigation reportedly indicated that Raju had been changing his workplaces every few months.  A case had been registered under relevant sections of the IPC and POCSO Act.
21-03-2020||Our Correspondent---||Gangaur fest a low-key affair||Abohar, March 20  Women of Maheshwari (Marwari Aggarwal) community on Friday kept celebrations of Gangaur festival a low-key affair in the wake of increasing cases of Covid.  The festival showcased the rich culture and heritage of the community and the annual Gangaur procession in all its finery and grandeur proved to be a spectacular show.  On Friday, a few women assembled at the residence of former Municipal Council president Pramil Kalani to take out the Gangaur procession through main roads, but they decided to restrict it to a street only. Maheshwari Mahila Sangathan president Sunita Gilda said Gauri Tritiya, popularly known as Gangaur, is celebrated extensively in North India. The festival, which celebrates marital happiness, is a 18-day-long affair which begins on the first day of Chaitra month. Gangaur puja is dedicated to Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati. ‘Gana’ means Shiva and ‘Gaur’ means Parvati and this divine couple is worshipped by the womenfolk where they wish for the longevity of their husbands. The day is also known as Saubhagya Teej.
21-03-2020||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Another arrest in 30 kg Ludhiana gold robbery||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana March 20After a team of Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) cracked the case, wherein 30 kg of gold was stolen in broad daylight a few days back, another development has led to the arrest of a Ludhiana-based gold artisan.The accused, identified as Shashi Kant, alias Sudhama, was secretly picked up by the team of OCCU from his office near Fountain Chowk. The team has discovered that the accused has alleged links with gangster Jaipal and his brother Amritpal, while the Ludhiana police was in deep slumber all this while.One of the investigation officers of OCCU said an FIR had already been lodged against the accused, and he was sent to a three-day police remand.With the arrest of Sudhama, a question mark looms over the working of city police officials. Sources said the accused had bought significant quantity of gold from gangster Jaipal and his brother Amritpal. To top it all, both gangsters had hideouts in Ludhiana, even then the local police couldn’t connect the dots.OCCU officials said role of some jewellers was also under scanner for their alleged transactions with the arrested accused.On February 17, five robbers had entered the branch of India Infoline Finance Limited and stole 30 kg of gold worth Rs12 crore. The OCCU has already arrested Amritpal from his hideout in Mohali and recovered 10 kg of gold from him. Others arrested in the case include Gagan Judge, Pardeep Singh of Gardiwala village in Hoshiarpur, and Harpreet Singh of Ferozepur’s Peer Mohammad village. Two persons, Jaipal and Gursewak, are still at large.
21-03-2020||Saurabh Malik||Extend date for ETT post applications: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 20Less than a month after the Punjab Government came out with advertisements for appointments in master cadre and ETT teachers, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked Punjab Principal Secretary, Department of School Education, to take a decision on extending the last date for receiving applications beyond March 31 in view of the Covid threat.The directions came on a bunch of petitions filed by Steffy Kamboj and other petitioners through counsel Sukhdev Kamboj. There are 2,182 posts in master cadre and 1,664 of ETT teachers.Taking up the petitions, Justice Augustine George Masih asserted: “Keeping in view the peculiar circumstances, which are being faced with by the country, rather the world as a whole, it would be appropriate for the Principal Secretary, Department of School Education, to take a decision to extend the last date for receipt of applications for appointment in pursuance of advertisement dated February 28 beyond March 31 as the endeavour on the part of the state should be to avoid people coming out of their houses and visiting public places.”The direction came after the Bench was told that the ‘subject tests’ for the posts advertised were slated for March 28 for PSTET-I and March 29 for PSTET-II. But the dates of subject tests for the posts stood postponed to April 25 and April 26.The Punjab School Education Board has already undertaken to declare by March 23 the result of Punjab State Teachers Eligibility Test-I and II of 2018. The test was conducted on January 19, but the result was not declared. In the absence of the result, the candidates seeking appointment to posts of master/mistress had been virtually pushed out of race.As a bunch of petitions filed in the matter came up for hearing before Justice Augustine George Masih, the undertakings on declaration of results were given by the board counsel on instructions from the Controller of Examination.“Keeping in view the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case and the grievances which have been highlighted by the petitioners, let the application forms in the shape of hard copy of the petitioners be accepted provisionally by director, education recruitment directorate, Punjab, which are to be submitted by the petitioners on or before March 25.... The result of the petitioners be produced in the Court on the next date of hearing,” Justice Masih had added.
21-03-2020||---||Family protests police ‘inaction’ in suicide case||Sangrur, March 20 Relatives of Gurpreet Singh, who reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself on March 12, and members of the BKU (Dakaunda) and the BKU (Lakhowal) protested outside the Sadar police station in Dhuri on Friday, alleging that the police were delaying the arrest of the accused under pressure from a Congress leader. They refused to cremate Gurpreet’s body till the arrest of all three accused, identified as his wife Jaskirat Kaur, mother-in-law Paramjit Kaur and brother-in-law Lali Singh. “A Congress leader is shielding the accused and mounting pressure on the police to delay the arrest. We will not cremate the body till the arrest of all three accused,” said Kulwinder Singh, a protester. Gurpreet committed suicide at his house in the district’s Punnawal village after allegedly facing harassment from the accused, who were booked under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC at the Sadar police station in Dhuri on March 13. Sub Inspector Pritpal Singh, who is probing the matter, refuted the allegation of any pressure from a Congress leader. “There is no delay on our part. After the police received a complaint, a case was registered. The police are conducting raids on the possible hideouts of the accused,” he said.
21-03-2020||Ferozepur||Farmer booked for death of 2 labourers in his fields||The police have booked a farmer following the death of two labourers in his fields when the earth caved in as a result of illegal sand mining in the district’s Kot Karor Kalan village last month.All this while, the families of the deceased labourers, identified as Kuldip Singh (40) and Jarnail Singh (41), did not file a complaint succumbing to pressure from the accused.It was Karamjit Singh, a member of an activist group, who brought the matter to the notice of Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Bhupinder Singh in a complaint dated March 12.Subsequently, the SSP ordered that an FIR in the incident. On March 19, the accused, Jagsir Singh, alias Sheera, was booked under Sections 304-A and 379 of the IPC, and Section 21(3) of the Mining and Minerals Act. Investigating Officer Jora Singh said illegal sand mining was taking place in the fields of Jagsir Singh on the intervening night of February 19 and 20. The earth caved in and Kuldip and Jarnail, working in the fields, died. The SSP said, “The police will not spare anyone involved in illegal sand mining.” — OC
21-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Heroin worth Rs 5 cr recovered||Ferozepur, March 20Sleuths of the Narcotics Control Cell of the state police have arrested one person and recovered 1 kg of heroin worth Rs5 crore from him.The accused has been identified as Boota Singh, a resident of Sethan Wala village in Mamdot block. Inspector Paramjit Singh said following a tip-off, the sleuths of the Narcotics Cell nabbed the accused, Boota Singh. “The accused was nabbed near Jodhpur village when he was coming on his bike at around 6.15 pm. During checking, 1 kg of heroin was recovered from him,” Singh said. A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against the accused at the Mamdot police station.Sleuths of the CI wing have nabbed three persons and recovered 2,300 intoxicating tablets from them. The accused have been identified as Manpreet Singh, Bhupinder Singh and Bakshish Singh. A case under Sections 21, 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against the accused at the Lakho Ke Behram police station.In another case registered at the Lakho Ke Behram police station, one person identified as Hoshiar Singh, a resident of Killi village, was apprehended with 20 gm of heroin. The accused had been booked under the NDPS Act.Drug racket: Rs 1.14 cr seized Barnala, March 20During the investigation into a major drug racket, busted by Barnala police last week with the seizure of seized 40 lakh tablets, the police have seized moreRs1.14 crore from the bank locker of accused Rajinder Kumar during last two days.On Sunday, a police team had arrested Rajinder Kumar from Malerkotla and seized 1,60,590 habit-forming tablets from his possession and Rs35.6 lakh drug money. He was running a medicine shop.“To date, we have seized a total Rs1.49 crore in the racket and conducting further investigation,” said SSP Sandeep Goel. — TNS
21-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Youth Cong leader among 4 booked for assault on man||Abohar, March 20The police have booked four men, including a Youth Congress leader, for allegedly targeting a resident of Fazilka’s Bhagsar village outside DAV College here on Monday.As per an FIR registered under Section 307 of the IPC and the Arms Act, Amit Godara of Modikhera village and Rakesh Poonia of Rampura Narayanpura village and two unidentified men accosted a car outside the campus and allegedly fired at Jasbir Kumar. At least, three rounds were fired.Complainant Jasbir said it was an attempt to kill him over a petty dispute, but he escaped.
21-03-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Most contractors go for liquor licence renewal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 20A continuity in the highly lucrative excise business is expected in 2020-21, as most of the contractors allotted contracts for this year, have gone in for renewal of their liquor licences.The success of this policy of renewal will ensure that the cash-strapped Punjab Government will be able to achieve the targets set for the excise collection for 2020-21. The government has set a target for collecting Rs 6,250 crore from excise collections in the next fiscal.During the ongoing financial year, against a target of collecting Rs 6,201 crore, the state is expected to collect just Rs 5,676 crore.The former Akali Dal MLA and liquor contractor, Deep Malhotra, has emerged as the major player in the liquor retail business, even as 67 per cent of the liquor licence holders for the ongoing fiscal (2019-20) have gone in for renewal of licences. Malhotra has got the maximum vends in Bathinda, Faridkot, Fazilka, Abohar and Malout, while having almost pan Punjab presence.Of the 756 groups in Punjab, 500 applied for renewal of licences. They deposited the licence fee (Rs 10 lakh) earlier and deposited a part of the Minimum Guaranteed Revenue (12 percent of excess part of revenue) today. The reason for such a positive response to the renewal of licence scheme, say officials, is that it eliminates the risk of vends allotted through a lottery system. These contractors have also been allowed to do business from their existing premises.The auction for the remaining groups was held yesterday, with almost 15 per cent being successfully allotted. Sources in the liquor trade say almost all big players, including Jasdeep Kaur Chadha and the family of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Arvind Singla, have again maintained their sizeable presence in the trade.“Almost 30-40 per cent vends in Jalandhar and Amritsar could not be auctioned, as these licensing units suffered huge losses. We are hopeful to complete the process of their allocation before the month-end,” a senior official in the Excise and Taxation Department told The Tribune.The liquor contractors had earlier raised the issue of liquor smuggling bleeding them during this year. They had also accused at least two distillers in the state of smuggling out their own products from their distilleries, without accounting for them. Since no excise duty was paid for this smuggled liquor, it was being sold at much lower prices than the retail price of liquor sold in the vends. The issue was reportedly discussed with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh last month, who has assured the contractors of stopping the smuggling.In all, 500 applicants in stateOf the 756 groups in Punjab, 500 applied for renewal of licences. They deposited the licence fee(Rs10 lakh) earlier and deposited a part of the Minimum Guaranteed Revenue (12 per cent of excess part of revenue) on Friday
21-03-2020||---||Gangster Budha’s key aide held||Moga, March 20In a major breakthrough, the police have arrested a gangster, Varinder Pal Singh, alias Veena, who was a key aide of the dreaded criminal Sukhpreet Singh Budha and recovered a .32 bore pistol along with a few live cartridges from him.Confirming the arrest, SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said Veena had helped Budha flee from India in 2018. He used to collect ransom from local businessmen on the behalf of Budha and also used to supply weapons to him and other gangsters.Veena is a resident of Buttar Kalan village. He was coming from Barnala side in a Swift car when the cops intercepted him after getting a tip-off. During checking, a .32 bore pistol and two magazines and seven live cartridges were recovered from him. The police had also impounded the car in which he was travelling, the SSP said.Preliminary investigation revealed that the weapon recovered from him belonged to Budha, who had handed it over to one Navtej Singh of Ransinh Kalan village before leaving the country. Veena took the weapon from him.The police had registered a criminal case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against Varinder Pal Singh, Navtej Singh and Sukhpreet Singh Budha at the Badhni Kalan police station.The SSP said Navtej Sigh was eluding arrest while Budha was in judicial custody. As many as eight criminal cases have been registered against Veena at various police stations, the SSP added.It may be mentioned that Budha was deported from Armenia on November 22, 2019, and arrested by the Punjab Police from the Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi, on the same day.Budha was allegedly accused in at least 15 criminal cases of murders, extortions and other heinous crimes in many districts of the state and is also suspected to be in contact with pro-Khalistani elements.Moga-based Budha was formerly an associate of Devinder Singh Bambiha gang, but, after Bambiha’s death in an encounter in 2016, he joined hands with Vicky Gounderwho had escaped from Nabha Jail by that time.Ran extortion racketSSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said gangster Veena had helped Budha flee from India in 2018. He used to collect ransom from local businessmen on behalf of Budha and also supplied weapons to him and other gangsters. Veena is a resident of Buttar Kalan village. He was coming from Barnala side in a Swift car when the cops intercepted him after getting a tip-off
21-03-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Staff strength in Punjab govt offices reduced by 50%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 20In response to the Covid threat, the Punjab Government on Friday decided to reduce by 50 per cent the strength of employees in its offices across the state.On instructions from the Centre to all state governments, the Personnel Department on Friday asked all administrative secretaries, Deputy Commissioners and the Registrar of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to ensure that only 50 per cent of Group B, C and D employees attended office every day while the rest worked from home.The order is not applicable to Group A officers, offices and employees handling emergency services and those engaged in tackling the spread of Covid.After getting approval from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the department issued instructions, asking heads of all departments to prepare fortnightly duty roster for Group B, C and D staff. Employees will attend office on alternative fortnight. The first fortnight will be from March 23 to April 5 and the second from April 6 to 19.Instructions have also been issued to stagger working hours into three slots: 9 am to 5 pm, 9.30 am to 5.30 pm and 10 am to 6 pm.To review the implementation of preventive measures, the Chief Secretary chaired a meeting of administrative secretaries.The department made it clear that those working from home should respond to calls from office. They will not be allowed to leave headquarters or make themselves unreachable by switching off their phones. If required, they would have to come to office. No internet shutdown: CMChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has appealed to people not to believe in unsubstantiated reports that his government was shutting down internet. “I request Punjabis not to share unsubstantiated news as it may create panic. That the Punjab Government is shutting down Internet is fake news. Action will be taken against anyone involved in spreading rumours,” he tweeted.Visitor passes discontinuedAs a preventive measure, the state government has stopped issuing visitor passes at the Civil Secretariat and Mini Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh. Physical frisking of visitors and employees at the Secretariat has been stopped. Instead, metal detectors are being used.
21-03-2020||---||Buses to ply on 48 routes in Punjab||Chandigarh, March 20The Punjab Government has allowed PRTC and Punjab Roadways buses to ply on 48 important routes in the state, while suspending the operation of all private buses with effect from March 20 midnight to March 31.The new directions, issued a day after the Group of Ministers headed by Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, announced measures to implement social distancing.All auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws have been banned from operating in the state. All inter-state buses too were banned from entering the state, a notification issued by the Transport Department clarified.The goods carriers and private service vehicles are allowed to operate in the state.However, the department has suspended the work of issuing driving licences and conducting driving tests for the public till end of the month. The department staff would be asked to work and clear all pending work, said Dr Amarpal Singh, State Transport Commissioner. — TNS
21-03-2020||Chandigarh||Milk supply to continue, says minister||Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today said the supply of milk would continue uninterruptedly across the state and advised the people not to panic in the wake of Covid.He said Milkfed was prepared to tackle any exigency arising out of the viral disease. He also assured that Milkfed would increase sufficient and uninterrupted supply of fresh milk in pouches, besides skimmed milk and milk powder would be made available at Verka outlets/milk bars and retail shops for consumers.He also appealed to people not to panic since Milkfed as of today was processing 16 per cent more milk as compared to March last year.Milkfed MD KS Sangha said, “There is no likelihood of shortage of milk and milk products in Punjab and neighboring states.” — TNS
21-03-2020||---||Capt Amarinder seeks fiscal package from PM||Chandigarh, March 20In view of the escalating Covid cases in the state, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has asked from the Centre for a fiscal package to combat the crisis and permission to conduct tests in private hospitals and labs.He raised the demands during a video-conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. All with Chief Ministers interacted with the PM via video-conferencing.Capt Amarinder said, “There is an urgent need to scale up testing of suspected Covid patients. Hence, the Centre should immediately allow private medical colleges and super-specialty hospitals to conduct tests.”He suggested that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) should be allowed to test close contacts of persons who have tested positive for Covid.The Chief Minister also requested the Prime Minister to extend the travel ban on international flights for two weeks instead of one to prevent NRIs landing in Punjab, and to enable the state government track and test all those who have already landed in the state from abroad.The Chief Minister further recommended that additional five kg of wheat should be provided to every person under the food security mission to help people in the hour of crisis. He also suggested that the Centre should soon come out with a comprehensive proposal to mitigate the adverse economic impact of Covid.Capt Amarinder assured Modi his government was prepared to combat any exigency arising out of Covid.
21-03-2020||---||Justice Gill panel suspends work||Chandigarh, March 20The Justice Mehtab Singh Gill Commission of inquiry has suspended its functioning till March 31 in view of the Covid threat. It has shot off a communication in this regard to the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Home Affairs and Justice.The commission was constituted about three years ago to look into the cases of false implication during the 10-year regime of the SAD-BJP government. — TNS
21-03-2020||---||SGPC scales down staff strength at Golden Temple||Amritsar, March 20Social DistancingThe SGPC, government and NGOs are taking unprecedented measures to thwart the Covid threat in the city.The SGPC has scaled down its staff strength at the Golden Temple and directed devotees not to walk in groups to avoid any body touch.In a communiqué to managers of all gurdwaras, the SGPC has urged them to call minimum staff to maintain the maryada (sanctity) of shrines. Public address system is being utilised at the Golden Temple to ask devotees to maintain distance from each other. Besides, the number of queues has been curtailed at Sri Guru Ram Das Langar Hall.Only two queues are allowed on the causeway connecting the sanctum sanctorum. Sewadars have been asked to guide the sangat to maintain distance with each other. Meanwhile, people resorted to panic buying. The prices of vegetables, groceries and other essential items have increased.The price of 1-kg potatoes increased from Rs 20 to Rs 40, onion from Rs 40 to Rs 80, carrot from Rs 20 to Rs 50, cauliflower from Rs 30 to Rs 50, okra from Rs 50 to Rs 100, bitter gourd from Rs 60 to Rs 100 and capsicum from Rs 40 to Rs 80. Similarly, the prices of cereals, pulses, lentils, mustard oil, vegetable oils and other items also increased by Rs 10 to Rs 20 per kg.Auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws were seen plying on roads. There were less number of people and vehicles on all commercial roads in the city. The number of suspected cases swelled to six in the isolation centre and 86 are under observation in different quarantine centres in the city.Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal, Civil Surgeon, said so far, there was only one confirmed positive case in the district. Reports of two suspected patients came negative.
21-03-2020||---||No table -marking, take papers home: PSEB||Faridkot, March 20Changing its five-year-old practice of table marking in Class 10 and 12 board exams in view of Covid, the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on Friday asked teachers to take answer sheets home.In a letter to principals of all schools and coordinators of marking centres, the PSEB said in view of the Covid threat, the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) had decided to stop the table marking so that there was no assembly of these teachers at one place.In 2015, the PSEB had started table marking for answer sheets of Class 10 and 12 board exams.The table marking was started to ensure that evaluation was done with utmost care on the campus and errors were minimised. In table marking, teachers used to sit in one room of a marking centre, set up at a school.Practical exams postponedBaba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, on Friday announced to postpone the practical examination of nursing, physiotherapy and pharmacy courses, which were scheduled to start on March 21, for an indefinite period in view of Covid spread
21-03-2020||Patiala||MP seeks  help for out of work daily wagers||Two days after The Tribune carried a report highlighting the plight of daily wagers due to the lockdown, Patiala MP Preneet Kaur on Friday, while delivering a speech in Parliament, sought the Central Government’s intervention to help the workers.Suggesting that the intervention should be in the form of temporary aid or resource package for poor and daily wage earners, the MP urged the Ministry of Labour and Employment to immediately chalk out a strategy to provide economic relief to those who survived on daily income and under the current circumstances finding it difficult to make ends meet.The demands were put up during a special discussion on matters of urgent public importance in Parliament.Preneet also urged corporates and other companies to provide financial help to these citizens, whose lives had been severely hit due to the pandemic. She also trashed the reports that the Internet services in the state would be shut down at midnight, saying no such step was being taken. — TNS
21-03-2020||Manav Mander---||Institutions closed, students take to e-learning||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, March 20 As educational institutes have been shut till March 31 keeping in view the threat of Covid, schools and colleges are taking online classes of students. The decision has been taken by them to compensate the loss of time.  School heads said since the break was going too long, they did not want the students to lose touch with studies. Assignments are given to them on a regular basis which will be assessed when the schools reopen. Amid the uncertainty and fear the pandemic has brought, the Sat Paul Mittal School has also transitioned to ‘Remote Learning Work Plan’ to minimise the disruption in children’s learning. Leveraging the power of digital technology, the teachers have designed lesson modules to create an enriching resource pool in sync with the learning expectations of students. The Sacred Heart Convent School is sending daily assignments to students and also sharing the links of sites where students can understand the lessons.  “We did not want the students to sit idle during this time. All lessons will be taught to them once the school reopens,” a teacher said. GHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar, has also adopted online teaching-learning mode for students. The faculty members are making available to the students study material for their respective subjects with the help of social media platforms like WhatsApp. Students are also advised to clarify their doubts regarding the study material by making use of the online mode.  Similarly, the Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College has taken various steps to compensate the loss of studies. Sehijpal Singh, principal, has instructed the teaching faculty to be in constant contact with students through online platforms. HS Rai, Controller of Examination and HoD, said, “The faculty has also been advised to keep e-accounts prepared so that these can be shared with the students accordingly.” He said the professors were interacting with students through a two-way communication platform, known as Moodle.  “The e-learning efforts are encouraged as a constant effort of learning as per UGC guidelines also. The remote e-learning has been found to be the best method to deal with curricular requirements in modern learning,” he added.
21-03-2020||---||Kin of Sangrur MBBS student stuck in Malaysia await her return||Sangrur, March 20The family of an MBBS student, stuck in Malaysia with 250 others, has been struggling hard to get the girl back home.“My niece Mahima Gupta (24), an MBBS student from Kasturba Medical College, Mangalore, went to Malaysia for a month-long internship at International Medical University, Kuala Lumpur, from March 12 to April 20,” said Pardeep Gupta.“After the rise in Covid cases, the Malaysian authorities cancelled her internship and Mahima booked her return ticket, but her flight was cancelled at the last minute on March 18. Since then she has been at her university hostel, while other 250 Indians are stuck at the airport. We have been requesting the authorities concerned to help us, but nobody is listening,” said Gupta. Mahima, in a message sent to her family, stated: “Our Indian Government has evacuated citizens from worst-hit places like, Iran and Rome. Why it is not taking any steps to bring back those stranded in Malaysia.”She said many people did not have money or any place to stay. “I urge the Indian Government to immediately look into the matter,” she added.Others too have sent a video to the government for help. Not a single resident of any other country is stuck here and even Pakistan has rescued their citizens. But only Indians are awaiting help. “We request the Indian Government to help us,” said an Indian. Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said he would request Punjab AAP chief Bhagwant Mann to take up the matter with Minister of External Affairs. “It’s really a serious issue. I request Mann to take up the matter with the minister to rescue all citizens,” said Cheema.
21-03-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Six villages locked down in Garhshankar||Garhshankar, March 20The district administration has barred the entry of outsiders to six villages — Moranwali, Aiman Jattan, Binjhon, Sooni, Noorpur Jattan and Posi — amid Covid scare.On learning that an elderly person at Moranwali village was in touch with the 70-year-old Nawanshahr man, who died in Banga hospital two days ago, the authorities cordoned off the villages. Dr Raghuveer Singh, SMO, PHC, Moranwali, told mediapersons that after Moranwali village resident showed symptoms, he was admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur. All villagers are being screened.Apart from this, an announcement was made in gurdwaras and temples that the villagers are not supposed to come out of their houses.Meanwhile, one more elderly person from Garhshankar village was admitted to the isolation ward. His son was also taken to Hoshiarpur for check-up.Civil Surgeon, Hoshiarpur, Dr Jasvir Singh confirmed that there were two persons in the isolation ward and their samples had been sent for testing. Six more persons from different villages of Garhshankar were sent to Hoshiarpur for investigation after they showed Covid symptoms.Garhshankar DSP Satish Kumar said police personnel had been deployed in all villages. No outsider was allowed to enter these areas.SDM Harbans Singh said Section 144 had been imposed in six villages of Garhshankar under the directions of the DC and the people had been advised to stay at home.Meanwhile, six more persons were sent to Hoshiarpur for check-up. One is a resident of Nangal, whose father is also in the isolation ward. Three persons from Binewal village and two from Malkowal have also been sent to Hoshiarpur.Forced shutdown triggers panic STATE TRACKERTwo Covid suspects put in isolation Fatehgarh Sahib: High drama was witnessed at Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Engineering College when a person, who came from abroad, was contacted by the local Health Department and requested to quarantine himself in his house for 14 days. However, he did not heed the request and rather started moving outside openly. Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, said he was brought to the Civil Hospital, but he fled. Then, he was brought back again. The another case was reported in Amloh subdivision, but he has tested negative. OC2 suspects in Barnala, Sangrur Barnala: Two Covid suspects have been admitted to hospitals in Barnala and Sangrur. “Two patients were admitted to a local hospital. There is no need to panic as the situation is under control,” said TPS Phoolka, DC, Barnala. The Sangrur administration has made special isolation wards in Mastuana Sahib hostel, Gurdwara Nanakiana Sahib and Mahakali temple. “A suspected woman patient was admitted to Sangrur Civil Hospital and we are providing treatment to her,” said Raj Kumar, Sangrur Civil Surgeon. TNSYouth’s body handed over to familyJalandhar: The body of a youth, who had allegedly committed suicide in New Delhi, was handed over to the family today after two days. Sukhdev Singh, uncle of the deceased, said after several requests, the post-mortem was finally done. “We wanted to cremate the body of our son without any suspicion in the mind, and wanted to perform last rites properly,” he said. The 23-year-old’s father had arrived from Mumbai today after receiving the news. The uncle said the post-mortem report would come in a few days. TNS
21-03-2020||Our Correspondent---||Admn gets Rs 15L from relief fund||Abohar, March 20 On Friday, normalcy returned to vegetable and grocery markets which were gripped by panic-buying on Thursday evening, choking traffic on Circular Road and other areas.  After the state government announced to ban buses, tempos and autos from Friday midnight, several fake messages were being circulated on WhatsApp groups. Among them, one of the most circulated messages read that all markets would soon be shut down. The administration urged locals not to pay heed to such messages. Many vegetable vendors were reportedly charging a high price for daily essentials on Thursday, and had exhausted their available stock. However, the demand had fallen by Friday.  Sources said the state government had provided Rs15 lakh to the Deputy Commissioner and Rs5 lakh to the Civil Surgeon in Fazilka  under the State Disaster Relief Fund for taking preventive steps against Covid. PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday met CM Capt Amarinder Singh and apprised him of the same. The said amount can help arrange masks for the field staff, who had reportedly been showing reluctance in carrying out the surveys.  In Sriganganagar, health officials, traced five persons who hadn’t informed the administration about their arrival from Italy. The NRIs and their six local acquaintances were taken to the Civil Hospital.
21-03-2020||---||24 more isolated after patient’s death||Jalandhar, March 20At least 24 persons in Jalandhar, Phagwara and Hoshiarpur have been placed under quarantine given the trail of places the 70-year-old man along with his family members visited since March 17 until his demise on March 18.The man, who had visited Italy earlier in March, was the first Covid casualty in the state. While he and his family visited hospitals in Phagwara and Jalandhar two days before the death, neither the health authorities at Kapurthala nor at Jalandhar placed him in isolation which led to his continued exposure until his death on March 18 morning.Despite receiving intimation that a Covid suspect had been reported at Patel Hospital on the night of March 17, the health authorities in Jalandhar failed to place him under isolation that very night. Those under quarantine include four staff members at the Civil Hospital of Jalandhar, his four relatives at Phillaur and nine people at Patel Hospital.The deceased, along with family members, first visited a relative on Monday night. Suffering chest pain, he stayed with them until late evening after which he was taken to a private hospital in Phagwara late in the night. Shifted to Patel Hospital in Jalandhar on Tuesday evening, he was kept in the emergency ward. He was then shifted to the Civil Hospital’s trauma centre at 1 am on Tuesday night, but the family decided to move him from there.Dr Sagun Sood, administrator of the Patel Hospital, said, “The patient and his family hid their history from us. It took us some time before we knew they were affected. The patient’s family said they wanted to shift him. While they were provided due treatment here, they moved out of their own choice. We have sanitised the hospital.”The priest from Moranwali village, whom he came in contact with, has also been quarantined. Of the 24 people placed under isolation, 17 are from Jalandhar alone.
21-03-2020||---||Anandpur Sahib borders sealed as coronavirus victim had attended Hola Mohalla||Anandpur Sahib, March 20The district administration today locked down Anandpur Sahib and started a door-to-door survey to trace people showing symptoms of Covid.The move comes following the death of a 70-year-old man, a resident of Nawanshahr, who tested positive and had attended Hola Mohalla functions in Anandpur Sahib 10 days ago. While all shops, barring medical and grocery stores, were ordered to shut down, the town’s borders were sealed by deploying heavy police force in the morning. Fifty teams of the Health Department have started a survey of 4,000 houses to trace suspected patients.The number of devotees reaching Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib also dropped to a few 100. Nearly 10,000 people visit the gurdwara every day.The staff at the gurdwara were also screened. Sub-divisional Magistrate Kanu Garg said the survey was conducted till 6 pm covering 1,800 houses. However, no suspected case of Covid was found. Ropar Civil Surgeon HN Sharma said a patient, who had returned from Dubai and showed symptoms of the virus, had tested negative.
