22-04-2020||New Delhi||BRO builds bridge to connect remote Punjab enclave with country||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has constructed and opened a new permanent bridge on the Ravi river that connects the Kasowal enclave in Punjab with the rest of the country, the Defence Ministry said on Wednesday.The 484-metre permanent bridge was completed much ahead of its schedule, the ministry noted.The enclave of around 35 square kilometre had been connected through a pontoon bridge of limited load capacity till now, the ministry said in a press release.“This meant thousands of acres of fertile land across the river could not be tilled by farmers during the monsoon,” the ministry said. — PTI@BROindia has constructed and opened a new permanent bridge on the river Ravi connecting Kasowal enclave in Punjab to the rest of the country much ahead of its schedule. An enclave of around 35 sq kms had hitherto been connected via pontoon bridge of limited load capacity pic.twitter.com/Vh68YStUfT
22-04-2020||Patiala||Coronavirus: With 30 of Patiala’s 49 cases, Rajpura becomes new cause for worry||Patiala reported a spike in coronavirus cases on Wednesday---18 people testes positive in suburban Rajpura, taking the district tally to 49.Rajpura alone accounts for 30 of the 49 cases, emerging as a hotspot.Health department authorities said a major reason this is a hookah party that two businessmen organised in defiance of curfew orders---in fact, all 18 people who tested positive on Wednesday were linked to the party.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said: “Out of the 70 samples taken from the Rajpura, 18 people tested positive for the coronavirus. We will move the 18 positive cases to the isolation ward of the district at Government Rajindra Hospital”.
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: 7-month-old Phagwara infant with congenital heart defect tests positive; admitted to Chandigarh’s PGI||A seven-month-old baby from Phagwara with a congenital heart defect tested positive for coronavirus at Chandigarh’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, doctors said on Wednesday.The baby had been admitted to Ludhiana's Apollo Hospital Ludhiana until April 8, and was then moved to Chandigarh's Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, where she was critically ill and required continuous ventilator support and antimicrobials.She was to undergo a corrective surgery when the coronavirus infection was diagnosed. The source of the infection is yet unknown.“After a detailed assessment by the cardiologists and cardiothoracic surgeons, she was due to be taken up for open-heart surgery in the Advanced Cardiology Centre, PGI. However, a preoperative test for COVID-19 turned out to be positive on April 21,” read an official statement by PGI.The baby was subsequently moved to PGI’s COVID facility in Nehru Hospital Extension, PGI, and continues to receive ventilator support.
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Patiala reports 18 new cases in 24 hours, takes district tally to 49||Punjab has recorded 26 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours, taking the state tally to 277.Patiala saw a major spike in cases on Wednesday---the district reported 18 new infections, taking its number to 49. Five people tested positive in Jalandhar---all contacts of previously diagnosed patients, the state government’s evening bulletin said.Kapurthala recorded one new case---a 7-month-old baby from Phagwara tested positive in Chandigarh on Wednesday afternoon, officials said. The source of the infant's infection is yet unknown.The infant has a congenital heart disease, and had been admitted to Ludhiana's Apollo Hospital Ludhiana until April 8, and was then moved to Chandigarh's Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, where she was critically ill and required continuous ventilator support and antimicrobials.The hospital said that after she showed some improvement, doctors began to prepare for a corrective surgery. “After a detailed assessment by the cardiologists and cardiothoracic surgeons, she was due to be taken up for open-heart surgery in the Advanced Cardiology Centre, PGI. However, a preoperative test for COVID-19 turned out to be positive on April 21," PGIMER's official statement said.Amritsar reported two new cases, taking the district's tally to 13.The development takes the number of cases in Kapurthala to three, with one cured. Punjab has tested 7,887 cases and has recorded 16 deaths. There are 188 active cases in the state, with one patient who is in critical condition on ventilator support and another on oxygen support.Mohali still has the highest number of cases at 62, followed by Jalandhar at 53. Wednesday's development makes Patiala the district with the third highest number of infections in the state.
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Unable to complete orders, combine harvester makers stare at losses||Punjab-based combine harvester makers are staring at losses as they are unable to complete orders received from parts of the country due to the coronavirus lockdown.Their hopes were dashed by the labour shortage due to which they could not run their manufacturing units to their full capacity in the peak season of March and April.According to the manufacturers, they were expecting to sell about 4,000 of these machines in several parts of the country such as Haryana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra.But a shortage of labour force adversely impacted their manufacturing operations.“Migrants from Bihar and UP, who form a sizable chunk of the workforce, have not returned yet,” said Amar Singh, general secretary of the All-India Combine Manufacturers' Association.He added that they are left with just 1/10th of the workforce.“It was a peak time for us. But all expectations have been dashed,” said Amar Singh.“Nobody knows how long this lockdown will last,” said another combine harvester maker, Sukhwinder Singh.They are worried about the completion of their orders for which they have already received some payment in advance.“Farmers who placed orders with us are now demanding their money back with interest and some are even demanding double the amount,” said Sukhwinder Singh, who was aiming to sell 250-300 machines.They appealed to the Centre to waive bank interest on loans for six months, at least. They also wanted their electricity bills to be waived for six months.The manufacturers said they did not have enough financial resources to make payment pay to their workers."The government should bear the burden of wages. We are not in a position to pay wages. The government can pay them from the provident fund or ESI fund,” they said.There are nearly 100 farm equipment makers—large, medium and small—who make combine harvesters in Punjab. PTI
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab hotspot SBS Nagar now coronavirus-free, 18 patients cured||A 16-year-old was discharged on Wednesday from a hospital in SBS Nagar district, where no infected person now remains under treatment.SBS Nagar was the first Punjab district to report a COVID-19 death. But the other 18 infected people have now been cured in what was initially regarded as a coronavirus hotspot. The 16-year-old was the last among the total 18 coronavirus patients to be discharged from the SBS Nagar civil hospital after the report of his second sample came negative, an official said.No infected patient is now left at the civil hospital, SBS Nagar civil surgeon Rajinder Prasad Bhatia told PTI.Seventeen coronavirus patients returned home earlier after they were fully cured of the virus.Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar, formerly known as Nawanshahr, a COVID-19 hotspot district, has so far reported 19 coronavirus cases including one death. It has not reported a fresh case since March 26.With the death of a 70-year-old man last month in SBS Nagar, Punjab had reported its first COVID-19 related casualty.The septuagenarian, a resident of Pathlawa village in the district, had returned from Germany via Italy and died on March 18. He had tested positive for the infection after his death. Officials had said he had infected 27 people who belong to SBS Nagar, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur. Among the 27, fourteen were his own family members including his two-year-old grandson.SBS Nagar Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bublani attributed the success in containing fresh cases and curing coronavirus patients to people's support and proper implementation of the containment plan, contact listing and door to door surveillance of the district."People have been very supportive to our efforts, and they know whatever we are doing is in their interest only. Without their support, it would not have been possible for us," said Bublani on Wednesday.He said the containment plan was implemented effectively in the district, that has a population of about six lakh, and 15 villages were properly sealed to check the spread of coronavirus.With the support of the civil administration staff, health workers, police and locals, the contact listing of positive cases was carried out extensively so that any patient whould not remain unattended, said Bublani, adding that at least 700 samples have been tested for coronavirus in the district so far.Taking good care of COVID-19 patients, keeping them in good spirit and giving them good diet was another step that helped in their speedy recovery, he further said."Proper counselling of patients was done at the civil hospital so that they always remain in positive frame of mind. Our efforts have always been that they should not feel that they were acute patients. We always told them that they can be treated," the DC told PTI.Door to door surveillance of the whole district was another exercise which helped in checking the spread of coronavirus, he said, adding that the district administration was again going to carry out door-to-door survey. PTI
22-04-2020|| Punjab||Shah has acceded to our request to bring pilgrims stranded at Nanded back to Punjab: Capt||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said Union Home Minister Amit Shah had acceded to their demand to allow Punjab pilgrims stranded at Nanded in Maharashtra to return home.The CM had urged the Union Home Minister on this after his Maharasthra counterpart had said that the Centre’s permission was required for that.The Chief Minister had spoken to Maharashtra Chief Minister Udhav Thackery, who had said permission would be needed from the Centre for the return of the stranded pilgrims in view of the national lockdown.The Punjab Chief Minister then wrote to Shah, urging him to allow the return of the pilgrims, stranded at Gurdwara Sri Nanded Sahib in Maharashtra amid lockdown due to COVID-19, by bus to Punjab.Just received a call from MH CM @OfficeofUT who confirmed that HM @AmitShah Ji has conceded to our request for travel of our pilgrims stuck in Hazur Sahib, Nanded to Punjab. Have asked Chief Secretary to tie up logistics & we will bear the cost of transportation. Thank you all!  Meanwhile, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal thanked Amit Shah for speaking to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for the evacuation of Sikh devotees stranded at the historic Gurdwara Hazur Sahib at Nanded.The Bathinda MP also asked the Punjab government to permit buses in which devotees were being brought to the state from Maharashtra."Came to Delhi to meet HM @AmitShah ji & thank him for speaking to Maharashtra CM today to fast track repatriation of Sikh devotees stranded at Hazur Sahib. Now request Pb govt to give permission to buses arranged by SAD since 3 days to bring them back home at earliest (sic)," Harsimrat tweeted.Came to Delhi to meet HM @AmitShah ji & thank him for speaking to Maharashtra CM @OfficeofUT today to fast track repatriation of Sikh devotees stranded at Hazur Sahib. Now request Pb govt to give permission to buses arranged by SAD since 3 days to bring them back home at earliestAround 2,000 pilgrims from Punjab had gone to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded in Maharashtra before the lockdown was imposed. Due to the cancellation of trains, all devotees were stranded there. With PTI
22-04-2020||Ludhiana||Punjab industry associations voice concerns on opening units despite govt go-ahead||Notwithstanding the government go-ahead, some industry associations in Punjab on Wednesday said they would prefer not to open their factories on health concerns of their employees and asked the government to provide loans and cash credit limits to industries during this time of crisis.Punjab Beopar Mandal general secretary Sunil Mehra said that state government had announced that the industries could restart from April 20 onwards. “But, conditions for the same are very strict,” he said.Industries can take responsibilities like paying salaries, arranging transportation for labour, “but how can employers take responsibility for the health of workers? The government itself should take responsibility for the health of the industrial workers,” he said. D S Chawla, President, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association said the time is not right to open factories as there is a great risk of people getting infected with COVID-19.Chawla said a meeting of Ludhiana industrialists was held here on Monday to discuss this issue. There was no enthusiasm amongst them to open their industrial units.“We have not much raw material and transport is also not functional. The industry is facing an acute financial crunch. Thus, how the industry can run," he asked.Punjab Beopar Mandal's Mehra further said that government must extend full support to trade and industry, if it really wants to extend any support otherwise the industrialists would find it better to stay at home instead of getting their units functional during the lockdown period.Mehra said the efforts made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh have yielded results in checking the spread of coronavirus in the state. But regretted that the state power utility was issuing electricity bills during the lockdown period.Rather, the government should provide loans and cash credit limits to industry and trade during this time of crisis, he said.The Punjab government on Monday had said that the industrial activity can function in the non-containment zone area in line with the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs.Eleven different categories of industrial establishments have been allowed to operate with the condition that in case the industrial establishment employs 10 or more persons, it shall make arrangements for the stay of workers within its premises as far as possible and/or adjacent buildings.The transportation of workers to the workplace shall be arranged by the employers in dedicated transport by ensuring social distancing. Meanwhile, the Punjab Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora said the industrial units which want to start operations subject to compliance of the guidelines issued by the Department of Home Affairs and Justice, Punjab can apply online on Industries and Commerce Department's site and start operations.A dedicated web link has been created to facilitate the operationalization during curfew period, said Arora adding the concerned general managers of District Industries Centres have been authorized by respective Deputy Commissioners to issue the permissions.The provision of permission for construction activities to be granted by the District Industries Centre, wherever authorized by Deputy Commissioners is also available through this portal.The provision of SMS alert to investor at the time of submission and approval of application has also been made in the above portal, he said in an official release here. PTI
22-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||He ensures no one sleeps on empty stomach||Tribune News ServiceSujanpur, April 21“Good, better, best. Never let it rest. Till your good is better and your better is your best.”This seems to be the motto of SI Shohrat Maan who, in any case, looks more of a film star and less of a police officer.Maan is among 25 officials who have been selected for the coveted ‘Director General of Police Honour for Exemplary Sewa to Society’ award.The DGP has conferred upon him this honour based on “independent feedback” gathered by his office from the grassroot level.The cop, brimming with youthful exuberance, has policing in his blood. He is the son of Sulakhan Singh, DSP (Rural), Pathankot.On Day 1 of the lockdown, Shohrat was patrolling the area between Simbal chowk and Lightanwala chowk, where he saw some labourers wandering aimlessly. They were returning to their native villages in UP and Bihar from the neighbouring states of J&K and HP, had not eaten for days and looked tired and desolate.Taking permission from his seniors, Maan, a law graduate, roped in three NGOs and ensured not a single labourer would sleep on an empty stomach that day. For the next fortnight or so, the SI made certain that food was made available to them and even now, after the lockdown-2 has come into effect, he is still busy feeding them. The trickle, he confronted the first day, has now turned into a deluge and the NGOs are now busy feeding nearly 400 of them.“Pray for humanity first, then pray for yourself. My father always tells me being human is more important than being a human being. On the first day, I encountered some teething problems pertaining to the logistics of feeding nearly 400 persons. But then things slowly fell in place. I had a strong urge to help the migrants. When you aspire for a thing strongly enough in life, the elements will conspire to ensure you get it. I spoke to one NGO and by the end of the day I had three such groups working for me,” said Maan.The young man, whom senior officers claim is destined to go places, admits that it is going to be a long drawn out battle against Covid. “Disease is the greatest plague that can afflict humanity. It destroys religion, states and families. Any scourge is preferable to it. We have to fight it in unison,” he admits.After school, he got admitted in an engineering course but since mathematics was never in his scheme of things, his father pushed him in the world of law before he was selected in the police force in 2017.“Such stories are what keep the wheels of humanity moving. To me this young officer is a warrior. A warrior does not give up what he loves, he finds the love in what he does,” said SSP Deepak Hilori.Selected for coveted honour
22-04-2020||---||Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa’s daughter cured of Covid||Jalandhar, April 21After the demise of Padma Shri Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa owing to Covid-19 and controversy over his viral audio indicating that he had not been taken care of well by staff at an Amritsar hospital, the state government perhaps was extra cautious in taking care of his Coronavirus positive daughter in Jalandhar. Jaskirat Kaur (30) from Lohian had brought to the Civil Hospital here on April 1, after she tested positive.Today, she was discharged from the hospital after all her reports came negative. A team of doctors of the Civil Hospital, led by Senior Medical Officer Kashmiri Lal, treated Jaskirat.After her treatment at the hospital, Jaskirat’s samples were again sent to Government Medical College, Amritsar, on April 17 in which her report was found negative. Another sample was also sent on April 19 for a confirmatory test in which again her report was found negative. Subsequently, she was finally discharged from the hospital today.Expressing satisfaction over the treatment given to her in the hospital, a nostalgic Jaskirat said the entire team of doctors, especially Dr Kashmiri Lal, treated her well like his own daughter. She thanked all medical and paramedical staff who took care of her in the past couple of days, adding that all these noble souls provided a humane touch to her and other patients.Jaskirat said the entire hospital staff was much cooperative and they took utmost care of her during these troublesome days. She urged people to combat the Covid-19 by staying back at their homes.She said there was no need to worry about the virus but precautions must be taken to ensure that the battle against it was won. She also showered praise for Punjab Police officers Balwinder Singh, a golf player, for standing with her and family in this hour of crisis.Oil dealers contribute Rs 2.22 lakh to relief fundAfter DC Varinder Kumar Sharma exhorted people to contribute generously to the District Relief Fund Society to fight the Covid, residents continue to support the administration. On Tuesday, Indian Oil (IO) dealers here contributed Rs2.22 lakh to the society.As per information, the Indian Oil Dealers of Jalandhar under the guidance of Atul Gupta, DGM, Indian Oil, Jalandhar; Iqbal Siddiqui; Rakesh Tikko; and Roopendra Jaiswal from Indian Oil and dealers Ranbir Singh Tut, Prem Chauhan and Nitin Goyal handed over a cheque for Rs2.22 lakh to ADC Jasbir Singh.Thanking IO officials and dealers, the ADC called upon philanthropists to come forward to help needy and underprivileged people.
22-04-2020||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Policemen over 55 may be put on soft duties in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 21After Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta on Sunday announced several protective and welfare measures for the police personnel on Covid-19 duty, and directed for non-deployment of personnel over 55 or those with pre-existing medical risk on frontline jobs, the Ludhiana police have prepared a list of such cops.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal told The Tribune that a list of around 125 such policemen had been prepared. They were at present on the frontline duties.“We will get a medical check-up of these policemen conducted and if anyone is found unfit for duty or suffering from any disease, he will be shifted from frontline duty to soft duty so that they may remain safe,” said the CP.Around four SHOs are over 55 years of age and their medical history is being looked into to decide if they should continue to be deployed as SHO or not, said Agrawal, adding that the SHOs are the ones who remain at the front in all kinds of duties, and being a police chief, he never wants any of his officer to fall prey to Covid-19.Agrawal revealed that in a day or two, the entire exercise will be completed and reshuffling will be done.The DGP had ordered strict compliance of his orders with regard to weekly offs/rest days of all policemen on frontline duties. He had directed all senior officers to follow a rotational system of providing a weekly off/rest to the frontline personnel, with efforts to organise the deployment in such a manner that two days of rest can be provided to all personnel after every 10 days. The Ludhiana police has already initiated the practice.Am fine, eager tojoin duty: SHOBasti Jodhewal SHO Arshpreet Kaur, who tested positive for Covid-19, has shared a video message wherein she claims that she is completely fine and will get back to work soon.“I am completely okay and I am eager to join back duty. I thank Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, DGP Dinkar Gupta and Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal for moral support and for extending due care at the hospital,” says Arshpreet.Urging the police force to stay strong, she says they together will win the battle against this deadly virus.She suggests policemen are working as frontline warriors and they should take proper diet, no meal should be missed and to stay healthy, they should also take proper rest.The SHO tested positive for Covid-19 on April 17. In fact, the SHO, her driver and deceased ACP Kohli’s driver all are asymptomatic and their health condition has been graded as good by the doctors.The SHO’s video has been seen by 68,000 people, over 1,200 people commented and as many shared the video.Officials warned against dereliction of dutyDistrict Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has clarified that if any official ignores or fails to perform his/her duty of ration distribution during the ongoing lockdown/curfew, then strict action under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and section 188 of the IPC would be taken against such employee. Agrawal has stated that it has come to his notice that some officials (especially in Police Commissionerate Ludhiana area) are either not reporting for their duty in offices or remain absent after reaching their offices. As work of ration distribution in Ludhiana city is being done at the police station level, all SHOs have been directed to register FIRs against such officials and inform the office of District Magistrate Ludhiana.
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Unfair distribution of grain alleged||Compensate farmers: CPI leaderChandigarh: CPI leader Dr Joginder Dayal has asked the state government to compensate farmers for loss of crop yield or affect in its quality after the untimely rain lashed the state. In a statement, Dr Dayal said it was time that the government pursued its crop diversification agenda earnestly, as it would help alleviate them from hardships. TNSRoundGlass to support 400 familiesChandigarh: RoundGlass Foundation has come forward to support and feed families in 400 villages of Punjab which have been affected by the pandemic. According to a press release, the beneficiaries include senior citizens with no support, widows, daily wage workers and BPL families. So far, the foundation has distributed ration bags containing a 15-day supply of basic food and hygiene items among 6,700 households across 260 villages. TNSSarbat Da Bhala donates Rs 15 crGurdaspur: The Patiala-based Sarbat Da Bhala charitable trust has donated Rs15 crore to the Health Department to buy personal protective equipment kits, N-95 masks and allied equipment for health workers tending to Covid-19 patients. TNS
22-04-2020||Our Correspondent||SDM helps avert farm fire in Zira||Ferozepur, April 21Taking timely action, Zira SDM Ranjit Singh on Tuesday helped avert a major farm fire here.As per information, the SDM was on his way to his office when he saw wheat straw burning in a farm along the national highway.The SDM along with his driver and gunman went to the farm to help two persons in controlling the blaze."After 10 minutes, we were able to control the fire," said the SDM, adding that had the fire spread, it would have destroyed vast fields of wheat crop located near the farm.
22-04-2020||Abohar||100 e-rickshaw pullers get ration||SDM Jaspal Singh Brar handed over the food packets, each containing 10 kg atta, 2 kg daal and 2 kg sugar. Brar said packets would be distributed to all deserving families, which had been identified through a survey.
22-04-2020||---||Muktsar district hopeful of retaining Covid-free tag||Muktsar, April 21The district is set to retain the tag of “Covid-free district”, as the person who was suspected to have been infected by Covid tested negative today.Officials of the Health Department said a sample of Mohammad Samsa (18), who had come to Muktsar on March 18 after attending Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and stayed at a local mosque here, was sent yesterday. “Now, we will send a fresh sample today. If he tests negative in the second test too, he will be discharged from the hospital. At present, he is admitted to a local Covid hospital,” said a Health Department official.An audio of Mohammad Samsa has gone viral on social media wherein he is seen having a telephonic conversation with his father, telling him that the authorities concerned were taking care of him.Meanwhile, the Health Department officials took samples of 44 more persons, who had cough, cold and fever. “These people have been home quarantined. The state government had asked to take samples of 100 persons a day from each district, thus a large number of samples have been taken today,” said the officials.
22-04-2020||---||High Court modifies its order to release undertrial on bail||Chandigarh, April 21An undertrial, who could not be released on bail because his 60-year-old mother could not furnish surety bonds following the Covid lockdown, will finally walk out of the jail with the Punjab and Haryana High Court modifying its previous orders.Coming to his rescue, Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi through videoconferencing ordered petitioner Manpreet Singh’s release on bail after furnishing personal bond of Rs 1 lakh to the Jalandhar Central jail superintendent.Justice Tyagi made it clear that it would be appropriate to carry out the requisite process of furnishing personal bond in the jail itself in view of the prevailing situation.The superintendent was asked to forward the bail documents to the trial court for record after attesting and accepting the same. Manpreet Singh was also directed to comply with all requisite conditions imposed during the lockdown/curfew, including the clause regarding his medical screening and social distancing.Manpreet Singh had moved the High Court for direction to the trial court/district jail superintendent to release him in case of grievous hurt and other offences registered on January 3, 2009, under Sections 326, 325, 323, 324 and Section 34 of the IPC at Adampur police station in Jalandhar district without furnishing bail bonds/surety bonds as his mother was not in a position to furnish bail/surety bonds in accordance with order dated March 20 passed by the HC.
22-04-2020||---||After ACP’s death, police told to follow Health Department norms||Patiala, April 21NEW STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURESIt is now mandatory that in case any officer is found positive or is primary contact of a positive person, he or she must be “immediately home quarantined” wherever locatedIf his/her home is not in that district, then the official concerned should be shifted to the district quarantine facilityIt took the police death of its own ACP in Ludhiana to issue standard operating procedures for its men deployed in field in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Urging the field staff to follow the Health Department’s advisory, the police have decided to set up two quarantine facilities per district.Till last week, the police did not have any proper procedure to deal with the situation. In many cases, the officials were just taken off field duty after being found symptomatic or coming in contact with an infected person.However, all this has changed for the over 45,000 men in khaki as strict guidelines have been issued now.As per information, when the report of the ACP came positive, the district police immediately ordered that 17 police officers, including three SHOs, in contact with him be sent home. However, neither the administration in their home districts, nor local police were intimated.According to an official letter by the DGP office, one of the officers was sent home to Sangrur, where the panchayat of his village expressed its displeasure at sending a suspected Covid individual to his home village. “Similarly, a police officer belonging to a Ferozepur village was wrongly informed that he had tested negative for coronavirus. He went to a gurdwara and also visited his in-laws in the nearby village. He also attended some other events thus putting many persons at risk,” read the letter sent on April 19, 2020.The new instructions make it mandatory that in case of any officer is found positive or is primary contact of a positive person, he or she must be “immediately home quarantined” wherever located. “If the home is not in that district, then the official concerned be shifted to district quarantine facility. If the official is at home, the officer must ensure isolation and avoid any contact with others,” state the new directions.
22-04-2020||New Delhi||DSGMC feeding 1 lakh people daily||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) is feeding more than one lakh people daily through its community kitchens across the national capital to fight Covid blues.The committee’s five gurdwaras and an engineering college is where ‘langar’ is prepared.Bangla Sahib Gurdwara is alone making food for 50,000 people in its kitchen with the help of special machines. The committee has deputed over 500 workers for the purpose.“Only the staff of gurdwaras is working in the kitchens and no sangat is being allowed. We are taking the required steps to feed people to the best of our capacity,” said DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa.With the help of local administration, the committee is serving at various parts of the national capital.— TNS
22-04-2020||Mansa||2 youths die of drug overdose||Two local youths reportedly died of drug overdose in Rori area of Haryana on Monday evening.Reportedly, on Monday, Amritpal Singh of Sardulgarh and his friend Harpreet Singh of Kotra village went to see Surinder Singh Raju in Rori, where their conditions turned serious after taking overdose of drugs. When their families located them, they found that their faces had turned blue. Both of them were rushed to Sardulgarh Civil Hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead.With this incident, a question looms as to how did the deceased cross the interstate border of Punjab and Haryana to reach Rori.A case has been registered against Surinder Singh Raju, SHO Jagdish Chander said. — TNS
22-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Khalsa Aid volunteer dies in road mishap while on a humanitarian mission||Faridkot, April 21A team member of Khalsa Aid International, a UK-based humanitarian relief charity group, died in a road mishap near Bajakhana village of Faridkot on Tuesday.Two members of the group were on their way to Faridkot and Bathinda to distribute PPE kits and masks among doctors and policemen. Inderjeet Singh, who hailed from Dehradun, has sustained injuries.They were on their way to Bathinda, when their jeep hit a divider on the Bathinda-Amritsar NH.
22-04-2020||---||Unable to return to UK, NRI ends life||Jalandhar, April 21With the entire world in lockdown, NRIs stuck in the state are uncertain about their return. The restrictions have also dashed the foreign dream of many youths.Failing to return to England, an NRI residing at Kaki village committed suicide today. Deceased Amarjit Singh (72) had come here in February and was to return within a couple of weeks. He, however, got stuck here with his wife.Investigation in charge Germanjit Singh said the suicide was reported at 5.30 am when Amarjit’s wife found him hanging from a ceiling fan.His wife told the police that Amarjit wanted to go back and was in depression.Youths, wanting to go to foreign land for better prospects, too are disheartened.A 27-year-old girl from Anand Nagar in Jalandhar hanged herself on April 18. Her family members said she was upset after her foreign plans got shattered. Deceased Jasdeep Kaur committed suicide around 1.30 pm when she was alone in her room, stated investigation officer ASI Kulwinder Singh.The deceased’s elder brother, Bhupinder Singh, said, “She was happy after clearing IELTS. She was to get married in the US. But after cancellation of her visa application, she lost all hope and took the extreme step.”
22-04-2020||---||Each district told to conduct 100 tests daily, teams formed||Patiala, April 21 To ramp up testing, the Health Department has directed each district to conduct 100 tests daily.  The number will be 200 in hotspots. The state conducted 6,797 tests till last Monday. Border districts, including Ferozepur, Tarn Taran and Fazilka, could not even touch the 100 mark. Civil Surgeons have been asked to form testing teams at sub-divisional levels. Experts said it won’t be possible to conduct 100 tests a day as many districts didn’t have enough manpower. A health official said, “It is not possible to conduct 100 tests a day as there is acute staff shortage. At present, each district is conducting around 20-30 tests a day. We cannot conduct sensitive tests like RTPCR on everyone. Contacts of positive patients can be tested.” Districts like Mohali, Jalandhar and Ludhiana have conducted the maximum number of tests in the state, touching the 1,000 mark. Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra, said, “We have already made teams  and conducting rapid tests in containment areas.”
22-04-2020||---||Punjab government cuts expenses to spare funds for Covid battle||Chandigarh, April 21Rs 50L each for kin of deceasedThe government on Tuesday formally approved its earlier decision that dependents/legal heirs of an employee of the state government who contracts the infection in the line of duty would be paid an ex gratia of Rs50 lakh.Struggling to meet the Covid-19 battle costs, the state government on Tuesday announced a series of cost-cutting measures, including an immediate 25 per cent reduction in existing entitlements for fuel expenses of all government departments, except health, medical education, police, food and agriculture.The decision was taken at a meeting of the sub-committee on finance, chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who stressed the need for an exit strategy, pointing out that the state could not be kept under lockdown indefinitely. The report of the 20-member expert committee working on the strategy is expected this week.Amid concerns expressed by Finance Minister Manpreet Badal over the critical fiscal situation of the state in the light of drying up revenue receipts, the meeting decided that tough decisions needed to be taken, as an interim measure, to help the state tide over these difficult times.The meeting also decided that the norms and expenditure on security of people not holding public office any longer/have never held public office would be reviewed by May 15 to decide on possible cuts on this count.In another step, all administrative departments have been asked to deposit the balances available with the societies under them in the state treasury by April 30, after retaining two months of O&M expenditure of the society. There are around 40 such societies. The meeting also approved budgetary cuts/deferments, amounting to Rs 1625.87 crore, suggested by various administrative departments, subject to a review again in June.Meanwhile, the CM has asked the Health Department to prepare a comprehensive budget for Covid-related expenditure. He expressed concern over the inadequate number of testing kits with the state, and asked the department to find ways and means of boosting the tests.
22-04-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh expresses concern over stranded pilgrims||Chandigarh, April 21Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday urged Union Home Minister Amit Shah to allow the stranded Punjab pilgrims to return home from Nanded.Captain Amarinder first spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Udhav Thackery, who said permission would be needed from the Centre for their return in view of the lockdown.Captain Amarinder then wrote to Shah, urging him to allow the return of the pilgrims, stranded at Gurdwara Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded, by bus to Punjab.The CM assured Shah that all pilgrims would be screened and quarantined as per the government’s health protocol.
22-04-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh writes to Amit Shah, demands Rs 3K cr aid||Chandigarh, April 21Pointing to the alarming resource gap between the state’s anticipated receipt and committed expenditure, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday demanded an interim compensation to the tune of Rs 3,000 crore for April on account of Covid-19 national disaster, along with immediate release of Rs4,400 crore of pending GST arrears.In a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Chief Minister also sought the Centre’s permission to allow the sale of liquor in a phased manner to mop up revenue. “The Ministry of Home, GoI, should allow the state to take a conscious decision to allow the sale of liquor in certain areas in a phased manner with strict social distancing and other measures to prevent Covid-19,” he said.This, said Capt Amarinder, would help the state immensely in its efforts to scale up the relief and healthcare measures to combat the disease and meet some of its committed liabilities.He said the Union Government should compensate Punjab for its loss of revenue due to the ongoing crisis. While Rs3,000 crore for April was an estimate, he said “the detailed assessment of loss and requirement of funds for relief and rehabilitation will be submitted in due course.”
22-04-2020||Aman Sood||Patiala reports five new cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Patiala, April 21Secret hookah parties are being blamed for the outbreak of Covid-19 in Rajpura. Sources said such parties continued in the town and other parts of Patiala district even after the enforcement of curfew.They claimed that the gatherings, attended by businessmen, satta operators, local leaders and even medical professionals, were the primary reason in majority of the 15 cases cropping up from Rajpura block in the past fortnight. The Health Department today started 100 per cent screening in the block, which will be completed within the next three days.Sources claimed that such gatherings were being held regularly at a house. But since some prominent persons were involved, no one was ready to divulge details. “A majority of them are from the same community and they would get together for the whole day at the house. Many of them would move out on the pretext of holding langar for the needy,” said a source.Senior officials confirmed that during the hookah party many suspected and at least two positive cases shared hookah with over 50 people in a span of two weeks.The officials confirmed that five persons, including a doctor tested positive for coronavirus in Rajpura block on Monday night.Of the five, one is the daughter-in-law of the Rajpura woman, who had tested positive earlier, while three are friends of another positive patient, health officials said, adding that the doctor who had given preliminary treatment to the Rajpura woman before she was shifted to Government Rajindra Hospital.Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said all five positive cases were from the Anaj Mandi area of the town.Senior officers, including Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit, have assured to look into the matter. “People holding private parties, despite restrictions and reminders increase the risk of spreading the infection. We will seek legal action against such violators,” he stated, adding that over 70 tests were done in Rajpura today.According to the state media bulletin, with six fresh cases reported in the past 24 hours, the total count in the state reached 251. Five cases were reported from Patiala and one from SAS Nagar. As per the Health Department, so far samples of 7,335 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 6,769 were found negative and the reports of 335 were awaited.Mayor’s OSD among 5 +ve in JalandharJalandhar: In a late evening development, five persons tested positive for coronavirus in the city. The new patients include city Mayor’s OSD, a resident of Central Town, and two of the same firm whose nine employees had tested positive earlier. Both these patients are residents of Raja Garden colony, from where their first colleague had tested positive. The remaining two are from Neelamahal localities and were in contact with a Congress leader, who is also under treatment. TNS
22-04-2020||Ludhiana||‘Ill-treated’ at government hospital, ASI shifted to private facility||A city cop, who allegedly found himself locked up in a hospital room after testing positive for Covid-19, was today shifted to a private hospital. The ASI, posted at Basti Jodhewal, alleged, “They (staff at government hospital) were treating me as if I was a criminal.” He alleged that he was mistreated at two government hospitals. On his complaint, Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Agrawal has sent a notice to Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga and sought an explanation. The 46-year-old ASI is a direct contact of the SHO, Basti Jodhewal, who had contracted the infection from the deceased ACP, Anil Kohli. The ASI, who is a diabetic, was first admitted to Mother and Child Hospital on the Chandigarh Road and was later shifted to the local civil hospital. He is now presently admitted to SPS Hospital.He alleged that he was mistreated at both government hospitals and said he was not even given food.  “I am a diabetic and I kept asking them to check my blood sugar levels, but they kept delaying it. It was only after I complained to my seniors, I was shifted to a private hospital,” he said. Dr Bagga said the ASI levelled charges since other officers were admitted to private hospitals. “An NGO provides food to all patients in the civil hospital,”he said. —TNS
22-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Movement hit amid curfew, drug peddlers turn ‘innovative’||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 214 held in BathindaOn a tip-off, the police intercepted a car near Nandgarh in Bathinda on MondayOne of the four car occupants had a plaster on his leg; he said he and his friends were going to see a doctorSuspicious, the police searched the car and found heroin; the plaster was fake, the police saidIn view of the tight police security on account of the Covid-19 lockdown, drug peddlers are finding innovative ways to smuggle drugs. This came to the fore on Monday when the Bathinda team of the Special Task Force (STF) nabbed four men coming from New Delhi with 262 gm of heroin.On a tip-off, the police accosted a car near Nandgarh. On being questioned about the purpose of venturing out, one of the four car occupants, showing the plaster on his leg, said he and his friends were going to see a doctor.Suspicious, the police searched the car and found heroin. The plaster was fake, the police have said.The four accused — identified as Devsharan, Buta Singh, Kala Singh and Sonu — were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Nandgarh police station.Gursharan Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, STF, Bathinda, said Sonu, who had a fake plaster, had a rod in his leg.On April 9, two of the four accused allegedly made a fake curfew pass and managed to reach Delhi, from where they bought the drugs. They also managed to return to Bathinda without being caught.They were, however, nabbed when they ventured out to sell the drugs. They were caught from Ballaram Nagar here.In another incident, the STF caught a man posing as a combine mechanic with drugs when he was returning from Delhi after buying the contraband.
22-04-2020||---||DGP award for PGI doctors who reimplanted Patiala ASI’s hand||Chandigarh, April 21‘Cop recovering’Dr Sunil Gauba, plastic surgeon, PGIMER, who led the team, said, “The patient is doing well. He is able to move his thumb to some extent. There is proper blood circulation in the reimplanted wrist. For complete recovery, it will take three to six months. He is likely to be discharged next week.”The 15-member team of the PGIMER that performed the plastic surgery on ASI Harjeet Singh, who lost his hand in the Patiala attack on April 12, has been chosen for the “DGP Honour for Exemplary Sewa to Society”.A medical officer in Mansa and 70 police personnel on Covid frontline duty will also be awarded.Direction General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said that in a departure from norms, it had been decided to honour the entire team of doctors, technicians and nursing staff of the plastic surgery department in the PGI for performing prompt and successful reimplantation surgery on the ASI on April 12.The team comprises Dr Ramesh Sharma, head of the plastic surgery department, PGI; plastic surgery team consultants Dr Sunil Gauba and Dr Jerry R John; senior residents Dr Suraj Nair, Dr Mayank, Dr Chandra and Dr Shubendu; anaesthesia team consultant and members Dr Ankur, Dr Abhishek and Dr Purnima; operation theatre technicians Chanderkanta Saini and Naresh Gautam; and nursing staff Arvind, Sneha and Arsh.Besides, Dr Ranjeet Rai, a medical officer posted at a police hospital in Mansa, has been chosen for the coveted “Honour and Disc” for his significant role in tracing of contacts of Covid-19 patients as well as quick sampling of suspected cases in Budhlada, the DGP said.He added 70 officers deployed across 27 police districts working on the frontline would be awarded. These include two ASPs, 22 DSPs, seven Inspectors, 13 Sub-Inspectors, nine ASIs and 17 head constables and constables.
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Isolate only worst-hit areas: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to identify close-knit geographical areas with high Covid-19 frequency as hotspots even as it called for opening up of other areas gradually after taking due precautions to kick-start economic activity. In a statement here, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said areas with high Covid cases should be identified geographically, and not district-wise. Cheema said there was an urgent need to go in for aggressive testing in the hotspots following reports of asymptomatic cases. “Aggressive testing is not being done on the ground despite announcements. There is an urgent need for more testing kits to make this a reality, besides raising medical infrastructure and safety standards for all frontline workers.” The SAD leader stressed the need for gradual opening up of the economy in areas where no cases had been reported for a stipulated time. He said migrant labourers were under stress and soon they would start leaving the state for good if not given work. Similarly, both skilled and unskilled workers should be encouraged to join work by facilitating opening up of units by removing apprehensions in the mind of industrialists, he said.
22-04-2020||Bathinda||Rapid testing starts in Bathinda||Rapid testing has begun at the Bathinda district hospital. Two tests were done on the first day. Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said the government had decided to conduct rapid tests for early detection of Covid. “If we get the test report quickly, it can help us contain the spread,” he added.Civil Surgeon Dr Amrik Singh said the reports of the tests conducted in the district today had come out negative.Reports of 130 samples taken earlier also came out negative, while those of the three samples taken on Sunday are awaited. — TNS
22-04-2020||---||Down with Covid, but cops in high spirits||Chandigarh, April 21Even though a police officer died due to Covid-19 and an ASI’s hand was chopped off by an unruly group, policemen in the state are in high spirits.Some bravehearts, who tested positive, are setting an example by motivating others. The video of Constable Paramjot Singh doing push ups next to his hospital bed in Ferozepur has gone viral on social media. Similarly, a clip of SHO Arshpreet Kaur of Basti Jodhewal, Ludhiana, delivering a motivational talk to the force and public from a hospital, has also gone viral.‘Stay positive’I do push-ups every day to remain fit. My message for my colleagues is that it is no big deal to be tested positive for Covid-19. I want to rejoin duty soon. — Paramjot Singh, police driverIn Mohali, policemen Salim Mohammad and Yadwinder Singh, both quarantined after a man whom they took to a hospital tested positive, are raring to return to duty. “It is tough to make them rest. They want to continue serving in this hour of need,” said a senior officer.The police had suffered a setback in Ludhiana with the death of ACP Anil Kohli due to coronavirus. There have been attacks on the force, including the one in Patiala where an ASI’s hand was chopping off.Both Arshpreet Kaur and Paramjot Singh worked in Kohli’s team as SHO and driver, respectively. “Through the video, I want to tell all that despite testing positive, I am feeling normal and healthy. This is a message to my colleagues to continue their fight against the disease from the frontline. I will rejoin you soon,” Arshpreet said in the video.Paramjot Singh also wants to return to duty soon. “I want to remain fit by doing push ups. I am also telling my colleagues that it is no big deal to be tested positive for coronavirus,” said Paramjot, who is in a quarantine ward at Ferozepur Civil Hospital.“He has given a great message of grit and resilience to the world facing the pandemic” said DC Kulwant Singh.Paramjot said he was shocked to learn about the demise of ACP Kohli. “He never differentiated between us,” said Paramjot, adding that the ACP used to take care of his gunmen and staff as his own family. “He always treated me like his son,” recalled Paramjot.DGP Dinkar Gupta said, “We are in mission mode. The morale is sky high. We have suffered a big loss in the death of the ACP. We are taking more precautions now. The force is raring to take any assignment.”
22-04-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Joint farming a blessing for Dalits in times of crisis||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 21Dalits would have starved had they not taken to joint farming with members of upper castes, said Charan Singh, a labourer from Balad Kalan village.The labourers started carrying out farm activities on reserved land to earn a livelihood. Little did they know, it would turn out to be a blessing in times of Covid.Social harmonyGiven the situation, it would have become difficult to feed our families. Thanks to joint farming, each Dalit family will get at least 600 kg of wheat. — Balvir Singh, laborerIn the beginning, there were clashes between the upper caste and Dalits over joint farming. But the situation improved gradually.This year, at Balad Kalan village, 188 Dalit families divided themselves into three groups and took 93 acres of reserved land from the village common land of 280 acres.“Each family will get 500 kg of wheat from joint farming and we will start harvesting on Wednesday. The remaining stock will be sold in markets and the money will be used for paddy sowing,” said Kulwinder Singh, another labourer.Similarly, at Jhaneri village, around 160 Dalit families have divided themselves into two groups and taken 30 acres of reserved land from the village common land.“If we look at the situation now, it would have become difficult for us to feed our families. Thanks to joint farming, we do not have to worry about food shortage. In our village, each Dalit family will get at least 600 kg of wheat. The government should promote joint farming by providing us land for cultivation,” said Balvir Singh, a Dalit labourer.Mukesh Malaud, president of the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee, said Dalits were still facing problems in taking reserved land on lease. “Officials have either been delaying the auction of reserved land or creating problems. The government should help Dalits,” said Malaud.When told that some people from the upper caste had been cultivating crops on reserved land, Poonam Kangra, a member of the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission, said she was looking into the matter.
22-04-2020||---||Use all resources to fight virus, departments told||Chandigarh, April 21 The state government has asked all its departments and other authorities in the state, public or private, to place their resources and staff at the disposal of the Departments of Health and Medical Education and Research, the two crucial departments in the fight against Covid-19. Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh has issued the order under the Disaster Management Act. The two departments have also been asked to ensure availability of adequate personnel in hospitals and colleges. They have been authorised to requisition staff and resources from any department or state authority. With little help from the Centre, as the Congress government has been alleging, the state is making efforts to divert its resources to the the Department of Health, Police, and Food and Agriculture. A government functionary said the Chief Minister has asked the Health Department to prepare a comprehensive budget for Covid-related expenditure.
22-04-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Technology helps fast-track procurement||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 21The tech-driven wheat procurement process has ensured that Punjab procures nearly four times of the grain it bought in the corresponding period last year.As much as 17.56 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of grain has arrived in the 3,700 mandis notified by the state government for procurement being done in the shadow of the Covid-19 outbreak. Of this, 15.38 LMT has been procured, mostly by the state agencies. To date, last year 4.83 LMT of wheat had arrived in the mandis, of which 3.02 LMT was procured.The high procurement in just six days since the process began on April 15 this year proves that the system is working. “Though we have had to discontinue the use of platform created with Ola to track the movement of all tractors-trailers carrying grains, the process of issuing e-tokens is helping us regulate the farmers,” said Ravi Bhagat, managing director of Punjab Mandi Board. The highest procurement till date has been by Pungrain (4.56 LMT) and the least by the Food Corporation of India (1.21 LMT).Notably, 3.37 lakh e-tokens have been issued so far.In Khanna, the largest grain market in Asia, commission agent Raj Sood said the process was smooth. “As many as 495 e-tokens are being issued to farmers daily, and over 80,000 metric tonnes is being procured daily. To date, 3 LMT has been procured,” he said.In Patiala, Deputy District Mandi Officer Jaspal Singh Ghuman said after initial problems, the e-token process had now been streamlined. “Of the 1.73-LMT grains that arrived, 1.61 LMT was purchased,” he said.In Seona village of Patiala, Jagmohan Singh said though the e-tokens released each day were less, giving jitters to farmers who fear their crop getting damaged due to the vagaries of nature. “The grains have been affected because of the untimely rain and we will not be able to sell the produce,” he said. Similar problem has also been reported in Bathinda and Muktsar districts. Officers in Punjab Mandi Board said an FCI team would visit the state to assess the damage to crops.In Mansa, where farmers had been lamenting about problems, almost 7,000 e-tokens are being issued daily. “Farmers are confused because the procurement season would earlier last for just 15-20 days. This time the season has been spread to 40 days to ensure social distancing. More than 84 per cent of the market arrivals have been bought by the agencies,” said Rajnish Goyal, District Mandi Officer, Mansa.In Bathinda, where initially many rural and semi-urban mandis were reported to be non-functional, District Mandi Officer Preet Kanwal Singh said all were now operational. “Other than the 182 mandis, 260 private mandis have been set up at rice mills. Of the 1.72 LMT grains that have arrived, 1.51 LMT have been purchased. This has been done in the past four days only,” he said.
22-04-2020||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Wish to serve nation like my father, says ACP Kohli’s son||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 21The death of ACP (North) Anil Kohli of Covid-19 a few days ago has left the family devastated, with his wife now battling the virus at a private hospital.Kohli’s eldest son Varun is in Canada on work visa, while younger son Paras, who recently cleared Class XII, lives with the family. Paras too had plans to settle in Canada and his father had been working towards fulfilling his dream.“After the death of my father, I decided to shelve the plan to go abroad. The way my father served the Punjab Police and lost his life, I feel proud to be his son. If given a chance, I will also join the force and serve the nation,” says Paras.Paras recalls the challenges his father, who served the force for 30 years and enjoyed a clean record, faced on a daily basis while discharging his duty during the pandemic. He used to wake up early every day to visit the vegetable market and oversee the safety arrangements there, he says. “Like other policemen, my father discharged his duty bravely. Even at the hospital, he never gave up,” says Paras.Wife ‘denied’ contact with kin over phone
