22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rollback hike in fuel prices, Sukhbir Badal urges Centre||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday urged the Centre to take back the hike in fuel prices, saying it has caused “stress” to the country’s economy and hurt the common man.In a statement here, the SAD president requested the Union government to direct oil companies to pass on the benefit of the sharp decrease in international oil prices to people.Badal said the “huge hike” in fuel prices over the past 16 days was “causing stress” to the country’s economy, which is still reeling from the effect of the coronavirus lockdown.The 16-day consecutive hike in fuel prices has made petrol and diesel dearer by Rs 9.21 and Rs 8.55 per litre, respectively, he said.The situation has become such that taxes now make up two thirds of the retail price of both petrol and diesel, the SAD chief said, adding that it has hurt farmers and the common man the most.Farmers, who were already bearing a huge increase in labour charges for the transplantation of paddy, now have to reckon with an unprecedented hike in fuel prices, the SAD chief said.He said similarly the common man has started feeling the cascading inflationary effect of the increase in fuel prices with rates of all essential commodities going up.“The hike in fuel prices is also affecting the supply chain and is even putting a burden on those providing essential supplies during the pandemic,” said Badal.             The SAD chief said the withdrawal was also justified keeping in view the unprecedented steep fall in international crude oil prices.Badal also urged the Punjab government to rollback the hike in taxes on petrol and diesel.He said the state government had affected an increase of Rs 3.20 per litre in the price of petrol and Rs 2.53 per litre in the price of diesel. PTI
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 177 new coronavirus cases, death toll goes past 100||Punjab reported 177 new coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours, the state’s COVID bulletin showed on Monday---a development that takes the state’s tally to 4,235.The state also revised its death toll to 101, Punjab’s COVID bulletin showed on Monday evening.Three districts---Jalandhar, Amritsar and Ludhiana---continued to report an alarming rising in coronavirus cases, together reporting 61 per cent on Monday’s new cases.  Two other districts—Fazilka and Sangrur---also reported double-digit infections on Monday.Jalandhar (46), Ludhiana (34), Amritsar (28), Sangrur (15), Fazilka (13),  SAS Nagar (2), Ferozepur (7), Pathankot (7), Patiala (5), Bathinda (4), Faridkot (3), Muktsar (3), Fatehgarh Sahib (2), SBS Nagar (2), Gurdaspur (2), Moga (1),Tarn Taran (2), and Kapurthala (1) all reported new cases on Monday, the COVID tally showed.Jalandhar reported the highest number of cases of any district in Punjab on Monday at 46.  The COVID bulletin showed that 25 of those cases were new, with no contact or travel history.Eight cases were people with travel history---four domestic travellers who just came back from Delhi and Gurugram and four others who just came back from abroad. Thirteen cases were people who were identified through contact tracing.Ludhiana reported 34 new coronavirus cases---23 contacts of already diagnosed cases, three policemen, one categorised as SARI (severe acute respiratory infection), one ILI (influenza-like illness), one domestic traveller and five new cases.Amritsar reported 28 cases---18 new cases and 10 contacts of diagnosed cases. Amritsar still accounts for the highest number of case in the state at 758 infections.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (786), Jalandhar (589), Ludhiana (584), Sangrur (221), SAS Nagar (219), Patiala (214), Pathankot (189), Tarn Taran (183), Gurdaspur (183), Hoshiarpur (162), SBS Nagar (123), Faridkot (98), Fatehgarh Sahib (90), Muktsar (84), Ropar (89), Moga (76), Bathinda (68), Fazilka (74), Ferozepur (69),  Kapurthala (66), Barnala (43), and Mansa (39).   Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana account for 46 per cent of Punjab’s cases.Punjab has been seeing a steady rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in June---some 46 per cent of the state's 4,235 cases and 55 per cent of the state's 101 deaths have been recorded in this month alone.
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Maximum temperatures hover below normal in Haryana, Punjab||The maximum temperatures hovered below normal limits in Haryana and Punjab on Monday, with common capital Chandigarh recording a high of 34.5 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said here.The maximum temperature in Chandigarh was three notches below the normal, it added.Ambala in Haryana recorded a high of 34.8 degrees Celsius, down three notches against the normal. Hisar recorded a high of 35 degrees Celsius, six degrees below the normal. Karnal recorded a high of 34 degrees Celsius, three below normal.Amritsar in Punjab registered a maximum of 37.5 degrees Celsius, one degree below the normal.Ludhiana and Patiala also recorded below-normal maximum temperatures at 34.9 degrees Celsius and 35.5 degrees Celsius respectively.According to the Met Department forecast for Punjab, light to moderate rain or thundershowers are likely at a few places on Tuesday, at most places on Wednesday and at many places on Thursday.The forecast for Haryana said light to moderate rain or thundershowers are likely at a few places on Tuesday and at most places on Wednesday and Thursday. PTI
22-06-2020||Patiala||Fire engulfs agricultural machinery manufacturing plant in Nabha||Fire engulfed an agricultural machinery manufacturing plant in Nabha on Monday afternoon.Luckily the employees were on a break and escaped unhurt while the office reported some losses and have thus closed the unit temporarily.Fire officials said they received the information in the afternoon and thereafter pressed four fire tenders into service.“The flames were doused in about two hours by 3:30 pm. Two of the tenders were from Nabha while one each came from Samana and Patiala,” fireman Gurtej Singh said.Officials said the exact cause of the fire was not known yet though as per speculations it could have been due to short-circuit.“Rajiv Kaushal, the GM of the Preet Agro Industries private limited. said, “The incident took place at about 1.05 pm. All the employees were on a break. Right now we are yet to assess the damage to the property which will be completed by tomorrow.”
22-06-2020||Attari||Arrested Indian High Commission officials among five staffers to return from Pakistan||Five officials of the Indian High Commission in Pakistan, including the two who were arrested and later released in an alleged hit-and-run case there, returned to the country through the Attari-Wagah border on Monday, officials said. According to them, those who returned are Air Adviser Group Capt Manu Midha, Second Secretary S Shiv Kumar and staff members Pankaj, Selvadhas Paul and Dwimu Brahma.Dwimu and Selvadhas were arrested on June 15 in Pakistan in the alleged hit-and-run incident. Both were later released.After the incident, India had summoned the charge d’ affaires of the Pakistan High Commission, lodging a protest over the “abduction and torture” of two officials of the Indian mission in Islamabad.The five officials travelled to the Wagah check-post in a car.They underwent thermal screening and preliminary medical check-up before proceeding to Delhi, the officials said. PTI
22-06-2020||Muktsar||Lucky mascot||Saluting martyrsAbohar: Usha (21) of Wahabwala village, who was appreciated by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for her paintings relating to awareness on the Covid pandemic, has now paid tributes to the soldiers from Punjab, who died fighting Chinese troops at Galwan valley in Ladakh recently. Usha has made portraits of the martyrs - Mandeep Singh, Satnam Singh, Gurtej Singh and Gurbinder Singh. She praised the state government for raising the financial assistance to the martyrs' families from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh.Playing whistleblowerBatala: SAD MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal's crusade against corruption may have hit a road block following the Covid scare, but he is now back. A fortnight ago, the legislator had released a video clip wherein a senior PWD official was reportedly seen taking a bribe. He has again announced to "expose" more officials. The MLA is being helped by the contractors, who allegedly suffered at the hands of erring PWD officials. "Many officers are openly demanding huge sums to allot works. Irked over it, a contractor made videos of a corrupt official using a micro camera," alleged a contractor. Lodhinangal says he will hold a press conference before June 23.Still out of boundsAmritsar: The Bihar Police have failed to serve on the notice to the Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu for the fourth consecutive day. Sub-Inspectors Javed Ahmad and Janardhan Ram have been camping outside his residence. A case was registered against Sidhu at Barsoi police station for violating the Model Code of Conduct during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. While campaigning for Congress candidate Tariq Anwar in Katihar district, Sidhu had allegedly delivered a provocative appeal on April 16, 2019. "The notice is yet not accepted by Sidhu. We have been told by his staff that he is not in the city are not telling more about his whereabouts. We just need his signatures, but Sidhu is not cooperating," said Ram.
22-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Dhaba owner violates norms, booked||Akali leader held for ‘power theft’Abohar: The police have arrested a local Akali leader for alleged power theft through kundi connection. He and his wife were accused of attacking a team of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited when the staff objected to the alleged theft. PSPCL assistant lineman Salinder Kumar of Alamgarh told the police that when a team led by him went to Nanak Nagari on Saturday to resolve a consumer's complaint about technical fault, they detected that kundi connection was being used illegally by Preet Singh. When the team questioned Preet Singh about it, he and his wife allegedly thrashed the staff. A police team reached the spot. Preet Singh was held, but his wife managed to escape. OCNGO donates ventilator, PPE kits to hospitalFatehgarh Sahib: Rotary Club, Sirhind, has donated a ventilator and other essential equipment to the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib. The Rotarians donated the equipment in the presence of Kuljit Singh Nagra, MLA, Amrit Kaur Gill, DC, and Civil Surgeon. The club also donated 135 PPE kits and 2,500 masks. It also organised a blood donation and medical check up camp for the poor where medicines were given free of cost. OCBooked, SC panel member suspendedChandigarh: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has approved the suspension of Poonam Kangra as non-official member of the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes following the registration of an abetment to suicide case against her. After the Chief Minister's nod, the state government placed Kangra's membership under suspension with immediate effect. Disclosing this here on Sunday, an official spokesperson said the Chief Minister had also ordered an inquiry against Kangra, who was arrested along with her husband and son, by the Sangrur police a few days ago.TNS
22-06-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||No fiscal package, losses force hoteliers to wind up business||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 21At a time when few relaxations have been given to the hospitality sector, several hotels, restaurants and eateries in the state are shutting down their operations. The owners are finding it difficult to bear losses incurred during the lockdown.More than 2,500 eateries and restaurants have closed down in the state. Even banquet hall bookings haven’t been allowed yet, hitting the hotel business hard.Over 2,500 eateries shutAlso, due to a ban on the opening of swimming pools, big hotels can’t even outsource the facility.Punjab Hotel and Restaurant Association president Satish Arora said: “Due to massive losses, more than 2,500 eateries, restaurants and hotels across the state have already been shut, with many more on the verge of closure. The owners of such outlets have been finding it difficult to pay rent, salaries of employees, power bills and other fixed expenses with no income during the lockdown period.”Arora said it had become extremely difficult to survive in the absence of a financial compensation. He sought a suitable package for the hospitality sector to cover losses incurred during the lockdown period.“The sector has been hit hard and the next five to six months are going to be tough. The Central or the state government must announce some package to help the business stay afloat,” he said.Ashwani Malhotra, owner of Saffron Hotel in Bathinda, said: “I have to pay a monthly rent of Rs 2 lakh. It is a huge burden given the fact that I have had no income for the past few months. Moreover, it seems that the hotel industry won’t be able to pick up pace in the coming six months as well. Therefore, I have no option but to shut the hotel to curtail further losses.”
22-06-2020||---||Revenue hit, state roadways imposes 25% salary cut||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 21The PRTC has imposed a 25 per cent salary cut after failing to generate adequate revenue to cover the losses suffered during and after the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Earlier, the PRTC management was hoping that resumption of bus service would help it in mitigating losses to some extent. However, with only less than 30 per cent of the PRTC fleet plying after the lockdown, the losses kept on mounting.Staff threaten stirOpposing the pay cut, PRTC staffers have threatened to launch an agitation against the management and the state government if their full salaries were not paid.PRTC employees have threatened to launch an agitation against the management and the state government if their full salaries were not paid.Nirmal Dhaliwal, general secretary, PRTC Workers’ Union, said, “Not only there is a 25 per cent deduction, but the salary was also disbursed late. We are aware about the current situation arising out of the pandemic, but the PRTC must claim its outstanding dues from the state government.”“We are all going through tough times, but the 25 per cent salary cut is way too much. We have brought the matter to the notice of the managing director who has assured us that the cut was for only one month. If employees do not get their full salaries, we will not sit back quietly and start holding protests soon.”PRTC managing director Jaskiran Singh said, “With the available funds, we could pay 75 per cent salaries to our employees for May. Losses running into crores of rupees cannot be mitigated so early. We have intimated the state Transport Secretary about the financial crunch in the corporation and a meeting with Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal has been scheduled on Tuesday to discuss the matter.”Of the PRTC’s 1,150 buses, 250 have resumed operation on some routes. With only a few passengers travelling these days, these buses are barely generating revenue to bear operational costs, including diesel, maintenance and repair.The MD said the daily collections had nosedived from Rs 1.25 crore daily to Rs 10 lakh. “We are awaiting funds from the state government,” he said.
22-06-2020||---||Cops rope in cured patients for awareness||Mansa, June 21 The Mansa police have roped in patients, who battled Covid-19, to sensitise people regarding the pandemic under “Mission Fateh”. Mansa Senior Superintendent of Police Dr Narinder Bhargav, who launched the campaign on Saturday, said 241 panchayats, representatives of 85 wards of the city, youth clubs and trade organisations along with 35 patients acted as “Mission Warriors”.  “Mansa is among those districts, which have successfully contained the Covid-19 outbreak so far,” he said. He said office-bearers of numerous unions passed a resolution to spread awareness among the masses.  The Senior Superintendent of Police urged the residents to follow the guidelines and wear mask and practise social distancing to combat Covid. He said the police have distributed around 3,200 masks to the residents. As many as 8,973 people in the district have downloaded COVA Punjab app to date.
22-06-2020||Arun Sharma---||Not paid, contractors stop work midway on key roads in Ropar||Tribune News Service Ropar, June 21  Contractors engaged in the repair of three key roads in the district have stopped the work midway due to non-clearance of their pending bills amounting to crores of rupees by the state government.  While work on the 16-km Anandpur Sahib-Kahanpur Khui road was suspended on Friday, that of the Ropar bypass road has also been on hold since June 10. Similarly, work on the Anandpur Sahib-Naina Devi road was stopped three days ago. The contractors said they would not resume the work till their pending dues were cleared.  The repair work has already been running behind schedule even as potholed roads continue to cause inconvenience to commuters.  Earlier, residents of villages adjoining the Anandpur Sahib-Kahanpur Khui road had staged protests on several occasions demanding the repair of the road. After the intervention of the local MLA and Speaker Rana KP Singh, PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla had ordered to float tenders. The work was started in February. Sukhwinder Nagi, a contractor, said more than 50 per cent work on the Anandpur Sahib-Kahanpur Khui road had been completed by spending Rs 9 crore. Despite several requests, he had been paid only Rs 90 lakh till now.  Munish Bansal, who was given the contract to repair both sides of the 6-km Ropar bypass road for Rs 11.5 crore, said he had already spent Rs 3 crore on the project, but had not received a single penny from the government so far.  Similarly, the contractor of the Anandpur Sahib-Naina Devi road repair project also stopped the work on Thursday for want of funds. Contractor Yogesh Gupta said he was entrusted with the task to repair 6.44-km road from Anandpur Sahib till the border of Himachal Pradesh by spending Rs 4.10 crore. He had already completed the work on a 4.5-km stretch at a cost of Rs 3 crore. However, even after submitting five bills, no payment had been made by the authorities so far.  The Executive Engineer, PWD, Ropar division, said with the monsoon nearing, they had set the deadline to complete the repair work on these roads by June 30. The official said he was in touch with the higher authorities over the issue and the work would resume as soon as the bills of the contractors were cleared. PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla said due to the outbreak of Covid-19, funds from the Centre under various heads had not been received. Moreover, the government treasury remained closed due to the lockdown, which led to the delay in clearing the bills. The payment would soon be made to the contractors, he said.
22-06-2020||---||‘Ladakh situation poses threat to regional peace’||Chandigarh, June 21 Former Union Minister Ashwani Kumar on Sunday said the situation in Ladakh, caused by Chinese aggression, was a grave threat to regional peace and security. “Prudence demands a negotiated de-escalation of hostilities consistent with the securing of India’s strategic interests in the region. The supreme sacrifice of our valiant soldiers cannot go in vain,” he said. He said while the Opposition was entitled to ask questions considering the national security, the entire country was behind the Army in defence of the motherland. “At this critical stage of negotiations with the Chinese, we must show a unity of purpose. Deft diplomacy backed by a firm national resolve of a united people will checkmate the aggressors. India’s hard power and the power of its international goodwill anchored in its quest for peaceful coexistence should be harnessed at this time,” said the senior Congress leader.
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bajwa questions move to set up Civil Services Board||Questioning the move of the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government to set up the Civil Services Board in Punjab, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Sunday said it had tilted the scales decisively against the elected representatives. Recently, some ministers and party MLAs had opposed the move to set up the board.In a letter to the Chief Minister, Bajwa said, “The timing of your move is ominous. When your Cabinet ministers were recently humiliated by the Chief Secretary while finalising the excise policy, the setting set up of the Civil Services Board has ensured that bureaucracy becomes less answerable and accountable to the elected representatives.”— TNS
22-06-2020||Gurminder Singh Grewal---||Traffic on Khanna road hit as portion of overbridge falls||Khanna, June 21 Vehicular movement on the Khanna-Samrala road remained disrupted for the fourth consecutive day after a portion of the ROB fell down.  As per information, a portion of the concrete slab fell from the ROB, which caused panic among the masses. The police had earlier closed the ROB, but later allowed the movement of two-wheelers. As a result, the department diverted heavy vehicles towards the Chawa-Samrala road. Thousands of commuters now need to cover extra distance to reach at their destinations. Adesh Gupta, XEN, Public Works Department, said a team of technical experts had visited the site and after their opinion, the ROB was opened for light vehicles. He said minor repair was needed, but the work was yet to start.  Khanna SDM Sandeep Singh said they had directed the department concerned to repair the ROB at the earliest.  He said a team of experts had visited the site two days ago, and light vehicles have been allowed to use the ROB.
22-06-2020||---||Wings clipped, Mayors up in arms against govt||Chandigarh, June 21Mayors of the Municipal Corporations are up in arms against the Congress government for not only placing them low in the order of precedence under the “status and protocol”, but also withdrawing a 32-year-old order giving them power to write the annual confidential report of the bureaucrats, appointed as MC commissioners.The move is being seen as yet another effort to ignore the elected representatives. “The Mayors in some BJP-ruled states like Haryana are being empowered. In fact, in Jammu and Kashmir they have been given status equivalent to the minister of state, but our wings are being clipped,” said Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, Mayor of the Patiala Municipal Corporation.Annoyed, the Council of Mayors of Punjab has decided to take up the matter with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Writing the ACRs of the commissioners enabled them to regulate the functioning of the corporations. “What was the urgency to withdraw the order when elections to 127 civic bodies are due. It gives an impression that the bureaucracy calls the shots and is not answerable to the elected representatives,” said a senior leader in the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee.Ludhiana Mayor Balkar Singh said dilution of Mayors’ powers was unfortunate. “We are taking up the matter with the Chief Minister,” he said.In the Congress-ruled state, other elected representatives too have complained about similar treatment. Be it the recent tiff between the Chief Secretary and ministers or open tussle between some ministers and their administrative secretaries, the developments have not gone down well with ruling party leaders.
22-06-2020||Muktsar||‘Help 350 youths stuck in Malaysia’||Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday urged External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to take up the issue of repatriation of more than 350 Punjabi youths, who were languishing in Malaysian jails, even after completion of their sentences.The family members of the youths met Harsimrat at Badal village and told her that their kin were detained in Malaysia for staying illegally. They said travel agents took the youths to Malaysia on the pretext of providing them employment.Harsimrat also had a word with the Indian High Commissioner in Malaysia and asked him to help the youths in every possible way. — TNS
22-06-2020||Shivani Bhakoo||Poor infra may hit bicycle units: Expert||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 21With most nations avoiding the Chinese market in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, India may witness a surge in exports. Among others, the bicycle industry is expected to benefit.There are, however, reports that due to lack of infrastructure and research and development facilities in India, the global market has started exploring options in countries such as Vietnam, Sri Lanka and Cambodia.Talking to The Tribune, Rajesh Kapoor, Director, SK Bikes, said India was still getting many enquiries from European and African countries. However, owing to internal problems such as poor supply chain, labour pangs, old technology and lack of research and development, European and African buyers were looking at other nations as they had better facilities and infrastructure.“We are at number two in bicycle production with manufacturing of nearly two crore bicycles. China is at number one as it makes 20 crore bicycles a year. Look at the huge gap between the production. We need to ramp up production. But there are areas where we are helpless and only the government can provide the solution,” said Kapoor.Avtar Singh Bhogal of Bhogalsons said he had been stressing the introduction of new technology. “We are running the machinery, which our forefathers had installed. If we wish to get a machine worth Rs 30 lakh, we will have to pay a hefty duty of up to Rs 10 lakh or even more. In this scenario, how can we upgrade our manufacturing process?” he asked.
22-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||200 contacts of street food vendor test negative||Abohar, June 21 A 40-year-old vendor, who had tested positive for Covid-19 about 10 days ago, has been cured.  The vendor, a Subhash Nagar resident, who sold ‘chhole bhature’ on a bicycle would attract about 50 customers each day outside Nehru Park and Krishna Nagar. Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu and other senior officials had expressed concern as hundreds of people had come in contact with the vendor. The authorities had sealed the colony, where the vendor resided, dominated by migrants from Uttar Pradesh. Senior Medical Officer Dr Gagandeep Singh said 200 samples, which were taken after the vendor had tested positive, had been found negative. However, with six fresh cases, the Fazilka district’s tally of active cases today jumped to 11.  Civil Surgeon Dr Chander Mohan Kataria said six more patients had been reported in Fazilka, all of whom had been sent to an isolation centre in Jalalabad. Of the six cases, three were women. Four patients belonged to Fazilka, while the remaining were from Abohar tehsil. The men who have tested positive for the virus are aged 15, 42 and 17, while  the women are aged 27, 28 and 13. Four of them have a travel history and the remaining had come in contact with Covid positive people in the last few days. A 28-year-old woman of Kallarkhera village, who had tested positive last week, has also defeated Covid.
22-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Housebound Malerkotla residents face tough time||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 21With 22 areas in Malerkotla city falling under containment and buffer zones, residents are a harassed lot due to curbs on their movement.Of the seven Covid deaths reported from the district, six are from Malerkotla city alone. To contain the spread of the infection, the health authorities have been conducting a door-to-door survey. Residents have urged the authorities to complete the survey at the earliest so that they could get some relaxations.The containment zone-I comprises Mabara street, Aariyanwala street, Rajanwala street, Jatpura, Uchi Mosque, Khatika street and Chaudrian street, with a total population of 4,584. Located in its vicinity, Kacha Kot, Delhi Gate, Azeempur and Taliyan Bazaar areas, having a population of 6,791, have been declared buffer zones.Defence Colony and Dr Meethu Wali Gali of Adarsh Colony fall in the containment zone-II while Jujhar Nagar and Ajit Nagar have been declared buffer zones.In the containment zone- III, the authorities have included Chah Langri, Wada Khara and Shehzadpura areas.“We want to cover each household in these zones during the survey. We have formed special teams for it,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Civil Surgeon, Sangrur.“Our teams have been ensuring the timely supply of essential commodities in these areas. But if anyone is facing any issue, our officials can be contacted anytime,” said Vikramjit Singh Panthey, SDM, Malerkotla.
22-06-2020||Sameer Singh||Three months on, rural dispensaries still shut||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, June 21A majority of subsidiary health centres (rural dispensaries) in the Malwa region are lying closed for over three months post lockdown as rural medical officers (RMOs) have been assigned duties in quarantine centres, isolation wards and flu corners.Amid Covid-19 spread, patients are finding it difficult to travel to block level or district hospitals in the region. The state Health Department had deputed RMOs from rural dispensaries to provide services at quarantine centres, isolation wards and flu corners amid the pandemic, following which these dispensaries had been lying closed. However, no alternative arrangements have been made to provide health services at villages in the region. As a result, villagers have been facing a lot of problem.Sources said there were 59 rural dispensaries in Bathinda and all of them had been lying closed. Similarly, rural dispensaries in Muktsar, Barnala and Faridkot have also been lying shut. A few dispensaries are functional in Mansa and Moga. There are more than 1,150 rural dispensaries in the state and a majority of them have been lying closed.Talking to The Tribune, Avtar Singh, a labourer from Ganga village in Bathinda district, said, “My son was ill so I took him to a dispensary, but it was closed. I called up my acquaintances for help. Finally, we managed to get a vehicle and reached the Community Health Centre, Goniana.”Vipul Ujwal, Director, Rural Development and Panchayat Department, said, “We have to maintain a balance between providing health services in rural areas and combating Covid. We will work out a possible solution. Currently, we are in talks with the Health Secretary regarding opening of rural dispensaries.”
22-06-2020||Manav Mander||Post recovery, patients hope to lead normal life||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 21After testing positive for Covid-19, many patients have recovered and are hoping to lead a normal life.Deepak Rana from Amarpura lost his mother to Covid-19 on March 30. His mother was the first fatality from the infection in the district. On April 9, Deepak also tested positive for the infection. Though his mother died, Deepak recovered completely.“Covid-19 changed our lives completely. We were happily living till our mother tested positive. Everything changed thereafter. I came back after recovering, but people in the locality stopped talking to us. We decided to shift to our aunt’s house in Shimlapuri,” said Deepak (23) who works with the Municipal Corporation.Sharing details, he said, “Usually people recover within 14 days, but it took me 22 days. It varies from person to person and their immunity. Now that I have fully recovered, I do not face any health-related issue and I have started going to work,” he said.After testing positive, Deepak’s mother was first taken to Civil Hospital, and then shifted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, as a ventilator was not available at Civil Hospital.“I hope ventilators are installed at Civil Hospital so that treatment can be started early and no time is wasted in travelling,” he said.Ali Hassan (55) from Chowkiman tested positive on April 6 after attending a Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. A dairy farmer by profession, he hopes to lead a normal life after recovering from the infection.“My life has become almost normal. I wake up at 4 am and milk my cows. My wife Sapora helps me in my chores. After that I supply milk to a dairy,” said Hassan.His 15-year-old nephew Rafiq, who had also tested positive, is also doing fine now.Manjinder Singh, a farmer from a village near Maachiwara, tested positive on May 8 and has fully recovered now. “I was asymptotic throughout and never faced any difficulty. I am healthy now and not facing any health-related issue.”Manjinder nowadays takes care of his paddy plantation at his farm. “I was lucky enough to get workers in time for planting paddy. It is keeping me busy,” he said.
22-06-2020||Faridkot||Two Covid +ve among 7,381 take job exam in Punjab||At least 7,381 candidates on Sunday appeared in the written exam for the recruitment of nursing staff in government hospitals. As many as 84 centres were set up across the state.A total of 8,547 candidates had applied for the same, but 1,166 did not take the exam, which was conducted by the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences. It was mandatory for all candidates to wear a mask. Thermal screening was done at the entry points of all exam centres.The university had set up a separate exam centre for two Covid-positive candidates at Government Rajindra Medical College and Hospital in Patiala. All candidates maintained social distancing at the exam centres, said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice-Chancellor. — TNS
22-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||Untreated sewage flows into Fazilka drains, locals harried||Fazilka, June 21 A team of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), led by Chairman Prof Satwinder Singh Marwaha, recently visited the district to inspect Aspal seepage and other drains which terminate here.  A source said the team took samples from Awa sullage carrier at Awa village and from Aspal Extension drain, Karnikhera, Mumbeki, Kadar Baksh and Gharumi drains on Wednesday late evening.  SS Dhaliwal, Executive Engineer, PPCB, Faridkot, said the board chairman had intended to visit the area to acquaint himself of the situation. The team took samples from three drains and a hand pump. In September last year, all 25 samples taken by the PPCB from different resources in Fazilka villages had failed the quality test. In the past, the district progressive farmers, led by Vikram Ahuja, had made several representations to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), PPCB, Drainage Department authorities and the district administration, highlighting the inflow of contaminated water in these drains. They said the drains were running in full flow and carrying untreated sewage, which ultimately seeped down into the ground and got mixed with the subsoil water, rendering it unfit for irrigation and drinking purpose. As a result, the border area residents have been suffering from several deadly diseases.  The farmers said a foul smell emanated from the drains and even the BSF personnel were facing problems because of it.  Executive Engineer Dhaliwala said contaminated water of sewerage treatment plants (STPs) in Fazilka, Jalalabad, Malout and Arniwala was being thrown in the seepage drain, resulting in water pollution in the area. He said some of the municipal councils had been penalised for not maintaining the STPs according to the guidelines. The farmers alleged the untreated sewage water of five districts was being dumped into the drains. In response to a petition filed by Vikram Ahuja last year, the State Monitoring Committee of the NGT, led by chairman Justice Jasbir Singh (retd), had visited the district on January 6 and 7 in this regard. Subsequently, Justice Singh had directed officials of the department concerned that no untreated water should be allowed to flow into the drains. However, instead of improving, the situation has turned worst.  The NGT has fixed a deadline of March 31, 2021, to overcome the problem of polluted water in the district.
22-06-2020||Balwant Garg||Behbal kalan firing: With two prime accused in custody, SIT probe takes off||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 21Almost 16 months after the identification of four persons, including the son of an Akali leader, for their alleged involvement in fabricating bullet marks on a police escort vehicle in the Behbal Kalan police firing case, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the police has started the process to arraign these suspects as the prime accused in the case.Two of these suspects, Sohail Singh Brar (son of a late Akali leader) and Pankaj Bansal (owner of a car agency) were arrested by the SIT this week.On Sunday, the SIT nominated both these accused as conspirator and abettor in the case of making fake bullet marks on the escort vehicle of the former SSP, Moga, on October 14, 2015.Sources said the SIT had now planned to arrest Charanjit Singh, a private security guard with Pankaj Bansal, and Sanjiv Kumar, a manager with his car agency.As per the SIT’s investigation made in February last year, it is alleged that one of the guns, used by the police to fabricate fake bullet marks on the escort vehicle belonging to Charanjit Singh, was arranged by Sanjiv Kumar on October 14, 2015, evening. These bullet marks were made at the residence of Sohail Singh Brar.In the last 16 months, the SIT did not take any action against the four accused. It is alleged that under political pressure, they were being treated as prosecution witness. Now Sohail Singh Brar and Pankaj Bansal have been nominated as the prime accused in the case.Insiders in the SIT revealed that a private gun of Sohail Singh was also used to mark fake bullet marks on the escort vehicle.Other than making of .12 bore gun marks on the Gypsy, the SIT is also focusing on the use of private and illegal weapons in handling the protesters at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, in which two persons were killed and many other were injured.Denying they fired on the protesters, the accused police officials in this case claimed that a bullet taken out from the thigh of Beant Singh, one of the victims and the complainants against police officials in this case, was of 7.62 MM. This is a bullet of AK47, whereas the accused police officials were having 9MM pistol at the time of firing at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015.
22-06-2020||---||‘Take holy dip with caution’||Amritsar, June 21Call it religious sentiments or negligence, majority of the devotees, have been taking a dip in sarovar during their visit to the Golden Temple in Amritsar.Experts believe that a dip in a common water pool should be avoided under the prevailing circumstances as Amritsar has seen a spurt of Covid-19 cases.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said though there was no harm if the devotees took a bath in the sarovar with caution. It’s mandatory to maintain a distance of at least six foot from each other while taking a holy dip. The authorities should ensure adequate chlorination and regular circulation of water, he said.“If six-foot distance is not maintained in water, it can prove fatal. Covid-19 pandemic spreads mainly through human contact, spitting or droplets of infected person. That’s why distance has to be maintained. Otherwise, the pandemic does not spread in water or air. Water should be cleaned and circulated regularly as it will minimise the chances of infection,” said Dr Kishore.Today, the devotees took bath in the sarovar at a very close distance and frequently, while water circulation could never match that frequency.As per the ICMR guidelines, bathing in the same pool can result in spread of infection.
22-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma---||Farmers agitated over clogged drain||Tribune News Service Sangrur, June 21 Even 20 days after the district administration claimed to have started cleaning of drains at a cost of Rs 2.86 crore, Bahadur Singh Wala drain remains an eyesore. “The Drainage Department has not started cleaning of this drain. Monsoon is round the corner. There are high chances of misappropriation of funds meant for cleaning the drains. The Punjab Government must look into the matter,” said Bhupinder Longowal, committee member, Kirti Kisan Union. Apart from wild grass, uprooted trees can be seen lying in the drain, which have reduced its water carrying capacity. As Bahadur Singh Wala drain crosses through the fields of numerous villages, including Badrukhan, Bahadurpur and Longowal, farmers fear that the lackadaisical attitude of the administration would pose serious problem during monsoon. “The drain will overflow and damage our crops. The administration has required funds. What is stopping them from cleaning Bahadur Singh Wala drain? We met senior officials around a month ago, but process of cleaning the drain has not commenced to date,” said Karmjit Singh, a farmer. Gagandeep Gill, Executive Engineer, Drainage Department, said they had to recall tenders as only one bidder had come forward earlier. “During the second attempt, we got a good response from bidders. We will start the cleaning process of Bahadur Singh Wala drain at the earliest,”  said the Executive Engineer.
22-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Farmers yet to be paid for managing paddy stubble||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21Even as paddy transplantation is in full swing in the state, the state government has failed to provide the compensation of Rs 2,500 per acre in the accounts of marginal farmers who didn’t burn paddy stubble last year.Avtar Singh (33), of Lohian block—who formed Sohal Khalsa Farmer Group—and purchased machines to dispose of paddy residue, said, “After the compensation was announced, I along with other famers purchased costly machines at subsidised rates and disposed of crop residue in our fields. We ensured that nobody indulged in stubble burning and got the forms filled from farmers to claim compensation. We have not received any payment to date.”In November 2019, following the guidelines of the Supreme Court, the Punjab Government announced to provide the compensation to those farmers whose landholdings do not exceed five acres, haven’t burnt paddy straw and grows non-basmati crop.For seeking the compensa tion, farmers were directed to submit a self- declaration form issued by the Agriculture Department. Lakhwinder Singh, a farmer from Khusropur village in Jalandhar (West), said, we had exhausted our savings to purchase costly machinery.“After announcing the compensation, subsidy on machines was reduced from Rs 8,00,000 to Rs 3,68,000. We purchased the machines by forming groups. Our only hope of recovering money through the compensation seems shattered. Around 600 litres of diesel is used to mix crop residue in five acres. Harjinder Singh—who formed the Dasmesh Agriculture Society— claimed that farmers of Punia village in Shahkot, didn’t even got the forms for seeking compensation.District Agriculture Officer (DAO) Surinder Singh said we didn’t received funds from the government to disburse the same among eligible farmers.Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary, Agriculture Department, said he would verify the matter as some anomalies were found last year. He said the state government had released Rs 25 crore in 2019 for the management of paddy straw.
22-06-2020||---||Sarpanch’s spouse dupes youth of Rs 4.9 lakh, held||Bathinda, June 21The Talwandi Sabo police have arrested a man for allegedly duping a youth of Rs 4.90 lakh by threatening him of implicating in a false rape case.The accused, identified as Jagtar Singh, is the husband of the sarpanch of Jagah Ram Tirath village in the district. A complaint in this regard was lodged by the victim.ASI Sadhu Singh, investigation officer, said, Jaswant Rai from the village alleged in his complaint that his son Gurlal Singh had befriended a girl. Jagtar Singh started pressurising the girl to threaten his son of implicating him in a false case, so that he could take money from him in a bid to resolve the matter.Later, the accused started threatening Gurlal that the girl would lodge a false rape complaint against him and after that his entire life would be spoiled. He also told him that he could resolve the matter with the girl.Falling into his trap, the victim gave Rs 4.90 lakh to Jagtar Singh in four instalments. Later, he came to know that the girl had not filed any complaint against him.The police have booked Jagtar Singh and started investigations.
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||DGP to have security adviser||In an unprecedented move, the Punjab Government is set to appoint a retired Army officer, Brig Gautam Ganguly, as security adviser to the state DGP.The issue to appoint the officer in the rank equivalent to a DIG is being tabled in the Cabinet meeting on Monday.Meanwhile, to commercially exploit the land of the closed Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant, Bathinda, the PUDA will be developing 270 acres of the total 1,764 acres of the plant.An agenda item is this regard is being tabled inthe Cabinet meeting scheduled for June 22. The land has been transferred to PUDA for commercial exploitation by Powercom.The profit sharing between the two entities, PUDA and Powercom, will be in the ratio 80:20. Sources said PUDA would be raising Rs 100 crore loan against government guarantee to develop the land. — TNS
22-06-2020||---||Covid cases in Punjab hit 4,000-mark||Chandigarh, June 21With 122 fresh Covid-19 cases being reported today, the tally crossed the 4,000-mark in the state.Besides the new cases, one death due to the infection was reported from Ferozepur district.As per the media bulletin, Ludhiana reported 54 new cases, Pathankot 16, Hoshiarpur seven, Fazilka and Jalandhar six each, Ropar and Gurdaspur five each, Amritsar and SAS Nagar four each, Patiala and Kapurthala three each, Sangrur, Muktsar and SBS Nagar two each, and Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib and Tarn Taran one each.Of the 54 cases in Ludhiana district, 35 were contacts of earlier patients. Besides, four police personnel also tested positive. These cops belong to Samrala, Mukerian and New Shimla Puri.In addition, two women from Jamalpur tested positive. While one is a 41-year-old cancer patient, the other is a a 23-year-old working at a private hospital.In Ludhiana, five pregnant women too have tested positive. They belong to Sanghowal, Dehlon, Basti Jodhewal, Dugri and Haibowal.One patient from Ludhiana district was admitted to a Patiala hospital.Four cases of influenza-like illness and three cases from an outpatient department of a private hospital have also been reported.In Jalandhar, six more persons, including a policeman and two migrants, tested positive today. Some of those who tested positive are contacts of previous patients. These include two persons from Randhawa Masandan and two from Gadaipur.
22-06-2020||Patiala||Several workers got lockdown relief multiple times in Punjab, recovery on||Officials of the Labour Department in Punjab have come under the lens following reports that several construction workers in the state had received the lockdown relief multiple times.Hundreds of construction workers received the interim relief of Rs 3,000, as announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, twice or thrice. In Jalandhar, 28 beneficiaries got Rs 6,000 extra. Some even received Rs 12,000 more than their entitlement, sources said.The department has now asked assistant labour commissioners in various districts to recover the excess amount from such beneficiaries. Ironically, many construction workers have also complained of not having received the relief even once. Sources said data entry operators and the computer programmer deliberately credited the financial aid to some accounts in excess.Kulwant Bawa, general secretary of the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, Punjab, said the department transferred money without verifying the beneficiaries. He said, “If some beneficiaries have received double or triple the due amount, it means some genuine beneficiaries have been left out.”VK Janjua, Principal Secretary, Labour Department, said, “Assistant labour commissioners have been asked to recover the excess amount paid to some of the beneficiaries. In many cases, recovery has already been made.”“There was a mistake on part of the data programmer. He has admitted to the lapse,” he added.
22-06-2020||---||Give time to yoga, Milkha Singh advises youngsters||Chandigarh, June 21Former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh (90) celebrated 6th International Day of Yoga by performing various asanas at his home today. In his 40 minutes of yoga practice, Milkha Singh asked the youngsters to give time to keep their body fit by doing yoga regularly. Singh, who is also known as ‘Flying Sikh’, performs regular exercise and yoga for the past 30 years.Meanwhile, several educational, social and political organisations held activities to mark the day.UT Sports DepartmentPlayers of various local sports coaching centres, functioning under the UT Sports Department, celebrated the day by participating in various yoga online classes.Govt collegeThe Government College of Yoga Education and Health organised a session where a common yoga protocol was followed abiding by the guidelines of social distancing. The event was presided over by Dr Manjushree from the Directorate of AYUSH.Morning session at PECPunjab Engineering College celebrated International Yoga Day by holding an early morning yoga session for its faculty and students. The session, held online via Google Meet, was conducted by instructor Sunil Kumar. He began with explaining the benefits and importance of the activity and how vital it is for our physical and mental health.NCC cadets participatePatiala: NCC cadets of 5 Pb Bn NCC, Patiala, celebrated International Yoga Day at their homes. Members of their family also participated from various locations through video-conferencing. Col Navjot Kang, CO, 5 Pb Bn NCC, Patiala, said 1,044 persons — 856 NCC cadets and 188 their family members — were part of the yoga day celebrations. They had registered themselves on a portal. Cadets uploaded their videos on the social media. Col Navjot Kang said NCC Cadets were told about the importance of yoga for not only boosting the immunity system and remaining healthy but also to maintain good mental health.Mission FitInternational Day of Yoga was celebrated by members of Mission Fit, Chandigarh, under the guidance of Deepak Thakur, founder of the mission, and his team trainers Priyanka, Chandani Kapoor, Nitin Sharma and Naman Soni.Centre for Swami Vivekananda StudiesThe Interdisciplinary Centre for Swami Vivekananda Studies, PU, conducted two online lectures. Dr GD Sharma from Yogpeeth, Haridwar, spoke on ‘Efficacy of Tridoshas and Tribandhas in the modern context’. ‘Tridoshas’ means an imbalance of the three forces of the body: ‘vat, pitt and kapha’. “When these three are in the right balance, our personality becomes attractive, impressive and our outlook becomes positive,” he said.BJP celebrates dayChandigarh: A yoga camp was organised by the local BJP unit at the party office, Kamalam, in Sector 33 here on Sunday. The camp was attended by several leaders, including the party president Arun Sood. Yoga instructor Monika Thakur conducted the camp wherein she guided the participants about different asanas. The programme was also broadcast live on the social media. TNSNo gatheringChandigarh: Keeping in view the social distancing protocol, no formal gathering was planned to observe International Yoga Day and employees of the Ambala division of the Northern Railways performed yoga asanas at home. Divisional Railway Manager Gurinder Mohan Singh, along with his wife Harvinder Kaur, also participated. TNS
