22-09-2020||Chandigarh||With 1,498 fresh COVID-19 cases, Punjab’s infection tally crosses 1 lakh-mark||Punjab’s COVID-19 tally crossed the one lakh-mark on Tuesday with 1,498 new cases, while 66 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,926, according to a medical bulletin.Eleven deaths were reported from Jalandhar, nine each from Ludhiana, Amritsar and Patiala, six from Gurdaspur and three each from Bathinda, Ferozepur and Rupnagar.Two deaths each were reported from Moga and Mohali, and one each from Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Kapurthala, Mansa, Muktsar, Pathankot, Sangrur and Tarn Taran, the  bulletin said.With the 1,498 fresh cases, the COVID-19 count reached 1,01,341 in the state, as per the medical bulletin.Among places which reported new cases are Amritsar (257), Mohali (227), Patiala (127), Ludhiana (115), Gurdaspur (93) and Kapurthala (92).There are 21,288 active cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 1,718 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons in the state to 77,127.Sixty-five critical patients are on ventilator support, while 565 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 16,27,821 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far, it said. — PTI
22-09-2020||Lahore||Guru Nanak's death anniversary: 4,500 Pakistani Sikhs participate in prayers at Kartarpur||At least 4,500 Sikhs from across Pakistan participated in the Jyoti Jot Gurpurb event, which concluded on Tuesday at the historic Gurdwara Darbar Sahib Kartarpur in the country's Punjab province.The three-day event commemorated the 481st death anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. A large number of Sikhs from across Pakistan, including from Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provinces, participated in the function.However, Indian Sikhs could not participate in the three-day event due to the travel restrictions in place in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Also read: Sikhs in Pak begin commemorating ‘Jyoti Jot’ of Guru Nanak at Gurdwara Kartarpur SahibThe event started on Sunday with ‘Paath’ (recitation of Guru Granth Sahib) and ended on Tuesday with Bhog Akhand Paath and Ardas (prayers).On Tuesday, 15 vehicles carried devotees singing holy hymns from Gurdwara Darbar Sahib to the Zero Point (Indo-Pak border).The devotees were led by officials of the Evacuee Trust Property Board and the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee.After performing ‘Ardas’ at the Zero point, the devotees went back to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib.Vice Chancellor of Narowal University Dr Tariq Mehmud was the chief guest on the concluding day of the event.According to Evacuee Trust Property Board, at least 4,500 local Sikhs attended the event.The Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is located in Pakistan’s Narowal district across Ravi river about 4 km from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in India.
22-09-2020||Delhi||Punjab, Harayna asked to urgently implement measures to reduce stubble burning||A Supreme Court-mandated pollution control authority wrote to Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday, asking them to “urgently” implement measures to reduce stubble burning—one of the major reasons behind high levels of air pollution in Delhi during winter.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, stubble burning contributed significantly to air pollution in Delhi last year with the share of farm fire smoke in particulate matter peaking to 44 per cent in November.“It has been brought to our notice that early burning of crop residue is taking place in Punjab. According to a SAFAR estimate, fire counts were 42 on September 21, around 20 on September 20 and nil on September 15,” Bhure Lal, the chairman of the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA), said in a letter to the two states.Satellite imagery from space agency National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) have also shown that farmers have started burning crop residue in parts of Punjab and Haryana.Though farm fires have started in Punjab and neighbouring border regions, its impact on Delhi’s air quality will be minimal for the next three days since predominant winds are not supportive for transport and accumulation of pollutants, according to SAFAR, the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor.On Tuesday, the national capital recorded an air quality index of 115, which falls in the moderate category.“While the impact on air pollution is currently minimal as wind speed is high and there is dispersion, the fact is that crop burning season has started and it needs to be urgently addressed as per the directions of the Supreme Court,” Bhure Lal said.He asked the states to make all efforts to comply with the directions of the apex court which has specified that measures need to be taken for both “in-situ and ex-situ stubble management so that incidence of fire is minimised, if not eliminated”.The EPCA chairman said the pollution control authority had been monitoring progress with the states and had worked out clear benchmarks and targets to be achieved before the coming season.“We recognise that we have lost time because of COVID-19, but given that the winter season is now approaching, we need to tackle this with urgency and ensure compliance,” he said.Bhure Lal asked Punjab and Haryana to ensure there is an implementation of measures to reduce stubble burning and that machines are procured and made available to farmers at affordable rates and with convenience.The EPCA also asked them to set up a control room to issue directions and ensure that machines are within the reach of farmers, and also take action against non-compliance reported from the field.The Punjab government had earlier told the EPCA that it has been utilising crop residue through biomass-based power plants and various bio-CNG projects are under process.The state has now proposed to set up a 25-megawatt solar-biomass project.Punjab has already set up 7,378 custom hiring centres (CHCs) to provide equipment for crop residue management. The state will establish 5,200 more CHCs this year to accomplish the target of having one CHC in each village. The administration will provide 220 balers this year, according to the EPCA.Farmers sell bales to nearby factories, mainly biomass plants, at around Rs 120 per quintal.Till now, the state has provided 50,185 farm machines to CHCs and individuals.Last year, Punjab produced around 20 million tonnes of paddy residue. Farmers burnt 9.8 million tonnes of it. These figures will be used as a benchmark for the state’s performance this year.The Haryana government had told EPCA that a committee has been set up to look into the progress of bio-CNG and bio-ethanol projects and biomass plants to manage crop residue.The state has set up 2,879 CHCs and 2,000 more will be established by October. As many as 791 balers will be supplied by the time harvesting starts. Haryana has deployed 24,705 machines, of which 8,777 are owned by individuals and the rest are with CHCs.Last year, Haryana produced seven million tonnes of paddy residue, of which farmers burnt 1.23 million tonnes.Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15.Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left behind after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR.Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between harvesting of paddy and sowing of wheat. The high cost of manual or mechanical management of straw is a major reason why farmers choose to burn it.State governments are providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for in-situ management of paddy straw, installing paddy straw-based power plants and running a massive awareness campaign against stubble burning.But these measures are yet to make any significant impact on the ground. PTI
22-09-2020||---||Three Government Medical Colleges of Punjab to participate in Phase III trials of Covaxin||Chandigarh, September 22Punjab’s three Government Medical Colleges will participate in the Phase III trials of the indigenous Covid vaccine, Covaxin, being tested by Bharat Biotech Ltd in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The trials are scheduled to commence from October 15, disclosed an official spokesperson after a virtual Covid review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.The Chief Minister has directed the Medical Education & Research Department to ensure full care and strict adherence to all precautions to be taken during the trials, for which the consent of the participants will be mandatory.Captain Amarinder issued stern directions to ensure that poor persons are not pulled into the trials without consent, knowledge and understanding of the possible repercussions and dangers, said the spokesperson.Bharat Biotech Ltd, which had approached the state government a few days back, has announced Rs 75 lakh insurance cover for the participants in case of any adverse event/effects or death.The possible side effects of the vaccine could include fever, pain at the site of the intramuscular injection and malaise.Two doses of the inactivated virus injection would be given to the participants (0 and 28 days) as part of the Phase III human trials, the spokesperson added.
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali sees more single-day recoveries than new COVID cases||Mohali reports four deaths and 188 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district's death total to 167. The number of recovered cases has crossed the number of positive cases reported in Mohali. The coronavirus tally stands at 8,701. In the last 24 hours, 267 recovered from the deadly disease. COVID-19 deaths: A 56-year-old man, who had diabetes and hypertension, from Desumajra, and a 57-year-old man, who had heart disease, from Manauli died at Sohana, and a 68-year-old man, who had diabetes and hypertension, and a 73-year-old man died at GMCH, Patiala.Divulging details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, said, that four men died due to the coronavirus during the last 24 hours. He said, that the dead include 56-year-old male from Desumajra, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, 57-year-old male from Manauli and was suffering from a heart ailment. He said, that both of them had died in Sohana hospital. He said other two people include 73-year-old male from Mubarikpur, and a 68-year-old male of Dera Bassi, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. He said both had died in GMCH Patiala.COVID-19 cases: The city records 2,559 active cases. So far, 5,975 patients have recovered in Mohali.
22-09-2020||---||Farm Bills: BKU to stop rail, road traffic to Delhi||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 22Farmer leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan on Tuesday announced to conclude protest at Patiala and Badal village. The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president said, “We are ending our protest and lifting road blockades. But we will block rail and road traffic movement to Delhi and stop trains for three days from September 24 to 26 to make Punjab bandh successful on September 25."“We will start village-wise vigil from tomorrow and three days will see total blockage or roads and trains to Delhi,” he said, adding that no farmer will sit quiet against the injustice meted to them.The farmers had started day-and-night protest against the agriculture ordinances on September 15.
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Babbu Maan, Sidhu Moosewala share clips in farmer's support to September 25 'bandh call'; ask 'people to unite to fight'||Many Punjabi singers have extended their support to the September 25 Punjab 'bandh' call given by farmers' unions against the new farm bills.Around 30 farmers' outfits have given a call for the complete shutdown of Punjab on September 25 in protest against the bills.Punjabi singer and actor Harbhajan Mann has appealed to people to support the bandh call.Mann, in a tweet, said he, along with several other artists, would be participating in the Punjab bandh protest.Another famous singer Babbu Mann also came out in support of the 'chakka jaam' on September 25.In a video uploaded on his Instagram account, he urged people to unite for the farmers' cause.Farmers in Punjab have been protesting against the three bills.Saada ailaan shareaam 25 tareek chakka jaam Kisaan Majdoor Ekta ZindabaadA post shared by  Babbu Maan (@babbumaaninsta) on Sep 21, 2020 at 11:05pm PDT  They have expressed apprehension that the three bills will pave a way for dismantling the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.The Rajya Sabha passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 during the day. It had cleared the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 on Sunday.The bills had been passed by Lok Sabha last week.Singer Sidhu Moosewala, in a video, said he stands with farmers who had been protesting against the farm bills."We will hold 'rosh pardarshan' (protest) in Mansa," he said, adding that he would soon share the details of the protest. He also appealed to people to come out and support farmers in their struggle.MUST LISTENA post shared by  Sidhu Moosewala (ਮੂਸੇ ਆਲਾ) (@sidhu_moosewala) on Sep 22, 2020 at 12:26am PDT  A few days ago, singer and actor Diljit Dosanjh had voiced his support for farmers and tweeted, "Kisaan Bachao, Desh Bachao. Kisaan Virodhi Bill Da Asi Sarey Virod Karde Haan (Save farmers, save the country. We all oppose the anti-farmer bills)." PTI
22-09-2020||Ruchika M. Khanna||Punjab CM announces reduction in market, rural development fee for basmati||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22Succumbing to the pressure of basmati exporters, the Punjab government on Tuesday reduced the market development fee and the rural development fee for basmati purchase from 2 per cent each to 1 per cent each.The move would help end the strike by the basmati exporters and traders, who have refused to buy basmati from Punjab, citing higher tax structure in the state. Even as the PUSA 1509 variety continues to arrive in the mandis, and sells at Rs 1,900 per quintal against last year’s price of Rs 2,400 per quintal, these exporters decided to buy the produce from neighbouring Haryana and Delhi.The move is being seen as a step to woo the farmers, who are on a warpath because of the three farm Bills passed by the Parliament, during the ongoing monsoon session.The reason for farmers refusal to buy from Punjab was mainly because the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments have decided to go ahead with The Farmer Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, which allows traders to buy produce outside the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees, by paying just 1 per cent tax. In Punjab, they were to pay 4.25 per cent tax.“We will buy from a state where the tax is low, in order to remain competitive. The government understood our predicament in this time of economic slowdown and thankfully decided to reduce the taxes,” says Ranjit Singh Josan, vice president of Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters Association.The move will provide relief to the tune of Rs 100 crore to basmati traders/millers. However, the reduction in taxes comes with the caveat that no refund of any fee will be allowed to any paddy/rice dealer/miller/trader for export of the Basmati paddy/Rice to other countries from the state.It may be mentioned that area under basmati in Punjab has increased by 25,000 hectares this year -- from 6.25 lakh hectares in 2019 to 6.50 lakh hectares now. The produce is mostly bought by traders and exporters and Punjab contributes almost 40 percent of the total basmati exports from the country.
22-09-2020||Amritsar||Sidhu says will hold protest against Farm Bills in Amritsar East||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu said on Tuesday that he would hold a protest against the controversial farm Bills at Hall Gate with councillors from his constituency Amritsar East.Sidhu’s announcement came in response to Congress party’s call asking its Members of Legislative Assembly to hold protests against the Bill.Sidhu held a press conference to show solidarity with farmers, and asked Punjab’s farmer unions to form cooperatives with small farmers as equal partners to protect them from exploitation by capitalists. He also said challenging the Bill in the Supreme Court appears to be the best way to counter the central government’s decision. “There is a need to chalk out a common minimum programme to safeguard the farmers’ interests,” he said, adding that farmers of Punjab and Haryana contributed substantially to distributing food through the public distribution system.“The Union government has made the mistake of choosing a failed free-market structure from the US and Europe over India’s successful ‘mandi pattern’. The move will favour big crony capitalists at the cost of public enterprises, farmers and labour of India,” he said, adding that the Bills will also adversely affect India’s federal structure and impinge up state government’s jurisdiction.“The farm Bills will damage the Punjab’s revenue source. The farm Bill takes away the livelihood of 28,000 arhtiyas, and 4-5 lakh mandi labours of Punjab. Punjab has 1850 purchase centres including 152 big mandis. Who will spare a thought to 28,000 arhtiyas and 4-5 lakh allied labours of mandis who were on the verge of losing their livelihood,” he said.“ Only the six per cent India’s farmers were benefitted of the basic MSP, whereas the 94 per cent who roam the markets end up compromising on doing petty labour jobs to make both ends meet”, he said.He also claimed that the Bills could lead to “unprecedented” food inflation. “The Bill will legitimise hoarding. Hoarders would sell that produce at much higher prices, leading to food inflation,” he said.
22-09-2020||Aditi Tandon||LS adjourned for hour after Ravneet Bittu alleges assault by Delhi Police on Punjab MPs||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 22The Lok Sabha was adjourned for an hour moments after it assembled on Tuesday at 3 pm, following a grave allegation of police assault by Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu.Speaking in the house, Bittu alleged that hundreds of Delhi police personnel “brutally assaulted” him and his three MP colleagues from Punjab Santokh Singh Choudhary, Jasbir Singh Gill and Gurjeet Sing Aujla, when they were all taking out a candle light march from Parliament House to Rashtrapati Bhavan on the issue of farm bills.“The police personnel perhaps thought that we were farmers and assaulted is brutally right outside the temple of democracy. We told them we are parliamentarians and sit with the Prime Minister but to no avail. The police didn’t know we were MPs. They thought we were farmers and beat us up badly. I had a bad left knee fracture, which has gone worse after the assault and other MPs have also suffered injuries. This is horrifying,” Bittu said in the Lok Sabha with Speaker Om Birla assuring him a full probe into the incident and protection both inside and outside Parliament.Speaker also said had Bittu come to the house which say past midnight on Monday and shared his experience, a probe could have been ordered right away.Bittu and Santokh Choudhary submitted written representations to the Speaker narrating the sequence of events starting 7 pm on Monday.“We were peacefully marching from Parliament towards Rashtrapati Bhavan when hundreds of policemen cane rushing towards us, pushing, shoving and physically assaulting us when there was no reason for us to be treated that way,” Bittu wrote to Speaker.The Ludhiana MP also said that he and other MPs sustained severe injuries in the process.“There may have been a conspiracy to kidnap us or endanger our lives through the assault and hence the matter warrants a detailed investigation,” Bittu’s letter to the Speaker says.Earlier today a DMK member also alleged that some IB sleuths visited him in Tamil Nadu Bhavan where he is staying and “interrogated” him on his party’s stand on Parliament agendas.The Speaker cautioned the DMK MP against making any unsubstantiated statements and said, “The safety of all MPs is my responsibility and I will get these issues examined but I need written complaints. I have received letters from Ravneet Bittu and Santokh Choudhary.”LS will reassemble at 4 pm after the first adjournment following opposition MPs raising slogans against the government and demanding protection from the Speaker.
22-09-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farmers disappointed over ‘meagre’ hike in rabi crops MSP||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 22Farmers’ organisations have expressed disappointment over the “meagre” increase in the minimum support price (MSP) for wheat and rabi crops announced by the Union Government on Monday.Wheat MSP has been increased by Rs 50 per quintal to Rs 1,975 per quintal.However, farmers, who were anticipating a financial bailout from the government, were let down by the paltry increments as the agricultural sector grappled with high input cost and other issues.They claimed that the hike in MSP falls short of the recommendations of the National Commission on Farmers, headed by Prof MS Swaminathan, which had recommended that the MSP by 50 per cent more than the weighted cost of production.Farmers also said they felt cheated and insulted by various governments over the issue of implementation of the Swaminathan report, which had not been implemented so far.Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary of BKU Ekta Ugrahan, termed it a cruel joke on farmers by the Union Government as BJP had promised of fixing MSP as per the Swaminathan Commission report in election manifesto but this hike was nowhere near that.“The marginal increase in the MSP will not serve any purpose. The government has failed to calculate the input cost of wheat cultivation and other expenses while tabulating the MSP,” he added.Sidhupur district BKU president Baldev Singh Sandoha said: “The government claims to double the farmer’s income by 2022. How would it do so when the MSP increase is not even 10 per cent. The government has once again shown its anti-farmer face.”He added: “Farmers are being exploited as cotton fixed price by the government is Rs 5710, but farmers are forced to sell their crop to private buyers at a rate of Rs 4500 as CCI is not starting the purchase.”Gurmeet Singh, a farmer from Bathinda, said: “There is no use of giving such a small hike as the farmers are dying in times of farm crisis as the labour cost has increased. The prices of almost every input have increased. With this MSP hike, the farmers will not be benefitted.  The price rise should correspond to the inflation rate.”Farmers also stated that the government should make and implement pro-farmer policies to save them from the ongoing farm crisis. Farming was becoming a non-profitable profession but farmers did not know any other work, they added.
22-09-2020||Aditi Tandon||PM to review Punjab, 6 other states for ‘higher than national average’ Covid deaths, infection rate||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 22Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday review the COVID-19 response in seven states with the highest disease burden and deaths.The states include Punjab where case fatality rate from COVID is higher than the national average and COVID positivity rate is also higher than India’s.The Prime Minister will virtually meet with the CMs of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab.Also read: Record 1.01 lakh Covid patients recover in a day; recovery rate rises to 80.86 per centMore than 63 pc of the active cases of the country are concentrated in these seven states which account for 65.5 per cent of the total confirmed cases and 77 pc of the total deaths.Along with the other five States, Punjab and Delhi have reported an increase in the number of cases being reported recently.Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi are reporting high mortality with more than 2 per cent Case Fatality Rate (CFR).Other than Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, their positivity rate is observed to be above the national average of 8.52 per cent.The Centre has been leading the fight against COVID-19 in the country in effective collaboration and close coordination with the state/UT governments.The Union Government is supporting them to ramp up the healthcare and medical infrastructure.Meanwhile, India’s daily new recoveries today crosses the peak of one lakh.
22-09-2020||London||Sikh man assaulted in England; asked if he was a Taliban member||A Punjab-born Sikh taxi driver has said that four white men assaulted him in Berkshire, England, and asked if he was a member of the Taliban militant group.Vaneet Singh (41), from Tilehurst suburb of the Reading town, believes the four accused could have been Scottish or Irish.Singh, who has been left bruised and battered after the incident, told the police that the men also stuck drugs up his nose, vandalised his taxi and tried to pull his turban off.One of them had asked to be dropped in nearby Bramley after all four were picked up from a casino in Berkshire.“After he got out, he came up to my window holding a black box of substance which I think was cannabis. He asked me to try it and I said it was against my religion and then he lifted up my face mask and forced it up to my nose. It left me feeling intoxicated,” Singh claimed.Another man asked Singh to stop to urinate.“He got out and asked to drive the car and I refused. Then he started trying to pull my taxi plate off. I tried to call the police but the network was very poor. Back in the car, they slid their fingers inside my turban and tried to pull it off,” Singh said.“They also kicked and punched me in the back through the seat and kept tightening my safety belt. They said, ‘Are you Taliban?’ I said, ‘No, I’m a Sikh’, and told them it was a religious symbol and asked them not to touch my turban,” he added.All three men got out at red traffic in Basingstoke, kicked the back of his car, leaving a dent and left.Besides driving a cab, Singh also teaches tabla in Berkshire.“I have neck pain and chest pain now and my body keeps vibrating. This was 100 per cent a racist attack. I am usually a friendly guy, always laughing but this has made me scared,” he added.Thames Valley Police said they were investigating the case. No arrests had been made so far. IANS
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||SAD to hold ‘chakka jam’ in Punjab on Sept 25 against farm legislations||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the BJP’s oldest ally, on Tuesday announced road blockades across Punjab on September 25 to protest against the contentious farm Bills passed by Parliament.The Rajya Sabha passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 during the day. It had cleared the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, on Sunday.The Bills had been passed by Lok Sabha last week.“It has been decided to hold a ‘chakka jaam’ (road blockade) on September 25 in Punjab against these farm Bills,” SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said.He said the party’s senior leaders, workers, farmers and farm labourers would block roads in the state for three hours from 11 am in a peaceful manner.Notably, around 30 farmers’ outfits have already given a call for a complete shutdown in Punjab on September 25 in protest against the Bills.Party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal would launch a four-day state-wide mass contact programme on September 26 during which he would make party workers aware about the “adverse impact” of these Bills on the farming community, Cheema said.He added that on October 1, the party leadership would present to the Punjab governor a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind. An appeal would be made to take back these Bills, Cheema said.A Shiromani Akali Dal delegation on Monday had urged the President to come to the rescue of farmers and farm labourers by not giving his assent to the farm Bills.Last week, SAD leader and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from the Union Cabinet in protest against the Bills. PTI
22-09-2020||It took seven years to build the historic Khalsa College in Amritsar||Khalsa College Amritsar:  A heritage marvel||The 126-year-old Khalsa College was conferred the status of a heritage institute by the UGC in 2017. The bird-eye view of the building which is a combination of Mughal, Sikh & Victorian architecture. Several areas and spaces in the main building are reminisce of a bygone era with Italian marble pillars inspired by the Mughal architecture.The college library is rich in its collection with over 6,000 books, including new and old manuscripts. In addition, there are more than 115 artefacts depicting the rich Sikh history, including ancient weapons, pictures of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and a range of paintings at the college.The museum of Sikh history on the campus has several photographs about the history of its founding members and of the time when the college campus turned into a refugee camp during the Partition.The college imparts regular religious guidelines but there is no compulsion for non-Sikhs. Prayers are held at the college gurdwara in the morning and evening and resident members and students are motivated to attend prayers.The over a century-old furniture and benches in a few classrooms have been maintained and preserved since the time of its establishment. The furniture has been re-touched to maintain the overall heritage appeal of the college. The stairway in front of the main entrance to the building is over 120 years old and is carved out in Victorian style of architecture. The main building's restoration work was carried out three years ago, which includes work on the ceiling of the main hall, Italian marble pillars at the entrance and huge French glass frames and rosewood work on the windows.One gains entry to Khalsa College, Amritsar, through this royal Gate No. 1.The 83-year-old British clock installed on top of the main building was repaired recently. It has remained non-functional for more than 13 years now. While the central clock has been restored with its original parts, there are two other vintage clocks that have been kept in the museum and converted into digital clocks.
22-09-2020||---||Punjab Government mulls setting up modern gaushalas through PPP mode||Chandigarh, September 21Faced with an estimated 1.40 lakh stray head of cattle, the Punjab Government has mooted a proposal to set up modern gaushalas in public private partnership (PPP) mode across the state.A proposal in this regard was discussed in a meeting of the Cabinet sub-committee on stray cattle here today. The recommendations will be tabled in an upcoming meeting of the Council of Ministers for final approval.Under the PPP mode, private players will be given land on lease for 25 years and no financial support will be given by the government. The private players running the gaushalas will be allowed to sell biogas from cow dung, bio-fertilisers and bio-pesticides, and milk production from maximum 10 per cent cows. Solar plants installed at the gaushalas will sell power to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) through net metering.Sources said initially, the Department of Animal Husbandry had been asked to identify 50 acres in Kulle Majra, Patiala, and 38 acres in Shekhowal, Ludhiana, for setting up modern gaushalas. Similarly, panchayat lands could be offered in other districts for the purpose.Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, also the chairman of the Cabinet sub-committee, said meaningful recommendations had been made to safeguard the lives of people in urban and rural areas, which would be discussed in the Cabinet meeting. The government was committed to establishing the cattle pounds in all 22 districts of the state, for which Rs 4,385.34 lakh had been released. At least 76 sheds had been constructed in 20 cattle pounds established so far, he said.Land to be given on lease for 25 years
22-09-2020||Fazilka||3 specialists shifted from Fazilka hospital||After the visit of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu to the Fazilka District Hospital last week, three specialist doctors have been shifted from the hospital. According to the orders, medical specialist Dr Jatinder Kochhar has been shifted to Ferozepur, anesthesiologist Dr Rupali Mahajan has been transferred to the Subdivision Hospital at Zira, and chest specialist Dr Neelu Chugh has been appointed as the District Tuberculosis Officer in the local Civil Surgeon’s office. Dr Neelu Chugh said he would carry on with the OPD duty along with his present assignment. Residents had raised the issue of shortage of medical specialists at the hospital during the visit of the minister. “Doctors are seldom available at the hospital,” said Sukhchain Singh, a local. Sources said no medical specialist was presently posted at the District Hospital. Dr Ankur Chaudhary, posted at the District Hospital, had been sent on deputation to the Civil Hospital, Abohar, a few months months ago as a post was lying vacant there. The other medical specialist doctor, Shahzeen Dhuria, is on leave since long. The sources said the posts of ENT, gynaecologist, dermatologist and pathologist were also vacant. As a result, ultrasound scan and dialysis units have been lying shut for the past more than two years, forcing patients to go to private hospitals. A senior official said the transfers were routine and there was nothing unusual in the process. — OC
22-09-2020||Sameer Singh||Alzheimer’s Month: Stigma biggest hindrance in treatment: Psychiatrists||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 21The condition of Gurtej Singh (72), a patient of dementia from Goniana in Bathinda, kept deteriorating for the past over three years after he failed to leave his addiction to alcohol. So much so that while being examined at the psychiatry ward at the Civil Hospital here recently, Gurtej could not even tell his name.Another patient from Bathinda city could not tell what she had for breakfast. She was struggling with severe memory loss and found it difficult to even carry out her daily routine activities.An estimated 141 per 1,000 persons in the 60-plus age category suffer from dementia in Punjab, as per the findings of a recent survey conducted by the Alzheimer’s and Related Disorders Society of India (ARDSI).Psychiatrists said since there was no cure available, lifestyle changes could play a pivotal role in preventing progression of the disease. Notably, September is observed as the World Alzheimer’s Month every year to raise awareness and challenge the stigma that surrounds dementia.As per experts, further progression or deterioration of patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) into severe dementia can be prevented if they make the required alterations at the right time.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Arun Bansal, head of the psychiatry unit at the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, said: “Patients with a history of alcohol consumption, smoking, hypertension, diabetes and deficiency of vitamin B12 are more prone to severe dementia. Early diagnosis and subsequent treatment is another big challenge, especially in rural areas where diseases related to brain are considered a stigma. Early symptoms of the disease (often forgetfulness) among elderly are often misconstrued for ageing by the lower socio-economic strata, thereby preventing early diagnosis and treatment. Dementia is not a normal part of ageing and it can affect young people too, albeit rarely.”Dr Bansal, on an average, examines approximately 50 to 60 patients of MCI and dementia in a month, although he admitted that there was no marked increase in the inflow of such patients over the past few years.
22-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Man arrested for sacrilege  in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, September 21An incident of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib was reported at a gurdwara in Tooran village of Amloh subdivision today.The incident was recorded in CCTV cameras installed at the gurdwara. Amloh SDM Anand Sagar Sharma and police personnel rushed to the spot and filed an FIR against a suspect, identified as Mewa Singh (40), who was arrested later. The suspect works as a tailor in the village. The SDM said the incident took place around 4 am. The family members of the accused said he was mentally unstable. However, local villagers refuted their claim and demanded strict action against the accused.Meanwhile, Giani Harpal Singh, head granthi of Gurdwara Fathegarh Sahib and Gurpreet Singh Randhawa, SGPC member, visited the village gurdwara and enquired about the incident.
22-09-2020||---||Patients weren’t dumped, allegations baseless: Report||Jalandhar, September 21A report, which has been submitted by the Director, Heath Services (ESI), to the Principal Secretary in response to the inquiry into the ESI Hospital patients being dropped near Domoria Bridge, fails to raise questions or hold the staff accountable for any lapse at the hospital. It rather calls the allegations “baseless”.The report, filed on the basis of MS, ESI Hospital, Loveleen Garg’s response, claims the 60-year-old man left with the help of a woman whose son was also admitted to the hospital. The report claims he sat in an auto-rickshaw along with a younger patient and his friends and all of them decided to go to Bihar. Both patients went in the same auto, reached the site on the night of September 16 and came back to the hospital on September 17. The report says their treatment was promptly taken up.While 60-year-old Raju is unable to sit, the report mentions him sitting in an auto and also contradicts the statements made by him in an interview with The Tribune. Raju (who is unable to sit due to sores on his back) along with Bikram was found “dumped” on a roadside. The report doesn’t question why a patient, who left willingly, didn’t even take his catheter off. It also mentions that the younger patient’s age is 20 and his name is Manoj.The report claims, “The elder patient (Raju), who was admitted to the hospital since July 31, 2020, was found missing from his bed on September 16 and was declared “not on bed” by the staff. The patient turned up outside the emergency ward at 11 pm on the night of September 17. When asked about his whereabouts, the patient said he was made to board an auto by a woman at the hospital whose son was a patient and he was left outside a ‘raen basera’.”Loveleen Garg has formed a committee to look into the matter. Responding to the repeated change in names and the catheter still being attached to the patient, she said, “I have no idea why the patient did not take off his catheter. None of the hospital staff was involved in the duo leaving the premises. The elder patient repeatedly changed his name and statement several times and is adamant on going home even today.”
22-09-2020||---||Last date to apply for scholarships extended||Chandigarh, September 21The Punjab Government has extended the deadline to apply for various scholarship schemes for the current academic session. The scholarships (2020-21) can be applied for on the e-Punjab portal.A spokesperson for the School Education Department said these scholarship schemes included pre-matric scholarship scheme for SC students (Class IX and X), pre-matric scholarship scheme for OBC students (Class I to X) and upgrade of merit to SC students studying in the classes IX to XII.He said the portal had already been opened from September 16.The last date for submission of online application was October 15, while the last date for approval of schools and to send online data for districts was October 20. The approval of districts and forwarding online data to the state can be done from October 15 to 27.
22-09-2020||Anirudh Gupta||7 yrs on, Ferozepur PGI satellite centre yet to see light of the day||Ferozepur, September 21It has been seven years since the ambitious project of a PGI satellite centre was approved for the border region. However, after inordinate delay on one pretext or the other, the much-needed healthcare centre is still staring at further delays as more controversies continue to emerge.Till date, umpteen assurances from the political dispensation representing the area seem to have fallen flat and the residents are bearing the brunt as they have to travel long distances to meet their healthcare needs.Now, in a fresh controversy, residents of Bajidpur village, who had provided additional 100 kanals for the project, have filed a civil writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the transfer of land for setting up the centre.Balwinder Kumar, sarpanch of Bazidpur village, said as per Rule 13 (C) of the Punjab Village Common Land (Regulation) Act, 1964, the Deputy Commissioner did not have the power to transfer the ownership of land of the gram panchayat. “Besides, as per the provision of the Transfer of Property Act, a gift can be complete only when it is accompanied by delivery of possession of the property,” he said. Raising doubts over the way the land was transferred to set up the centre, the sarpanch said no notice was sent to the gram panchayat regarding it. “On July 7 this year, officials from the Horticulture Department tried to take possession of the land forcibly. However, they could not succeed,” Balwinder added.Previously, the villagers had agreed to provide the Panchayat land by “way of gift”, desiring 15 per cent job quota for the village youth and 10 per cent reservation in admissions in the courses to be run at the proposed medical college of the centre. The villagers, in a resolution passed on April 16, 2017, had also desired that the government give a special grant to the village for development in lieu of the land.A similar resolution was passed by the gram panchayat of Malwal Qadim village, which had also reportedly provided 100 kanals for the project.Earlier, in January this year, a team had taken the physical possession of over 27 acres on the Ferozepur-Moga road to set up the centre, of which 25 acres belonged to the Horticulture Department.However, the Ministry had sought more land, including the contiguous piece belonging to the Fisheries Department to meet the requirements.Tenders to be floated in October: MLAClaiming there would be no further delay in the project, Congress MLA Parminder Singh Pinki said the request for a proposal for the construction of the PGI satellite centre had been issued and tenders would be opened in the first week of October. He said the estimated cost of the project was Rs 220 crore.Ffresh row over transfer of landIn a fresh controversy, residents of Bajidpur village, who had provided additional 100 kanals for the project, have filed a civil writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the transfer of land for setting up the centre.
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||47 more succumb, toll rises to 2,860||In a slight relief, the decline in Covid cases and deaths continued on Monday. The state reported 2,247 cases while 47 succumbed to the virus in the past 24 hours.With these, the total number of cases has reached 99,930 and the state toll is a staggering 2,860.Till now, 75,409 patients have recovered from the pandemic while 21,661 cases are still active in the state.In the district-wise break-up, Amritsar had the maximum 255 fresh cases, followed by Ferozepur with 249, Ludhiana 245, SAS Nagar 233, Jalandhar 221, Patiala 151, Bathinda 149 and Gurdaspur 101 cases.Amritsar even reported the highest number of deaths at nine, followed by Jalandhar with seven deaths, Ludhiana and Pathankot five deaths each, Kapurthala and Patiala four deaths each, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Sangrur two deaths each while Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Muktsar and Ropar reported one death each. — TNS
22-09-2020||---||State to post CRPF officers as jail supdts||Patiala, September 21The state government has received a list of seven officers from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to be posted as jail superintendents.Notably, the Prisons Department had sought names from Central paramilitary forces for the posts as it is facing an acute shortage of officers and Punjab cops are unwilling to serve the department.The department has received a list of deputy commandant-level officers from the Union Home Ministry to be posted as jail superintendents, subject to the clearance by the Home Department.Sources said after a clash broke out in the Ludhiana jail in 2019, leaving one inmate dead and five injured, the department had sought a list of officers from the BSF and CRPF to be posted as jail superintendents. “This was done following repeated requests to Punjab Police cadre officers to join the Prisons Department on an inter-cadre deputation, but no one showed willingness,” they said.A senior Punjab Police officer earlier posted in the Prisons Department said the job was tough and working conditions were poor, besides there was no backup from seniors. “Handling the jails is a complex and an expert’s job. It is high-pressure work and gangsters lodged in jails usually create hell and file frivolous complaints when you act strict,” he said, adding that there was no motivation for officers to continue in the jail cadre.Interestingly, senior jail officials revealed that at present the department had 10 posts at the jail superintendent-level which were being managed by junior officers. “Some officers came to serve for some time. While a few of them were booked for corruption, others returned due to the difficult work profile,” said a top official.Confirming the development, Additional DGP (Jails) PK Sinha said the proposal to post Central paramilitary officers was taken after the Ludhiana jail riots. “A list of officers has been received, but the decision will be taken after the government clearance,” he said, adding that the department was facing a dearth of officers to manage jails smoothly.
22-09-2020||---||Soon, e-challans for traffic violations||Chandigarh, September 21The Punjab Police are all set to implement the e-challan system throughout the state after a successful pilot project in Mohali and Patiala. Through the system, more offenders can be fined for violation of traffic rules.Sharing details at a webinar, ADGP (Traffic) Sharad Satya Chauhan said the challan payments would be made through digital gateways. The records generated would help the police keep a strict vigil on repeat offenders and even cancel their licences.To bridge the gap between the police and residents through the use of digital platforms, the Punjab Police and Safety Alliance for Everyone Society organised a webinar on the topic of ‘Traffic management & road safety under the Covid-19 pandemic’.Chauhan said residents themselves were “police officers” without uniform who could bring a positive change in the state by taking all precautions related to Covid-19.
22-09-2020||---||CCL only after Punjab clears previous years’ account: RBI||Chandigarh, September 21Even as the ‘saathi’ (early variety of paddy) has started arriving in mandis in the Majha region, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has not yet sanctioned the Cash Credit Limit (CCL) of Rs 35,500 crore to buy 170 lakh tonnes of paddy expected to arrive in the state’s mandis.The reason: RBI wants the state to round off the earlier availed CCL for buying wheat in the rabi marketing seasons of 2018-19, 2019-20 and this year, and the rice stocks from 2019. The foodgrain stocks, worth Rs 2,000 crore, lying in the state are to be liquidated immediately for the accounts of the previous years to be settled. Only then the CCL can be granted for buying produce.Officials in Punjab Food and Supplies Department told The Tribune that the Centre had failed to lift the wheat stocks and pay the state. “While 30 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of stocks from 2018-19, 33 LMT from 2019-20 and 86 LMT of wheat from this year are yet to be lifted, another 68 LMT of rice, too, has not been lifted and moved by the FCI,” a senior officer said.It may be mentioned that for each crop marketing season, the RBI gives a CCL to the state to buy the foodgrains for the Centre. While the Centre pays for the purchase of wheat only after lifting the stocks, the payment for rice is made after paddy bought from the CCL is first milled and rice stocks are delivered.When contacted, Food and Supply Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, said the government was taking up the matter with the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. “We have urged the ministry to ask the RBI to grant us an extension for squaring off the previous years’ CCL, as the delay on lifting the stocks is on the part of the Centre. The issue is being taken up at the highest level, and we are sure to get the CCL by the time the paddy procurement begins officially on October 1. Last year, too, Punjab had got an extension for settling the previous accounts till September 30,” he said.
22-09-2020||---||Security provided  by Punjab under High Court lens||Chandigarh, September 21The security provided by the State of Punjab to its protectees, including the ones not holding public offices, has come under judicial scanner.Taking up a petition filed by Punjab’s former Deputy Speaker seeking security cover, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for a list of protectees.“Let this court also be informed about the number of persons who have been provided security beyond the State Security Policy-2013, along with list of those persons who have been allowed security, but are not holding any public office, other than any security provided to the judicial officers,” Justice Jaishree Thakur of the High Court has asserted.The list is to be furnished by the last week of October, when the case comes up for further hearing. The direction came during the resumed hearing of a petition filed against the state and other respondents by Bir Devinder Singh through counsel Rajvinder Singh Bains.At the onset, Bir Devinder Singh filed a rejoinder giving details of certain former MLAs provided security cover. The rejoinder was filed in an attempt to falsify the stand taken by the respondent-State that the petitioner was not entitled to security cover as a former MLA in accordance with the State Security Policy-2013.Bains had earlier told the court the petitioner’s security cover was withdrawn unilaterally vide impugned order dated June 23, despite having been provided more than adequate security since 2018.Claiming that he was not having any security personnel with him as of now, Bains had submitted former MLAs had been provided a minimum of two security personnel, which the petitioner would be entitled to in addition to other security personnel.Justice Thakur on a previous date of hearing had directed that the petitioner would be entitled to two personal security officers “given the fact that ex-MLAs have been allowed the same”.Ex-Dy Speaker’s plea
22-09-2020||---||Congress, SAD protest; say stand firmly with farmers on Bills||Bathinda/Moga, September 21Leaders of the Congress and SAD today staged separate protests in Bathinda against the farm Bills.Members of the district Congress committee (DCC) protested at the Grain Market here. The party leaders alleged that the manner in which the Bills had been passed in Parliament had certainly eroded the democratic fabric of the nation.Arun Wadhawan, president, DCC, said, “The Congress party stands shoulder to shoulder with the farming community in these trying times. We demand the revocation of anti-farmer Bills.”The Congress also targeted the SAD, saying Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation was an eyewash as the party continues to be part of the BJP-led NDA.The SAD, on the other hand, said with Harsimrat’s resignation, the party had extended its full support to the farming community which is protesting against the Bills.Former SAD legislator Saroop Chand Singla and party MLA from Muktsar Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi and other party workers also protested at the Grain Market here. They met cotton farmers who have been struggling to get the MSP. Raising slogans against the Central and state governments, SAD leaders expressed concern over farmers not getting remunerative prices for their produce.The Muktsar MLA said the Centre had rubbed salt on the farmers’ wounds by passing the farm Bills in Parliament.Meanwhile, in Moga, BKU (Ekta) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri termed the clearance of two farm Bills in the Rajya Sabha a ‘historical blunder’. He said the union government was handing over the management of agriculture economy, including the farm trade, to big corporate houses.He said the small and marginal farmers would be forced to give their lands on lease to big corporate houses. Kokri said the corporate houses would set up their own systems to purchase foodgrains outside the ambit of grain markets, thus wouldn’t be required to pay taxes to the government.AAP submits memo to President via GovernorChandigarh: A delegation of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislators and leaders led by Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and Punjab incharge Jarnail Singh(MLA) handed over a memorandum to the President through the Governor of Punjab and appealed not to approve the farm laws.AAP has announced its full support to the farmers’ strike on September 25.
22-09-2020||ibune News Service
||Women protesters in forefront, make their presence felt||Chandigarh, September 21 Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday dismissed the Centre’s hike in MSP of wheat and five other rabi crops as a cruel joke on the farmers amid their growing apprehensions about abolition of the MSP regime following the passage of the new Agriculture Bills in Parliament. “This is callous. They have made a mockery of the farmers’ protests over the farm Bills, which by all accounts will eventually pave the way for ending the minimum support price (MSP) system and abolish the Food Corporation of India,” said the Chief Minister. He said if the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre thought it would appease the agitating farms with this trifling hike they clearly did not understand the situation.  The farmers have been asking for a written guarantee that MSP will not be tampered with, but instead, the Centre has handed out to them a measly offering, said the Chief Minister, adding that this once again showed how little the BJP and its allies, including the SAD, knew about the farmers and their problems.  The Chief Minister said the farmers are at present worried about their future, and that of their families, and only want categorical and clear commitments, in black and white, that their produce will continue to be procured in the APMC markets at a minimum assured price.
22-09-2020||Rohit Bhan||Farmers’ pleas falling on deaf ears: Harsimrat Badal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21Taking a subtle swipe at the BJP leadership, senior Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur on Monday said it was time leaders stopped claiming farmers were being “mislead” and “give them credit for knowing a lot more” on the contentious farm Bills passed by both Houses of Parliament.In an interview to the Tribune, the senior Akali dal leader, who quit last week after the farm Bills were passed in the Lok Sabha, said it was unfortunate that pleas of the farmers were falling on deaf ears. “You keep on telling them ‘laddu khao, laddu khao, aap ke liye accha hai’, when they are saying ‘yeh zeher hai hamare liye’ [You keep telling them we serving you a laddu, when they believe it is poison for them],” she remarked.Responding to the “resignation drama” jibe of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the former Food Processing Minister dared the Chief Minister to follow suit. “He was part and parcel of the discussions. If he had let the steam out then and objected, it would not have reached this stage. He has brought in the same changes in the Act here, but now accuses us of playing politics. After all, he was also consulted. Why doesn’t he do the same ‘drama’?’’ she fumed.She claimed that she learnt about the Bills only when a file from the Union Agriculture Ministry was brought up before her for inter-ministerial comments on May 24. “The files pass through various ministries, and when it was put up before me, I immediately put my dissent on record. I knew it would not be advisable for Punjab. For the past two-three months, I went back and forth between my government and the farmers. I informed the Cabinet about farmers’ reservation. Unfortunately, it wasn’t considered,” she said.However, instead of pointedly blaming the Prime Minister for the contentious Bills, she blamed the ‘babus’ (bureaucracy) for drafting it. “Sitting in their rooms they drafted it. Unfortunately, they were the ones who advised the government without taking into account the concerns of the farmers,” she alleged.On the assurance of the Prime minister that MSP would be protected, Harsimrat Kaur commented: “Farmers are not buying verbal assurances. They believe this law will mean doom for them.”On being asked if the Shiromani Akali dal was contemplating leaving the NDA, she said the party had started gathering feedback from cadre on the ground. “Once the feedback is analysed we will take a call on the way forward.’’
22-09-2020||---||SIT asks ex-DGP Sumedh Saini to join probe on September 23||Mohali, September 21After the Supreme Court issued directions to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini to join investigation six days ago, the special investigating team (SIT) probing the Balwant Singh Multani murder case today asked him to join investigation on September 23.Unable to find Saini at his Chandigarh residence, the SIT pasted the notice outside the house and gave the copy to his counsels.The notice read: “Saini is summoned to reach Mataur police station in Mohali at 11 am on September 23, 2020, to join investigation.”Saini was given relief by the SC on September 15 by giving interim stay on his arrest at the hands of the Punjab Police in the Multani murder case and directed him to cooperate and join SIT investigation.According to sources, the Punjab Police said they were not aware of Saini coming out of the hiding to make himself available for the investigation.Multani, a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen dead. Saini was injured in the attack.
22-09-2020||Amidst the ongoing farmer agitation in the country||Decoding farm Bills provisions & apprehensions||The Three Legislations1. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020Status: Passed by Parliament2. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020Status: Passed by Parliament3. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020Status: Passed by Lok SabhaFarmers’ posers to government1  Govt will withdraw procurement of produce and leave it open to private sector. They (corporate houses), in turn, will purchase very little portion of the total produce ‘as per the high standards, which will be manipulated’. Won’t the farmers be paid a pittance for the remaining crop?2  What was the hurry to introduce farm-related measures as ordinances in June amid Covid-19? The issues concerning lakhs of farmers deserved to be brought in as Bills allowing the Opposition a chance to debate before these were passed. Why was the Question Hour done away with?3  The govt is making false claims about continuing with the minimum support price provision. Of the listed 23 crops, the MSP is paid only on wheat, paddy and cotton. Does the govt guarantee purchase of the listed crops on the MSP if farmers do not get the price from traders?4  How will the govt ensure private sector pays the MSP when even the govt is not doing so?5  Barring staged protests in support of the move by farmers in BJP-ruled states, are farmers in the rest of the country unjust in raising their voice against the Bills? Should they not even be given a hearing?6  Why have farmers not been involved in the decision-making process on an issue that affects their lives? Officers from Punjab have said unlike major govt decisions where officials’ views are taken before formulation of policies, they were not consulted7  Why are power and fertiliser subsidies being taken away and farmers being told they will be compensated later? What is the guarantee that farmers will be paid later? Many subsidies like on polyhouses and others have not been paid to hundreds of farmers8  Why is the govt sidelining the arhtiyas? In emergency situations such as marriage/death in a family, banks never give loans. Charging not more than 2 per cent commission, arhtiyas have been the lifeline of the rural economy for centuriesGovernment contentionFarmers’ counter— Analysis package based on inputs from PRS Legislative Research
22-09-2020||---||Sunny Deol hails Bills,  invites flak from Oppn||Gurdaspur, September 21Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol’s tweet hailing the ordinances has invited the wrath of both the Opposition and farm leaders, with many feeling he should have refrained from making any statement that affected the protesting farmers adversely.All nine Assembly seats that comprise the Gurdaspur Lok Sabha seat are sugarcane and Basmati-rich areas. Punjab has three BJP legislators and three parliamentarians in Som Parkash (Hoshiarpur), Sunny Deol (Gurdaspur) and Shwait Malik (Rajya Sabha). All of them, barring Deol, have been maintaining a stoic silence, fearing reprisals on what is considered to be a highly emotive issue.The MP had praised the Modi government’s initiative in his tweet. The moment the tweet went viral, the Opposition was quick to corner him by launching an onslaught.Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said: “He (Deol) is a political novice, is out of touch with reality and knows nothing about farming. Does he even know that Punjab will be losing revenue as it will not be able to collect ‘mandi fees’ if produce is sold outside registered grain markets?”Satbir Singh Sultani, general secretary, Kirti Kisan Union, which has a substantial base in this parliamentary constituency, said, “In the run up to the polls he repeatedly reminded everybody that he was a farmer’s son but now he has ditched us.”
22-09-2020||---||MSP hike a cruel joke, address concerns: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, September 21Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday dismissed the Centre’s hike in MSP of wheat and five other rabi crops as a cruel joke on the farmers amid their growing apprehensions about abolition of the MSP regime following the passage of the new Agriculture Bills in Parliament.“This is callous. They have made a mockery of the farmers’ protests over the farm Bills, which by all accounts will eventually pave the way for ending the minimum support price (MSP) system and abolish the Food Corporation of India,” said the Chief Minister.He said if the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre thought it would appease the agitating farms with this trifling hike they clearly did not understand the situation.The farmers have been asking for a written guarantee that MSP will not be tampered with, but instead, the Centre has handed out to them a measly offering, said the Chief Minister, adding that this once again showed how little the BJP and its allies, including the SAD, knew about the farmers and their problems.The Chief Minister said the farmers are at present worried about their future, and that of their families, and only want categorical and clear commitments, in black and white, that their produce will continue to be procured in the APMC markets at a minimum assured price.Lead joint protest to Delhi, Capt urgedThe Lok Insaf Party has appealed to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to lead a joint protest of farmers and political parties to Delhi to urge the Centre to roll back the farm Bills. Announcing an agitation on September 23, LIP MLA Simarjit Singh Bains offered to include its cadre in any joint platform led by the CM.
22-09-2020||Contribute with food||Bizmen, NGOs lend helping hand to protesters||Aman SoodTribune News ServicePatiala, September 21From serving tea, packed juices and lassi to contributing with money, the farmers’ agitation is gaining momentum with support from many quarters. Thousands of farmers, who are on a warpath against the Central Government’s farm Bills, have started receiving unprecedented support from various quarters, including college students, businessmen, traders, industrialists, non-governmental organisations and union leaders. Interestingly, the farm leaders have refused any monetary help, saying that the “hands that feed the nation can feed their agitation”. “Our whole economy revolves around the crop cycle. If farmers are unhappy, the market sentiment will also be down. We are here to silently help our friends in distress in whatever manner we can,” said an industrialist, who had come with packed water, cold drinks and rice along with his colleagues. “We do not want any attention. It is just a noble gesture from us towards our farmers,” he said. At another corner, Khalsa Aid volunteers were seen supplying packed juice and lassi to the agitating farmers and also giving some ration supply to their makeshift kitchen which is making meals for over 15,000 agitators. “While farm unions have refused the help, we are still here to show our solidarity with them,” a volunteer said. Elderly women along with their children were also seen preparing meals for the farmers, with many of them from non-farming background. “My husband is a farm labourer and all I know is that all my relatives are coming to Patiala every day to protest against the Bills. I am supporting them from my kitchen,” said septuagenarian Baldev Kaur, who hails from Dirba. Meanwhile, the farm unions have threatened to intensify their struggle against the Centre in addition to the statewide ‘bandh’ call of September 25. “We will declare our next course of action tomorrow. There will be complete boycott of the Central Government. No MLA, MP or any other leader should dare to join our agitation as they all have let us down. The politicians have made a mockery of farmers,” said Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) senior leader Jagtar Singh. Earlier, the farmers continued with their dharna at the PUDA grounds here for the sixth consecutive day. They raised slogans against the Central and state governments over their “anti-farmer” policies.
22-09-2020||---||State BJP to launch awareness drive on Bills||Chandigarh, September 21Adopting an aggressive approach on farm legislations despite massive protests by farmers and troubled ties with the alliance partner, Shiromani Akali Dal, the Punjab BJP has decided not to be a mute spectator to the events.In a meeting with the party’s Kisan Morcha leaders today, it passed a “gratitude resolution” in favour of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing the legislations and began an education mission to counter the propaganda against the new legislations.“We have passed a gratitude resolution for the PM to bring the new Acts which will revolutionise farming and make farmer life better,” said Tarun Chugh, national secretary and member of Punjab BJP core Committee.Interestingly, the BJP’s meeting today and the core committee meetings held on Sunday did not condemn the Akalis from walking out of the NDA government led by the BJP. Sources said the core committee meeting discussed the political situation and preferred to wait and watch the next move of the Akalis. BJP state president Ashwani Sharma has already stated that the party wanted the alliance with the Akalis to continue.There are reports that the arhtiyas, especially in the Malwa area of Punjab who were the major vote bank of the BJP have put up posters banning the party in protest against the new Acts. The state BJP leaders are confident at the upcoming Kharif and Rabi crop season will clear the misgivings.A party spokesperson said it was also decided to reach out to villages to launch an education mission on how beneficial the new legislations for farmers would be.“The party cadre will spread out and convince the farmers to give the new system a chance before rejecting it. The old system has only resulted in farm debts, suicides and poverty. At least, we should give the new system a try. After all, the BJP central leadership deliberated for years with experts and farmer leaders before bringing out the new Acts,” said Chugh.
22-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC indicts ex-DGP Sumedh Saini for depravity of mind||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21Virtually indicting Sumedh Singh Saini for depravity of mind, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted the Punjab ex-DGP showed scant regard for law. He not only seriously undermined fundamental rights of a citizen, but went to the extent of snuffing out a precious life in a manner beyond retribution.“What has come across this court from the records depict depravity of mind, for which the petitioner deserves no compassion,” Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted, dismissing Saini’s plea for declaring the probe in Multani murder case “non est” or nothing.Saini had sought directions for transfer of the case outside Punjab to any other agency or the CBI. The final order was pronounced earlier this month. Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted the question of quashing the FIR and the probe proceedings against the petitoner was “too preposterous”.He said the petitioner, then Punjab DGP, had set up a poor precedent for the force, which was “protector of humans and not terminator”. Observing the SC had made it clear the Bench must see if petitioner had an alternative remedy before exercising powers under Article 226, Justice Fateh Deep Singh said Saini failed to exhaust the alternative remedy.
22-09-2020||New Delhi||SAD delegation meets President||SAD delegation comprising Sukhbir Singh Badal, Naresh Gujral and Manjinder Singh Sirsa met President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday, urging him not to give his assent to the farm Bills and advise the government to send these to a select committee. The delegation said the ruling party, discarding tradition, had not cared to take its allies and the Opposition on board on such a critical issue. — TNS
22-09-2020||
    
        
    
||New laws must follow changes on the ground||The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed in Parliament last week amid fierce opposition. It seems that the government brought in the Bills to put in place enabling legislation to effect the big changes in agriculture, diversifying it and marketising it.It is a classic instance of putting the cart before the horse. The advertisement for the two Bills —and the Modi government is a great believer in delivering easy-to-grasp one-line messages — has been that these are meant to make farmers free to sell their produce wherever they want.Of course, this is a dreamland. The truth is that an overwhelming majority of the marginal farmers, owning less than two acres of land in the country, will not ever be able to take their produce to a far-off place where the price is more attractive. What it really means is that the traders from far off places can go to the remotest villages to buy the farmers’ produce without the choking laws restricting the movement of agricultural produce in the country and outside it, and whisk it away to a place where the produce is in demand.The argument that the trader who does not belong to the local market or mandi will offer a better price to the farmer is an assumption, and as assumptions go, remains an assumption. The mechanics of the elasticity of the price for agricultural produce lies in the realm of speculation. It is a perfect case of rational economics, but the reality is nowhere near the idealistic position. But then Prime Minister Modi has never believed in grappling with the untidy and imperfect reality. He has been riding the hobbyhorse of utopianism where a vast and diverse country like India is reduced to a single market. And even when the reform measures did not work, he has moved on to another similar measure instead of pausing for any kind of course connection.This does not mean that there is no need for reform in Indian agriculture, and there is need for farmers to move on to marketable produce other than the staple food grains like wheat and rice they have accustomed to grow. Here too, the reality is not as attractive as it is made to appear by the critics of the new bills. The minimum support price (MSP) is no magic bullet for the farmers. The governments, at the Centre and in the states, are only able to procure 25 per cent of the total produce. The rest of it is in the open market, and the private players are already entrenched in the grain market.There have been fervent pleas by political leaders as well as the experts that the farmers should move away from the staple crops — wheat and rice in Punjab and Haryana, sugarcane in Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra — and that they should turn to other crops including horticulture, but the assured MSP makes it difficult for the farmers to change the cropping patterns. The farmers are the most practicable folk, and they are also flexible. If they think that some other crop will work better, they go for it with enthusiasm. There is no need to persuade them.If the reality on the ground changes, if the farmers realise that the staple crops are not fetching them the money, they would grab the more lucrative options.What the governments needed to do was to offer better incentives to diversify the crop patterns and show the difference in incomes instead of bringing in new laws with false promises. The laws must follow the changes on the ground, and it should not be the case as it is now that laws be made to bring about the desired changes. As a matter of fact, the demand should come from the farmers to replace the old laws with flexible new ones.In India, right from the days of Jawaharlal Nehru, the state took upon itself the burden of playing the mentor and guide to the people. PM Modi is only too keen to play the role of the guru to the people in all the fields possible, right from agriculture to making toys and creating apps. He sees himself as a messiah and more problems arise from this self-perception. That is why, laws made with the best of intentions do not help the people for whom they are intended. A section of the farmers should have complained against the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) and demanded a liberal regime. The initiative for change should have come from the farmers instead of the government pushing something down their throats like an unpalatable medicine, arguing all the while that this is being done for the good of farmers.Let it be clear that if this legislation had been brought by the Congress or any other party, the BJP would have opposed it tooth and nail. And the Congress would have done the same thing that the BJP has done by ignoring parliamentary norms and taking advantage of its numerical majority.There is a need to sort out the political mechanisms. First, the party in power should scrupulously adhere to the procedural norms and the presiding officers have a crucial role to play in this matter. The ruling party should have no say in the matter. If the Opposition wanted a division, the formal voting process through the electronic mode should have been followed. Secondly, the Congress should have supported the Bills because it had mooted them earlier and it should have owned the credit for the legislation.
