22-12-2020||New Delhi||Farmer unions to address queries on agri laws via webinar||The newly-formed social media cell of the farmers’ collective announced on Tuesday that a web conference would be conducted to address all queries regarding the three new farm laws and the protest against it.The webinar, to be hosted on video conference platform Zoom on Thursday noon, will be open for the first “10,000 people” registering on the link, which they would disclose. Those who cannot make it to the first 10,000 can watch the webinar on social media platforms, it said.“Senior farmer union leaders who are key members of the movement will be answering all sorts of queries during the webinar—be it on the farm laws or the ongoing agitation,” Baljeet Singh Sandhu, social media cell head and Majha Kisan committee vice president, said at a press conference at the Singhu border.Sandhu also invited the likes of actors Kanagana Ranaut, Mukesh Khanna and Payal Rohatgi, who have been actively voicing their opinion against the farmers’ protest, to participate in the webinar and debate the matter.Kisan Ekta Morcha, which is the official social media account, publishes updates on the farmer protests, videos of speeches given by union leaders and also counters what they call is “propaganda” pushed by the Centre.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other states are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.Enacted in September, the three contentious laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that would remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the legislations would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the minimum support price and end the traditional wholesale market system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.  PTI
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||18 more Covid deaths, 289 new cases in Punjab||Eighteen more deaths due to COVID-19 pushed the toll to 5,230 in Punjab while 289 fresh cases took the infection count to 1,63,665 on Tuesday.There are 5,053 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to a medical bulletin.Mohali reported 49 new cases, Ludhiana 39 and Patiala 37, among the fresh cases witnessed in the state.A total of 624 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of those recovered to 1,53,382, as per the bulletin.Eight critical patients are on ventilator support, while 133 are on oxygen support, it  said.A total of 37,12,608 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said. PTI
22-12-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports three deaths, 49 new cases||Mohali reported three deaths and 49 new cases in the last 24 hours, district officials said on Tuesday.Officials said 90 people were released from hospitals after recovery.Mohali Urban reported the majority of the new cases---44 of 49.  Dhakoli (2), Boothgarh (1), Dera Bassi (1), and Kharar (1) made up the remaining numbers.The development takes Mohali’s total infection numbers to 17,621, of which 1,673 are active. Its fatality count stands at 331.
22-12-2020||---||AK-47 rifle, magazine found in Gurdaspur area where drone dropped consignment||Chandigarh, December 22Barely 48 hours after the recovery of 11 HG Arges 84 hand grenades, the Punjab Police on Tuesday recovered an AK-47 rifle and a magazine with 30 live cartridges, evidently a part of the same consignment that was dropped by the Pak drone in BOP Chakri area in Gurdaspur district on Sunday.The seizure comes amid concerns raised by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh of fresh spurt of efforts by Pakistan-based militants to disturb the border state’s peace.  The Chief Minister had recently also met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in this regard.According to Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, an extensive search operation had been launched by the Gurdaspur police in the area where the drone, which was fired at by the police and the BSF, was sighted. He said the package containing the assault rifle appeared to have been dropped in the wheat fields in the area of village Wazir Chak, 1.5 km from Salach village, PS Dorangla (Gurdaspur).Gupta said the recovered assault rifle and the magazine with 30 live cartridges had also been attached with a wooden frame and lowered from the drone with a nylon rope like the hand grenades which were recovered from village Salach on Sunday.He said this package seemed to be a part of the same consignment, which was dropped by the drone on the night of December 19. The spot where the assault rifle was found is just about 1.5 km from the spot from where the hand grenades were recovered, he said.Gupta said an FIR (159) had been registered under Section 3, 4, 5 Explosive Substances Act on Sunday and search operations were still continuing as follow-up action.
22-12-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar: 7 passengers, crew member on flight from UK test positive for COVID||Seven passengers and a crew member who arrived here from the UK in an Air India flight tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. Punjab Minister for Medical Education and Research OP Soni said those who tested positive for the infection will be quarantined.(Click here for the latest developments on Covid-19 epidemic)Among the infected passengers are six men and two women, he said.The Air India flight from London had landed at Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport with 250 passengers and 22 crew members at 12.30 am last night.India has suspended all passenger flights from the UK till December 31 in the wake of the emergence of a mutated variant of coronavirus there, joining several other countries that have imposed a similar flight ban.Moreover, passengers coming from the UK through flights till Tuesday midnight will be tested for COVID-19 on arrival at airports.Earlier in the day, some of the passengers protested against the authorities over the alleged delay in carrying out their coronavirus tests.Their family members claimed that they were made to wait for hours.The authorities, however, said the clearance might take some time as every passenger and crew member would have to be tested for coronavirus.A team of health authorities deputed at the airport took samples of all passengers and crew members.Amritsar Assistant Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal said the sampling process started as soon as the flight landed last night.He said the airport authorities had already informed their relatives about testing.To a question on the protest by some passengers, Aggarwal had said, “Usually, it takes five to six hours for clearance of all international passengers. But today it will take a few hours more and everybody should bear with us.” --- PTI
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||SYL water issue: Abhay Chautala says Haryana should block borders with Punjab||INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala on Tuesday said Haryana should block its borders with Punjab, stopping the movement of people and goods, till the neighbouring state gives its share of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) water.The Indian National Lok Dal leader said they will support the ML Khattar government if it decides to force Punjab over the demand.“Let the government take the decision today. We will support them till the time we do not get our rightful share of water. We will not allow anyone to enter through Haryana’s borders with Punjab,” Chautala told reporters here.“We will stop the movement of goods going into that state from here till we get our share of water. Let them make a decision,” the Ellenabad MLA said.He said that over the years, the INLD has been constantly making efforts so that Haryana gets its “rightful share of water”.He recalled that three years ago, his party workers had blocked all entry points to Punjab “to make them realise that if they stop our share of water we will not allow them to enter Haryana”.Chautala, the younger son of INLD president and former Chief Minister OP Chautala, said the BJP has been in power for six years in Haryana but it never showed any seriousness on the SYL issue.He said that amid the protests of farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws, the state BJP leadership was raising the SYL issue “to divide the peasants but that is not going to happen. Farmers will make the Centre repeal the agri laws”.Chautala claimed that some BJP leaders from the state were now enacting a “drama” of staging “upwas” (fast) demonstrations in support of SYL.“Why did they not think of sitting on ‘upwas’ all these years even though the Supreme Court had ruled in Haryana’s favour on SYL. Now they only want to divert the attention of people. BJP’s mindset has always been to create a divide among people and keep the issues to linger on,” he said.“Had the chief minister been so concerned on the water issue, why would he allow his government to scrap Dadupur Nalvi canal project, on which Rs 340 crore had already been spent and which would have been particularly beneficial to help irrigate lands in Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar,” the INLD leader said.He questioned why Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar, who was agriculture minister in the previous term of the Khattar government, did not show concern on SYL then.“Earlier, when we used to raise the SYL issue, they would say that the matter was pending before the Supreme Court. But now when the apex court has ruled in our favour, why is this government doing drama of ‘upwas’. Governments don’t sit on ‘upwas’, they take decisions,” he said.Opposing the SYL canal project, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had recently warned that “Punjab will burn” if the state is forced to share water with Haryana.SYL has been a contentious issue between the two states, with the Punjab portion of the canal still incomplete. The construction began in 1982.Punjab has been demanding a reassessment of the Ravi-Beas river waters’ volume, while Haryana has been seeking completion of the SYL canal to get its share of 3.5 million acre-feet (MAF). Chautala asserted that the party is “solidly behind farmers” fighting against the three laws. Responding to a question, Chautala said he will not take another minute to resign as a legislative assembly member if farmers make such a demand.                 “Chaudhary Devi Lal’s blood runs in my veins, I will not take a minute to resign..,” he said.Asked that couple of Independent MLAs had withdrawn support to the Khattar government while many JJP legislators too had openly come out in support of the farmers, he claimed the coalition government will not last long.“This ‘jugad’ (arrangement with MLAs from JJP, Independents supporting it) will not work. Even some of the BJP MLAs are upset with the government…This government will fall like Bansi Lal-led dispensation,” he said. — PTI
22-12-2020||---||Dr Raj Bahadur gets 3-year extension as VC||Faridkot, December 22Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor (VC), Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, has been given a three-year extension.This is the second time Dr Raj Bahadur has been given extension.Dr Raj Bahadur was first appointed as the VC of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences in December 21, 2014 and was given extension on December 22, 2017 for the second term.Now, the Governor of Punjab and Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Chancellor has extended the term of appointment for another term.Project Director and Member Secretary Regional Spinal Injuries Centre, Mohali, Dr Raj Bahadur is known for his excellence in spinal surgery.During his six year tenure as VC in Faridkot, Dr Raj Bahadur played important role in building Mother & Child Hospital Block in Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here.A CT scan machine with 128 slices has also been installed at the hospital. A burn unit and CT simulator has also been set up, and PG seats at the medical college have been increased from 53 to 98.Dr Raj Bahadur has also introduced system of online evaluation of answer scripts and online transmission of question papers. He also and started Amrit Pharmacy – a medicine outlet – on the medical college premises here.
22-12-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana ||Protesting farmer is BJP poster boy||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 22 Harpreet Singh, a farmer whose photograph was used by the Punjab BJP to drum up support in favour of farm laws, has actually been sitting among the protesting farmers on the Singhu border since the first week of December.The poster that was used on Punjab BJP's Facebook page was removed after uproar.Harpreet Singh said, “I was amused first, but then got angry. How can they be so insensitive?” He is engaged in media projects displaying the angst of the farmers, their inconvenience and their struggle.  Photographs clicked by Harpreet that highlighted the protest have gone viral.Harpreet Singh, known as ‘Harp farmer’ among friends has done his Masters in Software Engineering from the Indian Institute of Information Technology, Pune. Based at his village, Nadalon in Hoshiarpur district, his family owns 2-acre land. “I know the pain of a small farmer. I am shocked and more so with our comparison with Khalistanis and Maoists.”“I got a call yesterday late evening from a friend at my village that the BJP was using my picture on its Facebook page. First I laughed, but then I got offended. How could they do it without my permission? In a lighter vein, the artist has not even bothered to edit my picture professionally. The artist has used it from my pictures on the internet.” “I will like to ask the government that if farmers were happy why would they be camping on the Delhi borders? Why will the old, including women, bear the cold of the shivering December? Why cannot government just withdraw the farm laws and rethink? It's ego problem nothing else,” he said. “If the government does not repeal the laws, we will not go back home,” he said firmly.“The BJP is trying make the farmer agitation just a fight for MSP. This is not true. There are issues like the future of farmers in our country, particularly in the wake of scope for entry of the corporate. There are many more. I can only say that despite tall claims, Narendra Modi is not with the farmers,” Harpreet said.A spokesperson of the Punjab BJP, Janardhan Sharma said, “We will look into the matter. I will get back.”
22-12-2020||New Delhi||Cold wave returns to northwest after brief respite, says IMD||After a brief respite Cold Wave to Severe Cold Wave conditions are returning  to Northwest, the IMD has said. There will be a fall in minimum temperature  by 1-3°C over some parts of plains of northwest and central India during the next three days.Cold wave conditions at isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, and West Uttar Pradesh from Tuesday, with severe cold wave conditions at isolated pockets over same region on December 23 and 24 are expected, says the IMD.No significant change in minimum temperature over some parts of west India in the next two days and rise by 2-3°C thereafter for three days is likely while no significant change in temperatures over remaining parts of the country during next 2-3 days, it said. Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions at isolated pockets are also very likely over Odisha,  east Uttar Pradesh, Gangetic West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Telangana; Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Bihar over next couple of days, the weather office said. Cold day conditions at isolated pockets are also very likely over Bihar in the next three days and over east Uttar Pradesh during the next two days, it added. Moderate to dense fog in the morning hours at isolated pockets is very likely over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on December 23 and dense to very dense fog in the morning hours at isolated pockets over same region during December 24-26. Dense fog in the morning hours at isolated pockets very likely over northern parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Assam and Meghalaya during next three days and over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during next two days.Ground frost conditions at isolated pockets very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab during next 3 days and over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, East Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during next two days.
22-12-2020||Amritsar||Passengers from UK protest at Amritsar airport over 'delay' in Covid testing||Passengers who arrived at Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport from the UK protested against the authorities over the alleged delay in carrying out their coronavirus tests.Their family members on Tuesday claimed that they had been made to wait for hours.Also read: India orders surveillance of all passengers who came from or transited through UK in past 4 weeksThe authorities, however, said the clearance might take some more time as every passenger and crew member would have to be tested for coronavirus. The Air India flight from the UK with 250 passengers and 18 crew members had landed at 12.30 am.Also read: 6 passengers on London-Delhi flight test Covid positiveIndia has suspended all passenger flights from the UK till December 31 in the wake of the emergence of a mutated variant of coronavirus there, joining several other countries that have imposed a similar flight ban.Moreover, passengers coming from the UK through flights till Tuesday midnight will be tested for COVID-19 on arrival at airports.Relatives of passengers told the media that several passengers protested at the airport due to the delay in testing for the infection.Ankush, a resident of Faridkot, said his brother Ankur had arrived from the UK on the flight.“All our family members have been waiting for him for the past several hours,” he said, accusing the authorities of not informing them about the time to be taken for his clearance.Amrik Singh, whose son Sukhwinder arrived from the UK, said he could not meet him yet. “I have enquired from the airport authorities about the test report of my son for a number of times but they keep saying that it will take two hours more,” he said.“I got a message from inside that several passengers have protested for the delay in the sampling and testing process. I fail to understand why all passengers have been detained there for more than 12 hours on the pretext of testing,” he said.A team of health authorities deputed at the airport took samples of all passengers and crew members.Amritsar Assistant Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal said the sampling process started as soon as the flight landed last night. Each passenger and crew member will have to undergo a RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test, he said, adding that passengers were provided with food.He said the airport authorities had already informed their relatives about testing. To a question on the protest by some passengers, Aggarwal said, “Usually, it takes five to six hours for clearance of all international passengers. But today it will take a few hours more and everybody should bear with us.” PTI
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena takes a dig at Modi over his gurdwara visit amid farmers' stir||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday wondered what will be the outcome of the ongoing farmers' protest after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited a gurdwara and sought inspiration from Guru Tegh Bahadur, whose followers are among those protesters.An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' was referring to Modi's visit on Sunday to Gurdwara Rakabganj in Delhi where he paid tributes to Guru Tegh Bahadur for his supreme sacrifice.Guru Teg Bahadur, whose martyrdom day was observed on Saturday, was cremated at Gurdwara Rakabganj.Also read: Protesting farmers show black flags to Haryana CM Khattar during his Ambala visitThousands of farmers, including Sikhs, have been protesting near the Delhi borders since November 26 against the Modi government's three new farm laws.The editorial in the Marathi daily said farmers from Punjab did not flinch even when Modi reached the gurdwara "turning his back towards the Sikh peasants protest" and continued with their demonstration."Prime Minister Modi sought inspiration from Guru Tegh Bahadur. Happy about it. Thousands of Sikh fighters are also fighting (protesting) from the same inspiration near Delhi border. Hence, it is a question what will be the outcome of the battle," read the editorial.Also read: Armed with revolutionary poem by Pash, Faridkot farmer cycles 400 km to Tikri borderIt said 'gurbani' was being played when the Prime Minister reached the gurdwara.The gurbani says services and devotion towards God will be of no use if one does not change his/her thoughts, the editorial noted.The gurbani says reading holy religious book several times will be of no use if one does not understand its teachings, and also asks what will one do when his/her time comes and an account of his/her deeds is checked, it said.The gurbani mentions that none could defend himself from time, it added.Also read: Farmer union leaders to meet, discuss plan of actionIt is "not right" that Modi’s political opponents criticise him for anything he does, the editorial said in a cryptic remark and asked what was there to be restless if he visited the gurdwara.Modi’s opponents are alleging "politics" behind the Prime Minister’s visit to the gurdwara and asking why are the farmers from Punjab protesting in the cold if he loves Sikhs so much, it said."...but none should question Modi's faith. Guru Tegh Bahadur was a great saint. The Guru accepted martyrdom for humanity, principles and ideals...he was the protector of religion. Hence, not only Sikhs, everyone on this land should bow before Guru Tegh Bahadur," read the editorial. PTI
22-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab arhtiyas go on four-day strike against IT raids||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 22Arhtiyas across Punjab went on four-day strike from Tuesday in protest of the Income Tax raids on many of them.  Arhtiyas alleged that they were targeted for supporting farmers’ agitation.   Satish Kumar Babbu, president, Arhtiya Association Bathinda, said: “Arhtiyas across the state are supporting farmers in their agitation against the farm laws, and we are sending 50 persons every day to protest site on a rotational basis.”“To discourage us from lending support to the farmers’ agitation, the Union Government is conducting income tax raids on arhtiyas, which we totally oppose. And in protest against this action, we have gone for four-day strike across the state from today,” said Babbu.He said during the strike “we will keep our shops closed and there will be no purchase”.Sham Lal Dalwa, president of the Arhtiyas’ Association, Budhlada, claimed that the new farm laws would not only “destroy the farming community”, but also those connected with agriculture directly or indirectly.He also condemned the Income Tax raids on arhtiyas in the state.On December 19, raids were conducted by Income Tax Department officials on the premises of Punjab Arhtiyas Association president Vijay Kalra; Samana Mandi unit chief Pawan Kumar Goyal; Patiala unit chief Jaswinder Singh Rana; Nawanshahr unit head Manjinder Singh Walia; Rajpura unit chief Hardeep Singh Ladda; and Rajpura arhtiyas Kartar Singh and Amrik Singh.Fourteen arhtiyas have received Income Tax notices across the state so far.In September, the arhtiyas in Mansa had also announced a boycott of BJP leaders and members to protest the Modi government’s “black laws on the pretext of agriculture reforms”.
22-12-2020||New Delhi||Armed with revolutionary poem by Pash, Faridkot farmer cycles 400 km to Tikri border||Armed with hope and a revolutionary poem by noted Punjabi poet 'Pash', a farmer cycled nearly 400 km from Faridkot to the Tikri border here to join the massive protest by peasants against the new farm laws.Wearing a kurta-pyjama with a sleeveless warm jacket and sporting a bright green turban, Pal Sandhu, a resident of Rameana village in Faridkot district of Punjab, on Monday listened intently to the speeches made by farmer leaders at the protest site near the Delhi-Haryana border.His cycle, a new model decked up with cardboards displaying the poem 'Sab Ton Khatarnak' in Punjabi by Avtar Singh Sandhu or 'Pash' as the revolutionary was famously known, attracted the attention of protesters and passers-by, many of whom took pictures with him.Also read: Farmer union leaders to meet, discuss plan of action"I felt restless back home," the 45-year-old said."I could not control myself after knowing about the condition of my fellow farmers who are braving the chilling winter and so many difficulties for a common goal. My brother had come a few days ago in a tractor-trolley, which is parked at the Tikri border protest site. I decided to leave too and rode till here on a bicycle," Sandhu told PTI.The Faridkot farmer said he had started from his home on December 19 at 8 am and rode till 6.30 pm that day before resting."The next day, I started early at 6 am from mid-way, and then reached Tikri border protest site at around 6.30 pm yesterday. When one is pumped up with a spirit of shared struggle, tiredness doesn't come. We are farmers, hardship is our life," he said.Also read: Protesting farmers show black flags to Haryana CM Khattar during his Ambala visitAsked how he managed to get food for two days to sustain his long journey, Sandhu, who has a wife and son back home, said, "Sab Guru ki kripa se ho gaya (it was managed with the blessings of the Guru)"."On the way, people saw the Bharat Kisan Union flag planted on my cycle and they gave me food and hot water. Many more people are travelling every day to join the protests at Tikri and Singhu borders. There is a feeling of solidarity among people right now," he said.Reading aloud the revolutionary poem by 'Pash' to those gathered around him, he explained why he chose to carry placards with its verses written on them.Also read: Shiv Sena takes a dig at Modi over his gurdwara visit amid farmers' stir"Pash was a visionary and raised his voice against oppression and injustice. Today, if we sit at home and not become part of this movement, then we are 'living dead'... as the poet had said, 'murda shanti se bhar jana'. We are all here because we farmers don't want our dreams to become nightmares."'Sab Ton Khatarnak', one of the most iconic works of contemporary poetry with trenchant words, has become a slogan of resistance at many protests. Poems by 'Pash' are often carried on placards and banners in protest rallies across the country.At the Tikri border area, Monday was yet another day of protest since the agitation began on November 26. Delhi Police and paramilitary personnel kept a strict vigil as farmer leaders vociferously reiterated their demand of repealing of all three new farm laws, alleging that they were enacted to benefit big corporate companies.Amid the milling crowd, many youths carried posters bearing images of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and chanted the slogan 'Jo bole so nihal, Sat Sri Akal' to enthuse protesters in the biting Delhi cold.Mangat Singh, 72, another farmer from Punjab who has been camping at the Delhi border since the beginning of the agitation, said, "Farmers are not mute crops who can be cut at will. We know the struggles of our forefathers and leaders in the past, and we are ready for the long haul."On Monday, a group of elderly women from Haryana, wearing saffron cloth over their dresses and sporting badges bearing the image of Bhagat Singh, walked around the protest site at the Tikri border to show solidarity with the farmers."They are all wearing 'kesari' (saffron) because they treat their children as revolutionaries, and themselves as mothers of Bhagat Singh. Women joining the protest have taken this agitation to another level," Sandhu said.Baldev Kaur, Sarabjit Kaur and Sadbir Kaur, all in their 60s, who have come from Sirsa district in Haryana, interacted with the other protesters and raised pro-farmer and anti-government slogans."We are about 40-50 women who came together from Sirsa. 'Hum haq leke jawangi yehan se' (we will go only after claiming our rights), and the new farm laws have to go," said Sarabjit Kaur.Sandhu rued that a section of people are trying to "delegitimise our movement" and branded the protesting farmers as "terrorists". He then held the hands of a fellow farmer and said, "See these hands, dry and rough, are these the hands of a terrorist? These are the hands of a hard-working farmer". PTI
22-12-2020||Washington||Trump signs legislation to name Houston post office after slain Sikh police officer||US President Donald Trump on Monday signed into law legislation to name a Texas post office after slain Sikh police officer Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal, who was gunned down in the line of duty during a routine traffic stop in Houston a year ago.Trump signed H R 5317, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 315 Addicks Howell Road in Houston, Texas, as the Deputy Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal Post Office Building, the White House said in a statement.The post office named after Dhaliwal in Houston is only the second US post office to be named after an Indian American. The first one was named after the first Indian American Congressman Dalip Singh Saund in Southern California in 2006.The House of Representatives and the Senate had recently passed the legislation in this regard. In his remarks on the Senate floor, Texas Senator Ted Cruz had said that Dhaliwal was a hero and a trailblazer whose commitment to his faith will inspire generations of Sikhs and other religious minorities to serve in law enforcement.Dhaliwal, he said, has left a profound legacy on the law enforcement community. On September 27, 2019, Deputy Dhaliwal, 42, was killed in the line of duty in service of his community. Born in India, Dhaliwal moved to Houston along with his parents.In 2015, Dhaliwal of the Harris County Sheriff's office became the first Sikh American in Texas to receive a policy accommodation to serve while wearing his articles of faith, including his turban and beard.His father, Pyara Singh had earlier said that his family remains grateful for the outpouring of love and support in this effort to commemorate his son. "This gesture will memorialise his legacy of service to his beloved Houston, while also reminding us all to uphold his example and celebrate the diversity that makes our and so many other communities strong," he said after the legislation was passed by the Congress. PTI
22-12-2020||Fazilka||29 govt staffers found absent||Subdivisional Magistrate (SDM) Keshav Goyal on Monday conducted an inspection at the offices of Market Committee, Municipal Council and Punjab Mandi Board, and found several employees absent from duty. Goyal said 18 employees, including the secretarty of the committee; 10 MC employees, including the executive officer; and an employee of the Punjab Mandi Board, were not present in their respective offices. OC
22-12-2020||Amritsar||SGPC suspends 2 employees for having association Sucha Singh Langah||The SGPC has suspended two of its employees allegedly for having association with former SAD leader Sucha Singh Langah. It is learnt that Karam Singh, manager of Gurdwara Shaheedi Asthan Chhote Sahibjaade in Fatehgarh Sahib, and a granthi (priest), have been put under suspension with immediate effect by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur for performing ‘akhand path’ at the gurdwara on Langah’s behalf and honouring him with ‘siropa’. TNS
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||HC takes cognisance of firearms trafficking||Taking cognisance of firearms trafficking, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that the threat posed by it was unhealthy for the existence of a civilised society and “very much terrible to the stability and development of our country”.Describing the problem as “multi-dimensional”, Justice Ashok Kumar Verma of the High Court asserted that firearms were manufactured and traded both licitly and illicitly, thereby making the identification and tracking of illegally manufactured and trafficked firearms “very complex”. Some firearms were produced legally, but thereafter diverted into the illicit market.“Notably, illicit firearms are used in committing terrorist and heinous criminal activities by terrorist organisations, insurgents, gangsters and organised criminal groups having nexus with sleeping partners, private groups, free agents, weapon dealers, straw purchasers, who add more fuel to the problem,” Justice Verma added.The assertion came on a bunch of two petitions filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents by accused, who had approached the court for grant of regular bail in an FIR registered on October 18, 2014, at the Kotwali police station in Faridkot district.The state counsel had claimed that the case related to unlawful and illegal trafficking of foreign make weapons in an organised manner into the country and then to Punjab through Bihar and Uttar Pradesh by a gangster, who was now a proclaimed offender in this case along with his gang members. The accused were using the weapons for nefarious activities. After hearing the arguments, Justice Verma dismissed the pleas. — TNS
22-12-2020||Faridkot||Faridkot medical varsity cancels 28-day winter break of faculty||Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Monday announced to cancel the 28-day winter vacation to the faculty.Earlier, 74-day summer break was also denied to the teaching faculty in medical, dental and other colleges affiliated to the university.The teaching faculty in all government medical, dental, nursing and pharmacy colleges was demanding the state government to announce the winter break. The faculty in medical colleges had announced to suspend the OPDs and teaching for two hours from January 1 if the teachers were denied the break.Grave injusticeDenying a vacation is grave injustice to the teaching faculty even when the Supreme Court has asked the authorities to consider granting a break to the doctors engaged in Covid duties for over nine months. — DS Bhullar, gen secy, teachers’ associationHowever, in a letter issued to the principals of all colleges affiliated to the BFUHS, the medical university wrote that the issue regarding the winter vacation to the faculty was discussed with the state government and it was decided that the break was not feasible to be allowed due to delayed admission to the MBBS, BDS courses and the resumption of classes, and due to the Covid pandemic.The Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association alleged that due to Covid, the summer vacation for the faulty of medical and dental colleges under the BFUHS was cancelled this year. Now, despite the number of Covid patients coming down drastically in medical colleges across the state, there should not be any other reason for not allowing the winter vacation to the faculty.Many faculty members might have planned family functions and other programmes during the expected winter vacation. While the PGIMER, Chandigarh, has already declared the winter vacation despite it having a huge rush of patients, the teachers in colleges affiliated to the BFUHS have been denied the break. — TNS
22-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Politicians shouldn’t use judiciary to settle factional disputes: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court has cautioned the politicians against converting judicial turf into a political battlefield for settling factional disputes. “Politicians would be well-advised not to abuse the process of the court to settle their pre-election issues and disputes,” Justice Sanjay Kumar of the High Court asserted.The warning came on a bunch of petitions filed by five of the 16 accused for quashing the summoning orders and a complaint alleging attempt to murder and other offences under Sections 307, 336, 148 and 149 of the IPC, along with provisions of the Arms Act.Word of caution for leadersThe warning came on a bunch of petitions filed by five of the 16 accused for quashing the summoning orders and a complaint alleging attempt to murder and other offences under Sections 307, 336, 148 and 149 of the IPC, along with provisions of the Arms ActJustice Kumar asserted complainant Sukhpal Singh, it appeared, resolved his differences with the accused in the complaint case and a compromise deed dated September 5 was prepared. When the fact was brought to the court’s notice, the parties were directed to appear before the trial court to get their statements recorded on the settlement of their disputes. The Bathinda Additional Sessions Judge, subsequently, submitted a report. She recorded the complainant’s statement that the complaint case was result of party factions and firing had not taken place during the quarrel between the supporters of rival parties. He further stated it was a petty dispute during the pre-election period in which no injury was sustained by any person. He also affirmed that a compromise had been struck in relation to cross-version case.After going through the submissions, Justice Kumar asserted: “In the light of the developments, no cause remains for the trial court to invest further time and effort in adjudicating this complaint case”.Justice Kumar added a word of caution would optimistically yield the required result at least in future. Allowing the petitions, Justice Kumar quashed the complaint dated November 20, 2013, pending before Judicial Magistrate (First Class), Phul, Bathinda district. Summoning order dated July 6, 2017, were also quashed.
22-12-2020||Bathinda||Youths open fire on car, arrested||Two youths opened fire on a car and attacked one of its occupants with a sharp-edged weapon on the Ajit road today. The injured has been identified as Gursimranjit Singh Dhillon of Model Town, Phase-2.Both accused were arrested from the spot. SHO, Civil Lines police station, Ravinder Singh said one of the accused stated that Gursimranjit used to tease his sister. However, the accused have been booked on the basis of the victim’s statement.In his statement, Gursimranjeet said he, along with one of his cousins Vijay, was travelling on the road around noon. En route, Ranjit Singh of Puree village, and his accomplice Prithpal Singh opened fire on his car. When he got out of the vehicle to save his life, the accused attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon. — TNS
22-12-2020||Raj Sadosh||Ranked among filthiest towns, Abohar to get 11 modern toilets||Abohar, December 21The subdivisional town of Abohar, which was ranked one of the 10 most filthiest towns in the Swachh Survekshan in 2015 and figured in the list of three dirtiest towns in the above 1 lakh population category in north India last year, will get 11 ultra-modern toilets.The Municipal Corporation has got the nod to get these toilets constructed. Besides other amenities, free sanitary napkin vending machines for women will also be provided. At present, women from various villages visit the town for shopping, but no such amenity is available to them.Superintending Engineer Sandeep Kumar said, “A total of 11 ultra-modern toilets are being constructed at the bus stand, at Malout Chowk, Nehru Park, Jai Prakash Narayan Park, Tehsil Complex, Rani Jhansi Market, Sant Nagar, Iron Merchants Market, Hanumangarh Road and outside the Civil Hospital. A blueprint of the project has been finalised by MC Commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish.”Each toilet will cost Rs 7.5 lakh. In each block, two seats each for women and men will be fixed, besides two urinals for men. Along with this, automatic sanitary napkin vending machines will be installed for the convenience of women. A private firm will be contracted for cleanliness and care of these toilets. The contractor will ensure fault-free working of toilets from 6 am to 10 pm. The project will play an important role in improving the grading of the town under the Swachh Survekshan. At present, women face a lot of problems due to the lack of such facilities here.Meanwhile, the MC has renovated a toilet at the main bus stand to provide some relief to women.
22-12-2020||---||Muktsar woman cracks Delhi judicial exam||Muktsar, December 21Vinerjeet Kaur (30), a resident of Rukhala village in Gidderbaha subdivision here, has cleared the Delhi Judicial Service Examination-2019 by securing the 22nd rank. She has got 601 marks out of 1,000 in the exam, the result of which was declared on Friday.“It was my third attempt. I am thankful to my family and teachers for their support. My father is a farmer and brother is settled in Canada. I have studied in Shimla, Chandigarh, Hisar and Delhi,” said an elated Vinerjeet, who did her LLB and LLM from Delhi. Her parents Gurlal Singh Sandhu and Rajbir Kaur said they were proud of their daughter and were getting a lot of congratulatory phone calls.
22-12-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal
||15-year-old’s  murder case solved, 2 held||Tribune News Service Batala, December 21 Twenty-four days after the crime, the police claimed to have solved the murder case of a 15-year-old boy by arresting his brother-in-law and his accomplice today. DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur said the boy, Karan, was kidnapped by his brother-in-law Navjot Singh and his co-conspirator Aman Kumar because they were eyeing his property valued at Rs 8 lakh. “The minor was abducted on November 26 following which his parents tried to locate their son for two days. On November 28, they lodged an FIR with the Civil Lines police station claiming that their son was missing for the past 48 hours. We launched a manhunt but failed to arrive at any consensus on where the boy must have gone. After questioning the parents, we had a lurking suspicion that Navjot and Aman may be involved. However, we did not have conclusive evidence to nail the duo,” said Kaur. After keeping a watch on the activities of the accused for a few days, the cops started questioning following which they admitted to having thrown Karan’s body in the Vallah canal on the Batala-Amritsar road.
22-12-2020||---||Farmers on relay fast at Singhu, Tikri||Sonepat, December 21Eleven farmers sat on relay fast at the Singhu border on Monday over the three farm laws. The Former MLAs’ Association extended support to the farmers.Former MLAs led by Nafe Singh Rathi and Birender Singh Kadyan reached the Singhu border and demanded that the farmers’ demands should be met as soon as possible.Sukhwinder Singh, a youth from Ludhiana who had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with his blood, reached the Singhu border.Jhajjar: Sixteen protesting farmers — 11 from Punjab and five from Haryana — sat on relay fast at the Tikri border on Monday.
22-12-2020||---||Withdraw farm laws: Ex-IAS officers||Chandigarh, December 21Former senior IAS officers of Punjab have extended their support to the agitation by farmers, and appealed to the Centre to withdraw the three agriculture laws.In a meeting held today, at least 18 former IAS officers, including former Chief Secretaries, discussed the impact of the farm laws. They praised the unity maintained by the farm unions and the peaceful protest being organised at the borders of Delhi.The retired officers also paid their homage to the 38 farmers who lost their lives during the protest and urged the Punjab Government to grant monetary compensation to the families of the victims. They also expressed their concern that in the event of withdrawal of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and government purchase of foodgrains, as is feared after the enactment of the laws, the already debt-stressed farming sector would be pushed to economic decline.Those present in the meeting included Swaran Singh Boparai, MS Chahal, Ramesh Inder Singh, KS Sidhu, JR Kundal, Kulbir Singh Sidhu, Iqbal Singh Sidhu, TR Singal, Kulbir Singh, SK Sandhu, SR Ladhar, JK Singh, Shivdular Singh Dhillon, Karamjit Singh Sra and Harkesh Singh Sidhu.
22-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Women lead rallies to garner more support for Delhi stir||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 21Women in villages are organising special rallies to exhort people to join the batches scheduled to leave for Delhi on December 26 and 27. Enthusiasm in women to participate in the protest against the Central farm laws is more than their male counterparts. More and more women are committing themselves to leave for the national capital.“My mother-in-law and husband are at the Tikri border. Now I am also planning to join them on December 26. My daughter-in-law and son would take care of our house,” said Satwant Kaur (50) from Balian village during a rally to mobilise support for the protest and to pay homage to farmers who lost lives during the protest.Will outnumber menThe participation of women has gone up. They are coming out in large numbers to drum up support for the protest. We hope on December 26-27, they would outnumber men in joining the march to Delhi. — Gurlabh Singh Mahal, activistWith essential commodities no more a concern, as these are being provided by various NGOs, the focus of women is now on joining their family members in huge numbers in Delhi on December 26 and December 27. Before November 26, women were conducting marches across villages to collect ration for the protest, but now it’s all about ensuring maximum participation.“My husband has been at the Tikri border since the protest began. He has been sharing the feedback about the strength of the protest with us daily. Sometimes he predicts a long battle, but sometimes he says the victory is not away as the Central Government keeps changing stance,” said Jagir Kaur, a Thalesa village resident.Some have their own “compelling” reasons to delay their march to the national capital. “Our buffalo has delivered a male calf two days ago and now both are fine. I would leave for Delhi on December 26 to join the protest with my husband, who is already there. My father-in-law will stay at home while my daughter and son are also here,” said Gurbhajan Kaur, another woman.As part of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) plans, on December 20, homage was paid to deceased farmers. From December 21 to 23, memorial processions will be organised in villages. After village-level tributes to “martyrs”, block-level tributes will be paid on December 24 and. Around 30,000 more state residents are expected join the protest at Delhi on December 26-27.
22-12-2020||Bathinda||15,000 more from Amritsar to join protest||Responding to the call given by the farmer unions, thousands of farmers are expected to leave for the national capital from December 25-27.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “A group of 15,000 farmers from Amritsar would leave for Delhi through the Singhu border on December 25. As many farmers will head to the national capital from the Khanouri border on December 26. On December 27, thousands of farmers will leave from the Dabwali border.”Thousands of farmers have been staying put at several Delhi border points for the past 26 days, demanding a repeal of the new farm laws. They continued to step up their preparations in view of staying put in this harsh weather as temperature continue to drop in and around Delhi.As the time is passing by, the protest is getting more response as people from even non agriculture background are heading for Delhi to participate in the protests on daily basis. — TNS
22-12-2020||Order had gone viral on social media; AAP sees bid to crush dissent||After backlash, Sangrur admn withdraws tent house order||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 21When the farm agitation against the Central farm laws is gaining momentum across Punjab and at Delhi, an order issued by the Sangrur Subdivisional Magistrate (SDM) Babbandeep Singh Walia directing local tent house owners not to give any tents or sound systems to any protesters without the permission of the administration has caused resentment.After the order went viral on social media, the Sangrur administration withdrew it. In his order, the SDM had directed that for any protest or rally, tent house owners and sound system owners should not give any equipment without the permission of the administration and if they do so, they would face legal action.“I had issued the directions as per norms and the Sangrur administration will take further action as I have been transferred to Bathinda,” Walia said. Inqulabi Morcha Punjab leader Swarnjit Singh alleged the administration wanted to prevent protests against the Congress government, which had failed to fulfil its promises.“Apart from the creating problems in the agitation of the common man against the Punjab Government, the order would have also created problems for our farmers, who are protesting against the Central laws,” he said.Sangrur DC Ramvir said they had withdrawn the order. “Though it was a routine order and had nothing to do with the protest of farmers, we have withdrawn it,” he said.
22-12-2020||Bathinda||Centre’s effigy burnt over  raids on arhtiyas||Farmer unions and other organisations today staged a protest in front of the Income Tax Department office in Mansa district and burnt an effigy of the Union Government to express their resentment over I-T raids on the premises of several arhtiyas amid the farmers’ agitation.Earlier, the protesters gathered at the city railway station and raised slogans against the Centre and the department.Gurjant Singh, a leader of the Punjab Kisan Union, said, “People from all walks of life have extended their support to the farmers’ agitation, and this has not gone down well with the Central Government. It is now resorting to such tactics to sabotage the farmers’ movement.” Krantikari Kisan Union leader Bhajan Singh said, “We condemn this move of the department. If the raids continued, we will chalk out the future course of action and intensify our protest.” — TNS
22-12-2020||---||Back from Capital, 2 more farmers die||Sangrur, December 21A farmer died last evening in Balad Kalan village of Sangrur. Deceased Hakam Singh was unwell after attending the Delhi protest.“Hakam was unwell and died last evening after he came back from the Delhi protest. The Punjab Government should give compensation to his family,” said Sukhdev Singh, general secretary of the Bhawanigarh unit of the BKU (Dakaunda).Suicide bid at SinghuA 65-year-old Punjab farmer protesting against the farm laws attempted suicide by taking some poisonous substance near the Delhi’s Singhu border on Monday, the police said. Niranjan Singh, who hails from Tarn Taran, was admitted to the Rohtak’s PGIMS and his condition is stated to be stable. He is a marginal farmer with just two and a half acres of land.Meanwhile, succumbing to financial stress, a farmer allegedly ended life by hanging himself in Ferozepur. The deceased has been identified as Kulbir Singh (50), a resident of Kari Kalan village in Guruharsahai subdivision.As per information, Kulbir was under stress due to rising debt. Sandeep Singh, son of the deceased, said his father gone to Delhi on December 11 to join the farmers’ protest and after staying there for nine days, he returned home yesterday. “My father was upset over the condition of farmers at the protest. Yesterday night, he went to the fields and hanged himself,” he said.Sources said the victim owned around 1.75 acres while his three brothers had three acres each. Due to debt, he had sold his land recently.
22-12-2020||---||Youth ready to enter poll fray||Jalandhar, December 21“Punjbio! Punjab nu barbaad karan valian partiyan da khehra chaddo. Aao mil ke Punjab di jawani, kisani, pani ate Punjab diyan zameenan bachaiye (Punjabis! Stop chasing parties destroying the state. Come, let’s save Punjab’s youth, farmers, water and its lands)”, reads one of the many slogans of the ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ party.Formed by young men, including farmers, advocates, scholars and youths, advocating change in the state in the wake of the farmers’ protest, the party claims it will contest the 2022 Assembly elections from all 117 seats.An elderly farmer seated by a farm union flag, a farmer ploughing his fields and the “Amar Jawan Jyoti” sign are the images which mark a poster of the party.“Khud larange election khud badlange Punjab (We’ll fight election and change Punjab ourselves)”, announces a slogan sprawled across its posters circulating on the social media. Party chief Baljit Singh Aulakh said, “Successive governments have systematically overlooked the farmers’ plight. We plan to change that.”
22-12-2020||---||No job to family of deceased farmer, BKU Sidhupur faction threatens to intensify stir||Bathinda, December 21The BKU Sidhupur faction continued their protest outside the district administrative complex for four months now, demanding a government job to next to the kin of farmer who died after consuming some poisonous substance in Jaito.The union members rued that the administration had been making “hollow promises” over the matter and it’s time that they intensify their stir now.Resham Singh Yatri, a union leader, said, “The administration has merely been giving assurances but it has failed to deliver on them till now. We have been staging protests for the past over four months and will continue to do so until the family member of the deceased farmer, Jagsheer Singh, is given a government job.”A meeting in this regard was conducted with Bathinda Deputy Commissioner on Monday, who has given an assurance that a senior official from the tehsil office has been tasked to get the matter resolved on priority basis. Meanwhile, farmers observed a two-minute silence to pay homage to deceased farmers, who have died during the agitation at the Delhi borders.
22-12-2020||---||Under scanner for foreign funds, BKU says will reply soon||Bathinda, December 21Asked by a central agency to submit its registration particulars which permit it to obtain overseas funds, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), the largest farmer union in Punjab, has said it is consulting its chartered accountant and legal adviser and would soon file the reply.The BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) is under the scanner of the Central Government for receiving foreign funds. This could spell trouble for the unions as some of them are getting funds from NRIs and they are not registered under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), which stipulates mandatory registration of any outfit receiving foreign funds.Centre rattledThe Union Government is adopting such tactics as the farmer unions are getting a huge response against the farm laws. We have enough funds to keep the protest going till the farm laws are repealed. — Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, BKU leaderIndividuals and organisations are barred from receiving foreign funds without having registered first with the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. The contributions received by farmer unions will have to be reportedly sent back to international donors if they are not following the FCRA norms.“The forex department under the Centre has sent an email which we have received through our bank’s branch in Moga. The e-mail states that we should give registration details in respect of these donations from abroad otherwise these will be sent back,” BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said. He added the union had received around Rs 8 lakh as donation from abroad in his bank account. Kokri Kalan said the BKU had contacted its CA and legal adviser to file the reply.Lashing out at the Centre, he said: “The Union Government is adopting such tactics as they are getting a huge response against the farm laws. We have enough funds to keep the protest going till the farm laws are repealed”.BKU (Dakonda), the second largest farm union in Punjab, is also getting funds from abroad, but it is not registered under the FCRA. BKU (Rajewal) general secretary Onkar Singh said: “We are not getting any funds directly into the account. But proper accounts are being maintained”.
22-12-2020||Abohar||Will shut all toll plazas: Abohar farmers||A group of young farmers organised a protest against the new farm laws near a phone tower in Dharam Nagari here today. They announced their decision to boycott the BJP and products of a leading mobilephone service provider. They raised slogans against the BJP leaders for “spreading misinformation” about the agitation.In a neighbouring area, a dharna which had started in support of the agitation on the toll plaza on the Suratgarh highway continued for the second day on Monday. The staff was not allowed to charge toll from commuters.Force shutdown of mobile servicesFazilka: Some farmers allegedly shut operations of a private company’s mobile towers at Raranwali Mandi and Nukerian villages in Fazilka to protest the farm laws. Several mobile numbers lost network in the area. “The towers were shut but no loss to any property has been caused,” said Sunil Kumar, Sarpanch of Nukerian village.Farmer leader Amit Godara said the Modi government was bent on turning the farmers into labourers. Sarpanch Baldev Singh said all toll plazas on the highways would be covered under the protest.Farmers, who had started indefinite dharna and reportedly forced closure of a big corporate’s shopping mall near Hanumangarh today.They adopted “Gandhigiri” to motivate people to boycott products of big corporates. The protesting farmers halted vehicles and offered rose to commuters before making an appeal for boycott of the products. — OC
22-12-2020||Amritsar||Awaiting dues, Covid warrior’s wife ends life||A medical officer with the Amritsar Municipal Corporation, Dr Sonia Sharma, allegedly killed herself by consuming some poisonous substance on Monday. Her husband Dr Arun Sharma, SMO, Civil Hospital, had died of Covid on August 30.Sources close to the family said Dr Sonia was upset over the government’s failure to release the dues of her late husband even after repeated requests. She is survived by a son and a daughter.Rs 50L relief givenRs 50 lakh relief has been given to the family. Provisional pension has also been started and their dues have already been approved. The remaining bills will be cleared soon. — Dr Rabinder S Sethi, Civil SurgeonThe death of Dr Sonia has anguished the medical fraternity, which said that the government should have treated the family of a senior doctor, who died while serving patients, in a better way.Dr Arun’s colleagues at the Civil Hospital had also written to the government seeking the release of his dues, including the compensation announced for corona warriors.An MD in blood transfusion, Dr Sharma had hit the headlines after a video of him dancing to the tunes of Punjabi songs while undergoing the Covid treatment had gone viral on social media. After a few days, Dr Arun developed ICU psychosis and died. — TNS
22-12-2020||---||Capt Amarinder’s meet ends with consensus on civic body election||Chandigarh, December 21Amid the BJP announcing to throw its hat in the electoral arena during the forthcoming election to 118 urban local bodies (ULB), the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government has decided to hold the poll in the first or second week of February 2021.The Chief Minister’s office will be communicating to the State Election Commission regarding the dates on which the poll can be held. Since the government has written to the Election Commission to hold the ULB election by February 13, any suitable dates before that will be decided in the coming days.A consensus among the Council of Ministers to conduct the election was arrived at during a luncheon meeting called by the Chief Minister at his farm house in Siswan near here. The election is being held in nine Municipal Corporations and 109 Municipal Councils and Nagar Panchayats.“With almost four years of governance and general election in 2022, the poll will be a litmus test for the Congress government in urban areas and the right time to take on the BJP,” said a senior party leader.Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra said the department was ready to conduct the election. The State Election Commission has initiated the process for the preparation of the electoral rolls. The final publication of the electoral rolls has to be done by January 5.Mostly interacting with his Cabinet colleagues over videoconferencing in the past few months due to the Covid restrictions, the Chief Minister on Monday discussed various political issues, including the farmers’ agitation and anti-farmers steps being taken by the BJP government and way forward in the run up to the Vidhan Sabha election.The Chief Minister also held one-to-one interaction with his Cabinet colleagues.Sources said no discussion on reinduction of Navjot Singh Sidhu in to the Council of Ministers or Cabinet reshuffling was held during the luncheon meeting.
22-12-2020||an Sood
||Rare migratory birds from Siberia spotted at Harike||Tribune News Service Patiala, December 21  In a treat for bird lovers, winged guests from as far as Siberia have turned up at the Harike wetland. With the peak winter season, 55,000 migratory water-dependent birds from 87 species started arriving at Harike Wildlife Sanctuary in late September. A preliminary water bird count was conducted jointly by the Wildlife Division and World Wildlife Fund-India.  Migratory birds like the eurasian coot, common pochard, gadwal, greylag geese, spot-billed duck, little cormorant, pied avocet, great cormorant, ferruginous pochard, common teal, northern shoveler, black-tailed godwit, steppe gull and brown-headed gull have been spotted in good numbers.  “The migration of water birds is still ongoing and looks good for this year. Exact estimates and comparison with last year’s water bird count will be completed in January 2021 when the arrival of new migratory birds is completed,” said Coordinator, Aquatic Biodiversity, WWF-India, Geetanjali Kanwar. “Birds fromas far as Siberia have turned up, a rare phenomenon. We have a number of such birds that are being observed by experts,” she added. Experts said the turnout of water birds in Punjab was one of the highest as compared to previous years. “Flocks of rare birds like northern lapwing and black-tailed godwit were sighted at Harike. Species include jerdon’s babler, rufous-vented prinia, moustached warbler and short-eared owl,” they said.  So far, 21 species of mammals, 384 birds, seven turtles, four snakes, six taxa of amphibians, 16 fishes, 189 invertebrates and 38 plants have been recorded at Harike. The wetland is spread over 86 sq km. Jaskaran Sandhu, member, Punjab State Wildlife Advisory Board and a wildlife photographer, said it was encouraging that such birds had started visiting Punjab wetlands. “We should now ensure that their habitat is conserved so that the numbers increase every year,” he said.
22-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Centre using govt agencies to quell protest: Vijay Inder Singla||Fatehgarh Sahib, December 21The Modi government is misusing government agencies to browbeat all those who are supporting the farmers’ agitation. The CM has taken serious note of the raids on commission agents and will take up the issue with the appropriate authority, Vijay Inder Singla, Minister for Education, said while interacting with mediapersons at Bassi Pathana today.He was here to name the Bassi Pathan-Kharar road as Giani Ditt Singh Marg to pay obeisance to Giani Dit Singh, who was a poet, writer, editor and one of the founders of the Singh Sabha movement and instrumental in the development of Sikh history and Punjabi language. Singla announced a grant of Rs 5 lakh for development projects in the village.Answering a query regarding lathicharge on teachers, he expressed ignorance and said he did not know which faction of the union had organised the protest. He said the government was open for talks with every organisation to redress their grievances. The state government was going to fill one lakh vacancies this year, he added.
22-12-2020||Chamkaur Sahib||Sukhbir: BJP trying to divide Punjab, Haryana farmers on SYL||While no political conferences were held at the three-day Shaheedi Jor Mela this year due to Covid, prominent personalities, including SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, ex-MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, ex-Cabinet minister Daljit Singh Cheema and SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, paid obeisance at Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib here today.Talking to the media, Sukhbir said the BJP was raising the SYL issue now to create division among farmers of Punjab and Haryana, who were agitating in Delhi. He said farmers, especially from Haryana, were aware of the BJP tactics and had completely ignored it.Sukhbir alleged that instead of solving the farmers’ issues, the NDA government was adopting coercive methods to suppress the stir. The IT raids on arhtiyas was also to suppress the stir. “I have warned the Centre that the more it tries to suppress the ongoing stir, more it will be strengthened,” he added.Replying to a query over new invitation of talks, he said, “The Centre is trying to tire out farmers by starting a dialogue again. This is a futile exercise when the farmer bodies have already rejected the laws.The PM should call an emergency Parliament session and repeal the laws.” — TNS
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM playing tricks, claims AAP||AAP Punjab co-in-charge Raghav Chadha and chief Bhagwant Mann today lashed out at CM Capt Amarinder Singh for not taking up the cause of the farmers when they were protesting against the three laws in the state.In a joint statement, the leaders alleged that instead of extending support to the protesting farmers, the CM made a settlement with the Centre with regard to the ED cases against his son. “Why a secret meeting was held between the CM and Home Minister Amit Shah. The people of Punjab want to know whether he had made any settlement with the Modi government for the ED cases against his son,” asked Raghav.The leaders alleged that as part of his deal with Modi and Shah, the CM was playing tricks to undermine the farmers’ movement in every possible way. Amid the ongoing stir, the Centre had ordered raids on the premises of arhiyas only because they had extended support to the farmers.The AAP alleged that the attitude and approach of the CM towards the farmers was akin to that of the PM. The state was resorting to oppressive measures to sabotage the farmers’ stir to appease the Modi government. — TNS
22-12-2020||---||Did Special DGP’s letter have govt approval, asks HC||Chandigarh, December 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday asked a counsel to take specific instructions whether a letter by the Special DGP-cum-Director, Punjab Bureau of Investigation, in the sacrilege matter had the government’s approval. The letter was addressed to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Director in July last year.The High Court, in a related matter, was earlier told that a letter dated July 29, 2019, was written by the Special DGP forwarding certain new/relevant information to the CBI regarding the sacrilege cases. The CBI, in furtherance to the receipt of the letter, had filed an application before the CBI Special Judicial Magistrate, Mohali, praying that the closure report filed by it in the sacrilege matters be kept in abeyance till completion of the further investigation.As petitions filed by Shakti Singh and other petitioners through senior advocate Vinod Ghai and Kanika Ahuja came up for resumed hearing, Justice Amol Rattan Singh asked senior advocate Harin P Rawal to take specific instructions from the Government of Punjab as to whether the Special DGP’s letter (dated July 26/29, 2019) addressed to the CBI Director was after the government’s approval. The CBI was represented by counsel Sumeet Goel.Justice Amol Rattan Singh added the letter, at the end, said it was issued with the concurrence of the DGP, who obviously was not the Government of Punjab.“The specific query is needed to be answered by senior counsel after looking at the file noting pertaining to the issuance of that letter (and any ancillary noting), in view of the fact thatthe government had issued a notification on September 6, 2018, withdrawing itsconsent for investigation by the CBI,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh added.
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Akalis decide to fight local body election on party symbol||To take on its former ally BJP in urban areas, the SAD on Monday said it would contest the forthcoming local body election on the party symbol. The candidates will be finalised by January 5.The decision was taken at a meeting of the party’s core panel, which was presided over by Sukhbir Badal. Party leaders claimed that the Akalis would sweep the poll.The panel decided to hold ‘akhand paths’ from January 2 onwards to commemorate the sacrifice of Baba Ram Singh and 42 others, who were martyred during the ongoing farmers’ stir. It directed the party rank and file to help the families of farmers, who are participating in the agitation so that their fields are not left untended.It was decided that the sub-committee comprising senior leaders Balwinder Singh Bhundur, Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra and Sikander Singh Maluka will meet like-minded parties in the coming days to make a joint strategy to force the NDA government to repeal the three farm laws.The sub-committee will also initiate discussions with other parties to ensure the implementation of a federal structure in which the powers of the states are not abrogated by the Centre. — TNS
22-12-2020||Amritsar||Pak refuses to accept bodies of  intruders||Pakistan has refused to accept the bodies of the infiltrators killed by the BSF after they tried to cross the border. On December 16 night, two armed intruders from Pakistan were shot dead by the troops of 71st Battalion of the BSF close to the Rajatal border outpost near Amritsar. After foiling the infiltration bid and drug smuggling, the BSF had lodged protest with the Pakistan Rangers. A senior BSF official said after probe, they had offered their Pakistan counterparts to take over the bodies, but they refused to do so. “This is nothing unusual. Earlier too, the Pakistan army seldom agrees to own the bodies of infiltrators or their own soldiers. As per the protocol, the last rites were performed here.” — TNS
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Delegation sent to Bihar to muster support for stir||In a bid to unite farmers from across the country against the three agri laws, union leaders decided to send delegations to states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.BKU (Ekta) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, who led a delegation to Patna today, said their movement against the contentious laws could be successful only if farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar joined them.“The MSP system was scrapped in Bihar 14 years ago. Farmers there are getting Rs 800 per quintal for corn even as its MSP is Rs 1,850 in other states. Similarly, they are forced to sell paddy at Rs 1,000 per quintal, which is much lower than the MSP,” he said.Charuni said despite this, response from Bihar farmers was not as per expectations. “This struggle is for their rights also,” he said. “There is a need to make this struggle pan-India. Not only farmers but people from other walks of life like landless labourers and small businessmen should also join us,” he said.“The farming community is looking at us with hope and we won’t let them down,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bharti Kisan Union (Dakaunda).
22-12-2020||Gurdaspur||Alert in border belt as Pakistan drone drops 11 grenades in Gurdaspur||Eleven hand grenades reportedly dropped by a drone from Pakistan were recovered from a field near the international border at Silach village in the district.Rajesh Sharma, DIG, BSF, Gurdaspur, said jawans on hearing some strange sound near Chakri outpost late on Saturday night fired multiple shots towards the source. The police authorities were alerted and a joint search operation was conducted.Shots firedNothing suspicious was found, but the police continued its search throughout Sunday. Around 7 pm, they found a neatly packed wooden box in sugarcane fields which contained 11 Arges-type HG-84.SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said: “These are conventional grenades designed to inflict massive damage against the target within their blast radius. Under normal circumstances, such grenades spray shrapnel till 100 yards at a high speed.”The drone, however, was not recovered and it is suspected that it managed to fly back to Pakistan after dropping the payload.An FIR under the Explosives Substances Act has been registered at the Dorangla police station. The SSP said the search would continue for another day and the cops would cover all surrounding villages.
