23-08-2020||Chandigarh||50 more deaths, 1,136 Covid cases reported from Punjab||Punjab on Sunday recorded its second highest fatality count after 50 more people died from coronavirus even as 1,136 fresh cases took the state’s infection tally to 41,779. According to a medical bulletin, the disease has claimed 1,086 lives in the state so far. On Sunday, 19 deaths were reported from Patiala; nine from Ludhiana; seven from Jalandhar; six from Gurdaspur; two each from Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur; and one each from Fazilka, Kapurthala, Muktsar, Sangrur and Tarn Taran, it said. The state had reported its highest 51 deaths on August 17. Among districts which reported new cases were Ludhiana (242), Patiala (188), Jalandhar (107), Amritsar (68), Moga (60), Kapurthala (58), Sangrur (51) and Hoshiarpur (51). A total of 2,226 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection. So far, 26,528 people have been cured of it, the bulletin said.There are 14,165 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to it.Forty-six patients are on ventilator while 374 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.  The state has so far collected 9,07,160 samples for testing. — PTI
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||1.12 kg heroin seized from 5 farmers along Indo-Pak border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran||Five farmers in possession of 1.12 kg of heroin have been apprehended by the BSF along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, officials said on Sunday.The contraband, stashed in the false cavities made in the soles of their footwear, was seized on Saturday, they said.“While frisking farmers who returned after completing their agricultural work from ahead of Border Security Fence, the troops seized 1.12 kg contraband from five of them,” according to a BSF statement issued on Sunday.The area was under the responsibility of 103 Battalion, Ferozepur Sector, it said. PTI
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder opposes challenge to Gandhi family leadership, says India needs a strong, united opposition||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has opposed the bid by some Congress leaders to challenge the Gandhi family leadership of the party saying that the country needed a strong opposition against the BJP-led NDA that was out to destroy the country’s Constitutional ethos and democratic principles and that this was not the time for such issues.In a statement issued here on Sunday, the veteran Congress leader said the NDA’s success was attributable to the absence of a strong and united Opposition, and the move by these Congress leaders to demand an overhaul of the party at this critical juncture would be detrimental to its interests, and the interests of the nation. India is currently facing not just external dangers from across the border but also internal threats to its federal structure, he said, adding that a unified Congress alone could protect the country and its people.Terming the demand for leadership change as untenable, Captain Amarinder noted the immense contribution of the Gandhi family to the country’s progress since it achieved freedom from the British rule. “What Congress needs is a leadership that is acceptable not to just a few but to the entire party, through its rank and file, and the nation at large,” he said, adding that the Gandhis were the right fit for this role.“Sonia Gandhi should continue to helm the Congress as long as she wanted,” he said, and added that Rahul should thereafter take over as he was fully competent to lead the party.“The Gandhis were the only universally recognisable face of the Congress, from Kashmir to Kanyakumari,” Smarinder Singh said. “Electoral defeats cannot be the yardstick for leadership change,” he said.
23-08-2020||  ||Stewing a colonial gem||Food Talk by Pushpesh Pant     Ishtoo or stew: What’s in a name? The writer of these lines was born and brought up in a small kill station where the chowkidar-cum-cook, Paan Singh, who liked to be addressed as khanasama, took great pride in the stew he cooked. He had learned the recipe from a memsaheb whose husband had served a long term of colonial duty at this outpost. As children we found the gem in his repertoire a bit bland and preferred the chicken roast or grilled chops he routinely turned out. It was years later when we encountered the desi ishtoo, first in Old Delhi and then in Purana Bhopal, that it dawned upon us that the old man was rendering a fairly faithful imitation of the Irish stew. In Kerala we have enjoyed a mildly spiced yet exquisitely flavourful stew, not ishtoo; it has its own allure. Let's not digress though. What is in a name?  In this case it is not just the pronunciation that’s different, the spicing and the thickness of the gravy also varies from place to place. What is common though is the aspiration to equal a dish enjoyed by the colonial rulers. The original is a one pot dish where the meat, along with vegetables, is slow cooked in its own juices. Ishtoo in Delhi and Bhopal traces its lineage to do pyaaza and dum pukht. The meats — mutton or chicken — are braised and cooked with just onions (lots), whole red chillies and a few black peppercorns. To cut the sweetness of onions, a little curd is used. Those who can’t do without aromatics may add whole spices like cloves and cardamom. We feel that this indulgence veers the ishtoo in the direction of khade masale ka gosht.   Our friend Osama Jalai, journalist-turned-food impresario, turns out a mean chicken ishtoo following the family recipe, a Rampur gharana heirloom. We thank him for treating it to us more than once and sharing the recipe that we have tweaked just a little!     Recipe: Chicken ishtoo  Ingredients:  Chicken 750 g (without skin)  Onions 1 kg  Garlic 2-3 cloves  Whole red chillies 8-10  Black peppercorns 1/2 tsp  Curd 2 tbsp  Salt to taste  Ghee/Oil 1/4 cup  Spring of fresh mint or coriander for garnishing     Method:  Cut the chicken into eight-10 pieces. Wash and pat dry. Peel the onions and slice them not too fine. Crush the garlic cloves. Wipe dry the whole red chillies. Heat ghee/oil in a thick bottomed pan. When hot, add the chicken pieces, sliced onions and crushed garlic. Stir well to mix and add curd and black peppercorns. Add the chillies carefully; these should not break, or else the stew could become too hot to handle! Sprinkle salt in the end. Cover the pan with a tight lid and cook on medium-low flame for about 25 minutes. Uncover once half way and stir with a light hand. Uncover to check if done to taste. It should have a thin, but not watery sauce-like gravy, golden in hue. Garnish with mint or coriander. Enjoy with phulka or steamed rice. You may use the same recipe for mutton ishtoo. The cooking time increases by 30 minutes or so. The preferred cuts of meat are shoulder, neck and puth. Enjoy!
23-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Newborn’s abduction: Five gang members arrested||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 22A woman sanitation worker, along with an organised gang, was found guilty of abducting a newborn from the Jalandhar Civil Hospital two days ago.The Police Commissionerate on Saturday arrested two women and three men (including a panchayat member and a sanitation employee of the Civil Hospital) for abducting the newborn baby from the hospital. The baby has safely been rescued and handed over to his parents.The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh Gopi (22) panchayat member of Maheru village, Gurpreet Singh Peeta (24), Ranjeet Singh Rana (25), Davinder Kaur of Khurshaidpur Colony in Nakodar and Kiran (28) of Lamba Pind. Kiran was working as a sanitation employee at the Civil Hospital for the past seven years. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused were to sell the baby for about Rs4 lakh and distribute the amount equally among them.A case under Section 363 of the IPC was filed on August 20 at division number 4 police station after a complaint by the parents.Expressing apprehensions of the gang’s involvement in previous crimes, the CP said the accused would further be grilled to know about more persons involved in this racket and also to whom they were going to sell the newborn. The CP said one of the accused, Davinder Kaur, used to arrange the deals of egg donation by women for the families having no child.Bhullar said the accused would be taken into police custody and grilled to know about more persons involved in the racket and to whom they were going to sell the newborn.As per the preliminary interrogation, accused Gurpreet Singh Gopi and Gurpreet Singh Peeta reached the rear side of the Civil Hospital in a Bolero (PB08-CG-2473) at 12.40 pm on August 20 and were constantly in touch with the three other accused — Ranjeet, Davinder Kaur and Kiran — over phone. They later came inside the Mother and Child Centre of the hospital.Once they entered, Kiran abducted the baby from the paediatric ward and gave him to Gurpreet Singh Gopi and Gurpreet Singh Peeta near the stairs, from where they quickly got to the Bolera and disappeared from the spot immediately. The CP said both accused handed over the newborn to Davinder Kaur and Ranjeet Rana at Gandra-Pandori Road. The police team carried out a detailed probe and arrested Gurpreet Singh Gopi from his office, while others were nabbed from their homes. The newborn baby was safely recovered from a room, where Ranjeet Rana and Davinder Kaur were living, he said.Police Commissioner said: “The crime was conducted in an organised manner and investigation is on to know the extent of the gang and its members. The investigation is at its preliminary stage.”Activist submits memorandumSocial activist and member of the District Health Planning and Monitoring Committee Surinder Saini has submitted a memorandum to the Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner on the issue seeking a high-level inquiry into the case. Saini said: “While the parents of the child were engaged in completeing the hospital formalities, the child was being stolen from the paediatric ward. The parents made the complaint to the police even though it is the duty of the doctor/MS concerned to report the case, as the mother and newborn hadn’t been discharged yet. The police immediately swung into action, but no CCTV camera was available in the ward and the police took the footage from the market in and around the hospital. We, the members of health and monitoring committee, request for a high-level inquiry in the matter and look into the role of the MS.”
23-08-2020||Amritsar/New Delhi||5 Pak intruders shot along IB in Tarn Taran||In one of the biggest anti-infiltration drives in recent times, Border Security Force jawans gunned down five Pakistan intruders trying to smuggle in contraband from across the International Border (IB) in Tarn Taran early this morning.Read also: IS man was planning lone wolf strike: Cops Around 9-kg heroin, valued at Rs 45 crore in international market, an AK-47 rifle with 27 rounds, four 9 mm Beretta pistols, seven magazines and 109 live rounds were recovered from the scene. Two mobiles and Rs 610 in Pakistan currency were also confiscated.This is the first time in a decade that five intruders have been killed in a single operation along the 3,300-km IB — of which Punjab shares 553-km frontier — with Pakistan.BSF IG (Punjab Frontier) Mahipal Yadav said jawans of 103 Battalion noticed suspicious movement near Dal border outpost around 12.30 am. As the men approached the barbed fencing and tried to smuggle in the contraband, the jawans challenged them to surrender but they opened fire, prompting retaliatory fire.A BSF official said the exchange of fire began around 4.45 am and continued till 5.30 am. On search, the forces found five bodies, besides heroin and arms. — TNS
23-08-2020||Our Correspondent||1-kg contraband seized in Fazilka||Fazilka, August 22Two days after 4 kg of heroin was seized near the international border (IB) in Fazilka sector, the jawans of second battalion of Border Security Force and the state police in a joint operation seized 1 kg of heroin near the border outpost in Fazilka today.A source said some Pakistani smugglers had allegedly tried to smuggle the contraband into India, but their attempt was foiled by security forces.
23-08-2020||---||Vigilance Bureau nabs patwari in corruption case||Chandigarh, August 22The Vigilance Bureau (VB) today arrested a patwari, Harish Kumar, posted at Sujanpur (now Raipur) in Pathankot district for allegedly amassing disproportionate assets by misusing his official position.Disclosing this here today, an official spokesperson said a corruption case had been registered against the accused. He said during the investigation, it was found that Harish Kumar had accumulated money more than the known sources of his actual income through illegal means and his spending was more than his earning.He stated that during the period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2017, it was found that he received an amount of Rs 52,02,134, but spent Rs 1,09,94,467, which manifest that he had spent more money than his income.The spokesperson said the case under different sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act had been registered against him at the VB police station, Amritsar, and further investigation is under progress.
23-08-2020||Amritsar||4.2-kg heroin seized from Gurdaspur area||A team of special task force (STF), led by DSP Vavinder Mahajan, has seized 4.2 kg of heroin hidden in a water pipe across the barbed fence near Chanduwadala village border outpost in Gurdaspur.In a statement issued here today, a STF official said the seizure was made following the questioning of Sukhwinder Singh, alias Kaka, of Chanduwadala village, who had around 15 acres across the barbed fence.Kaka was nabbed following a tip-off that he, along with Karandeep Singh of Dhilwan and Mandeep Singh of Chanduwadala village, had smuggled a drug consignment, procured from Pakistan-based smugglers, into the country.The BSF authorities were informed and a joint team searched the area and confiscated the contraband.Further probe was underway, and raids were on to arrest Karandeep and Mandeep, an official said. — TNS
23-08-2020||---||ASI in viral ‘chitta’ video dismissed||Chandigarh, August 22Acting on the orders of Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Jorawar Singh of the Punjab Police was on Saturday dismissed over the viral video showing him taking chitta (synthetic drug).Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale has issued the notification dismissing the ASI. The CM has also warned of strict action against any personnel in uniform found indulging in criminal acts.Taking a serious note of the viral video, also reported by a section of the media on Friday, the Chief Minister, during his #AskCaptain Facebook Live session, had announced his decision to dismiss the ASI after an inquiry.With the inquiry prima facie showing evidence that the Jorawar Singh, posted at Sarai Amanat Khan police station in Tarn Taran, was consuming drugs using a lighter and foil paper, as seen in the video, according to an official spokesperson.Capt, who also holds the home portfolio, felt that retention of the ASI in service would be detrimental to the interests of the state, the police force as well as the people. The dismissal was necessary to send a strong message that the state government would not tolerate such a criminal practice, especially from those in uniform, felt the Chief Minister.The spokesperson said not only was the dismissal essential to prevent erosion of the police and government image in the eye of the people, but also for the success of the anti-drug fight of the state government.The Chief Minister has directed the Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta to ensure that such criminal acts by men in the force are not allowed at any cost.Activist’s info leaked
23-08-2020||Patiala||Dentist held for taking bribe to treat patient||A dentist posted at the Primary Health Centre in Sangrur’s Bhawanigarh town was caught red-handed reportedly while taking a bribe of Rs 8,500. Mandeep Singh, SSP, Vigilance, Patiala Range, said the accused had been identified as Dr Surjeet Chaudhary.The SSP said complainant Nirbhai Singh Bhullar of Masani village had alleged that the doctor had taken a bribe of Rs 2,000 and was further demanding Rs 8,500 from him to treat his wife Gurjeet Kaur. A trap was laid to arrest the accused in presence of two independent government witnesses.Vigilance Inspector Sudarshan Saini arrested Dr Surjeet Chaudhry and recovered Rs 8,500 from him. — TNS
23-08-2020||---||Cops ‘thrash’ JE, PSPCL fines station for ‘power theft’||Barnala, August 22After local cops allegedly thrashed a junior engineer (JE) of the PSPCL in front of his family, a team of the power corporation raided the Barnala City-1 police station after “detecting power theft” and imposed a fine of Rs 2 lakh.Junior Engineer Jagdeep Singh said he was going home in his car when a policeman, riding a bike, hit his vehicle from behind on August 19 evening. “When I asked him about it, he called other cops and they took me to the police station where they slapped me repeatedly and hurled abuses at me in front of my family. They also took Rs 5,000 before releasing me after a few hours,” he alleged.On August 20, he brought the matter to the notice of his seniors. On August 21, when he and other officials went to the local police station to lodge a complaint, they saw cops allegedly drawing power illegally through a kundi connection. Later, a local team of the PSPCL raided the police station and imposed fine.Vikas Singla, Sub-Divisional Officer, Barnala, PSPCL, said, “We have detected power theft as cops were running air conditioners illegally despite having a regular electricity connection. Though the final amount will be calculated on Monday evening, preliminary inquiry points to a power theft worth Rs 2 lakh.”Gurpreet Singh, Barnala district president of the Junior Engineers’ Council, said, “We have called a district-level meeting on Monday to announce our future course of action.”When contacted, Barnala City-1 SHO Kamaljit Singh Gill confirmed that the police had received a complaint from JE Jagdeep Singh. He said an investigation was being conducted. “There was no power theft as we have a regular electricity connection. Our cops have not taken any money from the JE and our investigation is going on,” the SHO added.Rs 2 lakh penalty
23-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Drain water ravages standing crops in over six Abohar villages||Abohar, August 22A number of farmers had staged a dharna on the Abohar-Seetogunno-Dabwali road last evening to draw attention to the problem of overflowing Abulkhurana drain, yet no measures were taken to resolve their problem even today.Water fury has ravaged the standing cotton and other crops in more than six villages.A farmer said a few days back, the district administration had directed the Drainage Department to clean all drains as they suspected a heavy spell of rain, however the authorities did not pay heed to their request.A villager said the overflowing water from the drain had affected crops in Pakki, Balluana, Kera Khera, Bahawalbasi, Dhani Sucha Singh and Kailash Nagar villages, and it was fast heading towards clusters of houses, which, he said, might collapse if necessary action wasn’t taken.The villager said crops worth Rs 500 crore were damaged due to a similar situation in September 2015, and subsequently the then Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal was forced to visit some of the affected areas and announce compensation.A resident in Dharangwala village said the locals were shifting their families and livestock to safer places, as the rainwater was yet to be drained out.Jain Nagari residents rued that were forced to stay on the first floor of their houses, as the ground floor was submerged for the past three days.Protest on Dabwali road over ‘inaction’
23-08-2020||Karam Prakash||Patiala hospital sees 25 deaths in a day, Punjab toll crosses 1K mark||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 22As many as 25 Covid deaths were reported at Government Rajindra Hospital, a tertiary healthcare institute, in the past 24 hours. This was the highest daily death count at the hospital.The increasing death rate at the hospital has already raised alarm bells for the authorities and the state Health Department. Till Saturday morning, 216 Covid deaths were recorded at the institute. The authorities said 286 positive and nine suspected patients were undergoing treatment at the hospital presently.Dr Paras Pandove, Medical Superintendent, said only serious patients were admitted in the Covid ward, and therefore, the mortality rate was a bit higher. He said, “Only level-2 and level-3 patients are admitted to the hospital. Therefore, the mortality rate is high. Besides, serious patients from other districts of the state are referred to the hospital, which has resulted in a high casualty rate.”Meanwhile, chaos was witnessed at the mortuary of the hospital when family members of a deceased had to allegedly wait for 12 hours to get the body.It has been learnt that there was a delay in shifting the bodies from the Covid ward to the mortuary due to a high number of casualties.A family member of the deceased said, “We got a call around 1 am from the ward that our family member had died of Covid. It’s 2 pm but we still haven’t received the body for cremation.”Sources said the Deputy Commissioner had already issued directions that a body should be shifted from the isolation ward to the mortuary within two hours. Officials at the mortuary claimed there was a strike by marshals who shift the bodies from the isolation ward to the mortuary, which led to the delay. Dr Vishal Chopra, nodal officer, Covid ward, said, “Around eight deaths took place from 11.30 pm to 6 am, which delayed the shifting of bodies. However, I will look into if there was a delay of 12 hours.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhohtra said, “We have asked officials at the hospital to hire more marshals so that there is no delay in shifting the bodies.”Meanwhile, with 1,320 cases reported in the past 24 hours, the state count of Covid cases has reached 40,643. Besides, the state witnessed 45 deaths, taking the total number of casualties to 1,036.Among the worst-affected districts, Ludhiana topped with 360 cases, followed by Patiala (177), SAS Nagar (164), Amritsar (92), Kapurthala (74), Muktsar (68), Sangrur (47) and Jalandhar (46). Apart from that, 336 patients are on oxygen support and 49 are critical and are on ventilator support.Randhawa tests +veJails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has tested positive for Covid. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted about the development. He said, “My Cabinet colleague and Cooperation & Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has tested positive for #Covid19. I wish him a speedy recovery.”
23-08-2020||---||Badals’ Muktsar residence a micro-containment zone||Muktsar, August 22After eight security men, including an SP, attached with former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal tested Covid-positive, the latter’s residence has been declared a micro-containment zone. It means for the time being, no one can meet the Badals at their residence.While speaking over the phone, Dr Manju, senior medical officer, Civil Hospital, Badal, said, “The number of Covid patients from the former CM’s residence is more than five. Thus, we are declaring it a micro-containment zone. No outsider will be allowed to go and meet anyone.”She said, “Two security men had earlier tested positive and since then, we are taking the samples of everyone residing or deployed at the residence. Samples of 120 people have already been collected.” The former CM has already been advised home isolation due to his old age. Notably, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal are also residing at Badal village presently.Meanwhile, sources said SP (Security) Harmeek Deol was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali.
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Curbs of no use, improve health services in Punjab: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today asked the Congress government to improve health services instead of indulging in coercive shutdowns, which were having a “devastating” effect on small shopkeepers, traders and skilled workers.Stating that the Congress government was taking unilateral decisions “to hide its failures and prevent large-scale protests”, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema asked the government to strike a balance between lives and livelihood.“The government should improve ambulance services and hospital infrastructure, increase bed strength and recruit more doctors and nurses. The shutdowns will only result in more crowding in markets when they reopen. This will lead to a spike in Covid cases,” he said. — TNS
23-08-2020||Archit Watts||Funds dry up, pound unable to feed cattle||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 22A government-run cattle pound on 27-acre panchayat land at Ratta Tibba village in the Lambi Assembly segment has become a picture of neglect. There is acute shortage of funds for the pound, which is presently housing nearly 300 head of cattle.Notably, once there were nearly 1,600 head of cattle, but due to high mortality rate and ‘unhygienic’ conditions, less than one fifth are left now. Ranjot Singh, manager of the cattle pound, said: “There is a shortage of green fodder, but some people from neighbouring villages are donating it. This is happening because of shortage of funds. Around two years ago, we had nearly 1,200 animals here, but now, just 300 are left. Most of these are stray cattle, brought here from neighbouring towns. Many consumed plastic and iron nails in high quantity, which claimed their lives.” Congress leader Randhir Singh Dhira Khuddian said: “I had recently visited the cattle pound and requested some people to make arrangements for green fodder. However, the overall condition of the pound is not satisfactory.”MK Aravind Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Muktsar, said: “The shortage of funds is just because of the low collection of cow cess during the Covid period. I had sent the ADC (D) a day before the Independence Day to the cattle pound to see the situation. Once my self-isolation period gets over, I will make necessary arrangements. However, I am not aware about the mortality rate.”
23-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Panel hints at employees’ role in missing ‘saroops’ case, report soon||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 22The Akal Takht-appointed three-member committee to probe the case of missing 267 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib is likely to submit its findings on Sunday. Sources said the probe committee had found the involvement of some publication employees of the SGPC.Members of the committee questioned the present and former employees of the SGPC during the course of investigation. They explored the documents of the publication department and also consulted the chartered accountant firm dealing with the SGPC.The snail’s pace of the probe has “irked” the Sikh sangat. Opposition parties have been describing the incident as another instance of inept handling of the SGPC and interference by the Shiromani Akali Dal in its affairs.The findings of the committee will be submitted to Akal Takht acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. Subsequently, the findings could be deliberated at the next meeting of the five Sikh high priests, to be held on August 24.After retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Navita Singh, withdrew her name from the Akal Takht-appointed two-member committee to probe the case, two more officials were assigned to join advocate of the Telangana High Court, Ishar Singh, the other member of the probe committee.High priests to meet tomorrowThe findings of the committee will be submitted to Akal Takht acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. Subsequently, the findings could be deliberated in the next meeting of the five Sikh high priests, to be held on August 24. Members of the committee questioned the present and former employees of the SGPC during the course of investigation.
23-08-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Mining operations shut in Punjab, yet no shortage of sand, gravel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 22Legal mining is not allowed from the quarries in the state’s riverbeds during the monsoon season. Most of the ‘dry quarries’ (quarries on farmers land), too, have become non-operational as environmental clearance is awaited.Of the 200 quarries in seven mining clusters, only 80 became functional in February after getting environmental clearance. But mining in these quarries is not allowed in the monsoon season (July-September).Ideally, this should mean a shortage of sand and gravel in the state, but there is no shortage and the material is available easily from quarries in Pathankot, Ropar, Nawanshahr, Ludhiana and Moga.The five mining contractors, who have the contracts for extracting sand and gravel from seven clusters demarcated in the state, have alleged that illegal mining is rampant and is hurting their business.Ashok Chandak, who represents these contractors, said illegal mining was flourishing under political and police patronage. “Of the five contractors, four are from outside Punjab. We are not getting any help from the local administration or the police,” he said.The government had capped the rate of sand at Rs 900 per 100 cubic ft last year. But consumers are paying Rs 2,200-2,900 per 100 cubic ft for sand and Rs 1,800-2,100 per 100 cubic ft for gravel and aggregate. Contractors say they are supplying the material to the crushers at the government price. The crushers and transporters take their own cuts and supply material at a higher price, they say.
23-08-2020||Faridkot||Accused in arms case to be extradited||The Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of the state police has started the extradition process of gangster Ranjit Singh, alias Dupla, in the five-year-old foreign-made fire weapons smuggling case of Faridkot.Ranjit is facing more than 15 criminal cases for kidnapping, attempt to murder, robbery, snatching and contract killings. The district police had arrested the gangster in the foreign-made weapon smuggling case in February 2015, and had seized many imported weapons from him. He was declared a proclaimed offender after he didn’t appear in the court here in December 2017. Senior officials in the OCCU suspect that he was presently in the US. The investigation by the OCCU, which started this month, revealed that Dupla and his associates had sold the smuggled weapons to rich and influential people in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi. — TNS
23-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can’t remove employee in case of disability: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that an establishment cannot dispense with the services of an employee or reduce his rank in case he acquires disability while in job.The ruling came as Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal rapped the Punjab Government for being “insensitive and indifferent to the plight of a challenged employee” before directing his reinstatement.“It is manifest that the respondents are being insensitive and indifferent to the plight of a challenged employee, which is anathema to a welfare state and contrary to the objective of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunity, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act,” Justice Grewal asserted.Referring to Section 47(1) of the Act, Justice Grewal asserted that in the event an employee was found to be unsuitable for the post he was holding, he was required to be shifted to some other post with the same pay scale and service benefits. If it was not possible to adjust the employee against any post, he could be kept on a supernumerary post until a suitable post was available or he attained the age of superannuation, whichever was earlier.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Rawel Singh filed a petition against the state and other respondents. Appearing before Justice Grewal’s Bench through video-conferencing, his counsel Manu K Bhandari contended that the petitioner was 75 per cent physically challenged, but the respondents were arbitrarily not allowing him to continue till the age of 60 in violation of the Act.The state counsel, on the other hand, submitted the increase in retirement age from 58 to 60 for disabled employees was not unconditional. It was subject to the condition that they should be mentally and physically fit to discharge the duties of the post. In the opinion of the board of doctors, the petitioner could not carry out his office work as a junior assistant. Referring to the object of the Act, Justice Grewal asserted that it was to provide congenial work environment, keeping in view the disability of the employee. Merely because the employee could not carry out work as a junior assistant, it could not be taken that he would be unfit to discharge any other job.“The petitioner shall be taken back in service forthwith in the same pay scale and adjusted at a suitable post whereat he may work online from home in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Justice Grewal ruled.
23-08-2020||---||Another excise official held in tax evasion case||Chandigarh, August 22Senior officials, including an Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner (AETC), are under the lens in the multi-crore GST evasion racket unearthed by the Punjab Vigilance Bureau on Friday.The bureau has arrested another Excise and Taxation Officer (ETO), Dinesh Gaud. Six arrests were made during statewide raids on Friday. The bureau has booked 12 persons, including taxmen, for corruption, cheating, forging documents and under other sections.As per the FIRs, an AETC took Rs 75,000 per month from one client while officials ranging from inspectors to excise officers took Rs 35,000 to Rs 2 lakh per month from businessmen to provide tax-free passage to their goods. The bribe amount had to be paid by 25th of every month otherwise trucks were impounded.Vigilance officials said the role of the AETC was under investigation. The FIR stated that as per the recorded phone conversation of the accused, it was mentioned that the AETC took bribe through another employee.The alleged racket ran with the help of staff of transporters, especially Vijay Kumar of Ludhiana, who used different mobile phones to arrange payment for the bribe and finalised the time and route of trucks carrying goods sans tax. Such trucks were labelled as passers.On Friday, the Vigilance had in statewide raids nabbed six persons, including four Excise and Taxation Officers — Varun Nagpal, Satpal Multani, Kalicharan and Japsimran Singh. The fifth one is Excise Inspector Ram Kumar. The sixth person is Shiv Kumar, an employee with a transport company.As per the FIRs, “In some cases, cess in accordance with a low GST slab for the product transported was levied. In others, officials conspired with businessmen to record movement of a commodity with lower tax value than the actual goods supplied.The accused also provided accurate information on safe escape routes to transporters so that they don’t have to pay tax at the designated counters and provided immunity from checking on the way also.Vigilance Bureau Chief Director-cum-ADGP BK Uppal said those booked in first FIR included DETC Simran Brar, Fazilka ETO Ved Prakash Jakhar, Faridkot ETO Satpal Multani, Chandigarh mobile wing ETO at Shambhu Kali Charan, Muktsar ETO Varun Nagpal, Fazilka ETO Ravinandan, Moga ETO Piyara Singh and Vijay Kumar Prashar, resident of Adarsh Colony, Khanna.In the second case, Amritsar (now Patiala) ETO Sushil Kumar, Amritsar ETO Dinesh Gaud, Amritsar ETO Japsimran Singh, Amritsar mobile wing ETO Lakhbeer Singh, Inspector Ram Kumar, Somnath transporter of Phagwara, Shiv Kumar Munshi and Pawan Kumar were involved.Seven held so far
