23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Exercise extreme caution owing to new mutant strain: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday urged the people to exercise extreme caution and strictly follow all the Covid-19 safety norms amid reports of a new strain of the virus spreading in some parts of the world.Pointing out that even those who recover from Covid suffer long-term after effects, including weakness, the Chief Minister said that while the spread of the pandemic in the state may have slowed down for now, the crisis is not over yet.The last flight that landed in Amritsar from the UK on Tuesday had reported eight positive cases, he said, hoping that the new strain of the virus had not entered Punjab.During his #AskCaptain Facebook Live telecast, the Chief Minister hoped that there would be no resurgence of cases, nor spread of the new strain, in the state, which added over 200 Covid cases besides reporting 18 deaths on Tuesday.Pointing out that several of his colleagues and officials had tested positive due to their bigger exposure to the people, Amarinder Singh urged the public to continue wearing masks and follow social distancing protocol in order to save themselves, their families and the state.The Chief Minister disclosed that the state is currently testing over 30,000 samples every day.Amarinder Singh said the virus crisis had led to a delay in implementing 50 per cent subsidised fare for women in state-run buses, but the same would be done soon.In response to a Bathinda resident's question, the Chief Minister said that details of the scheme and documentation had been completed and the scheme would be put in motion soon.Replying to a Batala resident's question on filling of leftover vacancies to the tune of 42,000, Amarinder Singh said the delay had also been on account of the pandemic.The next cabinet meeting will approve the recruitments to fill 50,000 vacancies, he added.Responding to a complaint from a Ferozpur resident about OPDs still not functional in government hospitals of his region, the Chief Minister said that all OPDs had already been ordered to be opened up. He assured the resident that he will get the matter investigated to ensure that the OPDs resume normal operations.In response to a Ludhiana resident's question on the steps being taken by the government for the urban homeless amid the winter chill, the Chief Minister said he was sending money from his discretionary funds to all the Deputy Commissioners to buy and distribute blankets among such people.Recalling that his late mother used to go to Patiala to distribute blankets in winters, he urged all Punjabis to pitch in to help the homeless in the harsh winter months.Amarinder Singh further said that the process of land acquisition and construction of shelter homes is in progress for the urban homeless.The Chief Minister informed a Ludhiana resident that MBBS course at Mohali will start soon and efforts are on to make the other two new medical colleges operational soon.The resident had expressed concern over the availability of few MBBS seats in the state.Regarding the ban on VIP numbers for vehicles, the Chief Minister explained to a Ludhiana resident that such numbers were being misused, with the same number being transferred from one vehicle to another, thus making tracking difficult.---IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/exercise-extreme-caution-owing-to-new-mutant-strain-amarinder-188449
23-12-2020||Mukesh Ranjan||NIA arrests absconding Khalistani terrorist Gurjeet Singh Nijjar||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, Dec 23The anti-terror probe agency NIA on Wednesday said it had arrested absconding Khalistani terrorist Gurjeet Singh Nijjar, who was hiding in Cyprus (Europe), upon his arrival at IGI Airport here Tuesday night.According to NIA official, Nijjar, a resident of Pandori Sukha Singh village in Ajnala tehsil of Amritsar district, was wanted in a case registered on January 10, 2019 against one accused Harpal Singh under various sections of the Arms Act, 1959; the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951; and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.Nijjar had left India on October 19, 2017 for Cyprus.He is being produced in a special court here to obtain transit custody and shall be taken to Mumbai for further investigation, the officials said.The officials said the investigation later revealed that the absconding accused Nijjar was the main conspirator in the case.“Accused Nijjar, Harpal Singh and Moin Khan were active on social media platforms and hatched a criminal conspiracy to revive Sikh militancy for ultimate aim of formation of a separate state of Khalistan,” said a senior NIA official.The probe further established that as part of the conspiracy for a separate “Khalistan State”, Nijjar, Harpal and Khan used to post videos and images praising militant Jagtar Singh Hawara – a convicted accused in assassination of Beant Singh, former Chief Minister of Punjab, images and videos of Operation Blue Star of 1984 and pro-Khalistani posts related to proscribed organisation Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) with the sole intention to motivate likeminded Sikh youths and others to join the Khalistan movement, said the officials.Later it also came to light that Khan during his stints in Tihar Jail between 2013 and 2016 developed contact with Jagtar Singh Hawara, and showed his willingness to work for him and shared his contact number with him.Subsequently, as planned, Khan sent friend request to Facebook ID ‘Khalistani Jindabad Khalistan’ from his Facebook account. By joining this Facebook account, Khan came in contact with Singh and Nijjar, the NIA officials said.Nijjar motivated Khan by discussing about atrocities committed against the Muslims and Sikhs in India and convinced him to work for separate ‘Khalistan State’, the officials said, adding that in furtherance of conspiracy, Nijjar directed Khan to purchase a pistol and ammunition in 2018 and to carry out their nefarious designs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nia-arrests-absconding-khalistani-terrorist-gurjeet-singh-nijjar-188423
23-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Residents hold shirtless protest front of LOP Cheema’s residence in Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 23On the eve of Farmers’ Day, members of Private Parent-Teacher Association Punjab on Wednesday protested, some without shirts, in front of the local residence of leader of Opposition (LOP) Harpal Cheema.“Central government has been playing into the hands of big corporate houses and not listening to farmers, who have been sitting on indefinite protest on Delhi borders. Today we have protested without shirts in front of the house of LOP to awaken the opposition,” said Manpreet Singh Namol, state president of association.Protesters alleged that opposition parties have failed to play their role effectively and work as a pressure group and it has led to weakening of democracy.“Since majority of opposition parties are not taking required steps to help farmers, central government is not bothering about farmers. Opposition parties must wake up and announce to lay siege to parliament to support farmers,” said Namol.When contacted, LOP Cheema said their party was already supporting farmers.“Our leaders are already on New Delhi borders to support farmers and residents and associations should not level baseless allegations,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/residents-hold-shirtless-protest-front-of-lop-cheemas-residence-in-sangrur-188420
23-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||62-year-old woman, her five companions drive jeep to farmers’ protests||A 62-year-old woman drove a jeep 250 km to join farmers’ protest at the Singhu border, media reports said on Wednesday.NDTV said in its report that the woman, Manjeet Kaur, and her five companions drove down from Patiala to join the protest.Kisan Ekta Morcha, a handle that tweets the latest updates on the protest, tweeted the photo.Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu later retweeted it.   62 Year old Manjeet Kaur, drove from Patiala to #SinghuBorder to join protest.#FarmersProtest #KisanAandolan pic.twitter.com/jORrkE3O5Y  Chakk de phatte ! https://t.co/sivGCz6YIt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/62-year-old-woman-her-five-companions-drive-jeep-to-farmers-protests-188406
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Khalsa Aid sets up free 'Kisan Mall' at Tikri border||Farmers at Tikri border will no longer have to jostle in a crowd in search of relief material provided by voluntary organisations as Khalsa Aid on Wednesday set up a 'Kisan Mall' at the border to provide farmers items of daily use for free.The mall is providing blankets, toothbrushes, toothpaste, thermals, sweaters, jackets, vests, blankets, oil, Vaseline, socks, washing soap, bathing soap, shampoo, comb, muffler, Odomos, dry milk, sanitary pads and shoes. Heating pads, towels, ’Loai’, slippers, garbage bag, knee caps, tarpaulin, nail cutter, ENO and washing brushes are also available at the mall.Previously stalls for relief material witnessed crowds which prevented protestors from getting the right size, while others struggled to make it due to their age.Director of the Asia chapter of the Khalsa Aid project, Amanpreet Singh, said: “Taking note of farmers' problem in receiving the right kind of material in the crowd, we came up with the idea of setting up a mall. The relief material which came earlier wasn't of the specific size required by the beneficiaries. Also, there was a big section of farmers who thought it was below their dignity to join the crowd and seek help. The elderly, particularly women, found it very difficult to get the material of their choice."A 70-year old farmer from Barnala, Ajmer Singh, said: “I have been trying to get hold of a few blankets from many days but could not. There is a different group coming and distributing the relief material but it is not systematic. This Mall is very organized and will definitely allow farmers to stay comfortable for longer if needed.”A student of Punjabi University, Udham Singh, said “We are providing material with help of the money that the ‘sangat’ is offering to help farmers sustain their energy for the protest. We are only giving farmers the privilege of choosing what they need."A young farmer from Faridkot, Sehajdeep Singh Gill, said: “We witnessed many undeserving people coming and grabbing the relief material. We have now started the system of going to the camps ourselves and giving tokens to farmers. These farmers come to our mall and fill a form to list their requirements which are provided on the spot. It is helping the aid to reach the right people."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khalsa-aid-sets-up-free-kisan-mall-at-tikri-border-188395
23-12-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Minutes before committing suicide, 3 of Gurdaspur family go live on social media, accuse relative of harassment||Tribune News ServiceDhariwal (Gurdaspur), December 23Three members of a Dhariwal family in Gurdaspur district allegedly committed suicide on Wednesday by consuming celphos tablets.Naresh Sharma, wife Bharti and their 17-year-old daughter Mansi allegedly went live on social media before taking the extreme step. They alleged that Bharti’s brother Pradeep Sharma, a Shiv Sena (Hindustan) leader, was harassing them following a financial dispute.Bharti took the names of nine people who, she alleged, were harassing the family for the past few days.The police have filed an FIR under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) at the Dhariwal police station.SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal, accompanied by senior officials, rushed to the spot.In his complaint to the police, the deceased couple’s son, Kunal, claimed that the accused, Pradeep, had been ridiculing his parents and sister for “non-payment of dues”. He claimed that the family did not owe a single penny to anyone and that these allegations were baseless.A senior official said that Pradeep allegedly couriered a packet of celphos tablets to the family last week saying they “either pay up or consume the tablets and die”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minutes-before-committing-suicide-3-of-gurdaspur-family-go-live-on-social-media-accuse-relative-of-harassment-188390
23-12-2020|| ||Ludhiana village raises 4 demands to cremate  farmer killed in accident on way from Tikri||Raikot, December 23The family of a landless peasant, Harminder Singh Rai (31), of Jangpur village in Raikot who died in an accident while returning from Tikri border on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday has refused to cremate his body until the state government accepted its four demands.The village panchayat and the local unit of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) too have dig in their heels along with the family over the demands, including registration of an FIR at Dhanaula police station in connection with the mishap, Rs 10 lakh compensation, waiver of private and institutionalised loans pending on the victim's kin and a government job to a member of the deceased's family.Also read: Farmers urge people to skip one meal on Kisan Diwas, pay homage to Charan SinghThe local president of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), Tejinder Singh, said the villagers, led by sarpanch Amarjit Singh and Baljinder Singh (brother of the deceased), had threatened not to cremate the body of the deceased till their demands were accepted and implemented. “We have already submitted a representation to the Deputy Commissioner regarding the issue, but no action has been taken yet in the matter,” said Tejinder Singh.Also read: Modi govt committed to farmers' welfare; hope protesting farmers soon withdraw stir: RajnathHarminder who along with his associates was returning to his village after participating in the ‘Delhi Chalo' movement met with an accident after his motorcycle collided with a stray animal near Dhanaula. Gurjit Singh, the pillion rider, too sustained serious injuries in the accident and is under treatment.The deceased was running a welding workshop to supplement the income of his family. He had been camping at Tikri border since the launch of 'Delhi Chalo' march on November 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-village-raises-4-demands-to-cremate-farmer-killed-in-accident-on-way-from-tikri-188374
23-12-2020||Amritsar||Protests staged outside centres of Sikh organisations||Activists of various Sikh organisations on Tuesday staged a protest outside the Sikh organisations — Chief Khalsa Diwan and Khalsa College — demanding expulsion of pro-BJP leaders from these organisations.In the backdrop, the Sikh activists contesting the agricultural laws demanded that Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, honorary secretary of Khalsa College Governing Council and Iqbal Singh Lalpura, a member of Chief Khalsa Diwan be removed as both of them share allegiance to the BJP, which had been adamant of not repealing the contentious farm laws.Chief Khalsa Diwan President Nirmal Singh said that the demand letter submitted by the protesters has been received today, which will be sent to Lalpura and he will be asked to submit clarification in this regard, which will be tabled later in the members’ meeting.The protestors, Mehtab Singh and Jaswinder Singh, said a letter had also been sent to Satyajit Singh Majithia, President, Khalsa College Governing Council to remove Chhina.Chinna, in a statement, termed the protest outside Khalsa College gate as unfortunate but misrepresented by some mischievous elements. He said his affiliation or ideology towards the party was his personal matter and that he has been serving the college without any self-interest. During his stint, he said he never let politics take over the matters of the organisation. The activists said people from all walks of life in Punjab opposed the ‘black laws’ enacted by PM Modi government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protests-staged-outside-centres-of-sikh-organisations-188210
23-12-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Farmers defer decision on talks invite||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 22Firm on their demand for repeal of the three agriculture laws, protesting farmer leaders today said they would hold a meeting tomorrow to take a call on the Centre’s fresh offer for talks.Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border near Delhi, farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said representatives of the 32 unions from Punjab held a meeting and discussed strategy to intensify their protest.Also readPoster boy rowHarpreet Singh, a farmer whose photograph has been used by the Punjab BJP to drum up support in favour of farm laws, is actually sitting among the protesting farmers on the Singhu border since the first week of December. The photo was used on the party’s Facebook page. “I was first amused, then angry. How can they be so insensitive?” said Harpreet Singh. insideSandhu said a joint forum of farmers, comprising representatives of various unions, would meet tomorrow and decide whether or not to accept the offer for dialogue. He said they would also write to British MPs, urging them to pressure UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson not to attend India’s Republic Day celebrations. India has invited Johnson as the chief guest.The Centre has sent a letter to 39 farmer unions, asking them to specify their concerns over its earlier proposal of amendments to the laws and choose a date for talks as per their convenience. The farmers had also decided to observe the martyrdom of the Sahibzadas at Singhu and Tikri borders on December 23, 26 and 27, said Sandhu.A few farmer groups from Delhi and its neighbouring areas, meanwhile, met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and extended support on the farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-defer-decision-on-talks-invite-188264
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cops file challan against Saini||Multani, a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-file-challan-against-saini-188273
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Block Punjab borders over SYL, Abhay Chautala dares Haryana govt||Senior INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala today dared the BJP-led state government to block its borders with Punjab and stop the movement of people and goods till the neigbouring state released Haryana’s share of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) water.Addressing a press conference here today, the Ellenabad MLA said the INLD would support the BJP-JJP government if it decided to force Punjab over the demands for Haryana’s rightful share of SYL water.“Let the government take the decision today. We will support them till the time we do not get our share of water. We will not allow anyone to enter through Haryana’s borders with Punjab,” Chautala asserted.“We will stop the movement of goods going into that state from here till we get our share of water. Let them make a decision,” the Ellenabad MLA said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/block-punjab-borders-over-syl-abhay-chautala-dares-haryana-govt-188137
23-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur villager runs 323 km to reach Delhi in farmers' support||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 22Having no money or land, Jagdeep Singh (30) from Shergarh Cheema village has expressed solidarity with the protesting farmers by running 323 km on foot till the Delhi border last week. He completed the one-side journey in 46 hours and returned on Monday.On Tuesday, he announced to run till Delhi again from Thursday to prove that “Udta Punjab” is a baseless allegation. So far, he has covered four Takhts on foot. He announced to run till the fifth Takht after the rollback of the Central farm laws.“I wanted to stay put till the stir ended, but had to return due to some family problem. Now, I will again run to the Delhi border on Thursday and only return after the victory of our farmers,” said Jagdeep, who was honoured by the Ramgarhia Welfare Society of Shergarh Cheema village.Jagdeep is a Class XII pass out and wanted to study more but the poor financial condition of the family restricted him. His mother works as a peon in a private school while father is a mechanic of farm equipment in the village.He has become an inspiration for youth. “Neither have I participated in any competition nor do I take any healthy diet. I am running to inspire youngsters against drugs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-villager-runs-323-km-to-reach-delhi-in-farmers-support-188267
23-12-2020||---||Arhtiyas go on 4-day strike over I-T raids||Bathinda, December 22Alleging that they were being targeted for supporting the farmers’ agitation, arhtiyas across Punjab went on a four-day strike from Tuesday in protest against the recent income tax raids.Arhtiya Association Bathinda president Satish Kumar Babbu said: “Arhtiyas across the state are supporting farmers in their agitation against the farm laws. We are sending 50 persons every day to protest sites on a rotational basis.”“To discourage us from lending support to the farmers’ agitation, the Union Government is conducting I-T raids on us. We have gone on a four-day strike across the state from today to protest such repressive actions,” said Babbu, adding “we will keep our shops closed and there will be no purchase”.Punjab Arhtiyas Association president Vijay Kalra, whose premises were also raided by I-T sleuths, said: “Our working system has been totally transparent since 2013. We have been paying farmers through cheques and now the online payments have also started.”Condemning the I-T raids on arhtiyas, Sham Lal Dalwa, president of the Arhtiyas’ Association, Budhlada, claimed the new farm laws would not only ‘destroy the farming community’, but also impact those connected with agriculture directly or indirectly.On December 19, raids were conducted by Income Tax Department officials on the premises of Kalra, Samana Mandi unit chief Pawan Kumar Goyal, Patiala unit chief Jaswinder Singh Rana, Nawanshahr unit head Manjinder Singh Walia, Rajpura unit chief Hardeep Singh Ladda, and Rajpura arhtiyas Kartar Singh and Amrik Singh. Fourteen arhtiyas have received I-T notices across the state so far.Arhtiyas had also closed mandis for three days from December 7 to December 9 to participate in the protest at Delhi. In September, the arhtiyas in Mansa had announced the boycott of BJP leaders to protest the farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arhtiyas-go-on-4-day-strike-over-i-t-raids-188113
23-12-2020||Patiala||To protest raids on arthiyas, Vijay Inder Singla on fast today||To highlight the issues and “arm-twisting” faced by arthiyas of Punjab, School Education and Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla has decided to hold a one-day dharna and fast against the Central Government’s “misuse” of the Income Tax Department. Arhtiyas across the state are expected to participate in the dharna, backed by the Congress.Singla said he had been meeting arthiyas of Patiala, Samana, Rajpura, Mansa and other parts of the state to express solidarity with them against the raids. “The Union Government is using these ploys to divide communities. The acts of intimidation against arthiyas will not succeed,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-protest-raids-on-arthiyas-vijay-inder-singla-on-fast-today-188114
23-12-2020||Abohar/Sriganganagar||More join stir on highway along Abohar||The farmers’ dharna near Shahjahanpur on the Jaipur-New Delhi highway along Abohar continued with an increased participation of farmers from Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh district for the ninth day today.Meanwhile, on the second day of the relay fast, 18 women activists of the Janwadi Mahila Samiti started a 24-hour fast on Tuesday. Dehati Kisan Mazdoor Samiti, Sriganganagar convener Ranjit Singh Raju said the strategy to increase participation was discussed at a meeting today that was also attended by co-convenor Vikramjit Singh Gill and representatives of other organisations.Raju said the pressure on the Central Government to accept the farmers’ demands was increasing by the day. Considering the possibility of a long haul, three committees were formed today for mass contact programme, arrangement of food supplies for 5,000 farmers and keeping a vigil at at the dharna site. He claimed on an average 300 farmers were reaching Shahjahanpur each day. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-join-stir-on-highway-along-abohar-188115
23-12-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Protesting farmer is BJP poster boy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22Harpreet Singh, a farmer whose photograph has been used by the Punjab BJP to drum up support in favour of farm laws, is actually sitting among the protesting farmers on the Singhu border since the first week of December. The photo was used on the party’s Facebook page.Harpreet Singh said, “I was first amused but then angry. How can they be so insensitive?” He is engaged in media projects displaying the angst of the farmers, their inconvenience and their struggle. Photographs clicked by Harpeet that highlighted the protest have gone viral.Harpreet Singh, known as ‘Harp farmer’ among friends has done his Masters in Software Engineering from the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT, Pune). Based at his village, Nadalon in Hoshiarpur district, his family owns only 2-acre land. “I know the pain of a small farmer very well. I am shocked and more so with our comparison with Khalistanis and Maoists.”“I got a call yesterday late evening from a friend at my village that the BJP was using my picture on its Facebook page. First I laughed but then I was offended. How could they use it without my permission? The artist has not even bothered to edit my picture professionally. The artist used it from my pictures on the internet.”“I will like to ask the government that if farmers where happy why would they be camping on the Delhi borders? Why will the old, including women, bear the cold of the shivering December? Why cannot government just withdraw the farm laws and rethink? Ego problem nothing else,” he said.“If the government does not repeal the laws, we will not go back home” he said firmly.“The BJP is trying make the farmer agitation look like a fight just for MSP. This is not true. There are issues like uncertain future of the farmers in our country with entry of the corporate on their farmlands. I can say that that despite tall claims, Narendra Modi is not with the farmers,” Harpreet said.The poster that was used was removed after uproar. President of the Punjab unit of the BJP Ashwani Sharma said “I am not aware about any such post, so, will not be able to comment”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmer-is-bjp-poster-boy-188116
23-12-2020||---||Warm support helps protesters beat winter chill||Ludhiana/Bathinda, Dec 22 The farmers’ protest at Delhi borders has received an unprecedented support from all quarters, with people and NGOs pitching in alike with all possible aid to keep it going. There is no dearth of food supplies as farmers joining in from Punjab are bringing along vegetable, fruits and other essential items to Delhi.  From Ludhiana, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Kadian) members have left for Delhi with three trailers laden with food items, winter wear, mattresses, blankets and quilts among other essential items.  BKU (Kadian) president Harmeet Singh Kadian, who is at the Singhu border, said several villages, including Kasabad, Jamalpir and Bahadarke, in Ludhiana had contributed whole-heartedly to express their solidarity with the farmers’ fight against the new farm laws.  The BKU president made a special mention of the NRI community, which, he said, even though being thousands of miles away, was feeling the pain and anguish of the farmers and extending all possible assistance to the ongoing agitation.  Several organisations across the country have also ensured farmers are well-fed and well-protected in harsh cold conditions. Voluntary services offering pizza, laundry, turban, books, foot massage and medicine langars at Singhu and Tikri borders, therefore, do not come as a surprise. In the langar, farmers are served matter-paneer, makki di roti and saag, kadi-chawal, dal, kheer, halwa, jalebis, lassi and many more items.  A huge roti making machine has been installed at the protest site which can churn out 1,500 to 2,000 rotis in an hour. Besides, a volley ball court has come up at the Singhu border where youth can be seen playing in the evening.  International NGO Khalsa Aid has set up a foot massage centre at the borders in order to ensure that the farmers, many of them elderly, stay healthy. Around 25 machines have been set up inside a tent and the farmers are invited for a ten-minute session each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/warm-support-helps-protesters-beat-winter-chill-188117
23-12-2020||Karam Prakash||Patiala villagers up ante against corporate houses||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 22To show their resentment against corporate houses, residents of Tohra village in Patiala snapped the power supply to a mobile tower allegedly owned by a business house here on Tuesday.The villagers also passed a resolution to, henceforth, boycott all the products of the said corporate house. The villagers held a protest rally and raised slogans against corporate houses.Satwinder Singh Tohra, a villager, said the corporate houses were the ones who would be benefitted the most by the three farm laws. “We have upped the ante against the corporate houses. We will continue our fight until the three farm laws are repealed.”He said the Modi government on purpose, by enacting the laws, had paved the way for the corporate houses to get into the agriculture sector, but they won’t let them to do their business in Punjab.Meanwhile, Baljinder Singh, sarpanch, said they had passed a resolution to boycott all products manufactured by the corporate houses. He said, “Farmers are agitating against the Centre at the Delhi borders and we have started a protest against the corporate houses in the villages.”The village also passed a resolution that one member from each family would attend the protest at the Delhi borders to support the farmers.In Muktsar, tower premises lockedMuktsar: Farmers on Tuesday snapped the power supply to a cell phone tower of a private company in Raniwala village here. They also locked the entrance of the tower premises. Protesters said they wouldn’t allow the tower to become functional until the farm laws were repealed. Meanwhile, a retail store temporarily closed in view of the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-villagers-up-ante-against-corporate-houses-188118
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Give relief to ‘martyred’ farmers: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab on Tuesday urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh to immediately formulate and implement a policy regarding financial assistance, employment and debt waiver for the ‘martyrs’ of the ongoing farmers’ movement.  AAP leader and Sunam MLA Aman Arora said the state government could change laws to give jobs to farmers’ loved ones, but it was not formulating a policy for the “martyrs” of the movement, fighting to save the Punjab farmers and agriculture. Arora said a large number of farmers were getting sick and dying because of the cold at Delhi borders. Many have died in road accidents while commuting to and fro from Punjab. “It is the duty of the government to help the families of the such farmers,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/give-relief-to-martyred-farmers-aap-188120
23-12-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Rural funds: 2 ministers to meet Goyal tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22In the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation in Delhi over the Central laws, Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal has called a meeting with two state Cabinet Ministers on December 24 over the issue of the Centre holding up the state’s rural development fund (RDF) to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore.The meeting gains significance in the wake of Punjab lodging a protest over the Centre arbitrarily withholding the RDF during this year’s paddy procurement and the Centre drawing flak from farmers for not repealing the laws. State Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu will attend the meeting.Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office said the meeting was scheduled after Capt Amarinder Singh took up the matter with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Capt Amarinder, who had met Shah a few weeks ago, is learnt to have also taken up the RDF issue then. An early decision in this regard would enable the state to timely use RDF funds as the extended deadline to use the cash credit limit (CCL) to the state government for paddy procurement is about to expire.“The state hopes that the Centre takes a favourable decision. The state has put up a strong case in favour of the RDF and its critical link to rural development works in the state. The funds are critical to agriculture marketing infrastructure like construction of roads in rural areas and marketing yards,” sources said.They pointed out that failure to release the funds would obstruct the development of villages and could further aggravate the angst of the farmers, who were in a prolonged agitation against the Centre.A favourable decision would also help the NDA government salvage its “anti-Punjab and anti-farmer image”. Earlier, the Chief Minister said the state would submit all utilisation details as sought by the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rural-funds-2-ministers-to-meet-goyal-tomorrow-188121
23-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amid new strain worry, 8 from UK test +ve at Amritsar airport||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 22Eight passengers, who arrived from London (UK), tested positive for Covid at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here on Tuesday.The Health Department teams conducted the RT-PCR tests of all 264 passengers who arrived on a flight from London to Amritsar that landed here at 12.30 am.Of the eight passengers who tested positive, six are male and two female. They have been sent for the institutional quarantine as per the government instructions.On Monday, the government had decided to suspend all inbound flights from the UK following the emergence of new virus strain but the aircraft had already taken off from London by the time of announcement.In view of the Centre’s instructions, the district administration made the required arrangements at the airport to conduct the RT-PCR tests. Four teams of the Health Department led by Ajnala SDM Deepak Bhatia were deployed at the airport, which carried out continuous testing all night. The process of testing was completed in 12-13 hours. .Meanwhile, passengers staged a protest against the authorities for the alleged delay in conducting the tests and not allowing them to go out of the airport premises. Family members, who were waiting for the passengers outside the airport, also protested in the morning as the authorities were reportedly not informing them about the ongoing Covid tests.OP Soni, Minister for Medical Education and Research, appreciated the tireless service of doctors and other staff. “The intention of the district administration was not to harass anyone but to protect its citizens from the new Covid strain. The passengers could not be allowed to leave the airport without the RT-PCR test report,” he said.18 more Covid deaths in 24 hours||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-new-strain-worry-8-from-uk-test-ve-at-amritsar-airport-188122
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM: Met Amit Shah to discuss internal security issues||Urging the AAP to refrain from indulging in mudslinging, CM Capt Amarinder Singh today made it clear that his meeting with Home Minister (HM) Amit Shah was only to discuss issues related to national security.He said being the Home Minister of the border state, it was his foremost responsibility to apprise the Centre of developments in Punjab.The CM said he won’t hesitate to meet the PM and the HM whenever issues of internal security were fanned by neighbouring hostile nations. He ridiculed the AAP’s allegations that he met Shah with regard to the ED cases as absolutely baseless, politically motivated and erroneous.He clarified that no case had been filed by the ED against him. There was, however, a case filed by the ED against his son, Raninder Singh, which has been going on for more than a decade that too under FEMA, which at most was a civil fiscal matter. The HC has also stayed all earlier incorrect income tax assessment orders served on his son.He dared Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to come clean on his dubious stand on the new farm laws, which were earlier notified by his government. “Now he is shedding crocodile tears over this sensitive issue by showing fake sympathy with the farmers, which is nothing but sheer theatrics on Kejriwal’s part,” the CM said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-met-amit-shah-to-discuss-internal-security-issues-188123
23-12-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||AK-47, 30 cartridges seized in Gurdaspur||Tribune News ServiceDorangla (Gurdaspur), Dec 22An AK-47 rifle and 30 live rounds were recovered by the Gurdaspur police during a combing operation near Dorangla village on Tuesday. The rifle and rounds were said to have been dropped by a Pakistani drone in the wee hours on Sunday.SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said 70 per cent of the total district police force was put on duty in Dorangla from where 11 grenades were also recovered on Monday evening. The grenades were dropped by the same drone, said officers. The machine was shot at by men of the 58th Battalion of the BSF and Punjab cops in a joint operation before it flew back to Pakistani territory.Like the grenades, the AK-47 and the accompanying ammunition too were packed neatly in a wooden box.Sohal said five SHOs and three DSPs took part in today’s combing exercise.Sources said this was the sixth sighting of a drone since September last year in Gurdaspur district.“The ammunition was found from a mustard field near the Wazidpur village cremation ground. The search operation will continue for the next few days. If need arises, we will requisition forces from the neighbouring police districts of Batala, Amritsar and Tarn Taran. In today’s operation nearly 700 men took part. We have identified some other villages in the area too where we will launch a fresh exercise tomorrow morning,” the SSP said.The cops said they were still ascertaining for whom the consignment and the grenades were actually meant. “We have questioned the land owners of the fields from where the ammunition has been recovered. My officers have found some clues but it is too early to give details,” the SSP added.A senior officer claimed that terror groups and the ISI had procured upgraded versions of drones which could carry larger quantities of firearms as compared to the drones that were being used earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ak-47-30-cartridges-seized-in-gurdaspur-188125
23-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Drug, liquor case trials delayed in absence of chemical reports: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22Criminal trials in drugs and liquor cases were delayed in the absence of chemical examination reports. A year’s wait in some cases was not uncommon. The scathing observation by the Punjab and Haryana High Court came as it asked the Punjab Director General of Police and Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Home Affairs and Justice, to file affidavits in the matter on three counts.Taking up the matter, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan directed them to file specific affidavits explaining the total number of cases/backlog with the forensic science laboratory (FSL) under the NDPS Act or Excise Act.They were also asked to elaborate upon the time required for clearing the backlog as of today. Details were further sought regarding the existing infrastructure/chemical examination laboratories available in the state and modes/measures taken up to expedite the disposal of pending cases. Justice Sangwan also made it clear that the affidavits were required to be filed by the next date of hearing in January last week.The directions came after Justice Sangwan observed the perusal of affidavits by the DGP and Additional Chief Secretary showed absence of information regarding the number of pending cases before the FSL. Information on the number of chemical examination laboratories in the state to deal with the pending cases too was missing.“It is a matter of fact that the trials before the courts, either under the NDPS Act or Excise Act, are delayed on account of awaiting the FSL report for a long time and in some cases, it takes about a year in receipt of report from the FSL,” Justice Sangwan asserted.The Bench, on the previous date of hearing, had directed the filing of affidavits on providing adequate set-up for conducting both quantitative and qualitative tests of liquor. Justice Sangwan, at that time, had made it clear that the police/excise department was duty-bound to get both quantitative and qualitative tests conducted to find out the contents.PBA poll: HC stays further actionThe High Court on Tuesday stayed further action on the basis of communications regarding the election schedule of the Punjab Badminton Association. The direction by Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu came on a petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents by Ritin Khanna and other petitioners through senior advocate Vikas Bahl and Surbhi Kaushik||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-liquor-case-trials-delayed-in-absence-of-chemical-reports-hc-188126
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Court notice to Punjab over seniority dispute||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the State of Punjab on notice on a petition challenging an order issued on July 30, 2019, whereby Prof Akashdeep Aggarwal was given additional charge of Punjab Joint Director, Directorate Research and Medical Education. The notice by Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa came on a petition filed against the State and other respondents by Dr Gurdeep Singh Kalyan through counsel Mohit Garg. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Garg contended that Dr Kalyan was senior to the respondent. “Even in matters of vesting additional charge/officiating charge, the senior’s claim should not be overlooked,” Garg argued. He added the respondent was, even otherwise ineligible to look after the joint director’s post  as he lacked the requisite teaching experience of eight years on associate professor’s post as per the mandate of the relevant statutory rules. The Bench was told that junior employees were appointed to senior posts despite the availability of senior eligible employees for regular appointment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-notice-to-punjab-over-seniority-dispute-188127
23-12-2020||Archit Watts---||Kinnow fails to fetch fair price this season||Tribune News Service Muktsar, December 22 Kinnow prices have dropped sharply this season due to various reasons, including bumper crop, Covid pandemic, weather vagaries and transportation issues due to the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Delhi borders. Notably, the fruit, known for its distinct taste and Vitamin C content, is mostly consumed as juice. “This time, there has been a bumper crop in the area and prices have come down to almost half of the corresponding period last year. Delhi is the main market of kinnow and the fruit is sent from there to other parts of the country and abroad. However, the transportation charges have increased due to the farmers’ agitation. At present, kinnow is fetching Rs 8-10 per kg in orchards. Due to weather vagaries, the fruit has got its colour in advance this season but lacks sweetness,” said Rajinder Sharma, a trader. Similarly, Avneet Brar, a kinnow grower of Daulatpura village in Fazilka district, said, “Though the traders are claiming that the produce is double than last year, it is just 35 per cent high. However, the prices have come down to half as compared to last year. At present, we are getting Rs 7-10 per kg for the coloured kinnow. Some traders from the Azadpur market in Delhi told me that the buyers were quite less this year due to the Covid pandemic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kinnow-fails-to-fetch-fair-price-this-season-188128
23-12-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||16 Kapurthala villages to get metal bridge today||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, December 22Over 6,000 residents of as many as 16 Mand villages that had remained separated from the mainland of Sultanpur Lodhi as they fell between two streams of the Beas will get some relief from tomorrow as MLA Navtej Cheema will inaugurate a metal bridge here.The bridge has been built at a cost of Rs 15 crore. The residents of island villages, including Baupur Jadid, Baupur Kadim, Sangra, Mand Mubarakpur, Rampur Guara, Bhaini Kadar Baksh, Mand Sangra, Kishanpur Gatka, Muhamdabad, Bhaini Bahadur, Mand Dhunda, Mand Bhim Jadid and Alamkhanwala, were earlier connected only through a pontoon bridge, which was a temporary inflatable structure, set up by the PWD on the river that is about 400 ft wide. This bridge too had to be removed during the monsoon, leaving people with the option to use boats for going to school or hospital. Owing to poor connectivity, the area had remained backward. There are no hospitals or dispensaries here. In all these years, many women had lost their lives at childbirth. Many elderly and ailing patients died on the way. Most villagers here are school dropouts, as it was not easy for them to wait for a boat every morning to reach the other side.Elated at the opening of the new bridge, Sarwan Singh from Baupur village said, “Thankfully, our sons will no longer stay unmarried. No one was ready to marry their daughters to our sons due to lack of connectivity.”The villages in the 16 sq km riverine area of Mand have a dispersed settlement, with many of them having less than 200 inhabitants. As per official data, nearly 3,000 acres are cultivable here. In 2011, then Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal had laid the foundation stone for setting up a permanent bridge, but it was not started. The work finally began in December, 2018, just ahead of the 550th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak, when Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh laid the stone here.Work began in 2018||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-kapurthala-villages-to-get-metal-bridge-today-188129
23-12-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Langah row: Gurdwara manager’s office raided||An SGPC flying squad today conducted a raid at the office of the manager of Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib to inspect the records and inquire into how Sucha Singh Langah, who has been ex-communicated by the Akal Takht, managed to perform ‘Akhand Path’ at Bhora Sahib at the gurdwara.Satnam Singh Riar, who is heading the team, said they were recording statements and inspecting the records. He said they would submit a report to the SGPC chief. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/langah-row-gurdwara-managers-office-raided-188130
23-12-2020||Amritsar||Saka Nankana Sahib centenary to be observed in Pak||The SGPC is all set to observe the centenary of Saka Nankana Sahib in a grand manner in February next year.If everything goes according to the plan, the SGPC will send its largest contingent led by president Bibi Jagir Kaur at Janam Asthan, Sri Nankana Sahib, in Pakistan. Kaur said the centennial of Saka Nankana Sahib was being planned to be observed in a “remarkable manner”. The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) has issued a statement saying the government had offered 10,000 visas to Indian devotees for participation in the centenary event, but keeping in view the Covid-19 threat, the count was curtailed to half. “We have got a communication from the other side of the border, which is offering to host at least 5,000 devotees from India. Considering the Covid-19 protocol, we have sought the nod of the Union Government to allow maximum devotees,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/saka-nankana-sahib-centenary-to-be-observed-in-pak-188131
