23-11-2020||New Delhi||Delhi-Una Janshatabdi first passenger train to Punjab in nearly 2 months||The New Delhi-Una Janshatabdi Express, the first passenger train to depart for Punjab after nearly two months, left the capital on Monday afternoon with 559 passengers on board, officials said.Train services were suspended in the state since September 24 when the farmers protesting against the new farm laws converged on railway stations and tracks.The Railways had said on Saturday it would soon resume goods and passenger trains in Punjab after the farmers decided to allow the services and the state government communicated that the tracks were clear.While the Northern Railway has announced the restoration of 25 trains, the North Central Railway has announced the resumption of six trains.According to Northern Railway officials, the Janshatabdi has 385 passengers who will de-board in Chandigarh, followed by 23 in Mohali, six each at Kharar and Morinda, 36 at Rupnagar, four at Kiratpur Sahib, nine at Anandpur Sahib and 27 at Nangal Dam railway stations in Punjab.  Sixty-three passengers will de-board at Una Himachal railway station.The Railways had earlier said it made plans to restore train services to the region, provided they had security clearance.“After the halt of the farmer agitation on railway tracks and stations in Punjab from November 23, Indian Railways is going to start rail services through Punjab and (in) Punjab,” Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. “Passengers, farmers and industries will benefit from the removal of the impasse in train operations for the last several days.”The Railways has said it suffered a loss of Rs 2,220 crore due to the blockade. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-una-janshatabdi-first-passenger-train-to-punjab-in-nearly-2-months-174749
23-11-2020||Sangrur||Exams of seven pharmacy colleges nullified over mass copying||The Technical Education and Industrial Training Department has decided to issue notice to seven pharmacy colleges in the district over mass copying in recently conducted examinations---a development that comes after The Tribune reported the incidents.The department has also nullified the examinations and ordered criminal charges against Bareta Government Polytechnic College Navneet Walia and Section Officer Anil Kumar, who were both part of the flying squads tasked with running anti-cheating patrols during exams.Five of the seven colleges in question are in Lehragaga---Vinayka College of Pharmacy; Vidya Sagar Paramedical College; Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Pharmacy; Lord Krishna College of Pharmacy; and Krishna College of Pharmacy---and two---the Arya Bhatta College of Pharmacy and the Modern College of Pharmacy---are in Sangrur. “After reading the news in The Tribune, we ordered an inquiry. It was found that mass copying took place in seven pharmacy colleges in the recently concluded exams,” Anurag Verma, the principal secretary of Technical Education, told The Tribune.“We have cancelled papers. Invigilators will be deputed from government ITIs for re-exams. CCTVs will also be installed at the examination centres,” he said, adding that government polytechnic colleges/ITIs will be the new exam centres.The notices ask colleges to explain why their affiliations should not be cancelled over the incident.Punjab State Technical Education and Industrial Training Board Secretary and the principal of Patiala’s Government Polytechnic College (Girls) have been asked to submit reports over the incident. Papers from the seven institutions under the radar had been sent to the Patiala institution.Verma claimed investigators found that answers in many cases matched word for word—some to an alarming degree. The examination had been conducted online in the light of the coronavirus pandemic.Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi warned of strict action against anyone found guilty in the investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/exams-of-seven-pharmacy-colleges-nullified-over-mass-copying-174741
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||17 more Covid deaths take Punjab toll to 4,631||With 17 more fatalities due to COVID-19, the death toll in Punjab rose to 4,631 on Monday, according to a medical bulletin.The infection count increased to 1,47,057 with the surfacing of 748 new cases in the state, as per the bulletin.Two deaths each were reported from Fazilka, Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and SBS Nagar, and one each from Amritsar, Barnala, Bathinda, Muktsar and Mohali districts, it said.Jalandhar district saw 171 cases, the highest in the state, followed by 135 in Mohali and 96 in Ludhiana, among other places which reported fresh COVID-19 cases.There are 6,687 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.It said that a total of 731 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,35,739 in the state.Eleven critical patients are on ventilator support while 137 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.It said that a total of 30,24,921 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/17-more-covid-deaths-take-punjab-toll-to-4-631-174739
23-11-2020||Vibha Sharma ||Will prepare policies to control stubble burning, says new air quality panel||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 23The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas said it will take steps and prepare policies to control stubble burning on a day AAP MLA and chairperson of Environment Committee of Delhi Assembly Atishi urged the newly-appointed green panel to hold chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana liable for causing pollution in the national capital.According to Environment Ministry spokesperson, the three (AAP) MLAs requested the Commission to take prompt action against Punjab and Haryana for “criminal negligence regarding stubble burning” and suggested options, including the in-situ decomposition technology developed by IARI, for large-scale adoption.“The Commission informed them that it is seized of the matter and will take required steps, including formulation of  appropriate policies and strategies to control stubble burning, in due consultations with stakeholders concerned on a priority basis,” the MoEFCC official said.Official and non-official members of panel met the three MLAs following a request from the Chairperson of the Committee on Environment, Delhi Government.Atishi later said they raised two main issues, one was asking them to “direct Haryana and Punjab governments to implement as soon as possible the solution by the Pusa institute and the Delhi government in dealing with the stubble burning issue”.“Earlier it used to be said there is no solution to the issue of stubble burning but now a solution has come so it should be implemented,” she said. Atishi said she told the commission that just giving direction is not enough and that it is the responsibility of Haryana and Punjab to stop stubble burning. “If they don’t do it, strict action must be taken against them. The commission can file FIR and imprison anyone for up to 5 years for causing pollution in Delhi-NCR (National Capital Region) so we have asked it to hold the CMs of Haryana and Punjab liable and accountable and take strict action against them,” she added.According to scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, “Pusa bio-decomposer” solution can turn crop residue into manure in 15 to 20 days and therefore, can prevent stubble burning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-prepare-policies-to-control-stubble-burning-says-new-air-quality-panel-174737
23-11-2020||---||Punjab CM expresses concern over farmers’ body’s decision not to allow passenger trains||Chandigarh, November 23Expressing serious concern over the decision of one of the farmers’ body not to allow passenger trains to ply till the Centre accedes to their demands on the farm laws, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday said this would put the people to major inconvenience and could have grave consequences for the state.Reacting to the announcement of the Kissan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (Piddi) that they would not budge on their rail blockade of passenger trains till the farm laws’ issue is resolved, the Chief Minister said that by striking this discordant note, the union was acting against the interests of Punjab and its people.When all the other 31 farmer organisations had decided unanimously to withdraw from the tracks to allow both goods and passenger trains to move in the state for the next 15 days, this one union’s decision was not understandable, said Captain Amarinder, adding that this would alienate Kissan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (Piddi) from the people.Also read: Protesting Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee adamant on intercepting passenger trainsHe cautioned the committee against taking such a harsh stand, which could lead to them losing the support of the masses, who had so far wholeheartedly backed the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws.“When the state government and every person in Punjab has been extending their full support to the farmers, why is this union taking a stance against their own state,” the CM asked.Given that both the Centre and other farmers’ unions had taken conciliatory steps to resolve the crisis triggered by the agricultural laws, the Kissan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (Piddi) should not do anything to derail the process of negotiation and discussion, he added.It is in the interest of all, including the farmers themselves, to find a solution to the problems unleashed by the Central laws, on which every section of Punjab’s populace, as well as my government, is standing shoulder to shoulder with the farming community, said the Chief Minister.The message that was emanating from the contrarian and adamant stand of the Kissan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (Piddi) was that the union was not really interested in breaking the stalemate on the farm laws’ issue, he said.In any case, said the Chief Minister, blocking one-odd track would serve no purpose even for the committee, which, incidentally, had chosen to stay away from the meeting convened by him on Saturday to urge the farm unions to lift their blockade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-expresses-concern-over-farmers-bodys-decision-not-to-allow-passenger-trains-174735
23-11-2020||---||Protesting Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee adamant on intercepting passenger trains||Amritsar, November 23Farmers protesting against the agriculture legislations under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee remain adamant on intercepting passenger trains if they are allowed to run on the instance of the Centre and state governments.Farmers have been staging sit-in near Jandiala Guru rail track for the past 61 days.State president of the committee Satnam Singh Pannu, however, said that they won’t hinder the movement of goods trains.“The Centre has been deliberately not allowing the freight trains’ operation as they want to defame the farmers’ agitation. We have cleared all tracks across the state since October 22, but we will not let the passenger trains to run till our contest against farm laws will be addressed,” said Pannu.The farmers are all set to stage a protest against the farm laws in New Delhi on November 26.On November 25, they are scheduled to meet Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh to discuss the issue.Pannu said that as per the IG, Border Zone, Punjab, the CM wanted to meet them on Wednesday.“We have no hesitation in meeting the CM, but we won’t bent till the farm laws are withdrawn,” he said.When asked about the 31 farm unions which had agreed on letting the passenger trains operate for a fortnight, Pannu said, “Governments have been creating strife among the farming community. Our brethren have taken their decision and we won’t oppose it as the cause is common. However, we are taking our decisions independently as both the Centre and the state government share the common policy of suppressing farmers’ voice,” he said.As some passenger trains will be operated from Tuesday, and farmers might have to face police action if they block the tracks at Jandiala Guru, Pannu said, “This would not be for the first time. We have faced police action on number of occasions in the past too,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-kisan-mazdoor-sangharsh-committee-adamant-on-intercepting-passenger-trains-174728
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover below normal at many places in Haryana, Punjab||The minimum temperatures hovered below normal limits at many places in Haryana and Punjab on Monday.Hisar in Haryana was the coldest place recording a minimum of 5.9 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal limits, meteorological department officials said here.Narnaul also experienced a cold night recording a low of 6 degrees Celsius, down three degrees against normal. Rohtak registered a low of 7 degrees Celsius, also three notches below normal.Karnal and Bhiwani also recorded below normal minimums at 8.1 degrees Celsius and 8.3 degrees Celsius, respectively. However, night temperatures in Ambala and Sirsa settled within the normal range at 9.6 degrees Celsius and 9 degrees Celsius, respectively.In Punjab, Bathinda was the coldest place recording a low of 5.6 degrees Celsius.Gurdaspur also experienced a cold night at 6 degrees Celsius.However, Amritsar and Ludhiana recorded above normal minimums at 11 degrees Celsius and 10.7 degrees Celsius, respectively.During the past few days, minimum and maximum temperatures at most places in Haryana and Punjab have hovered below normal limits. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minimum-temperatures-hover-below-normal-at-many-places-in-haryana-punjab-174696
23-11-2020||Bathinda||Dera followers continue protest for third day over follower's murder; DGP reviews situation||The Dera Sacha Sauda followers continued their protest for the third day at their state headquarter at Salabatpura as police failed to arrest the accused even after passing of more than 72 hours of the murder of dera member Manohar Lal.As dera followers gathering is swelling at Salabatpura, DGP Punjab Dinkar Gupta on Monday reached Bathinda where he held a meeting with police officials to review the situation here.It is learnt that he will submit his report on the ground condition to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.As the state government this time is in no mood to take any chances as Bathinda was the epicentre of the dera-Sikh clash in 2007, government don’t want any escalation towards that point.The Dera Sacha Sauda sect wields a considerable influence in the Malwa region of Punjab.Moreover, pressure is mounting on the police to nab the killers as police has entire CCTV footage of the incident and even Sukha Gill Lamme gang has taken the responsibility on the social media about the killing, despite this Bathinda police and cyber crime cell have failed to get any breakthrough in the case yet.Although, Bathinda police have got the Facebook ID of Sukha Gill deactivated from which the post regarding this was uploaded.   It is also learnt that even discussions pertaining to the farmers’ agitation “Delhi Chalo” on November 26 was also held in the meeting.Dera followers are adamant that till the time killers are not arrested, they would not cremate the body and would continue their protest.Followers claimed that this is not the first time that a dera follower has been targeted as seven murders of the dera followers have been taken place in the recent past and every time they have been given assurance by the administration, but they have not given justice till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dera-followers-continue-protest-for-third-day-over-followers-murder-dgp-reviews-situation-174668
23-11-2020||Bathinda||Youth shoots self dead after killing ex-girlfriend, her parents in Bathinda||A 22-year-old youth shot dead his former girlfriend and her parents at her house in densely populated Kamla Nehru colony in the city and later he also ended his own life by shooting himself.The deceased have been identified as Simran Kaur (20), her father Charanjit Singh Khokhar (45), who was working as secretary in Cooperative Society Bibiwala village, and mother Jaswinder Kaur (43). The youth has been identified as Yuvikaran Singh of Mansa Khurd village.SSP Bathinda Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said, “Three persons were found murdered at a house today morning after which teams were constituted and police cracked the case within four hours.”SSP Virk said, “In the probe, it came out that Yuvikaran had killed his former girlfriend Simran and her parents and later he killed himself as well.”He further stated that Yuvikaram before going to Simran’s house on Sunday night had recorded his video on his mobile phone. In which, he had alleged his girlfriend was blackmailing him for getting him implicated in a rape case if he did not marry her.In the video, the youth has alleged that he was in a relationship with Simran two years back and sometime back he came to know that Simran was in a relation with one guy from Canada due to which he broke up with her.Later, she started harassing him to get married. When he did attend her calls, then she started calling and harassing his parents. Irked over which, he took this step.The SSP also stated that police have also seized a weapon used in the crime. This is the licensed weapon registered in the name of his brother. After his death, the family members of Yuvikaran cremated his body without informing anyone.The incident took place on Sunday night at around 8.30 pm but came to light on Monday morning when the milkman came to deliver milk but no one answered the door despite ringing the bell repeatedly. After which he asked the people living nearby about them and later they informed the police.After getting the information, police reached the spot and went inside the house, where they found bodies of three persons lying in the lobby of the house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-shoots-self-dead-after-killing-ex-girlfriend-her-parents-in-bathinda-174624
23-11-2020||Faridkot/Moga/Mansa||Rail services resume in Punjab; coal rakes reach Banawala thermal plant||Following the decision of farmers' organisations to suspend the “Rail Roko” agitation for two weeks, the movement of goods train was resumed in Ferozpeur division on Monday.Rajesh Kumar Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, said one goods train loaded with gypsum started from Jammu today afternoon at 1400 hours and will reach Lucknow tonight. “One empty BTPN (Bogie Tank Wagon for loading of Petrol) has also started from Ferozepur to Delhi today afternoon,” said DRM.The DRM added that following the checking of tracks throughout the night by various inspection teams, foot-to-foot checking was also done in daylight. “Following the reports, the trains were resumed,” he said.Read also: Protesting Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee adamant on intercepting passenger trainsThe DRM said the “Golden Temple Mail” from Mumbai Central to Amritsar, which was earlier being short terminated at Ambala, will come to Amritsar tonight.Similarly, the train service from Amritsar-Haridwar will also resume from tomorrow morning. The other trains, including Ferozepur-Dhanbad Express, will also be resumed.As per information, the other trains which will be resumed by tomorrow include Paschim Deluxe Express Covid-19 Special (02925), Saryu-Yamuna Covid-19 Special (04649), Amritsar Shatabadi Covid Special (02029), Dhanbad-Ferozepur Covid-19 Special (03307), Nagpur-Amritsar Covid-19 Special (02025), Begampura Festival Special (02237), Gorakhpur Jammu-Tawi Amarnath Festival Special (02587).With the resumption of rail service, a train carrying coal has reached Talwandi Sabo Power Limited, Banawala, in Mansa. The arrival of the train has been confirmed by the management of the thermal plant.Faced with an acute shortage of coal following blockage of tracks leading to power plant at Baniwala, the Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) had to stall power production.The farmer agitation had started taking toll on the thermal plants as farmers were agitating on the rail tracks since October 1 leading to disruption of movement of coal rakes.Earlier, on October 26 the railways had postponed the movement of goods trains which was resumed on October 23.The development comes two days after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh succeeded in breaking the imbroglio over the suspension of train services in the state, with the farmer unions acceding to his appeal and announcing complete lifting of the rail blockade from November 23.The decision to lift the rail blockade, imposed by the farmers in protest against the Centre's laws, was announced by Bharti Kissan Union (Rajewal) at a meeting with the Chief Minister.India woke up on September 25 with farmers up in arms across the nation against the contentious Agri Bills passed in the Monsoon Session of Parliament.17 trains to run in Punjab, J&K from Nov 24 As per Northern Railways, 17 trains in Punjab and J&K will run after a gap of nearly two months. The officials of the Railways said that they have drawn up a tentative plan to restore 17 mail and express trains for the Punjab region and J&K from November 24 onwards.Bathinda: Station Superintendent, Bathinda railway station, Pradeep Sharma said, “Only one goods train moved from Bathinda railway station today that starts from Kota in Rajasthan and goes till Abohar. We do not receive any intimation regarding resuming of train services from Bathinda station from Ambala division yet, so for now the movement of all trains from Bathinda stand cancelled till further orders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rail-services-resume-in-punjab-coal-rakes-reach-banawala-thermal-plant-174616
23-11-2020||---||To quell Covid spike, teams rushed to Himachal, Punjab||New Delhi, November 22Major signs of concern around India’s Covid-19 response and the impact of festive gatherings and winter on the pandemic surfaced on Sunday with daily new cases surpassing daily new recoveries after a gap of 50 days.India witnessed 45,209 new infections over the past 24 hours as against 43,493 recoveries. As daily cases continued to rise, the Centre on Sunday deputed high-level teams for Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.Read also: Race for covid vaccineThe three-member teams will visit the districts reporting high cases and support the states in strengthening containment, surveillance and testing, and efficient clinical management of the positive cases.The Health Ministry had said recently that the full impact of festive gatherings was still to play out. A part of it became evident today as the gains of 50 days (when daily new recoveries were outstripping daily fresh cases) were breached for the first time.Some positive signs, however, remain. As total cases rose to 90,95,806 with 85,21,617 recoveries which make up 93.69 pc of the total cases, the fatality rate remained stable at 1.46 per cent and active cases fell to 4,40,962 making up only 4.85 per cent of the total cases. However, the active cases that had been witnessing a decline over the past many days today rose nationally by 1,215, indicating a surge, as anticipated during winter.More RT-PCR tests than rapid antigenNew Delhi: Noting that for the first time the number of RT-PCR tests in Delhi has exceeded the rapid antigen tests, officials in the Ministry of Home Affairs said, over 3.7 lakh people have been surveyed as part of the efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19 infection in the national Capital. TNSHimachal Govt to take call on curbsShimla: The HP Cabinet on Monday is likely to decide on imposing fresh restrictions to tackle Covid-19 surge. Hinting at it, CM Jai Ram Thakur said, “The government will consider imposing a few curbs to avoid social gatherings and ensure that people take all precautionary measures.” TNSActive cases in Punjab up by 60% in 3 weeksChandigarh: After a decline in Covid-19 cases, it is clear from the data that the state is heading towards another peak as it witnessed almost 60 per cent increase in active cases in the past three weeks. The cases hit the peak in the state in mid-September. After a lull, the number has again started surging. At present, the number of active cases is 6,724. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-quell-covid-spike-teams-rushed-to-himachal-punjab-174518
23-11-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Tension as Sirsa dera followers throng Salabatpura||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 22At least 2,000 Dera Sacha Sauda followers have descended on Salabatpura, the Punjab headquarters of the Sirsa-based sect, to demand the arrest of the killers of prominent dera member Manohar Lal. The latter was shot dead at Bhagta Bhai Ka in Bathinda district on Friday. The dera followers say they will not cremate the body till their demand is met. Dera committee leader Harcharan Singh said they had met police officials in this regard. Bhupinder Singh Virk, SSP, said the dera administration had raised certain issues which would be placed before the higher authorities.The followers today blocked the Barnala-Bhagta road and held a protest. Dera Sacha Sauda (Sirsa) senior vice-chairman Jagjit Singh and some political wing members too joined the protesters, who placed the body at the site. Tensions rising, the police have sought from the dera a list of its members with licensed arms.Meanwhile, the Sukha Gill Lamme group, which has claimed responsibility for the killing, in another FB post said: “He (Manohar Lal) committed sacrilege not once, but four times. We are not against dera followers or religion. Our enemies are those who are against the Sikh community and who disrespect our Guru.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tension-as-sirsa-dera-followers-throng-salabatpura-174531
23-11-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Elder’s Day celebrated||The Sirhind unit of Vishav Jagriti Manch today celebrated Elder’s Day as ‘Shardha Divas’ by organising 21st free piles and eye operation camp here today.The Fatehgarh Sahib SDM, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, was the chief guest, whereas the Tehsildar, Gurjinder Singh, and the DCC president, Subhash Sood, were the guest of honour on the occasion. Addressing the gathering, the SDM said it was need of the hour that NGOs should come forward to help the downtrodden. The manch president, Ashwani Garg, said during check up, patients were shortlisted and taken to private hospitals in batches for operating free of cost. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/elders-day-celebrated-174539
23-11-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Punjab villages resonate with ‘Delhi Chalo’||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, November 22The preparations for the November 26 protest against the farm laws in New Delhi are nothing less than festivities in Punjab villages these days.Tractor-trailers fitted with speakers are playing Punjabi songs like “Pecha pai gaya centre naal” to ignite passion against the farm laws and collecting ration and other necessary items. Holding flags, youngsters roam villages to disseminate required information.Whenever a group of any farmer organisation reaches any village, every household starts contributing as per its capacity after listening about the arrival through the public address system.Enter any village and there’s only one thing in the air, “Delhi Chalo”. From illiterate elderly women to young graduates, all are putting in their all energy to mobilise maximum support for the protest in the national capital.Rural women are busy organising “jago” singing anti-Central Government songs during the daytime; at night, farmers are organising “mashal” marches.“Though Covid has increased financial hardship for all, people are generously setting aside stocks of wheat, sugar and other items to contribute for the protest in the national capital. A large number of people are sending ration to us. Everyone is contributing,” says Sukhwinder Kaur (48) from Mangwal village. She is an active member of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan).Leaders of BKU (Dakaunda), (Sidhupur) and (Rajewal), Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, Kirti Kisan Union and Kul Hind Kisan Federation claimed they were getting a good response from all villages. In Bhai Ki Pashore village, women organised a “jago” on Sunday. Women and village girls were busy singing anti-Centre songs. During a break, a speaker-fitted vehicle shared the agitation plan with area residents.“During the New Delhi protest, women would outnumber men as the response from the former is unprecedented,” says Jashandeep Kaur, a graduate from Bhai Ki Pashore village.BKU (Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan said: “The anger of state residents against the Central laws would be visible in New Delhi. None can stop us from reaching there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-villages-resonate-with-delhi-chalo-174449
23-11-2020||Amritsar||Farmers’ faction refuses to budge||Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, which differed from their counterparts representing 31 organisations on allowing operation of trains after November 23, have refused budge from their stance on clearing tracks only for freight trains, not passenger. Committee state secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the tracks were cleared for the movement of goods trains from October 22 across the state. “Why did the Centre not ply goods trains when the tracks were cleared? Now, it is adamant on running passenger trains, which we will oppose. We will continue our ‘rail roko’ protest near Jandiala Guru rail track,” he said. Attacking the state government, he said: “It is a pity that Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government has been using pressure tactics on farmers to weaken their agitation. We have to strengthen base to take on the Union and state governments as both have been trying to create a rift within the farming community.” Later, the farmers met IG (Border Range) SPS Parmar to discuss various problems. “Our meeting with the CM was scheduled for November 23, but due to his prior engagement, the meeting has been postponed. The CM may spare time on November 24 and we may meet him. “We implore the state government to arrange transport to ferry compost, urea and other agri products. The state is heavily dependent on Central funds,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-faction-refuses-to-budge-174451
23-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Commit to purchase at MSP: Sukhbir to PM||Ferozepur, November 22Urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to understand the sentiments of farmers, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal asked him to commit to assured government procurement at minimum support price (MSP), besides ensuring protection of the mandi system.Talking to mediapersons at the residence of former minister Janmeja Singh Sekhon, Sukhbir said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should desist from playing a double game with the farmers and lead them from the front to get their all grievances resolved at the earliest.He alleged that the CM was playing a fixed match with the Centre. “Capt Amarinder Singh is playing as per the script handed over to him by the Centre. This is the reason why he has approached the farmers now and prevailed upon them to vacate all railway properties in the state,” said Sukhbir, adding that the CM knew that the farmer organisations had lifted the ‘rail roko’ agitation more than two weeks ago.Continuing his tirade against the CM, the SAD chief said Capt Aamarinder should have put pressure on the Centre to resume train services instead of approaching the farmers.Targetting the BJP-led NDA government, Sukhbir said the Centre should not victimise Punjabis for standing with the agitating farmers. He asserted that the SAD had parted ways with the NDA to stand in solidarity with the aggrieved farmers.“We will continue to stand by the farmers and assist their agitation in every way possible,” he said.Speaking about the upcoming PGIMER satellite centre at Ferozepur, the SAD president said he had held a review meeting with the institute’s top brass a few months ago. “I am confident the project will be formally launched on Baisakhi.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/commit-to-purchase-at-msp-sukhbir-to-pm-174454
23-11-2020||---||With farmers in their struggle, says Bhagwant Mann||Chandigarh, November 22Bhagwant Mann, president of Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab unit and MP from Sangrur, today made an emotional appeal to the party workers to join the farmers’ stir in New Delhi against the “black agricultural laws forced by the Union Government-led by Narendra Modi, sans party flag.” He exhorted the party rank and file to stand up and be counted.In a statement issued from the party headquarters here, Mann said farmers were the backbone of Punjab and without their untiring efforts, the state cannot move forward in any sphere. He also made it clear that the AAP would rise above party affiliations and stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the farmers in their hour of need.He said this was no time to stand and stare or just sit quietly on the sidelines. It was indeed tragic that the farming community, which fed the entire nation, was left to fend for itself by the Centre. CM Capt Amarinder Singh too had left the farmers in the lurch and was enjoying kingly pleasures, Mann alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-farmers-in-their-struggle-says-bhagwant-mann-174456
23-11-2020||Ludhiana||Train services likely to be back on track tomorrow||With the farmer organisations deciding to suspend the ‘rail roko’ stir for two weeks, the Ferozepur Division of the Northern Railway has geared up to resume the operation of passenger and goods train services in the region. In all probability, trains would be back on tracks from Tuesday (November 24) — exactly two months after the rail traffic was suspended due to the farmers’ agitation.Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur Division, Rajesh Aggarwal said the administrative and operational wings of the Indian Railways were fully prepared to resume the normal rail traffic after the farmers lifted their dharna from the railway tracks on November 23. “We are awaiting a nod from the state government and the Railways top brass to move into action for resumption of passenger and goods trains,” he said.Initially, the trains which were being short-terminated at and short-originated from New Delhi, Saharanpur and Ambala Cantt on their way to Amritsar, Jammu Tawi and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra, would be extended to their scheduled terminating and originating points. The Railways would also resume the normal run of the Covid-special and festival special trains that were ferrying passengers before the ‘rail roko’ agitation.According to senior railway officials, some 22 Covid special and festival trains are expected to be made operational in next couple of day.Meanwhile, the Railways extended cancellation of several mail, express, covid special and festival special trains till November 23. It was stated that 15 pairs of trains would remain cancelled while 13 trains would be short-terminated at and short-originated from Ambala Cantt, Saharanpur and New Delhi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/train-services-likely-to-be-back-on-track-tomorrow-174459
23-11-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab farmers buy urea at higher rates from Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 22Farmers in Punjab are facing an acute shortage of urea, which is forcing them to buy it at abnormally higher rates from Haryana.With the National Fertilizers Limited (NFL) plant at Bathinda stopping the supply to farmers, the latter are accusing both the Central and state governments of an attempt at “hitting them financially”.As the protest by farmers against the three agriculture laws enters the next phase of ‘Delhi Chalo’, farmers are blaming the Union Government for withholding the urea-filled rakes and the state government of being unable to get urea from outside by road. The first application of urea is made in the third week of November to ensure high yield.Yudhjit Singh, a farmer of Tarkhanwala village in Bathinda, says many in his village are running from pillar to post to get urea for wheat. For his 8.5 acres of land, he has bought urea from Dabwali in Haryana. “Farmers were earlier getting a rationed supply of urea from the NFL plant at Bathinda but for past two days, it has stopped the supply. The least the state can do is to ensure that all urea produced by the plant is supplied to farmers within the state,” he says.The Tribune has learnt that presently, Punjab is facing a shortage of six lakh tonnes of urea. Though there are two plants of the NFL in the state (Bathinda and Ropar), they have already supplied the 60,000 metric tonnes of urea to Punjab as mandated in the agreements signed with the state government. “The remaining requirement of urea is to be met from outside the state. As of now, 3.90 lakh metric tonnes of urea is held up in transit,” a top official in the Markfed said. He said the opening stock of 50,000 tonnes of urea that the state had has already been distributed to cooperative societies.Ever since the train services were suspended in Punjab 60 days ago, the state has not received its supply of urea. With farmers who had sown cotton in their fields ready to sow wheat now, they are now urgently in need of urea, which is not available, leading to panic in the cotton belt of the Malwa region. The urea meant for Punjab is stuck at the NFL plants in Panipat (Haryana) and Aonla (Uttar Pradesh).Kulwant Singh, a farmer from Kishangarh village in Mansa, says the farmers have been pushed to the wall and have no choice but to buy urea from Haryana. “In Ratia, the dealers are selling urea at Rs 300 per bag against the price of Rs 265 per bag. Other than this, farmers of Punjab are also forced to buy chemical fertilisers from dealers if they buy urea. We have no option and our input cost for urea has doubled,” he adds.Punjab’s Agriculture Commissioner BS Sidhu said, “The urea should reach the state in three to four days once train services are resumed on Tuesday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmers-buy-urea-at-higher-rates-from-haryana-174461
23-11-2020||---||Contract staff to participate in Delhi stir||Bathinda, November 22Contract staff from various government departments, under the banner of the Theka Mulazam Sanghrash Morcha, today protested the non-fulfillment of their demand for regular jobs, besides announcing full support to farmers’ nationwide protest call on November 26.Holding black flags and donning black clothes, protesters marched through the city. “It’s ironical that the state government claims to provide one lakh jobs when it’s privatising and restructuring government departments and reducing posts on a large scale. The Congress came to power promising regular jobs to contract workers in government departments. However, it has failed to honour its pre-poll promises,” said Jagrup Singh, a union leader.Union leaders said they would lend support to farmers by participating in the protest in New Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contract-staff-to-participate-in-delhi-stir-174463
23-11-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||More experiments needed for straw mgmt: Officials||The Agriculture Department is experimenting with Pusa decomposer sent by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Delhi, but the results are not satisfactory, so more experiments will be done to help farmers in proper management of straw.This was stated by Anirudh Tewari, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Agriculture and Dr Rajesh Vashisht, Director, Agriculture, while talking to mediapersons here today.Punjab Agricultural University was also developing a decomposer and it was being tested on an experimental basis at three places in the district, but more improvement needed to be done to reach a conclusion, they said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/more-experiments-needed-for-straw-mgmt-officials-174466
23-11-2020||Sameer Singh||Non-operational thermal plant leaves Bathinda lakes dirtier||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 22Three lakes in the city are bearing the brunt of the closure of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant here, as the water is no longer being used to generate electricity. As a result, water recycling is not happening and the water is getting dirtier with each passing day. Besides, the water level has receded up to 15 feet in the recent past.Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), who train in the lake water, have complained of skin diseases.Commandant Ravi Kumar Pandita of the 7th battalion of NDRF, said, “Since the lake water could not be recycled on account of closure of the thermal plant, it is getting dirtier. In the long run, it will pose serious risk to our personnel. The training sessions which usually start in April and continue till October can’t be organised due to the Covid-19 spread and partly due to the unclean water. Apart from training, our personnel also carry out rescue operations by fishing out persons who jump in lakes here.” Pandita requested the authorities concerned to provide a solution on priority.”One of the divers said, “We are developing skin allergies because of the contaminated water in the lakes. People living in nearby ‘jhuggis’ also pollute the water. The local administration must come up with a comprehensive plan to ensure that lake water remains clean.”A senior retired officer of the Bathinda thermal plant said, “Once touted as the ‘city of lakes’, Bathinda is failing to preserve its old glory. Thermal lakes that once added a unique aesthetic appeal to the city are falling prey to the apathy of officialdom. Not only are the lakes getting contaminated, but their water levels are also receding drastically.”Devinder Pal Garg, Chief Engineer, Bathinda and Lehra thermal plants, said, “The thermal land has been transferred to PUDA, and we will bring the matter to their notice. We can reach a solution and for that all we need are heavy outlet water pipes to release the lake water in a canal to maintain the water levels.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/non-operational-thermal-plant-leaves-bathinda-lakes-dirtier-174468
23-11-2020||Aman Sood||No Innova for DCs, SSPs; govt puts Rs 12L cap on cars||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 22Already facing a financial crunch, the Punjab Government has decided that divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners and SSP-ranked officers will henceforth not be provided Innova MUVs and instead get vehicles with an upper ceiling of Rs 12 lakh.Further, the Transport Department has decided to enhance the Chief Minister’s security fleet from existing 113 to 169 vehicles. The Jails Department will get 36 additional vehicles.As per information gathered by The Tribune, divisional and deputy commissioners, and SSPs are entitled to Innova Crysta. However, following a meeting held under the Chief Secretary on November 3, all officials and departments have been divided into two groups.“While group 1 officers or departments will get vehicles ranging from Rs 5 to 8 lakh, group 2 officials will be entitled to vehicles ranging from Rs 8 to 12 lakh,” reads an official note of the Transport Department.As per the new rules, DIGs, police commissioners, IGs, ADGPs, head of departments and above fall in group 2, while the remaining officers come under group 1.A senior Transport Department officer claimed SDM and ADC-level officers along with SP-ranked officials would now get a Mahindra Bolero, while SSP-ranked officers will have to shift down to a Mahindra Marazzo, which falls in the under-Rs 12 lakh category.“For the time being, Innovas in many districts are good to run for another three to four years. Thereafter, all will have to abide by the new rules,” he stated.“We have to often travel to Delhi or attend meetings in Chandigarh. A majority of us will now have to use personal vehicles for long tours. Innova was our basic requirement owing it its comfort,” said a senior IPS officer.During the meeting, it was stressed that instead of buying vehicles, hiring cars could be a viable option to avoid unnecessary financial burden on the state.56 added to CM’s fleetThe government will add 56 new vehicles to the existing fleet of 113 in CM’s security, taking the total to 169. There will now be 20 bulletproof cars, instead of 14; 29 regular cars, up from 25; 18 new Scorpio; four Bolero; 11 Bolero camper; two new bulletproof Gypsy; a bike; an ambulance and a bus36 for Jail DepartmentAfter a long wait, the Jails Department, which only had five prison vans and 14 Gypsy, will get 36 new vehicles. The government has sanctioned three 32-seater buses, two 16-seater minibuses, 16 Gypsy or Mahindra Bolero and 15 prison vans||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-innova-for-dcs-ssps-govt-puts-rs-12l-cap-on-cars-174471
23-11-2020||Aparna Banerji||Kin cremate wrong Covid victim after hospital mixup||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 22The bodies of two Covid-19 victims were swapped at Shriman Hospital here. One of the families went on to cremate it thinking it was of their relative.Kamaljit Singh, SHO, Police Station Division 8, said an FIR had been registered under Section 297 of the IPC against the hospital authorities on the complaint of both families.After the family of Tarsem Lal (78) went to receive his body from the hospital on Saturday, the one handed over to them turned out to be of someone else. Tarsem, who had tested positive for Covid, died on Saturday.Lal’s family staged a protest at the hospital on Saturday claiming they were given the wrong body. After enquiries at the hospital, they learnt the body had been swapped with that of Jaspal Singh, who had died on Friday, and that their father had already been cremated by Jaspal’s family.Vijay Sagar, Lal’s nephew, said, “After my uncle died on Saturday, we were called to the hospital to take his body. When we insisted on taking a picture of the body, we were shocked to see a different body. We were later told he had already been cremated.”“We filed a complaint to the police yesterday, seeking action against the hospital. We also demand a proof that the man cremated was actually my uncle,” Sagar added.On the other hand, Jaspal’s family had to face the ordeal of holding cremation twice. Half an hour after they first cremated the body, they were informed the it wasn’t of Jaspal.Prabhleen Singh, Jaspal’s son, said, “After cremation, the hospital called us saying the body wasn’t of my father. While handing over the body, the authorities, following the Covid protocol, asked us to maintain distance from the body. We didn’t even open the body bag, but were shocked to learn it wasn’t that of my father. After getting the body today, we again held the cremation. It has caused us immense trauma. The body didn’t even bear a tag or any identification. Had the other family not checked, we wouldn’t have even known.”Dr VP Sharma, MD, DM Cardiology, Shriman Hospital, said, “We had only two bodies. There was no third body. Due to Covid restrictions, there has been some error in tagging. We will take action against staff who erred in tagging the body. Proper cremation of the bodies has taken place.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-cremate-wrong-covid-victim-after-hospital-mixup-174474
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Active cases rise by 60% in 3 weeks||After a decline in Covid cases, it is clear from the data that the state is heading towards another peak as it witnessed almost 60 per cent increase in active cases in the past three weeks.The cases hit the peak in the state in mid-September when the daily average of fresh cases was around 2,500 and of deaths was 80. The state had over 20,000 active cases at that time. However, after the third week of September, the cases started declining. By November 1, the total number of active cases in the state had come down to 4,195.After a lull of almost two weeks, the number again started surging. On November 7, the total number of active cases increased to 4,827 and a week later, the number was 5,769. At present, the number of active cases is 6,724. Thus, in the past three weeks, the number of active cases has increased by 60 per cent.Experts say the presence of active cases in society is an important indicator of prevalence of infection and possibility of a surge in the coming days. They say the coming month will be challenging for the state as it can witness a second peak. The state reported 710 cases and 19 deaths in the past 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/active-cases-rise-by-60-in-3-weeks-174477
23-11-2020||
||Housing Department extends date for payment of dues||Chandigarh, November 22 In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the Punjab Housing and Urban Development Department has given relaxation in the recovery of outstanding dues of around Rs 900 crore.  The deadline has deferred the payment of outstanding dues till December 2020, subject to payment of interest at the rate of 13 per cent per annum, for the deferred period.  Earlier, the department had rescheduled the second instalment of the pending dues till September 30, 2020, through orders issued on November 28, 2019. Now, the deadline has been extended till December 31, 2020. The validity of the post-dated cheques deposited against their pending dues has been extended till December 31 subject to deposit of separate post-dated cheques of the interest component chargeable as per the extension waiver. In July last year, the department notified an open-ended moratorium policy for developers to clear their outstanding dues in easy instalments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/housing-department-extends-date-for-payment-of-dues-174478
23-11-2020||---||AAP opposes move to abolish PU senate||Chandigarh, November 22The Aam Aadmi Party today opposed the Union Government’s proposal to abolish senate at Panjab University, Chandigarh.In a press release, party MLAs Kultar Sandhwa and Jai Krishan Rodi said the move to abolish the senate of region’s oldest university would kill the democratic nature of the heritage institute.They said under the new education policy, the government was planning to replace the university senate with a board.They said the state government should have a say in the university affairs as the land for it came after displacing a large number of villages of Punjab.The Aam Aadmi Party leaders said any such move would deprive state residents of their right to higher education. They said senate and syndicate kept an eye on the functioning of Chancellor of the university, so both bodies were essential to ensuring the democratic character of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-opposes-move-to-abolish-pu-senate-174482
23-11-2020||Manav Mander
||Plasma therapy helpful only in moderate Covid cases, says study||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, November 22 Convalescent Plasma Therapy (CPT), said to be helpful in treating Covid patients, has proved useful only for patients in moderate stage of illness. No significant benefit of plasma therapy has been seen in critically ill patients. Earlier this week, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had advised against the indiscriminate use of plasma therapy. However, no blanket ban has been imposed on it.  In Punjab, nearly 100 patients have been treated with plasma therapy, half of whom were given treatment at Ludhiana.  Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), also a member of the Covid-19 task force formed by the state government, said the required concentration of IgG antibody against Covid-19 in the potential donor should be Titre of 1:640 (ELISA) or 13 AU (Absorbance Unit)/mL9 (CLIA) or Neutralising Antibody Titres of 1:80 (PRNT/MNT).  Convalescent plasma having low concentration of specific antibody against SARS-CoV-2 may be less beneficial for treating patients, as compared to plasma with high concentration of such antibodies. A potential donor for convalescent plasma should have sufficient concentration of antibody working against Covid- 19. Presence of antibody in a potential recipient makes transfusing convalescent plasma a futile intervention, he maintained. “Relatives often force for plasma therapy and sometimes, it becomes difficult for us to make them understand that it would not be beneficial as there is a general perception that plasma therapy helps in treating critically ill patients. The reality, however, is that therapy does not give results in critically ill patients, only moderate cases have benefitted from it,” Dr Mohan added. The ICMR conducted an open label phase II multicentre randomised controlled trial in India across 39 public and private hospitals on use of convalescent plasma in the management of cases with moderate Covid-19 disease (PLACID Trial). It was concluded that CPT did not reduce the progression to sever Covid-19 or all cause mortality in the group that received CPT as compared to the group that did not receive CPT4. Similar studies conducted in China and Netherlands have also documented no significant benefit of CPT in improving the clinical outcomes of hospitalised Covid-19 patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plasma-therapy-helpful-only-in-moderate-covid-cases-says-study-174484
23-11-2020||
||Top posts lie vacant in Animal Husbandry Department||Chandigarh, November 22 The post of the director and 50 per cent other posts at the top level in the Animal Husbandry Department are lying vacant for the past several months.  The post of the director is lying vacant since September 30. The government has even failed to appoint an officiating director all these weeks. The outcome of the situation is that the National Animal Disease Control Programme and the National Artificial Insemination Programme, which were launched by the Prime Minister, is in the doldrums.  “In the current situation, most of the branches and districts are running without any official having powers of drawing and disbursing officer (DDO). These powers are given to junior officials by the director. Since there is no director for the past more than a month, after the mass retirement of officials on September 30, no official could be given DDO powers. It makes hard to run national programmes and schemes at the ground level,” said Dr Nitin Kumar, former leader of Veterinary Officers Association.  Even retired employees’ dues and salaries of serving employees and contractual staff are not being cleared.  “After agriculture, dairy farming is the biggest employer in rural Punjab. If the current situation is not handled timely, it can lead to a new kind of crisis,” he said. The Department of Animal Husbandry is the nodal department for providing technical support to dairy farming.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/top-posts-lie-vacant-in-animal-husbandry-department-174487
23-11-2020||---||Warning boards against stray animals’ release dot Faridkot||Faridkot, November 22To keep a check on the problem of stray animals, the district administration of Faridkot has installed warning boards in all towns, conveying that any person found releasing stray animals would be penalised.“We fear herding of stray animals from other districts to Faridkot. To prevent the illegal practice, we have installed warning boards at the entry points of all towns in the district,” said Vimal Setia, Deputy Commissioner. While farmers in the rural areas complain of stray cows and bulls damaging their crops, residents in urban areas grumble that these abandoned animals injure children and elderly people and cause many road accidents while roaming the streets and roads.To save their crops, villagers make rosters for night guard duties and have built watch towers (machanns) to keep an eye on the animals in the winter season. Braving cold weather, they are forced to sleep in their fields at night. Sometimes, they have to chase intruding animals with a torch and a stick.“Stray animals graze on the fields and trample the crop,” said Sukhdev Singh, a farmer from Golewala village of Faridkot.To deal with the animals, farmers pool money to pay to professionals who are well-trained in catching the stray animals and herding these to the urban areas. Farmers said the state government had imposed a cow cess on various services for protection and maintenance of stray animals in the city sheds, but the problem seemed to be only increasing.“We are trying our best to deal with the stray animals’ problem. This year, the administration has been able to catch 875 stray and abandoned animals in the district and send them to the shelter homes,” the DC said.“We plan to open a shelter home for stray animals for every 15 villages in the district,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/warning-boards-against-stray-animals-release-dot-faridkot-174489
23-11-2020||Faridkot||Don’t fall prey to conmen: Varsity to job aspirants||Amidst rumours of a few unscrupulous persons collecting money from candidates guaranteeing them ward attendant jobs in the Health Department, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), which is conducting written examination for the job on November 28, warned the candidates against such elements today.  “There are 1.5 lakh candidates for 800 posts of ward attendant. We want to inform all candidates that a few unscrupulous persons are trying to fleece them by saying that their selection can be made by paying money to some officials,” said Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, BFUHS.  “We have made a public appeal to all candidates that whosoever is trying to fleece them with such promises, his name can be intimated to the university authorities, so that we can take action against them,” the VC said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-fall-prey-to-conmen-varsity-to-job-aspirants-174490
23-11-2020||Ropar||AAP workers protest shortage of teachers||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers led by district president Dinesh Chadha staged a protest over a large number of vacant posts in the recently upgraded smart schools, claiming the move was a mere eyewash on part of the state government.Addressing protesters in front of Government Senior Secondary School at Mianpur village, Chadha said though the school was upgraded by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh recently, there were no lecturers to teach subjects of history, political science, English and Punjabi literature.A post of commerce teacher was also lying vacant, while vocational courses in rural marketing and garment making had been stopped due to unavailability of teachers, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-workers-protest-shortage-of-teachers-174491
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court: 3 kids illegally removed from mother’s custody||In an out of the ordinary order, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that three minor children were being “pawned” due to an ugly matrimonial dispute between the parents and the they were “fraudulently and illegally removed” by the father on the pretext of getting them admitted in a boarding school.The observations and the rap by Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul came on a Habeas Corpus petition filed by a mother through counsel Abhayjeet Singh. Appearing before the Bench, the father submitted that the petitioner-wife was well aware about the admission of the minor children and had even deposited 50 per cent fees as settled between them in a compromise deed, when they decided to part ways as a condition precedent to the petition filed under Section 13B of the Hindu Marriage Act. Hence, the petitioner was wrongly accusing him of fraudulently removing the children from her custody.Justice Kaul, during the course of hearing, questioned the father on the Haridwar family court order dated May 4, 2019, whereby he had been given only visitation rights to meet his children twice a month. Justice Kaul observed it was admitted by him that the three minor children’s custody was with the petitioner-wife at the time of passing of the order. He added the mala fides of respondent-husband were “very evident and writ large” as he removed the children from the lawful custody of the petitioner-wife on the pretext of getting them admitted to a boarding school at Ooty. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-3-kids-illegally-removed-from-mothers-custody-174492
23-11-2020||Archit Watts||In Muktsar, 27 held for gambling in fortnight||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, November 22Not caring two hoots for the police, the gambling mafia or ‘satta’ operators have become so active in Muktsar district that they are making public announcements to lure people into the illegal trade. In the past fortnight, at least 27 people have been arrested for gambling activities in the district.A perusal of police records revealed that in most of the FIRs, the ‘satta’ operators had the same modus operandi as they were making public announcements to lure people for gambling. Further, sources said some of the arrested were history-sheeters.The records showed that 12 people were arrested by the Malout (City) police, seven by the Lambi police, six by the Muktsar (City) police and two by the Gidderbaha police. Maximum 10 cases of gambling activities were registered on November 10 at the Malout (City) police station.Meanwhile, sources said some people were involved in the illegal business of online lottery at Mandi Killianwali, which is located on the Haryana border.“We have arrested a number of people, but they come out on bail and again indulge in this illegal activity. We have told our sources to inform us immediately if someone is doing ‘satta’ anywhere in the district,” said a police officer.A senior police officer said, “The high number of cases indicates that we are taking action against all those involved in the illegal practice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-muktsar-27-held-for-gambling-in-fortnight-174493
23-11-2020||Abohar||Two held for transformer thefts||The police in Sriganganagar, 40 km from here, today claimed to have busted an interstate gang involved in the theft of transformers with the arrest of two of its members.SP Rajan Dushyant said Tarlochan Singh (28) of Chak 2-KNM village and Jaswant Singh, alias Jaswinder Singh, alias Jaspreet, (22) of Chak 4RJD village in Chhattisgarh had been arrested. During preliminary interrogation, it came to light that the gang had stolen 15 transformers of the electricity board in Ramsinghpur, Raisinghnagar, Srivijaynagar, Sadulshahar and Jaitsar in Sriganganagar district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-held-for-transformer-thefts-174494
23-11-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bambiha gang being ‘funded’ from Canada||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 22A special task force has arrested a Bambiha gang member, Jagdeep Singh, of Moga, with a US-made pistol from the Adarsh Nagar area of the city. In his initial interrogation, Jagdeep has revealed gang member Sukha Singh of Dunike village in Moga was funding the group from Canada to strengthen its criminal activities in Punjab.SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said: “We have arrested a Bambiha group associate with a weapon and it has come to light that Sukha from Canada is funding the group. We will follow it up.”The SSP said Jagdeep got recently associated with the group. The police have registered a case against four others gangsters — Beant Singh of Mandi Mustafa in Moga, Rajwinder Singh of Muktsar, Dharminder Singh of Goniana and Sukha Singh of Duneke village in Moga — at the Cantt police station.Task force in charge Jasvir Singh said SI Gurdeep Singh got a tip-off that Jagdeep and others linked to the group, with a large quantity of arms, were planning a strike. The police later arrested Jagdeep from the city. Sukha was aiding gangsters to purchase weapons to carry out criminal activities in the state, he said. Jagdeep has been remanded in two-day police custody for questioning.In 2016, gangster Davinder Bambiha was killed in a four-hour police encounter near Rampura Phul in Bathinda district. Bambiha (25), a native of Moga district, was an accused in 20 cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and dacoity.Despite the encounter, his group continued to be active in the state. In 2018, a poultry-farm owner, Hardev Singh Gogi Jattana, was shot allegedly by the gang members on the Phul-Gill Kalan village road in Rampura area.Claiming Jattana to be an informer, the gang members later claimed responsibility for the killing on their Facebook page, saying Sukhpreet Budda Kussa and Aman Jaito carried out the killing.Claiming to have avenged Bambiha’s killing, they said the 2016 encounter happened on a tip-off by Jattana to the police. The gang members face around 40 cases in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan.Faces 40 Cases in three states||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bambiha-gang-being-funded-from-canada-174495
23-11-2020||Faridkot||Now, a postal stamp on stray animals||Punjabi author’s novel in KU curriculumChandigarh: Acclaimed Punjabi writer Ninder Ghugianvi has got a rare honour, with the Kurukshetra University in Haryana including his novel ‘Judge da Ardali’ in its curriculum for undergraduate classes. A prolific author, Ghugianvi has 49 books to his credit. His literary works are subject of 10 PhDs in different universities, a unique achievement for a person who could not even pass matriculation due to his humble origins. His books have been translated in several languages, including Hindi, Malayalam, Tamil, Bengali and English. Ghugianvi had written the novel ‘Judge da Ardali’ in the mid 1990s when he worked as an orderly of a judge in Patiala. In 2005, a feature film was also made on the book.Bumpy road to corridor openingDera Baba Nanak: A cloud of uncertainty hangs over the 4.6-km Kartarpur Corridor. On Thursday, former Union Minister Vijay Sampla tweeted that the passage would be re-opened on November 27. However, there is no official confirmation yet. Officials of the Land Ports Authority of India, the Central agency that manages the Integrated Check Post, and the Batala police, one of the agencies engaged in providing security, are confused. A senior BSF official said even his department had not received any official communication from the Ministry of Home Affairs, which has the final say in its operations. Sources said days after Sampla’s tweet went viral, he backtracked, saying he had just quoted media reports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-a-postal-stamp-on-stray-animals-174502
23-11-2020||---||Shooting video inside operation theatre: Action sought against Civil Surgeon in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 22After the Punjab State Commission for Women issued a show-cause notice to Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh and other employees for the photo opportunity at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital operation theatre on November 17, blame game has begun with Dr Navdeep issuing a notice to a few junior employees.Ankur Gupta of the Progressive Youth Forum, a local organisation, has asked the Health Minister to take action against the Civil Surgeon.In the notice issued to junior employees, the Civil Surgeon has held them responsible for shooting the video and issuing a press release to highlight their efforts at performing clinical duties without his permission and knowledge.Sources within the department said the said junior employees had acted upon the instructions of the Civil Surgeon. The Civil Surgeon had performed four C-section surgeries on November 17. To highlight this, the department released a statement along with the pictures and the video. The video recording had Civil Surgeon and others performing a surgery on a woman inside the operation theatre. Later, the Women Commission issued a notice to the Civil Surgeon and others for violating the privacy of a female patient. As the Civil Surgeon received a rap from higher-ups, he, in turn issued a notice to junior employees, said sources within the department said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shooting-video-inside-operation-theatre-action-sought-against-civil-surgeon-in-amritsar-174341
23-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||Kite used for slipping cigarettes inside jail in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 22In a bizarre incident, unscrupulous elements tried to sneak in prohibited material inside high security central jail with the help of a kite. The brazen attempt has baffled the jail authorities as well as security agencies.As per information, a home guard deployed at tower number 10 alongside the boundary wall of the Amritsar Central Jail informed the control room that a kite had fallen near the tower.As the jail staff reached near the tower they found around 20 cigarettes and a headphone fixed with the kite with the help of adhesive tape, stated Avtar Singh, assistant superintendent of central jail in his complaint to the Islamabad police. The police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act against unknown person in this connection.The central jail authorities have already been struggling to curb the incidents sneaking of prohibited materials, including mobile in the high security jail complex. It has initiated many steps besides deploying a company of paramilitary force to nail the perpetrators. It is located in the densely populated area which is the main reason behind seizures of mobiles from the inmates. According to sources in the jail, the unscrupulous elements used this method to slip in mobiles and cigarettes.4 held with illegal weaponsThe police have nabbed four persons in two separate incidents and recovered four illegal weapons from their possession. In the first case, the Chatiwind police have arrested Karanpreet Singh son of Shankar Singh and Karanpreet Singh son of Heera Singh, both residents of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area.Vikrant Sharma, in charge, CIA staff (Amritsar rural police), said the duo was nabbed from near a pear garden in Chatiwind. The police confiscated two pistols and four bullets. Preliminary investigations revealed that the accused brought weapons from Madhya Pradesh and used to sell the same for Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000. One of the pistols have a marking of ‘Made in Italy’ and Beretta Gardonevt CAL 78mm, PAT 7421. He said around six persons were involved and they were conducting raids to nab their accomplices.In the second case, the Mattewal police arrested Harwinder Singh, alias Kallu, of Mattewal, and Harmesh Masih of Bhoewal village. The police have recovered a revolver and a pistol with eight live cartridges from them.Sub-Inspector Lovepreet Singh said the accused were travelling on a motorcycle when the police intercepted them. He said Harwinder had three cases of attempt to murder registered against him in Mattewal and Jandiala. He said a case under the Arms Act has been registered against the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kite-used-for-slipping-cigarettes-inside-jail-in-amritsar-174343
23-11-2020||Gurpreet Kaur and Raj Kumar||Make laws farmer-friendly||FOR the past two months, farmers of Punjab and other states have been protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws. A recent meeting between Union ministers and representatives of farm unions failed to break the deadlock. Farmers claim that the Centre has not addressed their concerns over the three laws: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.The following are the perceptions and concerns of Punjab’s farmers regarding these legislations:To make these laws farmer-friendly, the following suggestions may be considered after thorough discussions with all stakeholders:The authors are on the faculty of the Department of Economics and Sociology, PAU, LudhianaSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/make-laws-farmer-friendly-174528
23-11-2020||SS Chhina||Floor price for veggies||KERALA has framed a policy to procure 16 varieties of vegetables at a floor price in order to tackle price volatility, which affects farmers as well as consumers. Despite being a staple of the common man’s diet, vegetables are not covered under the Central Government’s MSP regime or the procurement system. Kerala has assured the state’s farmers that their produce would be purchased at the floor price, which would be 20 per cent above the production cost.Vegetables are grown throughout the country. The Kerala model seems applicable to all states. Being an overpopulated country plagued by hunger and poverty, India cannot afford wastage of perishable products like vegetables.Punjab is a leading agricultural state with high production of various crops. However, the provision of state procurement of wheat and paddy has restricted the cropping pattern to these two crops. The area under pulses, oilseeds etc. has shrunk with the surge in the area under wheat and paddy. As most of the farmers have marginal or small landholdings, they decide to play it safe. Appeals made by agriculture experts and government officials to diversify the cropping pattern have gone in vain, leading to ever-increasing strain on the water table.Punjab needs to adopt the Kerala model because of other factors too. About 60 per cent of the state’s population is employed in the agriculture sector but their contribution to the state’s GDP is barely 20 per cent, depicting the yawning gap between farm and non-farm income. It also highlights under-employment in the sector. The diversification of farming towards pulses, oilseeds and vegetables has the potential to ensure work throughout the year. Rather, this model should also be adopted for crops other than vegetables that are yielding high returns and have export potential. Moreover, Punjab is lagging in respect of the agro processing industry. The shortage and uncertainty of availability of raw material for such units is cited as the main impediment. The export of fresh vegetables as well as agro-processed products has left a lot to be desired, even to the not-so-distant Middle East countries.In 2015-16, India exported onions to countries like Bangladesh, Nepal, Singapore, Kuwait, UAE and Vietnam, but other years have mostly witnessed imports. It is clear that the management of produce is being neglected.The agro export corporation of the state must be dovetailed to the procurement system to bring in stability and mitigate volatility. The emerging glitches in the implementation of the Kerala model can be removed with experience and time.The writer is Senior Fellow, Institute of Social Sciences, Delhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/floor-price-for-veggies-174526
