24-08-2020||Chandigarh||1,516 new COVID cases in Punjab, 43 deaths||Forty-three more novel coronavirus deaths in Punjab took the toll to 1,129 on Monday, while the tally rose to 43,284 with 1,516 new cases, the Health Department said.There are 13,798 active cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and 1,829 more patients were discharged, taking the recoveries to 28,357, according to the health bulletin.Eleven deaths were reported from Ludhiana, eight from Mohali, six from Jalandhar, four from Gurdaspur, three each from Kapurthala, Mansa and Patiala, and one from Amritsar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, SBS Nagar and Sangrur, it said.Among the districts that reported new cases are Mohali (251), Jalandhar (184), Gurdaspur (142), Patiala (140), Bathinda (125), Amritsar (108), Ludhiana (72) and Muktsar (60).Fifty-one critical patients are on ventilator support, while 414 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.With a collection of 12,454 more samples, the total number of tests rose to 9,19,614, it said. --- PTI
24-08-2020||Karam Prakash||Staff of private hospital in Patiala thrash patient of depression; arrested||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 24Two staff members of a private hospital were arrested by Patiala police on Monday for thrashing a patient suffering from depression.The police have booked the accused under Section 323 and 342 of the Indian Penal Code.The accused have been identified as Gurdeep Singh and Mohammed Rahul — staff members of Prime Hospital. It has been learned that the patient, a resident of Devigarh town of Patiala, was admitted to the ICU ward of the hospital on August 20.The patient was allegedly beaten by a hospital attendant on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The entire incident was captured on CCTV, which subsequently went viral.The matter came to the fore when the patient complained of pain in the stomach and narrated the incident to his relative the next morning. Consequently, the family members filed a complaint to the police. Thereafter, the patient was admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital from where he was discharged after first aid and a medical check-up.Paramjeet Kumar, uncle of the patient, said: “The action should also be taken against the hospital. It was a planned strategy to thrash the patient so as to keep him in the hospital for a longer period, just to mint money. The license of the hospital should be revoked.”Meanwhile, Sukhwinder Singh Gill, Station House Officer, Civil Lines, said: “We have arrested the two staff members of Prime Hospital. The investigation has already started and will arrest if someone else is found responsible for the act.”
24-08-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht rejects Langah’s fresh clemency appeal||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Monday rejected a clemency appeal of excommunicated Sucha Singh Langah, a former Akali minister, saying the Sikh community would continue to socially boycott him.The decision came after Langah’s son submitted a fresh clemency appeal to the secretariat of the Akal Takht, the top temporal seat of Sikhs.Rejecting the appeal during a meeting of five Sikh head priests, Singh said, “There is no clemency for Sucha Singh Langah and people of Sikh community would continue social boycott with him.”              The Akal Takht has excommunicated Langah from the Sikh community in October 2017 after he was booked in a rape case from which he was later acquitted.Earlier this month, Langah was pardoned by the “panj pyaras” (five beloved ones of the Guru) at the historical Gurdwara Baba Banda Singh Bahadur in Gurdaspur.               However, the ex-communication verdict against Langah by the Akal Takht remained intact.Thereafter, the Akal Takht had declared two persons, including a Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee member, “tankhaiya” (guilty of religious misconduct) for having “association” with Langah.Langah had pleaded for clemency in March also.He was booked by Punjab Police in 2017 under IPC sections, including 376 (rape), 384 (extortion) and 420 (cheating).                         However, later the complainant claimed in the court that she complained under pressure, leading to Langah’s acquittal in 2018. PTI
24-08-2020||Satya Prakash||Stubble burning: SC asks Punjab, Haryana and UP to hold meeting with all stakeholders||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 24The Supreme Court on Monday asked the governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to hold meetings with all stakeholders to completely stop stubble burning that converts the entire Delhi-NCR into a virtual gas chamber during October-November.A Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra asked the three states to file their respective report before it in four weeks.The top court—which is seized of a PIL on air pollution in NCR—sought to know from Punjab Chief Secretary if the state can assure that no stubble burning will take place this year.Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati told the Bench on behalf of the Environment Ministry that smog towers will be ready in Delhi in 10 months. She said a new technology to dissolve farm residue will be put to test this year.As the court wasn’t satisfied with the affidavits of the Centre and the Delhi Government on smog towers, it asked them to file fresh ones.During the hearing, advocate Charanpal Singh Bagri, representing farmers, complained that the issue was not being discussed with the farmers.Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to do so because of lack of financial incentives to switch over to environment-friendly farm waste management practices.Last year, Punjab produced around 20 million tonnes paddy residue of which farmers burnt 9.8 million tonnes of it, while the figures in Haryana stood at 7 million tonnes and 1.23 million tonnes, respectively.State governments were now providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for in-situ management of paddy straw. They’re also running an awareness campaigns against stubble burning.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, stubble burning was an important factor behind air pollution in Delhi-NCR last year, contributing up to 44 per cent of the air pollution in November.The Punjab Government had earlier told the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) that it has been utilising crop residue through biomass-based power plants and various bio-CNG projects are under process. It has proposed to set up a 25-megawatt solar-biomass project.Both Punjab and Haryana have set up thousands of custom hiring centres (CHCs) to give farm machinery on rental basis to farmers who cannot afford to buy high-end equipment for crop residue management.The court had on August 10 asked Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and UP to spell out steps taken to stop stubble burning that badly affected air quality in Delhi-NCR on the onset of winter.It had asked the Chief Secretary about the steps taken to providing machines and equipment to small and marginal farmers so as to dissuade them from burning stubble.The Punjab Chief Secretary had told the Bench that subsidy was being provided to small and marginal farmers but the state was facing financial constraints due to COVID-19 pandemic.
24-08-2020||Chandigarh/New Delhi||Capt Amarinder welcomes CWC resolution asking Sonia to continue till next AICC session||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday welcomed the unanimous resolution passed by the Congress Working Committee (CWC), asking Sonia Gandhi to continue as party president till the next AICC session.Capt Amarinder, however, agreed with Rahul Gandhi that Sonia’s continuation at the helm of the Congress could not be open ended, a press release said.Speaking during the video conference meet of the CWC, he also endorsed Rahul’s suggested that some sort of structure needs to be put in place to assist the Congress president in handling the party’s affairs and functioning.The chief minister further said he was in agreement with senior party leader P Chidambaram that the next AICC session should be convened at the earliest, possibly within the next six months, to elect the new president.Since a regular session was precluded by the Covid pandemic, it could be held virtually, he further said, backing Chidambaram’s suggestion on the issue.The chief minister also said he was in full agreement with the CWC resolution stressing the need for discussing and addressing intra-party differences within the party and not in the media or on public forum.“There are ways to deal with issues,” he had said earlier, at the start of the meeting, in reference to the content and the leakage of the letter by a group of Congress leaders.“This is not done. The BJP is after us (the Congress) and then, in the middle of it, we find our own people striking a dissenting note,” said Capt Amarinder, speaking immediately after Rahul’s intervention questioning the timing of the letter.The chief minister had  earlier also urged Sonia Gandhi to continue to lead the party and hand over the baton to Rahul Gandhi once she decides to finally step down.Terming as “shameful and unacceptable” the public dissent by a group of Congress leaders in the midst of the continuing BJP onslaught against the party, he said he agreed with other speakers on the need for raising such an issue at this critical time.He pointed out that Sonia had always been accessible, and there was no need to pen down such a dissenting letter and then putting it in public domain.While he said that all the leaders who had signed the letter were friends of the rest in the party and he hoped they would continue to do so, Capt Amarinder made it clear that what their act was not acceptable.There is no village in the country without a Congress leader and the binding force for the party is the Gandhis, with Sonia responsible for holding it together for the past two decades, said Capt Amarinder, adding that two of the five generations of Nehru-Gandhi family in the Congress had laid their lives for the country.Sonia herself had earlier pointed out that the country was in the midst of major crises, including the Covid and economic problem as well as the China threat.Even at this time, the BJP-led NDA government was indulging in anti-democratic actions such as the farm ordinances, the changes in environmental laws and the new education policy, she said, adding that the Constitution of the country was under threat from the BJP, which was also trying to destabilise duly elected Congress governments.
24-08-2020||---||Mohali reports fresh 117 COVID-19 cases, five deaths||Mohali, August 24Mohali on Monday recorded 117 new COVID-19 cases and five deaths, taking the caseload in the district to 2,819.Meanwhile, 106 recoveries were also reported during the past 24 hours.The deaths reported today include a 56-year-old man from Dera Bassi, a 70-year-old woman from Mauli Baidwan and a 65-year-old male from Baltana — the patients also suffered from multiple co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. A 30-year-old man from Mataur and a 34-year-old man from Sector-68 are the remaining two fatalities reported.Of the fresh cases recorded, the maximum was from Mohali city (40), followed by Kharar at 30, Gharuan (15), Zirakpur (13), Boothgarh block (7), Banur (5), Lalru (4) and Dera Bassi (3).The active cases have climbed to 1,247 while 1,515 patients have been discharged. The death toll in the district has reached 57.On Sunday, four deaths, 141 cases and 98 recoveries were reported.
24-08-2020||---||Asymptomatic, mild-symptomatic COVID patients in Punjab to now give undertaking for home-isolation facility||Chandigarh, August 24The Punjab government on Monday issued new guidelines regarding medical fitness for home isolation of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients as well as for pregnant women and patients aged above 60 or with co-morbidities.All such patients will be offered the opportunity to provide an undertaking at the time of sampling regarding the availability of the home-isolation facility at their residence if they test positive for COVID-19, a press release by the state government read.These guidelines are also to be implemented on asymptomatic and mild-symptomatic COVID-19 patients for home isolation.Giving further details in the press release, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said instructions had been issued to all Deputy Commissioners and Civil Surgeons in this regard.He said: “The doctor available at the time of sampling will assess all such persons for clinical fitness for home isolation. In case such patients test positive for COVID-19, they will continue for home isolation as per the protocol.”The state Health Minister also clarified that there was no need to bring the patients to the hospital provided they remain to be asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic.Sidhu added: “It is compulsory for the patients under home isolation to procure a kit which should contain at least a thermometer, pulse oximeter, tab Vitamin C and tab zinc and regularly monitor themselves for any symptoms and report immediately to the Health Department if the symptoms appear or worsen.”The follow-up of home isolated patients will be done by the district administration’s COVID patient-tracking teams. These teams will also ensure follow up of these patients on phone and with at least three visits during the duration of home isolation.“If the contrary is found during a follow-up visits regarding undertaking given by patient about the availability of facilities for home isolation as per the protocol, such patients will be shifted to an isolation facility”, Sidhu said.Divulging about the private healthcare centres, the Minister said that the private institutions were also directed to follow the same protocols.Home isolation of asymptomatic and mild symptomatic COVID-19 patients aged more than 60 and or with co-morbidities may be allowed if certified by a personal medical specialist or the hospital that the patient is fit for home isolation and the concerned specialist or the hospital will monitor their condition for any timely treatment.Asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic COVID-19 pregnant women, with non-high-risk pregnancy and likely not to deliver in the next three weeks, may be allowed home isolation if certified by a gynaecologist that the woman was fit for home isolation. The private institutions are also directed to follow the same protocols.If any home isolated patients require any medical assistance or advice, they must call at 104 or the district helpline number.
24-08-2020||---||Former CM Parkash Singh Badal's residence declared macro containment zone||Archit WattsTribune News ServiceMuktsar, August 24After 11 more people deployed at the residence of former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in Muktsar district tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, the house was declared a macro containment zone.Notably, earlier, eight persons, including six security personnel, a cook and a telephone operator had tested COVID positive at the residence in Badal village. These included an SP of the Punjab police as well.Earlier, the Badals' residence was declared a micro containment zone. Now, with the new cases, the total count of COVID positive people at the ex-CM's residence has risen to 19.Notably, COVID reports of some of Badals' personal staff are still pending.Dr Paramdeep Sandhu, nodal officer, COVID, Muktsar district, said, "The ex-CM residence is now a macro containment zone as the number of positive people is above 15 there. Earlier, it was a micro containment zone."A health department official said that the former CM due to his old age was already advised home-isolation. However, both SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal regularly travelled and held meetings with party activists during the ongoing COVID pandemic. The local health department staff is yet to collect their samples for COVID testing.
24-08-2020||Patiala||28-year-old journalist dies of coronavirus in Patiala||A 28-year-old journalist, working with a vernacular daily in Patiala, succumbed to coronavirus Sunday while undergoing treatment at Government Rajindra Hospital.The journalist was admitted to the hospital on August 20 with breathlessness.The doctors at the hospital said that he was on ventilator support from the last couple of days.Patiala has been seeing a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases and deaths.Government Rajindra Hospital reported 20 COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours.Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has condoled the demise of the young photojournalist. He is survived by his parents and a sister.Jai Deep who was earlier working with Dainik Bhaskar and Dainik Savera Group lost his life within days of being infected with coronavirus. In his condolence message, the Chief Minister described Jai Deep as an upright journalist committed to his profession. He was a fine photographer with an astute sense of the nuances of photojournalism, said Capt Amarinder.The Chief Minister shared his heartfelt sympathies with the bereaved family, relatives and friends.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister’s Media Advisor Raveen Thukral also mourned the passing away of Jai Deep and extended his condolences to the members of the bereaved family.On behalf of the state government, the DC Patiala Kumar Amit along with District administration paid tributes to Jai Deep at his funeral on Monday.
24-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Gang  of killers active, Himachal police stations on Punjab border on alert||NURPUR, AUGUST 23The government has alerted all police stations on the Punjab border following the movement of the Kale Kachhewale gang which had attacked family members at Tharyal village in Pathankot district three days ago.One of the family members was killed on the spot whereas four were injured seriously. The gang has become active after three years.The Punjab Police have alerted Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur districts and areas bordering the state in Himachal Pradesh.The Himachal Police have kept Nurpur, Indora and Damtal police stations on high alert. Nakas have been set up on all routes at Bhadroya, Kandwal, Mohtali, Ondh and Bakatpur villages.
24-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||PHRO seeks probe into how suspended ASI got reinstated||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 23Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Jorawar Singh, who was dismissed by the Tarn Taran police on Saturday, after his video of consuming drugs went viral on social media, was earlier arrested by the Special Task Force (STF) for possessing drugs a year ago.An STF was constituted by the state government to nail drug peddlers and stem the problem of rampant drug addiction in the border state.He was posted at the Gharinda police station in Amritsar rural police district at that time. Though he managed to get a bail within a month, the police never filed a final report in the court even after a year.The Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), an NGO headed by retired justice Ajit Singh Bains, has now demanded a high-level probe into how he managed to get bail and got reinstated in the department with his tainted record. According to rules, an official gets suspended after an FIR is registered against him.On August 12, 2019, a team of STF border range headed by Inspector Varmeet Singh got a tip-off that ASI Jorawar Singh and ASI Avtar Singh, both posted at the Gharinda police station, were hooked to drugs. The informer told that the duo had links with drug peddlers and used to smuggle drugs in Gharinda and its adjoining areas besides other parts of the border belt.Following this, an FIR under Sections 21, 25, 29 and 27 of the NDPS Act was registered against them and a raid was conducted. They were caught red-handed at Bhakna Chowk while consuming heroin. The STF recovered 10-gm heroin from ASI Avtar Singh and 5-gm heroin from ASI Jorawar Singh. After their arrest, ASI Avtar Singh shot himself in the STF custody the next morning.Sarabjit Singh of the PHRO pointed out that a cop with such tainted record was reinstated in the department. “Not only this, he was again posted in the border belt by the Punjab Police,” he said, adding that: “Ironically, the STF did not even file the final reports in the case in the court. This needs a high-level probe. We urge Capt Amarinder Singh to probe the matter as to how a cop booked under the NDPS Act for having connections with drug peddlers managed to get bail and was reinstated in the department.”
24-08-2020||London||Once home to Maharaja Duleep’s son, UK mansion goes on sale for £15.5 million||A sprawling mansion in the heart of London, the former family home of Maharaja Duleep Singh’s son Prince Victor Albert Jay Duleep Singh, has gone on sale with a price tag of 15.5 million pounds. Story Highlights Duleep Singh, Maharaja Ranjeet Singh’s youngest son, was the last Maharaja of the Sikh empire in the 19th century until he was exiled to England when his empire came under the British Raj.His son, Prince Victor, was born in London in 1866 and was taken under the wing of Queen Victoria as his godmother.Many years later when he caused a stir in English society with his mixed-race marriage to Lady Anne Coventry, the daughter of the 9th Earl of Coventry, the British authorities leased a “grace-and-favour” mansion in the Little Boltons area of south-west Kensington to the newly married couple.“This former home of the exiled Crown Prince has been designed to provide excellent proportions and benefits from high ceilings, large living spaces and a 52 ft rear garden,” said the MD, Beauchamp Estates, which is organising the sale. — PTI
24-08-2020||---||4 nabbed for links with Pakistan intruders||Amritsar, August 23The killing of five Pakistan intruders by the Border Security Force in Tarn Taran yesterday has led the Punjab Police to a narcotics nexus thriving in connivance with local residents in the remote rural belt along the International Border. Four Indian nationals have been detained from the border belt in this regard.The four had established connections with the five Pakistan nationals, say police.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale said details of weapons recovered from the intruders were being investigated, though no radical activity had surfaced so far.“Prima facie it appears to be an attempt to push narcotics from the Pakistan side in connivance with drug smugglers on this side of the border,” he said.Without identifying the four men, as it could hamper the investigation, the SSP said: “We unlocked the two mobile phones recovered from the scene. The call details and data led us to some border-belt residents. The phones have been sent for technical forensic examination, as it may lead us to more drug operators.”As part of the investigation, teams of the Punjab Police in coordination with the BSF have been searching the area falling under the Dal border outpost, where the five were shot.On its part, the BSF is awaiting a reply from the Pakistan side after a protest was lodged during a flag meeting with Pakistan Rangers. IG (Punjab Frontier) Mahipal Yadav said: “As per the norms, the bodies will be kept for 72 hours. We will dispose of the bodies here if the other side does not claim these.”Around 9 kg heroin, arms and ammunition, two phones and Rs 610 in Pakistan currency were recovered from the slain infiltrators.
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Must stay united: Capt Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today stoutly opposed the move by certain Congress leaders to challenge the party leadership, saying this was not the time to raise the issue.Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CMThreat to democratic values, don’t divide partyAt a time when the very bedrock of India’s Constitutional strength is under threat, it is important for every Congress member to stand firmly behind the Gandhis.He said a strong Opposition was needed against the NDA government that was out to “destroy” the country’s democratic principles. Any demand for rehauling the party at this juncture would be detrimental to the party interests and that of the nation.He said the country faced a threat to its federal structure and a united Congress alone could protect the country and its people. Captain recalled the immense contribution of the Gandhi family to the country’s progress. — TNS
24-08-2020||Sameer Singh||No compensation, Malwa farmers to burn stubble||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 23Farmers of the Malwa region are yet to receive a compensation of Rs 2,500 per acre, promised by the state government last year for not burning paddy stubble. Expressing their inability to manage the residue ahead of another paddy harvesting season, farm unions have decided to burn it.Government did not fulfil its promiseAfter the government announced last year that farmers will get a compensation of Rs2,500 per acre for not burning the stubble, I somehow managed the expenses for its management. However, I didn’t receive the compensation. - A FarmerHarbansh Singh (name changed), a marginal farmer from Ralla village in Mansa district, said: “After the state government announced last year that farmers will get a compensation of Rs 2,500 per acre for not burning the stubble, I somehow managed to bear the expenses for its management. But to my utter dismay, I didn’t receive the compensation.”He said he could not afford to bear additional input cost this paddy harvesting season. “I know stubble burning causes pollution, but I have no other choice. If the government, despite having resources, cannot come up with a viable solution to the problem, what can small-scale farmers like me do?” said Harbansh.Gurdeep Singh, a farm union leader in Mansa, said, “Slapping challans and fixing responsibility on farmers alone will not produce the desired results. If the government is genuinely concerned about containing the problem of pollution caused by stubble burning, it has to provide compensation or some form of bonus to farmers for managing the paddy residue. Last year, many farm unions demanded a compensation of Rs 200 per quintal to manage the residue, but to no avail.”Singara Singh Mann, state president of the BKU (Ugrahan), said, “Only a handful of farmers received the compensation amount last year. Not every farmer can afford to bear the expenses for managing stubble on his own. The government should either come up with a viable solution or provide compensation to farmers, so that they can manage stubble on their own.”Bahadar Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, did not respond to calls.
24-08-2020||---||Combines without straw management system to be seized: Agriculture Secretary||Chandigarh, August 23To ensure cleaner environment, especially considering the Covid-19 pandemic, the Punjab Government has made it mandatory under the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, for owners of combine harvesters to have super straw management system installed in their machines.Agriculture Secretary Kahan Singh Pannu said some combine owners in the state were not installing the system, just to save time and cost of operation.With paddy grown on 67 lakh acres in Punjab and just one month left for the beginning of harvesting, the combines without the straw management system would not be allowed to operate and shall be impounded, along with the imposition of heavy fines. Cases would also be filed against the owners which could lead to imprisonment of up to six years, Pannu said.Explaining the salient features of the system, he said it helped in the direct sowing of wheat with machines, such as happy seeders and super seeders, saving the time and money of farmers. Further, the management of paddy residue harvested by the system was quite easy and therefore, did not require the farmers to burn the straw.Listing the incentives provided by the state government, Pannu said this year, the government was providing subsidy ranging from 50 per cent to 80 per cent for the purchase of 23,500 crop residue management machines.
24-08-2020||Ajay Joshi||3 years gone, jobless youth await allowance||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 23Before coming to power in 2017, the state Congress had announced ‘Har Ghar Captain’ scheme, under which it promised employment to one person of a family and ‘berozgari bhatta’ to every youth. However, even after being in power for three years, the Congress government has failed to keep its promise.Difficult to make ends meetThe unemployed youth must be helped during the Covid crisis. The allowance should be released at the earliest. It has become difficult to make ends meet. - Balwinder Kumar, BeneficiaryFor eligibility, a beneficiary must have passed Class X and must be between the age of 18 and 35 years as on July 1, 2017. It was promised that the eligible persons would be provided either a job or an unemployment allowance of Rs 2,500 a month.Those who had filed the form under the scheme received the ‘berozgari bhatta’ card and were given an e-mail ID to clear doubts regarding the scheme.Bharat Bhusha (29) of Wadda Saipur in Jalandhar said, “Before the 2017 election, I was given an unemployment allowance card. It was distributed by our area councillor. Most of the jobless youth in our locality were issued the card. Besides one job per family, Capt had also promised to provide unemployment allowance of Rs 2,500 to every eligible youth until he/she gets a job or for a maximum period of 36 months. But nothing happened in this regard.”Balwinder Kumar (35), a daily earner, questioned the government over its promise and said unemployed youth must be provided help, especially during the Covid crisis. “At least the allowance amount should be released. It has become very difficult to make ends meet,” he said. Balwinder and his brother were provided unemployment cards in February 2017.Pawan Kumar Tinu, SAD MLA from the Adampur constituency, said the ruling government had failed to provide employment in the state. Talking about the allowance money, he said, “As per the scheme, the government owes around Rs 1 lakh to each beneficiary. The scheme has remained only on paper.”Sunita Kalyan, director, District Employment Bureau, denied having any information about the unemployment allowance cards. Santokh Singh Chaudhary, Congress MP, on the other hand, said the disbursal of funds was delayed due to Covid outbreak. “The government will take steps in this regard soon,” he said.More than 32,000 youngsters in Jalandhar district are registered on the district ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ portal.
24-08-2020||Praful Chander Nagpal||Illegal sand mining unabated in Fazilka, 44 held in 6 months||Fazilka, August 23There is no legal sand quarry in Fazilka but illegal mining seems to be going on unabated in the district.The police booked two persons for illegal sand mining and recovered two sand-laden tractor-trailers in Noorshah village of the district on Saturday. On August 15, the police had booked two persons and confiscated two sand-laden tractor-trailers. On August 9, it arrested three persons and recovered two tractor-trailers and on August 5, it seized three trucks of sand in Fazilka town.SSP Harjeet Singh said 64 cases had been filed under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act in the district during the past six months and 44 persons had been arrested.Sources said Sukhera Bodla, Kathgarh and Lamochar Kalan areas of Jalalabad subdivision and Salemshah and Gaganke areas of Fazilka segment, from where the Sutlej creek passes, are the hotspots for the illegal practice.Executive Engineer, Mining, Pawan Kapoor said no case of any organised theft had been reported in Fazilka. He said surprise checks were being conducted and the department had recommended action against some persons. Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said a proposal had been sent to the government for an approval to set up some sand quarries in the district.
24-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||This year, no celebrations on Guru Nanak’s wedding anniversary in Batala||Tribune News ServiceBatala, August 23The Covid-19 pandemic has put the brakes on the 533rd marriage anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak, scheduled to be held on August 25.The celebrations had commenced in 1917 after priest Kesra Singh organised an ‘Akhand Path’ at the historic Gurdwara Kandh Sahib. It’s for the first time in 103 years that ‘Babe Da Viah’, a sobriquet used for the celebrations, has been cancelled.Police issue guidelines for devoteesThe Batala police have issued directions for people who have not received the message related to the event being cancelled. “We expect some people to turn up. We request them to strictly follow social distancing norms and wear masks. If possible, they must also carry santisers and soap with them,” said DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Mohammad Ishfaq said, “We have taken the decision in consultation with the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. Health experts opined that it’s not feasible to go ahead with the event. It will get difficult to practise social distancing.” This has come as a major setback for shopkeepers, who were already reeling under the impact of the lockdown imposed in the wake of the pandemic.“Livelihood of hundreds of traders depend on the celebrations to a great extent. Covid has disrupted the economy to a great and thousands of people have been rendered jobless. Now, this decision will virtually sound the death knell for shopkeepers,” said Jaideep Singh Teja, a resident.Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who represents Dera Baba Nanak segment, said the administration was left with no option due to the surge in cases.
24-08-2020||---||Release salaries of doctors: Punjab Chief secretary||Chandigarh, August 23The Chief Secretary, Punjab, has directed the Finance Department to pay health workers’ salaries on time. On August 20, The Tribune carried a report highlighting the delay in payment of salaries to frontline health workers.Frontline warriorsThe salaries of the Health Department staff should not be stopped or delayed. They are on the frontline in the war against Covid and we salute them for their efforts. - Vini Mahajan, Chief SecretaryIn a tweet, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said she had issued directions that the salaries of the staff of the Department of Health, Medical Education and Rural Development should not be stopped or delayed. “They are on the frontline in this war against Covid and we salute them for their efforts,” wrote the Chief Secretary.Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Hussan Lal had also written a letter to Principal Secretary KAP Sinha highlighting how Group A and B employees working at the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare were not paid salaries for July. He stressed for the release of salaries saying “the medical staff are working day and night and putting in their best efforts to tackle the pandemic”.Salaries of doctors working under the Department of Rural Development were also being delayed.
24-08-2020||---||1,161 fresh cases, 50 more succumb in Punjab||Chandigarh, August 23The state reported 1,161 Covid-positive cases, including 50 deaths, in the past 24 hours. With these, the state caseload has reached 41,779 and the total number of casualties has reached 1,086.Ludhiana reported the maximum 242 cases, Patiala 188, Jalandhar 107, Amritsar 68, Moga 60, Kapurthala 58 and Sangrur reported 51 cases. Patiala reported 19 deaths and was followed by Ludhiana with nine, Jalandhar seven, Gurdaspur six, Hoshirapur and Ferozepur two each, while Fazilka, Kapurthala, Muktsar, Sangrur and Tarn Taran reported one death each.31 samples taken from Badal houseA day after declaring former CM Parkash Singh Badal’s residence a micro-containment zone, Health Department officials on Sunday collected samples of 31 persons from the premises. However, none from the Badal family was tested.Meanwhile, the SHO of Malout (city) police station and an ASI posted there have tested Covid positive today. Both the infected cops have isolated themselves. The SHO said he was not going to the police station for the past three-four days.Meanwhile, a day after declaring former CM Parkash Singh Badal’s residence a micro-containment zone, the Health Department officials today collected samples of 31 persons from there. However, none from the Badal family was tested.Dr Manju, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Civil Hospital, Badal, said: “We have collected total 33 samples from Badal village today, including 31 samples from the residence of the ex-Chief Minister. Tomorrow, we will try to speak to our seniors and the ex-CM for the Badal family’s samples.”
24-08-2020||---||‘Khalistan’ flag hoisted again in Moga||Moga, August 23A ‘Khalistan’ flag was put up on a flyover in Moga city today. Senior Superintendent of Police Harmanbir Singh Gill claimed it was done by some miscreants and the act had nothing to do with fundamentalist organsations.He said the miscreants’ intention was to disturb communal harmony in the area. They would be arrested soon. “We will not allow such incidents to happen in our district,” he added.Gill said hoisting any such flag was not a legal offence, but it was punishable, if done with a “malicious” intention.Many such incidents have been reported in Moga district over the past few days. Those who hoisted such a flag atop the mini-secretariat had been identified and one of them arrested.
24-08-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Construction work at Bathinda Technical University under lens over costs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 23The execution of construction work worth Rs 42 crore at the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University without the approval of the Board of Governors (BoG) has come under the scanner of the Department of Technical Education and Industrial Training.Against the work of constructing an administrative block, lecture theatre and departments, awarded for Rs 98.31 crore, the cost incurred in the works had reached Rs 140 crore. The contractor was made payment of Rs 115 crore against the tender awarded for Rs 98.3 crore.The Director, Technical Education, in a communication to the Registrar of the university, has pointed out that given the “very precarious” financial situation of the university, additional works of Rs 42 crore could not have been executed without the approval of the BoG. The university has been asked to explain who authorised the works. “Once the tender was awarded for Rs 98.3 crore, not a penny more should have been paid without the approval of the BoG. Who authorised the payment beyond Rs 98.3 crore?” the director asked.Anurag Verma, Principal Secretary, Technical Education, confirmed that the letter had been issued to Prof Buta Singh Sidhu, Registrar, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, and a reply was awaited. “The details are regarding the procedure adopted for the execution of the work. We will send the reply by Monday,” said Prof Sidhu.The issue surfaced after the contractor, ASC Builders Pvt Ltd, wrote to the Principal Secretary seeking payment of the pending bills. Against the estimated cost of Rs 115 crore, the work was awarded for Rs 98.31 crore. During the execution of the work, the scope was enhanced to Rs 115 crore and the same amount was released to the contractor. But due to further enhancement, the project cost rose to Rs 140 crore. The contractor has said though the building was handed over in January, he is yet to get Rs 25 crore.
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Gurdaspur gets degree college at Ladhupur||To empower the youth of the border districts of the state, the state government has developed Government College, Kala Afghana, as a physical education institute and opened a new degree college at Ladhupur in Gurdaspur district.Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa today said the Kala Afghana college would provide new opportunities to the youth in the field of sports. He said the institute had been made a constituent college of the newly established Sports University at Patiala. The minister said the new degree college at Ladhupur would provide an opportunity to rural youth to pursue higher studies without having to travel to far-off places. — TNS
24-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Five held with 1.12 kg heroin||The BSF on Saturday arrested five drug smugglers in Wan Tara Singh village and recovered 1.12 kg heroin from them. The contraband was concealed in their shoes.The accused were identified as Bikramjit Singh, Nirmal Singh, Nachhattar Singh, Panjab Singh and Raju. A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against them.Another party of the BSF’s 71 Battalion found eight packets of heroin, weighing 2.41 kg, in the fields of Tarsem Singh of Naushehra Dhalla. A case under Sections 18, 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused, who is yet to be arrested. — OC
24-08-2020||---||Punjab government likely to increase cane price by Rs 10 per quintal||Chandigarh, August 23The state is all set to increase the state advised price (SAP) of sugarcane by Rs 10 per quintal even as the retail price of sugar remains over Rs 3,200 per quintal.The price of cane procured from growers (SAP) has not been increased by the government for the past two years. This had led to resentment among the cane growers, especially when the prices of sugar continued to soar. The seven private and nine cooperative sugar mills in the state have been paying an SAP of Rs 295-Rs 310 per quintal to the growers since 2018-19.Recovery rateState Cane Commissioner Gurwinder Singh says efforts are being made to increase the sugar recovery rate from 9.5 to 10 per cent by introducing better varieties of caneOfficial sources told The Tribune that the proposal of a hike in the price was likely to be placed before the Punjab Cabinet for its nod, after it is approved by the Sugarcane Development Board in September. “As recommended by the NITI Aayog, the state is in favour of linking the SAP to the market price of sugar. Since sugar prices are over Rs 3,200 per quintal, the price of cane can be revised this year,” a senior official said.The Centre had recently announced a hike in the fair and remunerative price (FRP) of cane by Rs 10 per quintal to Rs 285 (for sugar recovery of 10 per cent) and at Rs 270.75 for the recovery rate of 9.5 per cent. Punjab’s sugar recovery rate from cane averages at 9.5 per cent, which forced state Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to reject the meagre hike in the FRP of cane. "Private sugar mills owe Rs 240 crore to cane growers and cooperative mills owe Rs 123 crore to them," Randhawa said.
24-08-2020||---||Massive tax evasion in Mandi Gobindgarh||Surinder BhardwajFatehgarh Sahib, August 23As soon as a team of police officials raided the residence of a transporter at Pearl Enclave, Fatehgarh Sahib, early this morning, all private transporters or their agents residing in the district fled. The raids were conducted in connection with the statewide crackdown by the Vigilance Bureau (VB) after unearthing a GST evasion racket worth crores.Network of criminals, transporters?Private transporters or their agents, popularly called ‘passers’ here, in connivance with officials of the Excise and Taxation Department, evaded Goods and Services Tax (GST) and caused huge losses to the state exchequer. Over 80 to 100 such traders are operating from Asia’s biggest iron and steel town Mandi Gobindgarh. The units operating here transport iron and various other goods to other states and bring in raw material from across the country.If sources are to be believed, the recent raid of the VB is just the tip of the iceberg. Majority of the ‘passers’ have recruited petty criminals, who accompany the vehicle carrying the goods with fake bill and use different mobiles to inform the officials as well as the transporters about the location of vehicles.A transporter, on the condition of anonymity, said they paid anything from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh per month to mobile wing and officials of the Excise and Taxation Department, as per their “status and capacity to take risk”.Sources said the ‘passers’ charge from Rs 700 to Rs 900 per tonne for within the state delivery and from Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,500 per tonne for out-of-state delivery and vice versa. They prepare fake bills for tax evasion, which are usually ignored by the officials of the department during checking. The mill owners thus save 18 per cent GST, which is approximately Rs 7,200 per tonne. They sell the product too without bill, approximately Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,500 per tonne cheaper, causing huge financial losses to the state exchequer. The government can earn crores of rupees as tax from Mandi Gobindgarh only, the sources added.Meanwhile, Sunita Batra, Assistant Excise and Tax Commissioner, Fatehgarh Sahib, when asked as to how many defaulting traders had been penalised for using fake bills since she had taken over, said the checking was being done by the mobile wing and the matter was related to them. She termed it a sensitive issue and evaded all queries.
24-08-2020||Fazilka||Fazilka wears cleanliness crown||Abohar fails in sanitation testAbohar: Abohar has been tagged as the third filthiest local body among 382 municipalities and its All-India position is 380th. It ranks 14th in Punjab in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, conducted in 4,242 cities across the country. Abohar and Muktsar were listed among the 10 dirtiest cities in the Swachh Survekshan 2017. The strength of safai karamcharis in the Abohar civic body has dipped from 300 to 150 in the past decade. The state government had rejected the proposals to fill the vacancies, while outsourcing proved futile. Its financial condition is in a sorry state. Various scams were unearthed but no action was taken against erring staff.Ministers, MLAs make light of tough timesGurdaspur: While Covid-19 may have visited the political class in the city but it has not been able to keep dampen their Punjabi wit and spirit. Cabinet Ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tripat Rajinder Sngh Bajwa and sitting MLAs Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal and Amit Vij have contracted the infection but they are keeping themselves and others in good humour even through the difficult times. “Covid does not affect rats and snakes, so all my political opponents are safe,” said Randhawa recently. Lodhinangal, who is back after being treated at an Amritsar hospital, remarked “When people will ask me what I did in 2020, I will say I just washed my hands and did nothing else.” Another MLA quipped, “Lockdowns are here because you can revive the economy but not a corpse.”
