24-04-2020||Mohali||No new case in Mohali||Mohali has not reported any new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, officials said on Friday.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said some 1,132 samples have been sent for testing so far, of which 1,020 were found negative. Mohali’s case tally currently stands at 63.He said authorities were currently conducting a survey in the densely populated Nayagaon village to identify suspected coronavirus patients.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that district administration was ensuring that there was no let-up in the drive to conduct sampling after tracing contacts.
24-04-2020||Patiala||District administration sends notice to Patiala’s senior deputy mayor for violating quarantine orders||Patiala health department sent a notice to Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi on Friday for defying home quarantine orders recently when he went to distribute food packets at a gathering.Yogi, who was told to remain home quarantined for 14 days after complained of flu-like symptoms, defied orders to distribute food packets to the needy in his own area.His act prompted district authorities to despatch a notice to him demanding an explanation for his actions. Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said: “We have sent the notice and will act further once we receive a response over it”.Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said only Red Cross Society was give permission to distribute food packets. She also said city councillors were not allowed to distribute food packets and that they were instead asked to submit a list of people staying in their wards. Municipal inspectors were then deputed to oversee food distribution, she said.Police meanwhile have to take any legal action---Kotwali Station House Officer Inspector Sukhdev Singh said police have yet to receive any complaint about violation of quarantine.Meanwhile the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) wants demanded Yogi sacked. Asking how such a thing could happen in Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s own constituency, Akali leader Surjit Singh Rakhra said it was “shocking” that the senior deputy mayor had “endangered the lives of 300 persons by distributing food packets at a time when he should have been under quarantine”.Yogi had admitted himself to an isolation ward on April 16, but tested negative, following which he was ordered to stay home for two weeks.
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police arrest 9 for forging curfew passes for transporting stranded labourers||Amid the COVID-19 curfew and lockdown, the Punjab Police have busted a gang engaged in making forged passes for stranded migrant labourers, with 71 such labourers already transported by them to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in exchange for a total consideration of Rs 3.5 lakh.Nine members of the gang have been arrested and cases registered against them under various sections at the Tanda police station, disclosed DGP Dinkar Gupta, adding that five fake passes, a stamp of SDM Tanda, a computer, a CPU, a printer and six mobile phones used by them had been seized. One member of the gang is absconding.The DGP said the accused were charging approximately Rs 60,000 for a tempo traveller and Rs 30,000 for Innova car.Of the 71 labourers smuggled out of Punjab so far with the help of fake curfew passes, 13 were sent in a truck, 20 each in two tempo travellers and six each in three Innova cars.Four rounds had so far been made by vehicles carrying such migrants since April 12 to Gonda district of Bihar, as well as Lucknow and Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, he informed.The gang was busted on the basis of information that came to the notice of Hoshiarpur police that some fake/illegal curfew passes had been used to cross the border from Punjab to Haryana and UP.Trouble arose for the gang when alert officials on duty at Shambhu barrier in Rajpura became suspicious and asked one of the vehicles carrying such migrants to return to Tanda.On returning to Tanda, the labourers started demanding their money back from the accused, and the whispers of the same reached the police, said the DGP.Divulging the modus operandi of the accused, SSP Hoshiyarpur, Gaurav Garg, who spearheaded the investigations, said they had created forged curfew passes using computer software and the same were pasted on the windscreen of the vehicles.The driver and associate cleaner of the vehicle were given copies of the forged passes, which were made  by photoshopping an original pass issued by Batala-SDM to a taxi driver for travelling to IGI Airport, Delhi.The accused met the driver at a petrol pump at Shambhu border while having lunch, and the former showed them his pass, of which they took photographs on the pretext of using it to move around without hassle.However, they soon got the idea of using the photo of the pass to fake passes and make money.The accused have been identified as Satnam Singh alias Jassi, Ravi Kumar alias Ravi, Gaurav Kumar, Sukhwinder Singh alias Raju, Chander Mohan, Ajay Pal, Kamal Mehra, Vishal Vohra alias Shanu and Pankaj Kumar.The accused on the run has been identified as Chandan alias Chandu.
24-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra begins sending back Sikh pilgrims stuck in Nanded’s Hazur Sahib||The Maharashtra Government has begun sending back Sikh pilgrims stranded at Nanded’s Hazur Sahib with the first batch of 300 people leaving the town on Thursday night.According to district officials, ten buses left the town from the gurdwara for Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. They are expected to reach their destinations by Saturday evening.Sources say around 1,500 pilgrims from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh had been stuck at Nanded ever since the countrywide lockdown was announced a month ago. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had earlier suggested that special trains be run from Nanded to Punjab to ferry the pilgrims. However the central government had shot down the idea.The Maharashtra Government then decided to transport them by buses, officials said.District officials say the Nanded gurdwara has organised 150 buses with ten vehicles leaving the town every evening.
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||CM directs Industries Dept, DCs to give approval, curfew passes for reopening to eligible industries||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday directed the Department of Industries and the District Industries Centres to provide all industrial units eligible to reopen with requisite approvals along with required curfew passes within 12 hours of applying.Amarinder also promised to raise the issue of central support for industry with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the video chat that the latter has convened with chief ministers of all states on Monday.At a Webinar that saw the participation of nearly 100 industry stalwarts, foreign ambassadors/diplomats and others, the chief minister said he had already requested the central government to find innovative solutions to support the industry in this difficult time so that they could continue to pay the labourers and workers. “The industry cannot pay wages endlessly,” he said, responding to some concerns expressed by the participants.Captain Amarinder said the state was not getting its share from the Centre, which had also rejected its request for allowing liquor sales, leading to losses to the tune of Rs 6,200 crore in revenue.“The Centre has to compensate (them),” he said, adding that he would raise these concerns during Monday’s meeting.He also said he would raise the issue of reopening alcohol business again with the prime minister.“How does the Centre expect a small state like Punjab to cope with the current crisis without GST and without liquor sales,” he asked.Amarinder also conveyed to the industry the central government’s clarification that there would no penal action against any industrial unit if a worker is found infected with coronavirus.The Chief Minister also assured the industry that there was neither any intention nor direction from his government to impose any criminal liabilities on the industry and their CEOs for COVID-positive cases in their workforce. However, he urged them to follow all health and medical safety protocols laid down for checking spread of the coronavirus.The Chief Minister has directed all departments to support and facilitate the permitted industries to reopen and commence operations, said an official spokesperson. Pointing out that industry could function as per guidelines if they provide food and shelter to workers according to the Centre’s locked-in permission to operate, he also made it clear that all orders giving approval to industrial unit to operate must be sent to the labour, police and other concerned departments so that there is no harassment of industry.Captain Amarinder urged the industry to immediately bring to the notice of the district magistrate concerned or the Industry Minister and senior officers of the department any difficulty faced by them.“If due to any supply chain problems any industrial unit cannot continue to function, they will be permitted to shut down operations even as the government will make all efforts to prevent such problems,” he said.
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown: Amarinder asks Rajnath to permit retired defence personnel to return home||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday urged Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to grant special permission to defence personnel who have retired from service to return to their home states amid the countrywide lockdown due to COVID-19. In a letter to the Union Defence Minister, Captain Amarinder Singh further said that in case it was not feasible to enable them to return home immediately, then the Command Headquarters across the country should be directed to take special care of them until these defence personnel can get the requisite permissions.Captain Amarinder further pointed out that Punjab contributes significantly to the strength of the armed forces, who are engaged in defending the nation.  Every month, a significant number of such defence personnel retire from the services, he said, adding that a large number of them hailing from Punjab are unable to come back to the state at present in view of the lockdown, and continue to be stationed in their last place of posting. “Undoubtedly they are facing considerable mental trauma because of the inability to be reunited with their near and dear ones,” said the Chief Minister.
24-04-2020||---||In 40 days, Punjab saw 3 peaks in Covid curve, May 3 lifting may not take place: Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, April 24Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday said he would go by the advice of the expert committee, set up to formulate Punjab’s lockdown exit strategy in the matter of opening up the state.During a webinar with leading industrialists, economic experts and diplomats/ambassadors of various countries, the Chief Minister said any decision on the lifting of lockdown/curfew would be taken on the basis of recommendations of the 20-member expert committee, which is expected to submit its report on Saturday.Reiterating that his priority was saving the lives of Punjabis, the Chief Minister said, “The life of my Punjabis is more important." Factories can be restarted but we can’t get people back, he added."If the expert committee, which includes medical experts and doctors, recommends opening up, either partially or completely, we will do so," he said, in response to questions. “I will go by their advice,” Capt said, adding that the health of the people was the priority, even though the state government was aware that the lockdown could not be kept in place indefinitely.Pointing out that Punjab had witnessed three peaks in the Covid curve in the past 40 days, the Chief Minister said it may not be possible to lift the lockdown completely for some more time, but the state will examine the recommendations of the expert committee and the prevailing ground situation. In Punjab, of the 22 districts, five are currently in Green Zone. The Prime Minister is also scheduled to consult with the chief ministers of all states on the issue of lifting the lockdown through a video conference on Monday.The Chief Minister, during the webinar, extended his condolences to the Italian ambassador, Vincenzo de Luca, for the large number of lives lost in their country due to the Covid pandemic. The envoy, on his part, expressed solidarity with the people of Punjab in their fight against the coronavirus.Pointing to the over one lakh Punjabis living in Italy, which is one of the most affected countries in the world, the ambassador urged the Punjab government to explore prospects for more investment by Italian companies in the state, especially in the field of food processing and agricultural machinery manufacturing. In response, the Chief Minister directed Invest Punjab to discuss the issue with the Italian team and find investment opportunities for them.Even the ambassador of Denmark, Freddy Svane, expressed keen interest in exploring investment opportunities in Punjab and requested the chief minister to take up the issue of some clearance pending with the GoI.
24-04-2020||Bathinda||8-yr-old boy gives his piggy bank savings to feed poor kids in Punjab||An eight-year-old boy donated his entire piggy bank savings to provide relief to poor people affected by the ongoing lockdown.Preetinder Singh donated Rs 7,500 to the Bathinda SSP."I gave my piggy bank to him (SSP) so that poor children get food," Preetinder said."I want to thank this small kid for contributing his money so that poor people who do not have meals can be fed. By doing so, he gave us a message that one should use one's savings to serve people," SSP Nanak Singh said.Punjab police, which is ensuring implementation of curfew orders in the state, is providing food and other essentials to the needy. PTI
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab's coronavirus death rate higher than Haryana: Govt data||Punjab has higher COVID-19 mortality and lower recovery rates in comparison to neighbouring Haryana, according to the latest government data.The Union Territory of Chandigarh has reported no death related to the novel coronavirus so far.With Punjab reporting 17 deaths so far, the COVID-19 fatality rate in the state stood at six per cent which is more than the national average of three per cent, according to the latest Punjab COVID-19 status report.The mortality rate in Haryana, which has reported three deaths so far out of a total of 275 coronavirus cases, is worked out at just 1.09 per cent, as per the state government's medical bulletin.Punjab has reported 283 coronavirus cases till Friday morning while Haryana has witnessed 275 cases so far. A total of 27 coronavirus cases have been reported in Chandigarh so far.On Thursday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had ordered a detailed audit of every coronavirus-related death by experts to understand and check the high mortality rate in the state.The CM had also pointed out that the mortality numbers in the state were high largely due to co-morbidity and lack of health-seeking behaviour (patients come late to the hospital).Sixty-six patients have been discharged from hospitals of different districts in Punjab, bringing the state's coronavirus recovery rate to 23 per cent, according to the status report.However, in the case of Haryana, the number of patients getting cured is much higher than that of Punjab despite both states having an almost similar number of coronavirus cases.Till date, 183 out of a total of 275 patients have been discharged from hospitals in Haryana. The recovery rate is 66.54 per cent, as per the medical bulletin.In Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, 14 patients out of total 27 have been cured of the deadly infection. The recovery rate is 52 per cent.Punjab's testing rate is far lower than that of Haryana.The testing rate in Punjab is 296 per million as compared to 728 per million in Haryana, according to data available.The national average testing rate is 373 per million.While Punjab has conducted testing of more than 8,500 samples, Haryana has sent more than 18,000 samples for testing as of now.Chandigarh has tested 599 samples so far, according to the bulletin. PTI
24-04-2020||Gurdaspur||Coronavirus: Gurdaspur man puts wedding with Pakistan girl on hold, lovebirds await end of pandemic||In September, a young man from Punjab's Gurdaspur district reached out to a woman in Pakistan's Karachi city. Not sure how Hindu festivals were celebrated there, he asked her how was her Janmashtami.She explained and what started out of curiosity then soon turned into an innocent love.They have regularly talked on Facebook since.In November, Amit Sharma, 30, proposed to Summan RantiLal, 28, who said “Yes”.As their love story flourished, overcoming the tyranny of the borders, the coronavirus pandemic struck and the plans for their marriage, initially scheduled for June, now hang by a thread.Amit knew pursuing a relationship with a Karachi girl would not be easy.“I had to convince my family. The long-distance had led to a kind of fear about whether this will be even possible. But Summan's relatives in Gujarat's Ahmedabad and Gurdaspur's Qadian guided us," Amit, a salesman at a private company, said.Summan is pursuing M.Phil from Karachi University and loves travelling,cooking and reading, he said.“She had always told me that travelling is her hobby and she had visited many places but never travelled alone. Now she will have to travel a long distance for me.” Amit said.After the pandemic subsides, Amit's family will send a sponsorship visa to Summan's family, he said, adding his father Ramesh Sharma is eager to visit Pakistan. Summan's family too is waiting to serve the famous Karachi halwa. PTI
24-04-2020||London||Sikh deaths: UK reviews coronavirus effect on ethnic minorities||The UK's Opposition Labour Party on Friday announced a review into the disproportionate impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the country's minority ethnic populations, including those of Indian-origin.Labour Party Leader Keir Starmer hosted a digital roundtable alongside ministers from his shadow cabinet and representatives from Britain's minorities communities to kick-start the process of analysing the factors behind black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) groups being more likely to be admitted for intensive care and die from Covid-19.“It is extremely concerning to see the disproportionate toll coronavirus is taking on our BAME communities. We cannot afford to treat this as an issue to investigate once the crisis is over. We must address it now,” said Starmer.“In the face of this national emergency, Labour will continue to work constructively with the government. That includes shining a light on issues where it is clear more detailed understanding is needed,” he said.The Opposition's review follows the UK government's announcement that Public Health England would be leading an investigation into the factors behind the higher death rates and more severe symptoms of the novel coronavirus among Indian and other ethnic minority communities in the country.The first set of NHS England data broken down by ethnicity revealed this week that people of Indian-origin were among the worst affected minority groups in England, making up an estimated 3 per cent of the death rate from COVID-19.BAME groups made up 16.2 per cent of the overall death rate, higher than their 14 per cent proportion within the wider population.Figures from the UK's Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre show that 34.5 per cent of patients in intensive care for COVID-19 were from BAME backgrounds and all 14 doctors from the National Health Service (NHS) who fell victim to the deadly virus were from ethnic minority backgrounds.“All the early signs suggest BAME communities and healthcare workers are disproportionately bearing the brunt of coronavirus,” said Marsha de Cordova, Labour's Shadow Secretary of State for Women and Equalities.“Across our frontline is huge numbers of BAME doctors, nurses, bus drivers and other BAME key workers. Every day they put themselves in harm's way to save and support the lives of others. We must do everything to protect them, their families and communities who have been hit the hardest by the virus,” she said.The Labour Party has appointed a new Race Relations Adviser, campaigner and Labour peer, Baroness Doreen Lawrence, to oversee the review and the wider race relations work for the party.“Black, Asian and minority ethnic communities have long been disadvantaged by the social and economic injustice which still exists in our country. There is a clear and tragic pattern emerging of the pandemic's impact on those communities which must be better understood,” said Lawrence.Other experts part of the review launch included Harun Khan of the Muslim Council of Britain, Simon Woolley of Operation Black Vote, Jas Khatkar from the Sikh Network, Dr Chaand Nagpaul –British Medical Association's Council Chair, among others.Sikh Federation UK said its representatives presented latest data being collated from funeral directors that shows in the last three weeks over 60 per cent of all Sikh deaths are linked to COVID-19.British Sikhs believe one of the reasons why elders in the Sikh community have been affected is in part due to known underlying health conditions, such as diabetes and heart disease. The extended family system with several generations living under the same roof has also proved a challenge in terms of effective self-isolation for those at greater risk from the virus.Some speculation that economic deprivation rather than ethnicity may be a factor behind the death toll disparity has been dismissed by the British Sikh community.“Deprivation is clearly not relevant for the hard-working and affluent Sikh community,” said Sikh Federation UK, calling for targeted and specific timely advice for the most vulnerable within minority communities. PTI
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Dera Sacha Sauda chief's parole plea rejected||Authorities have rejected a plea seeking grant of three-week parole to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, jailed in Sunaria prison in Rohtak district for raping his two disciples, officials said on Friday.The 52-year-old Dera chief's ailing mother Naseeb Kaur had filed the plea for parole on grounds of her illness, they said.The parole application had been moved before the Sunaria jail superintendent recently.It was rejected on the basis of inputs from the Superintendent of Police, Sirsa.Official sources said that apprehension of breach of peace was the main ground for turning down the parole plea.In June last year, the Dera Sacha Sauda chief had applied for a 42-day parole for farming in his fields in Sirsa. Later, he withdrew the application.In August last year too, parole plea of the Dera Sacha Sauda chief had been rejected. At that time too, the dera chief had sought parole to attend to his ailing mother.The plea was then found invalid by the Sunaria jail superintendent on the basis of a report of the Sirsa deputy commissioner, who took into account the security considerations, and the opinion of a board of doctors who examined the Dera chief's mother.Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was convicted in two rape cases by a Panchkula court in August 2017. PTI
24-04-2020||Patiala||Punjab reports 11 new coronavirus cases, tally stands at 298||Punjab reported 11 new cases on Friday, taking the number of cases in the state to 298.Patiala, Mansa, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Ludhiana reported new cases, an evening health bulletin from Punjab's health department said. Six more people tested positive for coronavirus from Patiala’s Rajpura town---a place that has now emerged as a cause for concern. Coronavirus tally in that area alone now stands at 36. All six are contacts of already diagnosed cases.Authorities blame a spike in cases in the area on hookah parties that was held there in defiance of curfew orders.The development takes the number of cases in the district to 55---the highest in the state after Mohali and Jalandhar, both of which stand at 63 currently. Mansa reported two new cases, taking the district tally to 13.The two cases came from Budhlada, where they were staying at a mosque after attending a religious event organised by Tablighi Jamaat sect in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Their spouses had already tested positive earlier in the month.This was their second test---they had tested negative on April 2.   Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Amritsar each reported one---all contacts of already diagnosed cases. Punjab’s infection tally now stands at 298 with 17 reported deaths. The state has 211 active cases. Seventy people have been cured and one person is critical and on ventilator support.
24-04-2020||Jalandhar||Watch: Coronavirus patient in Jalandhar does 'Bhangra' on Punjabi beats, says 'want to lift spirits'||Videos of patients admitted to the isolation wards in Jalandhar – dancing their hearts out – is lightening the spirits of many and spreading hope amidst the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic in the region.A video of the Jalandhar Mayor’s OSD foot tapping to a peppy Punjabi number in the civil hospital’s isolation ward has gone viral on Friday.The video, which was shared by Mayor’s OSD Harpreet Singh Walia, was aimed  at dispelling COVID-19 myths and telling people it’s possible to defeat it.While the testing positive of Mayor’s OSD Harpreet Singh Walia on Tuesday – had heightened tensions – with many councillors, MLAs and senior MC officials being in his direct contact – the clip has acted as a balm for the stressed-out populace of the district which has been witnessing a dramatic spike in COVID-19 cases.In the hour-long video – part of which has been shared on social media —an energetic Walia can be seen flaunting his Bhangra moves heartily—in a hospital room.Walia soon shared the video with family, friends and colleagues of the Municipal Corporation.While about a week ago, another video of several COVID-19 positive persons had also gone viral on social media, patients have been sharing these from their hospital beds, to propagate a message of hope.Speaking to The Tribune Harpreet Walia said: “I had never hoped the video would get so popular. I voluntarily got myself tested and immediately shared my positive status on social media – the moment I tested positive. The video was shared by me today to tell the world that COVID-19 isn’t a reason to get glum or unnecessarily stressed out as many people are doing. Afterword got out that I was tested positive – some neighbours began treating my family as if I had committed a crime. Some are spreading unnecessary panic and tension. I wanted to dispel the myths.”While the video was shot by another person in isolation in his neighbouring room, Walia said: “I first shared this with my family, then with all the MC groups and then I put in it on FB. I have been overwhelmed with calls as soon as I did. Relatives and friends are calling from the US, Canada, Australia and all across India. I’m happy the video is sending the message COVID-19 is pretty easy to defeat. It’s just that our spirit needs to be right.”Four people of Walia’s family – his mother, daughter and both parents have also been tested and their results are awaited. But Walia said he has asked them to be at ease – as patients are being properly taken care of at the hospital.Isolated at a room at the Civil Hospital’s De-addiction centre – Walia says: “We are all cheerful, abiding by protocol and watching each other’s backs as we undergo treatment. There is no need to worry.”Ravi Chabra, the Nijatam Nagar patient, who got discharged on Thursday and also featured in a previous video, said: “During my time, I was first the only patient at the ward. Later it began filling up. But I noticed everyone was sad. So on a gloomy Sunday – we all lifted our spirits by dancing in the ward. I have recovered. My 72-year-old mother has been discharged from CMC Ludhiana and my 17-year-old is still under treatment. He is discharged soon too. COVID-19 is just a viral. I request people to abide by social distancing and keep spirits high and it is absolutely manageable.”
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Fake news travels faster than coronavirus, says Punjab officer||Fake news is literally travelling faster than coronavirus in Punjab!"Rumour/Fake News: Patiala Senior Deputy Mayor, Yogendra Yogi who had tested positive for COVID-19 and who has been put under home quarantine was seen distributing ration to locals," Special Chief Secretary K.B.S. Sidhu, who is in-charge of monitoring statewide coronavirus cases, informed in a tweet on Friday.RUMOUR/ FAKE NEWS: “Patiala Senior Deputy Mayor, Yogendra Yogi who had tested positive for COVID-19 & who has been put under home quarantine was seen distributing ration to locals”.FACT: He had tested negative and media had put out a wrong report. (1/2)  Clarifying further, he said: "Fact: He had tested negative and media had put out a wrong report." Sidhu, who is aggressively tweeting messages relating to coronavirus, told IANS that the focus of the government is to give the right news at the right time.He said the fake news online and rumours relating to the pandemic have grown exponentially."The moment I come across news that seems fake, or based on rumours, after cross-checking facts with authorities and if it is wrong I prefer to kill it spontaneously," he said.Acting tough against those spreading fake news on the COVID-19 crisis, Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta has constituted a special team to monitor all social media platforms as well as to identify and take action against anyone found to be circulating false news.The team will be headed by an ADGP rank officer to be stationed at police headquarters here, the DGP said, directing all district police chiefs to take prompt action against those spreading false news.He said under the Disaster Management Act of 2005, which has now been promulgated to deal with the crisis, it is an offence to spread false news.Issuing a strict warning, the DGP said the Punjab Police would come down heavily on anyone found guilty in this regard.He said the onus of spreading false news would lie be the WhatsApp group administrators. IANS
24-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Social-distancing norms grossly violated in Hoshiarpur||Social-distancing norms were grossly violated in Hoshiarpur as book shops opened, for the first time during the ongoing lockdown, for three hours.The main books market of the city, Vakilan Bazaar, remained crowded and there were no arrangements for maintaining social-distancing by the shopkeepers or the administration.The DC had ordered relaxation to open school and college book shops for 3 hours (6 to 9 am) on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
24-04-2020||Amritsar||FlyAmritsar Initiative for more evacuation flights to Canada||FlyAmritsar Initiative has appealed to the Canadian Government for more evacuation flights for Canadian permanent residents from the Amritsar airport.In a letter to Francois-Philippe Champagne, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Government of Canada, FlyAmritsar Initiative has thanked the Canadian Government for making flight arrangements from the Amritsar airport through a series of humanitarian evacuation flights for Canadian citizens and their immediate permanent resident relatives stranded in Punjab.The Initiative is a non-government civil society advocacy campaign working on aviation-related issues linked to Punjab with impetus on direct air connectivity of Amritsar with Canada.In a press note issued here on Wednesday, Anantdeep Singh Dhillon, convener (North America), FlyAmritsar Initiative informed that hundreds of Canadians stuck in Punjab had now been united with their families after returning to Canada on these flights from Amritsar via Delhi and London.Dhillon said, according to the Canadian High Commission in India and Consulate General of Canada in Chandigarh, all the current and additional flights were being made available only to the Canadian citizens and their immediate family members who are permanent residents of Canada and who are travelling with them.Thousands of permanent residents and their families are feeling abandoned and let-down by the authorities of the nation they chose as their new home. Since the numbers are huge, he could fathom the reason to first accommodate Canadians falling in the citizenship category, but at the same time we fervently appeal to the government to further make logistic arrangements for a series of new humanitarian evacuation flights from Amritsar and other airports in India, to bring back these stranded permanent residents. — TNS
24-04-2020||---||Push govt for bailout: Capt Amarinder Singh to states||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Delhi, April 23After writing to PM Narendra Modi, suggesting a three-pronged strategy to bail out states hit by the Covid crisis, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has now urged his counterparts in other states to pursue the matter with the Centre. He has asked them to write to the PM, urging him to consider the suggestions made by him.‘Sought 1L kits, received only 10,000’In place of 1 lakh rapid testing kits, we have received only 10,000 of Chinese make. Their authenticity is yet to be tested.— Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CMHighlighting that amid shrinking revenue, spending by states on healthcare had risen owing to the pandemic, he underlined the need for a special three-month grant with flexibility to states to spend the same as per their requirement. He also urged the states to seek a review of the recommendations of the Finance Commission for the current fiscal as the situation on the ground had totally changed.Also Read:   Further, he urged the CMs to seek deferment of the full report of the Finance Commission by a year so that requirements of states for economic revival as well as rehabilitation could be fully assessed post Covid-19. The Finance Commission’s five-year report should begin from April 1, 2021 instead of 2020 after factoring in the Covid impact, he suggested. Speaking at the Congress Working Committee meeting in Delhi, Capt Amarinder said: “In place of 1 lakh rapid testing kits, we have received only 10,000 of Chinese make. Their authenticity is yet to be tested.”Congress president Sonia Gandhi said a lockdown after May 3 would be “even more devastating” and that her suggestions to the PM had been implemented partially and in a miserly way.Capt’s 3-pronged PlanDidi: Want lockdown lifted 2 wks after May 4Four days ahead of the PM’s video-conference with Chief Ministers, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee told a TV channel on Thursday that she would “share opinion only when asked at the meeting”. “As a citizen and TMC chief, I want the lockdown to be scaled back — 25 per cent in the week beginning May 4; 50 per cent in the second week after May 4; and total rollback in two weeks after May 4,” she said.Former minorities’ panel chief backs CaptNew Delhi: Former Rajya Sabha MP Tarlochan Singh on Thursday lauded Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh for his government’s pro-active measures against the pandemic but said he could not battle it alone. He suggested that all 20 MPs from Punjab (13 from Lok Sabha and 7 from Rajya Sabha) should meet Union Government officials to seek help. He also demanded that special trains be run for transporting wheat from Punjab to other states.
24-04-2020||New Delhi||Punjab firms move SC over MHA order on full salary||An association of 41 companies and firms from Punjab has moved the Supreme Court against March 29 order of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) asking private establishments to pay full wages to workers during the lockdown.Say Violates rightTerming the MHA order under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as arbitrary, the firms said the order violated the private companies’ right to carry on any occupation, trade or business guaranteed under Articles 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.The Ludhiana Hand Tools Association also challenged the validity of Section 10(2)(i) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The provisions of this Act cannot “impinge upon express provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and take away the right to layoff workmen during times of natural calamity, it said.Terming the MHA order under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as arbitrary, it said the order violated the private companies’ right to carry on any occupation, trade or business guaranteed under Articles 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.“Govt has not taken any steps for workforce instead put the burden on employers to pay full wages,” the petitioner said.An employer and employee have reciprocal promises whereby the right of an employee to demand salary is reciprocal to performance of work by such employee, the petition said, adding, an employer has a right not to pay if no work is done.
24-04-2020||Abohar||Administration tests contacts of infected couple||Markfed MD promises support to farmersSangrur: Markfed managing director (MD) on Thursday visited the Sangrur grain market and assured farmers of providing all facilities. He also asked farmers and commission agents to maintain social distancing to prevent the spread Covid-19 while local MLA and Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla also lauded their efforts. “All farmers will get payment for the purchase of their wheat as per the guidelines. If anyone faces any problem, he should immediately contact senior officers,” said MD Varun Roojam. TNSAmbulances under lens over violationsMuktsar: Ambulances have come under the scanner of the police, as a driver of an ambulance was arrested on Wednesday for he reportedly tried to pass of his passengers as patients.The accused, identified as Sukhpal Singh, was waiting for his passengers to ferry them to Etawah in Uttar Pradesh when the police arrived on the spot. A case under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered against the accused, who was bailed out later on. TNSThermal scanning in Gurdaspur marketsGurdaspur: The district administration has ordered that all farmers and officials entering grain markets of the district should undergo thermal scanning even as it claimed that the procurement process was going on smoothly. Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq claimed that he had also ordered that social distancing norms should be “followed in letter and spirit.” He also said strategic places in the mandis and all tractor-trailers bringing in produce were being sanitised. TNSMLA gifts 50 PPE kits to health workersAbohar: BJP MLA Arun Narang on Thursday presented 50 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu for use by health workers engaged in battle against Covid-19. District BJP president Dhanpat Siyag was also present on the occasion. Claiming that the state government had not been able to equip civil hospitals with protective equipment, Narang said he had arranged high-quality 50 kits for the administration. OCOla gives Rs1 crore for relief fundChandigarh: The Ola Group and its co-founder Bhavish Aggarwal have together contributed a sum of Rs 1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Covid relief fund. The contribution will be used to support the government’s efforts to provide relief to people across the state in the ongoing crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic. TNS
24-04-2020||Karam Prakash||Patiala district turns hotspot with 49 cases in seven days||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 23Lack of timely action by the administration and negligence by a few individuals seem to have led to a Covid outbreak in Patiala.Social gatherings in Rajpura, selling of books to students in Patiala city by a trader and letting a social worker visit other cities during the lockdown speak volumes about the non-seriousness of the district administration and Patiala police in dealing with the pandemic. The book trader and social worker were later tested positive.In fact, the spike in positive cases from just two to 49 within seven days is an outcome of giving a long rope to a few individuals by the administration. Now, hundreds of people, including children, are at the risk of getting the infection in the district.In Rajpura, which has now turned into a hotspot, social gatherings were being held during the curfew. Many positive patients are said to have been in these parties amid the curfew. The Health Department claimed many people from other districts had also participated in these gatherings.Except two, the rest of the positive cases in the district are interlinked to a single chain — a langar committee. The book trader and social worker in Patiala and two businessmen in Rajpura were connected to the committee. The committee members exchanged money, distributed food and organised hookah parties which ultimately became the cause of spread in the district, the department said.Curfew Passes given liberallyThe social worker, who tested positive this week, had gone to Zirakpur and other cities during the lockdown. After visiting other cities, he distributed ration among 800 people in Patiala. It has been learnt that langar and curfew passes were given indiscriminately.OfficialspeakPatiala SDM Charanjit Singh said, “The man sold books illegally. The administration has not included selling of books in the list of essential items.”The contamination chainTill April 14 Patiala district had only two cases – a foreign-returnee and a gardenerApril 15 A social worker, who distributed ration to over 800 people, testspositiveApril 16 His wife and two children test positive. A trader, who owns a book shop in a congested market, too gets infectedApril 17 Three family members of the book trader and a woman from Rajpura admitted to the hospitalApril 18 Patiala reports 15 cases, highest for any district in 24 hours. Nine were close contacts of the trader and six family members of the Rajpura womanApril 19 Health officials begin screening of the entire city populationApril 20 Five persons, including a doctor and an ASI, test positive in Rajpura, all contacts of earlier patientsApril 21 The DC orders sealing of Rajpura town. Officials collect 70 samplesApril 22 Of 70 samples, 18 test positive, all of them again from the chain of previously infected persons
24-04-2020||---||SBS Nagar green zone, 3 districts orange||New Delhi, April 23With no new Covid-19 case for 28 days, SBS Nagar today entered the list of 12 districts in the green zone.Moga, Muktsar and Amritsar in Punjab, and Kaithal in Haryana have entered the group of 78 districts with no new cases in 14 days which puts them in the orange zone. The other districts with no cases for 28 days are Mahe in Puducherry, Kodagu and Chitradurga in Karnataka, Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand, Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh), Imphal West (Manipur), Aizawl West (Mizoram), Bhadradari Kothagudem (Telangana), Pilibhit and South Goa.Among 33 new districts in nine states which today entered the group with no case for 14 days are Hailakandi, South Mancachar from Assam; Kaithal from Haryana; Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur and Alappuzha from Kerala; Vidisha from Madhya Pradesh; Cuttack, Kendrapara, Dhenkanal from Odisha; Moga, Amritsar, Muktsar from Punjab; Sidipet, Pedapally, Nagarkurnool, Mulugu, Janagaon, Mahabubabad, Mahaboobnagar and Sangareddy from Telangana; Udham Singh Nagar and Almora from Uttarakhand; Hathras, Allahabad, Barabanki, Lakhimpur Kheri, Maharajganj, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Kaushambi and Pratapgrah from UP.
24-04-2020||Avneet Kaur||Away from home, students in Canada say they’re safe||Jalandhar, April 23At a time when the powerful nations like the US and Australia have put a temporary ban on immigration and asked their international students to go home, Canada seems to have managed the crisis by announcing various grants for international students under its Covid-19 Economic Response Plan.Besides, the Justin Trudeau-led government for the time being has removed the restriction that allows international students to work for a maximum 20 hours a week while classes are in session, provided they are working in an essential service, such as healthcare or supply of food or other critical goods.Karanveer Singh, who hails from Jalandhar and moved to Toronto on a student visa in 2017 (presently on work permit), was all praise for the Canadian government. He said under various support programmes, the government was offering temporary financial aid of $500, $1,000 and $2,000 a week for up to 16 weeks to international students who stopped working because of Covid-19, if they met certain requirements.He said under the Canada Emergency Response Benefit, all international students who had not voluntarily quit their job and had an income of at least $5,000 in 2019 or in the 12 months prior to the date of their application, were eligible for $2,000. “Information regarding all help is being regularly updated on the government’s website. Even if a person fails to clear the eligibility criterion for one or two reasons, the help is not denied,” he said, adding that he had received $500 last week as he was unemployed during that period.Another native of Ludhiana, Sagar, a student of business studies at Seneca College, Toronto, said the government was responsive. “In fact, the corporate sector is also facilitating employees in these extraordinary times by providing every possible help,” he said, adding that his college had distributed $250 each to at least 9,000 students in order to buy some groceries.Likewise, Surbhi Sareen, who lives in Brampton, said she was still going to work as her area had a partial lockdown. “I have been provided pick-up and drop facility considering the severity of the situation.”
24-04-2020||Muktsar||Muktsar’s lone patient tests positive again||The lone Covid-19 patient of the district, who was tested negative on April 21 after the completion of 14 days in the isolation ward at a local hospital, was again tested positive today. The 18-year-old boy from Meerut in UP had come to a local mosque along with some others after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi on March 21 and was tested positive for Covid-19 on April 8.  Health officials said the boy was doing fine, but he was tested positive in the review test and a fresh sample would now be sent after a week. Meanwhile, five more suspected people, who had been home-quarantined, were tested negative today. — TNS
24-04-2020||---||Sangrur’s first patient recovers||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 23Wining the battle against the dreaded disease, Sangrur’s first Covid-19 patient was discharged from local Civil Hospital on Thursday. The doctors, para-medical staff and officials gave the 60-year-old a farewell when he walked out of the special ward.Hailing from Gaggarpur village, he tested positive for coronavirus on April 9. The patient had returned from Chhattisgarh via Ludhiana in a flight on March 24. One of his co-passengers was a Covid-19 patient.After the confirmatory test report came negative, he was discharged from the hospital.Now, the district has two active patients.While stepping out of the isolation ward, the Gaggarpur resident said he received good treatment at the hospital. “To win the battle over Covid-19, people should be more cautious and always maintain social distancing while stepping out of their homes,” he said.53-yr-old man cured in MansaMansa: A 53-year-old man, a native of Chhattisgarh, was on Thursday discharged from the local civil hospital after his test turned negative. He was among the first three patients who tested positive on April 3. With this, two patients have recovered, out of the total 11 undergoing treatment at the hospital. tns
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||2.79 lakh ITI students get online training||Amid the lockdown, 2.79 lakh students of 117 government-run Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) in the state have taken to online classes being run by the Directorate of Technical Education and Industrial Training. This includes 49 all-women ITIs. Even in the ongoing wheat harvesting season, when students in rural areas are busy assisting their families, the department has registered 85 per cent attendance of students in the online classes. Principal Secretary, Technical Education, Anurag Verma said the department in the past week had covered 44 trades. To ensure attendance of the instructors conducting the online classes, nodal officers had been appointed.  Since the syllabus of ITIs involves 70 per cent practicals, the department has sought help of the Director General of Training in the eventuality of the lockdown being extended. Presently, the students are being taught the theoretical portion and the training content includes videos of theory and practical. For the convenience of students, the timings of online classes are 11 am to 1 pm and 3 pm to 5 pm. But with the harvesting season, the classes are being held as early as 7 am and as late as 7 pm. — TNS
24-04-2020||---||Farmers brief central team on crop damage||Patiala, April 23 A four-member team of the Union Department of Food and Public Distribution, which was here to assess the  crop loss due to rain, wrapped up its two-day visit today.  The team was sent to the state after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh apprised the Central Government of the situation, saying he wanted some respite for farmers.  The team, which visited several grain markets, spoke to farmers and learnt about problems being faced by them due to the recent spell of rain. Many farmer unions in Punjab have already said rain at the harvesting stage is dangerous as it will adversely impact the grain’s quality.  “The government should announce that it will purchase wheat with up to 16 per cent moisture content, which is currently 14 per cent, otherwise the farmers will have to bear the brunt. Also, government agencies should not object to “discolouration” while purchasing the produce,” they said. Central agencies have been rejecting “discoloured” wheat.  “Procurement officials are not purchasing 20 per cent of my produce, saying I could sell it outside,” said Gaganinder Singh.  “Even poultry and other farm sectors are shut and this grain will be of no use to me,” he added.   The team, led by Dori Lal, Uttar Pradesh’s Assistant Regional Director of the department’s quality control cell, will submit its report to the ministry soon so that relaxation could be given to farmers and procurement agencies. “For this, we have collected samples of grain from different mandis and held meetings with Punjab officials. Directions in this regard will be issued soon,” he said.
24-04-2020||---||UK, Lankan nationals evacuated in 2 flights||Amritsar, April 23  As many as 269 nationals of the UK and 101 of Sri Lanka, who were stranded here due to the lockdown, today flew back to their countries via special flights from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here.  According to information, the British embassy had arranged a special British Airways flight for its stranded citizens who were mostly NRIs. Some of them had come to India as tourists while others had come to meet their relatives and attend weddings.  Hailing from Ludhiana, Hazara Singh and his wife Baljit Kaur had come to Punjab along with their two children. “We had booked return tickets, but got stranded  due to the lockdown and disruption of flights. We are grateful to the British and Indian governments for facilitating our return,” they said.  On the other hand, 101 passengers boarded a flight of Sri Lankan Airlines. A majority of them were students of Lovely Professional University, located near Jalandhar, where they were doing various courses. The students were staying on the university campus amid lockdown.
24-04-2020||---||Ease moisture content norm for wheat: SAD||Chandigarh, April 23Shiromani Akali Dal general secretary and MP Prem Singh Chandumajra has requested the Central government to grant relaxation in moisture content rules for wheat in view of erratic climatic conditions over the past few days.In a letter to Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Chandumajra said moisture content up to 6 per cent could be allowed as per the existing rules, but it varied between 15 to 20 per cent in the crop arriving in the grain markets. He said the Centre should work out a strategy to help the farmers overcome this difficulty of high moisture content and discolouration of the crop due to rains.At present, a large number of farmers across Punjab are facing difficulty in selling their produce in the grain markets due to high moisture content.The Akali leader said he had requested Pawan to consider the problems being faced by the Punjab farmers sympathetically and make the required amendments in the procurement process by issuing directions to the government agencies.
24-04-2020||Gurminder Singh Grewal||No crowding in Asia’s largest mandi, arrivals staggered||Khanna, April 23The purchase of wheat at Asia’s largest grain market is going on smoothly. There is no rush or glut since limited coupons are being issued on a daily basis and because purchase centres have been set up at rice mills in the area.As per the norms, about 24 rice mills of the area have been authorised as wheat purchase centres, relieving the main grain markets of the burden.Kamaljit Kamma and Buta Singh, both commission agents, said about 165 tractor-trailers were permitted to enter the Khanna grain market daily, which was why there was no glut this time.They said arhtiyas were trying their best to ensure the labourers practise social distancing. They said there was some problem due to the recent rainy spell, but now the situation was normal and the procurement was smooth. They, however, added that they were waiting for the payment of the procured wheat.Khanna SDM Sandeep Singh said till yesterday evening, a total of 25,000 tonnes of wheat had arrived in all grain markets falling under the local market committee, of which 20,000 tonnes had arrived at the grain market. Almost the entire grain had been purchased by procurement agencies.Meanwhile, as much as 29.39 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of wheat has arrived in different mandis of Punjab till date, of which 27.32 LMT has been procured. Last year, the arrivals till date were 16.42 LMT and only 12.57 LMT had been procured.3,195 ‘Guardians’ deployedChandigarh: To ensure smooth procurement of wheat across mandis in the state, the Punjab Government has deputed 3,195 Guardians of Governance to assist the Mandi Board in its gigantic task amid curfew. Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Viswajeet Khanna said the guardians deployed in 1,683 mandis would oversee the ongoing procurement operations besides maintaining health protocols to keep the spread of Covid under check. TNSAdvisory for farmersChandigarh: As per a revised advisory, farmers have been told to prefer mechanised practices over manual exercises as far as possible. Only a limited number of persons should be allowed to accompany the harvesters. All harvesters should be sanitised at the entry point of the field and at regular intervals. Those engaged in the operations should use cloth masks and ensure hand washing after a fixed period, besides maintaining social distancing. tns
24-04-2020||Muktsar||Muktsar SHO steals liquor, suspended||Muktsar SSP Rajbachan Singh Sandhu today suspended the Gidderbaha SHO and sent him to the Police Lines for allegedly stealing  221 cartons of liquor worth about Rs 6 lakh from a contractor’s godown.  In his complaint, Gurdrashan Singh, a liquor contractor, said Inspector Krishan Kumar demanded 200 cartons of liquor from him on March 28 and when he refused, the latter, along with the Gidderbaha DSP, went to his residence and detained some workers on April 8 and also seized the keys of the godown.  “The next day, he took Rs 1 lakh from us and gave the keys of the godown. On finding cartons missing, we filed a complaint,” he said.   — TNS
24-04-2020|| ---||Centre’s no to Chief Minister’s liquor sale request||New Delhi, April 23 The Centre today turned down the Punjab Government’s request to allow the state to sell alcohol through either regular vendors or home delivery. The guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for the lockdown prohibit the sale of alcohol, gutka and tobacco products. With revenue collection hit hard due to the curfew, the Punjab Government had sought permission from the Centre to open the liquor shops.  “The permission wasn’t granted as exception can’t be made among the states,” a top government official said. Meanwhile, fearing huge financial losses and job cuts, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) has requested states to impress upon the Centre about an urgent need to start the sale of liquor in non-Covid zones. In a letter to all state CMs (barring states which are under prohibition), the CIABC urged: “The state governments should take up the matter once again with the Centre to permit production, distribution and sales of alcoholic beverages outside containment zones, in conformity with Covid-19 guidelines.”
24-04-2020||---||Punjab sees 21% surge in domestic violence cases||Chandigarh, April 23Amid a steep increase in complaints of domestic violence against women since the curfew was imposed in the state, the police have formulated a detailed strategy to tackle such cases, with daily action taken reports to be submitted by the DSP (Crime Against Women Cell).Figures show that there has been a 21 per cent increase (from 4,709 to 5,695) in cases of crime against women between February and April 20. The cases of domestic violence against women too have risen from 3,287 to 3,993.On the other hand, there has been a substantial decline in the cases relating to dowry harassment, rape and eve-teasing during the same period, possibly because men and women are not stepping out and there is increased police presence.Giving details, DGP Dinkar Gupta said the average number of calls received on the helpline per day went up to 133, a 34 per cent rise in domestic violence cases from March 20 to April 20, from the previous monthly average of 99.33. The increase in total crime against women (CAW) cases in this period is 30 per cent.To take stock of the situation, the DGP on Thursday held a video-conference with all DSPs of CAW cell. As per the detailed strategy, presented by Gurpreet Deo, ADGP, Community Affairs Division, standard operating procedures have been put in place to devise the response mechanism.The meeting decided that the DSP (CAW) will send a daily report to track all such complaints and monitor the action taken.As per the response mechanism, a call regarding crime against women is received at helpline number 112 and forwarded to the District Control Room, with details of the call also given to the DSP (CAW) and women helpdesks. The women response team is required to call the concerned and visit the women in distress. Women constables posted at police stations, then handhold the complainant and coordinate with the station and district-level helpdesk on her behalf.It has been decided that the teams will call back the women in distress immediately, provide tele-counselling and even visit them, if needed. They will also provide on the spot counselling to the couple/family involved, and rescue the women victims in case they want to go to maternal house or shelter home.Teams to reach womenIt has been decided that teams will reach women in distress and provide tele-counselling. They will rescue those who want to go back to their parents
24-04-2020||---||Mortality rate high in Punjab, govt orders audit||Chandigarh, April 23 Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday said he had ordered a detailed audit of every Covid-19 death by experts to understand and check the high mortality rate (6.2%) in the state even as the government was strengthening its containment measures. Updating Congress president Sonia Gandhi during a video-conference, he said the state government was being guided by a group of experts in handling the crisis. The group comprises Dr KK Talwar, former PGI director; Dr Raj Bahadur, VC, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences; Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, School of Public Health, PGI, as well as experts from the PGI, John Hopkins University, etc. The mortality in the state was high largely due to co-morbidity, said Captain Amarinder. However, the rate of rise in cases in Punjab was lower than the country, with the cases doubling in 16 days against the national average of nine days. The cases had steadily declined from 2.57% of the total cases in India (March 31)  to 1.22% in three weeks (till April 22), said the CM, adding that this revealed that containment steps were effective. Citing the example of Nawanshahr, the CM said effective containment in the district had been appreciated by the Centre as well as the media. In Nawanshahr, which was one of the first hotspots in the country, all 18 patients had recovered and discharged.He said Punjab had to be compared with Kerala and Gujarat, which were also states with high NRI population. Punjab was doing significantly better than Gujarat.
24-04-2020||---||Seven more test positive in Jalandhar, Punjab count 283||Chandigarh, April 23At least seven fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported from Jalandhar today. Apart from that, a six-month-old girl from Phagwara in Kapurthala district, who was tested positive yesterday at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, passed away today. Besides, one patient is critical and is on ventilator support.According to the state media bulletin, six patients came to the fore in Jalandhar, although one more case was reported after release of the bulletin, which took the district count to 60. Those tested positive today comprise five having links with a local media house and two from the previous contacts. Among the media house cases are two men in their early thirties and their relatives, including two women aged 39 and 65 and a 70-year-old male from Jwala Nagar in Maqsudan.The other two patients are a 46-year-old woman relative of Basti Danishmandan-based elderly who previously tested positive and a 55-year-old woman of another positive patient’s contact.The total cases in the media house chain have reached 23. While 10 are the employees, the remaining are their direct or indirect contacts. The new patients are residents of Pucca Bagh, New Dashmesh Nagar and Basti Danishmandan.Meanwhile, the number of people who are being cured from the highly infectious disease has also started swelling. So far, 66 people have been cured and discharged from hospitals across the state.At private labs, Test to cost Rs 4,500
24-04-2020||Patiala||Rajpura now ‘buffer’ zone; 4 booked for violations||Rajpura town in the district has been notified as a “buffer zone” following a sudden spurt in the number of cases. There will be now strict surveillance on the movement of people in the town. Meanwhile, the Patiala police have booked four persons in two FIRs for curfew violations.Two Covid-positive persons, admitted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital, have been booked for violation of curfew and district magistrate orders. Two others, who also tested positive, were booked for spreading the virus and flouting curfew in Rajpura.SSP Mandeep Sidhu said a letter was received from the Civil Surgeon in this regard. A case was registered under the Disaster Management Act at Kotwali police station against Krishan Kumar Gaba and Krishan Kumar Bansal. Gaba runs a book shop and allegedly sold books to many parents in the city. However, he has denied the allegations.Further, in another FIR following a report by the Senior Medical Officer of Rajpura regarding the irresponsible movement of individuals who were Covid-positive, a preliminary inquiry was conducted by the police.The FIR was lodged following a report in The Tribune. “More than 20 of the active cases are directly linked to hookah parties which were held in Rajpura almost every da,” senior officials said. — TNS
24-04-2020||Muktsar||Police buy masks for poor from their pocket||Not only are they working on the frontline in the battle against Covid-19, some policemen here are doing exceptional work and going beyond the line of duty as well. Two constables and a head constable are spending their salary to provide ration, hand sanitisers, face masks and fruit to needy people. Head Constable Maheshinder Singh and Constable Gurjeet Singh have  provided 250 bottles of sanitisers, 250 masks to the needy from their salaries.  Similarly, a woman constable Jindo has been spending her salary of the past two months to provide ration to underprivileged people.  Heena Gupta, DSP (Headquarters) is organising health check-ups of underprivileged pregnant women. She also distributed 2,000 sanitary pads in slum areas. — TNS
24-04-2020||Amritsar||SGPC shifts staffers for honouring ‘tainted’ cop||The SGPC, which found itself in a fix over honouring a suspended IG who is an accused in the 2015 police firing case, has transferred its staffers.On April 20, former Inspector General of Punjab Police Paramraj Singh Umranangal’s visit to the Golden Temple to offer ration material for langar had triggered a row when SGPC member Bhagwant Singh Sialka, manager of Golden Temple Manjinder Singh Mand and additional manager Gura Singh had honoured him by presenting a ‘siropa’ (robe of honour). The photographs went viral on the social media.SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh said Manjinder Singh Mand had been shifted to Kurukshetra and Gura Singh to Hapur in UP. — TNS
24-04-2020||Moga||Cotton sowing likely from May 1||Sowing of cotton in Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Faridkot, Moga, Fazilka and Ferozepur districts is likely to get delayed by at least 10 days because of the ongoing harvesting of wheat, which is being done in a phased manner in view of the lockdown restrictions.  As per PAU, Ludhiana, cotton sowing should be done between April 20 and May 31. However, this year, it is likely to begin from May 1. Gurcharan Singh, a farmer of Fazilka’s Rampura village, said the state government had not even started the supply of water in Lambi minor canal, which irrigates over 70 per cent of the area. The Agriculture Department today claimed to have made arrangements to provide agro-inputs and Bt cotton seeds to the farmers through listed companies.  Suttantar Kumar Aery, Director, Agriculture, said 26,57,500 packets of hybrid cotton seeds were required for cultivation and  so far 25 lakh packets had been arranged.  Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, an agricultural scientist, said: “We are setting up demonstration plots on 300 acres at Sudhar block in Ludhiana where we will adopt drip irrigation method.”  — TNS
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 50 cr released for sugarcane growers’ dues||In a major reprieve to cane growers across the state, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has released Rs 50 crore to cooperative sugar mills for clearing their arrears amid curfew/lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic. Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today said following the CM’s decision, the said amount had been immediately released to Sugarfed, which further transferred it to the sugar mills to clear the outstanding dues of the farmers. Randhawa said this would not only provide much-needed relief to the cane growers, but also boost the state government’s ambitious programme of crop diversification motivating more farmers to come out of the conventional wheat-paddy cycle. — TNS
24-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda cancer institute sans  PET scanner, patients harried||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 23The nuclear department of Advanced Cancer Research and Institute (ARCI), Bathinda, has been awaiting the PET-CT (positron emission tomography and computed tomography) scan machine since 2016.In the absence of the PET-CT scan machine, cancer patients undergoing treatment here have to go to Ludhiana to get their PET-CT scan done. It costs them about Rs 15,000.If the facility starts here, the scan will be done for free. Though the machine is available at Faridkot, patients there have to register first and then wait for their turn, which comes after a month due to heavy rush.Most patients don’t have time to wait for the test and rush to private hospitals in Ludhiana.On an average, 60 patients are sent to get this test done every month.PET scanning is mostly used in the diagnosis and assessment of cancer. It is used to detect cancer, show how advanced a cancer is and see whether it has spread to other parts of the body.The scan uses a mild radioactive drug to show areas of your body where cells are more active than normal. Moreover, PET scans can detect early changes in cells.Dr Deepak Arora, Medical Superintendent, Advanced Cancer Research and Institute, Bathinda, said: “The nuclear department has not been made operational for want of a PET scan machine.”Advanced Cancer Research and Institute came up at a cost of Rs 115 crore and started functioning on July 7, 2016.Cancer patients not only from the Malwa region, but also from Haryana and Rajasthan come here. At the hospital, any patient with the Mukh Mantri Punjab Cancer Raahat Kosh Scheme card can get free treatment and medicines.
24-04-2020||Bathinda||Six phones seized from prison inmate||Six mobile phones and 14 packets of intoxicants were recovered from an inmate of the Bathinda Central Jail on Wednesday.It was learnt that the phones and intoxicants were provided to inmate Gurdeep Singh, a resident of Sirsa, by private security guard Sukhchain Singh deployed outside the jail.On the complaint of Joginder Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Bathinda Central Jail, a case under Sections 188 of IPC and 52 A of the Prisons Act has been registered against the duo.More than 40 phones have been seized from the jail inmates since January.The jail authorities have no idea how these phones enter the jail premises. — TNS
24-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Father nabbed for bid to sell newborn||Fazilka, April 23 A man was arrested for reportedly trying to sell his five-day-old son in connivance with his brother-in-law near Dream Villa Palace in Jalalabad town of Fazilka district. Father has been identified as Kulwant Singh and his brother-in-law as Babbi. The police got a tip-off that some persons were in talks to sell their new born child. Subsequently, raids were conducted and Kulwant Singh, a resident of Fallinnwala village, and his brother-in-law Babbu, a resident of Gandhi Nagar, Jalalabad town were nabbed. Kulwant had struck a deal with Balwinder Kaur, Giano Bai and Charanjit Singh to sell his baby boy to them for Rs2 lakh. Reportedly, he took the step as he was staring at financial crisis. The police have recovered Rs1.80 lakh from the accused. The child has been handed over to its mother in accordance with the court proceedings. All five accused have been booked under Sections 370 of the IPC, and 81 of the Juvenile Justice Act.
24-04-2020||---||BSF recovers drugs, arms||Amritsar, April 23  The Border Security Force seized one packet of contraband, weighing over 1 kg, along with arms and ammunition, from the India-Pakistan border in Amritsar sector on Wednesday evening. The drug seized is suspected to be heroin. As per information, the contraband and arms, including one country made .30 bore pistol, two magazines and 24 live rounds (.30 bore) were confiscated by the BSF 71 battalion.  No arrest has been made in this connection so far.
