24-06-2020||Mohali||Deadly attack on Hindu leader: British citizen Jaggi Johal’s bail application rejected||The NIA Court here on Wednesday rejected the bail application of British national Jagtar Singh Johal alias Jaggi Johal, accused in the deadly attack on Hindu leader Amit Arora.NIA Special Judge Karunesh Kumar rejected the bail application of accused Jaggi Johal in view of the serious allegations against him.Jaspal Singh Manjhpur and Ranjodh Singh Sarao, counsels for Jaggi Johal, told the NIA court that he was being implicated in false cases.They argued that Johal was abroad when Hindu leaders were attacked in Punjab. They further lamented that the challan filed by the NIA against the accused in the court did not provide any concrete evidence against Jaggi.The defence counsels also informed the court that Jaggi Johal had been cleared by the Punjab Police, but the case was recently handed over to the NIA. But the NIA probe team could not prove any allegation against Jaggi Johal in the challan. Therefore, the accused should be granted bail, they argued.Rejecting the defence arguments, the NIA counsel said that there were serious allegations against the accused. Therefore, the accused should not be granted bail.The court, after hearing the arguments of both the parties, rejected the bail application of accused Jaggi Johal in view of the serious allegations against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deadly-attack-on-hindu-leader-british-citizen-jaggi-johals-bail-application-rejected-103865
24-06-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda sisters sell fruits to support father, but one wishes to join police, other armed forces||At 12:45 pm, when the sun is over your head and mercury has touched 42 degrees Celsius and the city is boiling under the scorching heat, you will find a 16-year-old girl arranging watermelons on the roadside while bargaining with a customer.The girl, Roshini, along with her 13-year-old sister, Nitu, attend customers while doing their homework using their father's mobile phone.At any hour of the day, you will spot these girls either studying or tending customers—who pull over at the roadside to purchase watermelons or muskmelons from them.Burning the midnight oil, these two sisters—from a poverty-stricken family—not just support their father to earn enough for two meals, but also attend online classes to pursue their academics.Roshini, when engrossed in doing her assignments, finds it distracting when all of a sudden a customer comes to make a purchase, but the thought of helping her father fills her with pride.In conversation with The Tribune, Roshini said: "After COVID hit us badly, we exhausted whatever minuscule savings we had left with. My father has a chronic backache, and he cannot sit for long duration and needs rest. Since our schools were closed, we decided to support our father in his fruit selling business and continue our studies as well."Roshni, who is a 10th class student, wakes up at 3 in the morning after freshening-up, heads straight to the fruit mandi. She accompanies her father to choose the best quality of fruits and then places a stall near the Rose Garden. They try and sell fruits to early birds and people who come for morning walks.After two hours, they move to Bibi Wala road and sell fruits till 8 in the evening.During the interview with this correspondent, a car pulls over, and an elderly man rolls down his window and asks the price of 2 kg watermelon.The younger sister, Nitu—who is sunburnt—wipes the sweat off from her forehead, and starts weighing the watermelons.The customer asks if the watermelons were sweet, to which, Nitu confidently, takes out a knife and cuts a piece of the fruit. Then,she offers the customer a slice and says, "find out for yourself"My father has raised us like boys, giving us full freedom to do and take a decision on our own. Unlike what I saw in Ganganagar, Rajasthan in my native village, where girls are considered as someone who needs to be protected and a married woman are subject to wear ghunghat (veil) both inside their house and in public places. He always tells us to do something to make us proud," added Roshni.When asked about their dreams, Roshini revealed that she wants to join the police force while the Nitu wants to severe in the armed forces.The girl's father—Om Parkash—was a driver earlier, but after developing health conditions, he switched to selling helmets on the roadside.Therefore, for the last five years, he sells watermelons in summers and helmets in winters.Their mother is a housewife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-sisters-sell-fruits-to-support-father-but-one-wishes-to-join-police-other-armed-forces-103840
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports eight deaths, 230 fresh COVID-19 cases; total count 4,627||Punjab reported eight deaths and 230 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday, taking the state's death toll to 113.Out of 230 infections, 64 infections were recorded in Sangrur. With the fresh cases, the total count has reached 4,627.While Jalandhar reported 47 COVID-19 positive cases, Muktsar has 33 new cases.On the other hand, Ludhiana recorded 27 cases.The source of infection of 16 COVID-19 cases was out of Punjab.About 52 patients were discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-eight-deaths-230-fresh-covid-19-cases-total-count-4-627-103829
24-06-2020||Faridkot||DGHS allowed relaxation in physical reporting to NRI, ‘locked down’ candidates for MD/MS courses||The Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) on Wednesday allowed the online reporting to many candidates, including NRIs, who were allotted seats in MD/MS courses but they were facing difficulty in physically reporting to the colleges/institutes allotted to them due to lockdown situation.Earlier, the DGHS had directed all candidates who were allotted MD/MS courses seats in different government medical colleges over the country, to report physically on their allotted seats before June 30 or their seat allotment will be deemed cancelled.In the new public notice, issued on Wednesday, the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) of DGHS said that it was receiving many representations from candidates about problems being faced by them in reporting physically due to non availability of transport and accommodation at allotted institutes and also from NRI candidates who are stuck abroad.To facilitate such candidates, the MCC is allowing for the online reporting of Round-2 candidates on case to case basis and the genuineness of case will be decided by the college/institute authorities where the seat has been allotted.However, this relaxation is allowed only to the Round-2 of counselling candidates.The MCC has further conveyed that All India Quota seats, which remain vacant after last date for joining (June 30), will be deemed to be converted into state quota. Such seats after reversion to state quota are to be filled by the state counselling authorities for Round -2 of state quota. The MCC has clarified that the seats of Round-1 candidates who reported online but did not join physically at the allotted college will be cancelled by the college on the last day of reporting (June 30) and these seats will come back in the system and included in further rounds of counselling.The security deposits of such candidates will be forfeited.The Round-2 candidates who do not report at the allotted colleges or express willingness to join the Round-2 seats online will “Exit with Forfeiture”.“After the second round of counselling for All India Quota seats, the students who take admission in All India Quota seats should not be allowed/ permitted to vacate the seats. This would ensure that very few seats are reverted to the State Quota and also All India Quota seats are filed by students from the all India merit list only. The students who secure admission in Deemed Universities pursuant to the second round of counselling conducted by the DGHS shall not be eligible to participate in any other counselling,” the MCC clarified.Hence, the candidates of Round-1 and Round-2 who join their respective seats will not be allowed to vacate/ resign their seats, conveyed the MCC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dghs-allowed-relaxation-in-physical-reporting-to-nri-locked-down-candidates-for-md-ms-courses-103825
24-06-2020||Ludhiana||Asked to stop drinking, labourer slits wife's throat, kills self in Punjab's Ludhiana||A labourer allegedly killed his wife by slitting her throat and then ended his life by consuming a poisonous substance in Gurdev Nagar area here on Wednesday, after she asked him not to drink, police said.According to police, Manish and his wife Pooja had a heated argument after she asked him to stop drinking. Following the argument, Manish allegedly slit his wife's throat with a sharp-edged weapon, they said.He then consumed a poisonous substance and fell unconscious. He was rushed to the local civil hospital by neighbours. He was later referred to the government hospital in Patiala where he died, police said.Both husband and wife used to have frequent fights over his drinking addiction.The couple had three children, police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asked-to-stop-drinking-labourer-slits-wifes-throat-kills-self-in-punjabs-ludhiana-103797
24-06-2020||New Delhi||Delhi girl goes missing, 20-year-old kidnapper traced to Patiala house, charged with rape||A 20-year-old man was arrested from Punjab's Patiala and charged with kidnapping and rape, days after a minor girl went missing from her house in outer Delhi's Narela, police said on Wednesday.They said the accused was arrested from the house of his relative in Patiala and the girl was also recovered from there.The accused, a labourer, stays in the same locality in Narela where the 14-year-old girl lives with her family, they said.After the girl went missing on June 14, her mother approached the police and a case was registered on her complaint under section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code, police said.During the investigation, it came to notice that the accused was also missing from his home.Technical surveillance was activated and the man was traced to Patiala, where he was staying at his relative's place, said Gaurav Sharma, the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer-North).The missing girl was also traced to the same house, he said.The girl also alleged sexual assault by the accused after which sections of rape under the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act were added in the case and the accused arrested, he added.There was no clear assertion from the police or the two families if the two were in a relationship.However, police said there was resentment in the girl's family as she was a minor and the man belonged to the other community. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-girl-goes-missing-20-year-old-kidnapper-traced-to-patiala-house-charged-with-rape-103792
24-06-2020||Moga||20-year-old Moga man killed in suspected honour killing||A 20-year-old man was held captive for six hours and allegedly beaten to death by the parents of his girlfriend in a suspected honour killing at Dhalleke village of Moga district late on Tuesday night.The deceased has been identified as Inderjit Singh, son of Naib Singh, a resident of Dhalleke village.The police have sent his body to the district hospital in Moga for a post-mortem examination.Preliminary investigations revealed that the man had gone to meet his girlfriend at her house late last night and her parents became aware of the visit.Police said the man was held captive by the woman’s family at midnight and they kept beating him till 6 am on Wednesday.Neighbours rescued the man, who was tied up with a rope, and took him to the hospital, where he was declared dead at 6.30 am. He died with multiple fractures on his body.The police have taken a family member of the girl into custody for questioning but no formal arrest has been made so far.Further investigations were in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/20-year-old-moga-man-killed-in-suspected-honour-killing-103761
24-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||10 more take Fatehgarh Sahib virus tally to 100||Ten more persons tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the tally in the district to 100.Panic prevailed in Badochi Kalan village, after nine family members of a milkman, who had tested positive for the virus two days ago, wre also found infected.The Civil Surgeon, Dr NK Aggarwal, said all patients had been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. Besides, a lawyer of Amloh town, identified as Subhash Chander Lutava, president, Bar Association, Amloh, also tested positive, he said.He has been shifted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, Dr Aggarwal added. The total number of active cases in the district have now risen to 24, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-more-take-fatehgarh-sahib-virus-tally-to-100-103753
24-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||SPS Oberoi to repatriate Punjabis stranded in UAE||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, June 23Dubai-based construction magnate Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi has decided to charter four flights from Dubai, two each to Chandigarh and Amritsar, to bring back hundreds of Punjabis stranded in various cities of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) ever since flying restrictions were imposed due to the Covid lockdown.Oberoi, who shot to limelight in 2010, when he paid the blood money worth US Dollars 2.2 million to the relatives of Pakistani man allegedly killed by a group of 17 boys belonging to Punjab, said the staff of his charitable organisation ‘Sarbat-Da-Bhala’ was in touch with the officials of the Indian consulate and Embassy in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, respectively.“Nearly 4.5 lakh Indians have been trapped in the UAE. A majority of these people belong to Punjab and work in Abu Dabhi, Dubai, Ajman and Sharjah. Their companies have abandoned them and they are now living in pathetic conditions. I receive scores of calls daily and have listened to horrendous tales of their survival, following which I decided to do something. In the first phase, two flights will land, one at Chandigarh and another at Amritsar. Each flight will carry 171 passengers. Once the first phase is over, two more flights will be chartered,” Oberoi said. Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla has been asked to work out the modalities with Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri.Aujla confirmed the development. “I had elaborate discussions with the minister yesterday. Aviation officials are now working out the details,” he said.Oberoi said each flight would cost Rs38.40 lakh. “This is different from the Rs2,470 tax to be levied per passenger. This comes to Rs4.22 lakh per flight. I will be paying tax, too, because it is obvious that passengers are not in a position to pay,” he said.“My Dubai-based staff, in consultation with the consulate and embassy, has drawn up the lists of people willing to get repatriated. Priority will be accorded to pregnant women, individuals who have lost jobs due to the pandemic, senior citizens and people who came to the country for short visits or to hunt for jobs and have medical issues. Then, there are those who have lost someone in the family and need to return,” he said. Oberoi confirmed that his staff was in touch with several airlines.“We may choose ‘Fly Dubai’, a UAE-based airline, because it already has local aviation clearances in place thus saving time, which was essential,” averred a staff member of the charitable trust.Sources reveal the UAE was home to 30 lakh Indians, of which 4.5 lakh want to return now. “Air India is doing a commendable job in the ‘Vande Bharat’ mission, but it is not capable of doing everything itself. Hence, the need for chartered flights,” the businessman said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sps-oberoi-to-repatriate-punjabis-stranded-in-uae-103330
24-06-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Sumedh Saini case: CBI seeks more time to search status report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23The CBI today sought more time to search a status report demanded by the Punjab Police in a 29-year-old kidnapping case of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani.The Punjab Police had recently booked former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and seven other police personnel in the kidnapping case and sought the status report. On the complaint of the victim’s brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, a case was registered at the Mataur police station in Mohali on May 6.The CBI had initiated a probe against the former DGP on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in July, 2008. However, the Supreme Court later quashed the investigation on technical grounds.The Punjab Police had filed an application in the court on June 6 seeking record of the preliminary inquiry conducted by the CBI in the kidnapping case to proceed further with the investigations.It was informed by the Punjab Police in their application that the High Court had returned the status report in the case to the CBI in 2016. When the case came up for hearing today, the CBI told the court that it required more time to search the report as it was facing staff shortage. The court fixed July 18 as the next date of hearing in the case.The CBI had earlier submitted that it had weeded out the record. Contesting the CBI’s claims, the Punjab Police, in their additional reply, submitted that the High Court had returned the status report to the CBI in 2016, then how could the agency say that it did not have any record.Saini was injured in a terrorist attack in 1990. His four security personnel were killed in the incident. Later, the police arrested Balwant Singh Multani in the case. The police claimed that Multani fled from the police custody but his family members alleged that he died due to torture by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sumedh-saini-case-cbi-seeks-more-time-to-search-status-report-103721
24-06-2020||---||No help from Centre in war against Covid: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, June 23Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today accused the Centre of not supporting the state in its fight against Covid-19, pointing out that all that Punjab had received so far was its own GST share of Rs 2,800 crore for January to March, and just a few other grants.‘Take firm stand against china’Terming the Galwan valley violence as part of a larger design on the part of China, Capt Amarinder Singh said India should not make the mistake of dismissing the incident as a patrol clash, and should take a firm stand against any Chinese incursion into the Indian territory. The amount of build-up at the Galwan valley showed that the Chinese were working on a plan, he said.The GST dues for April to June were still pending, he said at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) videoconference convened by AICC chief Sonia Gandhi, with former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi among participants.Despite repeated pleas and memorandums, no help was forthcoming from the Centre to the state for tackling the Covid crisis, he said, adding that the Union Government was not giving even the state’s own share.The state had not received a single penny from the mammoth package announced by the Prime Minister, he said, noting that with the estimated revenue shortfall of Rs 25,000-30,000 crore this year, and the rest going into the Covid war, the situation for Punjab was bad.His government was forced to manage on its own to create resources for fighting Covid, said Capt Amarinder, adding that he was sure that other states were in the same unfortunate position. “Nobody is listening to us. We had to put aside Rs 35 crore to arrange 500 trains to send 5.63 lakh migrants back to their home states,” he said.The Chief Minister said with 2.33 lakh of the total 2.52 lakh industries in Punjab now operational, migrants were also coming back to the state. His government, he said, was trying its best to get the industry back on track with all possible facilities and easing of norms, but the units were currently working at 40 per cent capacity and would take some months to return to their full strength.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-help-from-centre-in-war-against-covid-capt-amarinder-singh-103403
24-06-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Congress leaders at odds over new district unit chiefs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23Days ahead of the announcement of presidents of the district units of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC), differences have surfaced among party leaders over the choice of candidates whose names have been shortlisted for the posts.‘Concerns taken into account’Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar said concerns of party leaders and MLAs had been taken into account while shortlisting the names. The central party leadership would take the final decision, he added.A number of party leaders and Congress MLAs in Ropar, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Moga, Amritsar and Sangrur are learnt to have urged Punjab affairs incharge Asha Kumari and PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar to choose from among the candidates who have worked for the party at the grass-roots level.A few days ago, Asha Kumari had held discussions with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the PPCC chief, and sent the shortlisted names to party national president Sonia Gandhi. Representations against the shortlisted candidates are learnt to have reached the office of AICC general secretary (Organisation) KC Venugopal.In a representation, Punjab Youth Congress president and outgoing Ropar district Congress chief Barinder Dhillon is learnt to have opposed the name of a candidate, stating the selection was not fair. He is learnt to have quoted names of candidates who have worked hard for the party in the past.In Hoshiarpur, Chabbewal MLA Raj Kumar Chabbewal is learnt to have urged the party leaders to appoint a hardcore Congress man instead of those who had joined from other parties. In Moga, Bagha Purana MLA Darshan Brar and Moga MLA Harjot Kamal Singh have opposed the continuation of district president Maheshinder Singh Nihalsinghwala. Brar said he had taken up the matter with the PPCC chief.Similarly, two Cabinet ministers are supporting two candidates for the post of the Amritsar district president. Amritsar party leaders want a hardcore Congress man to head the unit instead of choosing those who have joined from other parties. In Sangrur, there are also differences among party leaders over the choice of the candidates.When contacted, Jakhar said concerns of party leaders and MLAs had been taken into account while shortlisting the names. The central party leadership would take the final decision, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leaders-at-odds-over-new-district-unit-chiefs-103404
24-06-2020||Bathinda||Akalis protest ‘sale of land’||The cash-strapped Punjab Government has started facing heat over its decision to redevelop the land of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) in Bathinda. In the first phase, 280 acres will be developed under 80:20 profit-sharing basis between the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and the Punjab Urban Development Authority.SAD activists led by former MLA Sarup Chand Singla today burnt an effigy of the state government at Kanhaiya Chowk. The protesters raised slogans against the government and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal. Singla lashed out at the minister for “running away” from his poll promise of restarting the thermal plant. He said the GNDTP had always been the lifeline of Bathinda and added that a biogas or a solar plant should be set up at the site. Singla said numerous industries could come up on the stretch, but the government was eyeing the land just for revenue generation.Union Minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal said, “After promising to revive the thermal plant during the 2017 Assembly elections, the Congress first shut down the power plant and now, on the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak, it has decided to auction the land.”MLA Chand Singla, former Mayor Balwant Rai Nath and 32 party workers were booked under various sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act for allegedly violating the lockdown norms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-protest-sale-of-land-103405
24-06-2020||---||Govt must share liquor case details with ED: SAD||Chandigarh, June 23The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) core committee on Tuesday urged the Centre and Punjab Government to reduce fuel prices besides asking the Congress government to provide all details sought by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Ghanaur illegal distillery case.It also demanded immediate sacking of Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi from the Cabinet after his family was indicted for pocketing double compensation in a land case. It also asked for stopping auction of the Bathinda thermal plant land and the need to empower mayors.Presiding over the meeting, Sukhbir Singh Badal said farmers as well as the industry and trade had been severely hit by the repeated hike in petrol and diesel prices. He said the Centre should consider giving relief to the people by bringing down the fuel prices.The core committee members expressed concern over the fact that the state police were not forwarding the case files of the Ghanaur liquor case to the ED despite repeated requests by the agency. It said any delay in sharing the probe reports and property details with the ED would help the accused and create hurdles in ensuring justice in the case.The committee condemned the government’s decision to take away the authority of mayors to write the annual confidential report of IAS officers appointed as Municipal Commissioners of the civic bodies in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-must-share-liquor-case-details-with-ed-sad-103406
24-06-2020||---||No move to sell Bathinda thermal plant land: FM||Chandigarh, June 23One of the largest industrial parks in Punjab is to be developed on 1,320 acres of land of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant in Bathinda. The plant was shut in 2017 because of environmental, economic and administrative issues.Denying that the state government was planning to sell the land, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said as per the redevelopment proposal, the 280-acre residential area, earlier occupied by the power department employees, would now be allotted to the civil and police officers. A new city centre or plaza would be established in the Civil Lines area, where civil and police officers were presently given accommodation, he said, adding that as part of the plan, 164 acres, where the lakes of the thermal plant were located, were to be used for the storage of canal water for the water supply system. Talking to the media here today, Manpreet said the thermal plant, which was established in 1974, was the oldest in the state, and it had outlived its life of 25 years. “According to Central Electricity Agency guidelines, all non-viable thermal plants that have exceeded the 25-year lifespan are to be closed. The thermal plant was running at a plant load factor of only 7.23 per cent, which made it unviable. Also, the annual running cost of merely maintaining the thermal plant was over Rs 110 crore,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-move-to-sell-bathinda-thermal-plant-land-fm-103407
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD, BJP to take part in all-party meeting today||The SAD and BJP today decided to participate in the all-party meeting called by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday and asked him to call another meeting next week to discuss the illicit liquor, seed and ration scams, besides other issues. The SAD-BJP coordination committee noted that the state exchequer had lost Rs 5,600 crore due to illegal distilleries and bottling plants, besides release of illicit liquor directly from distilleries. In the seed scam, farmers had lost Rs 4,000 crore due to sale of spurious seeds. The committee said a discussion should be held on all the three scams to assess the losses suffered by the government and farmers. Sukhbir Singh Badal, president, SAD, demanded that other issues should also be taken up in the all-party meet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-bjp-to-take-part-in-all-party-meeting-today-103408
24-06-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||To cut subsidy bill, Punjab govt plans solar project for farm sector||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23The state government is looking at different ways to reduce the financial burden caused by the whopping power subsidy bill of Rs 16,400 crore. On the agenda is doing away with the power subsidy for farmers having over 10 acres of agricultural land and shifting connections of tubewells to solar power.Cheaper source of powerAs the government grapples with financial crisis, triggered by the Covid-induced lockdown, it is contemplating the above-mentioned proposals to ease the financial burden. While discussion on the proposal given by the Punjab State Farmers’ Commission, asking the government to restrict free power supply to non-income tax payee farmers in its Punjab State Farmers Policy, will be held in the upcoming monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha, the government is reportedly in touch with the Government of Japan for getting financial aid to shift the tubewell connections to low-cost solar power.The power subsidy bill, which includes subsidy to farmers, industry and socially disadvantaged sections, is Rs 10,600 crore for 2020-21, while another Rs 5,759 crore is pending for the previous year. Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the revenue loss faced by the state in the first quarter of 2020-21 would be Rs 7,000 crore.“We have paid the salaries and pensions and serviced all debt on time. We are also paying Rs 500 crore per month as power subsidy. We have worked out that if we were to charge farmers for power, it would increase the cost of production by 12 per cent. Farmers are in no position to pay for power, especially when there is minimal increase in MSP for crops. Farmers have to be subsidised, but we have to find a way to reduce the subsidy,” he said. Recently, the Union Government had allowed the state to borrow an additional 2 per cent of its Gross State Domestic Product on certain conditions, including stopping free power to farmers and replacing it with direct transfer of cash as subsidy. The state government has refused to accept this condition.Manpreet said there were 14 lakh tubewell connections in Punjab, and connecting all these to solar power would entail a capital cost of Rs 80,000 crore. “We do not have this kind of money. But I am in discussion with the Government of Japan for funding a project, initially in one district, and then rolling it out throughout the state. A farmer needs to use the tubewell for just 100 days. If his tubewell is connected to solar power, he can sell the additional power generated to the state for the remaining part of the year,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-cut-subsidy-bill-punjab-govt-plans-solar-project-for-farm-sector-103409
24-06-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||No online classes, 3.5 L private school students suffer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23More than 3.50 lakh students of private schools in the state are sitting idle in their homes without any academic activity during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.Students studying in many private schools are not attending any online classes, which are being conducted for students of government schools. Besides, the teachers have also not been paid in several cases.Can use govt facilities: Education SecretarySecretary, School Education, Krishan Kumar, says government schools are connected with the NCERT, Doordarshan and many other online portals. These are also available for private school students. The official, however, agrees to the fact that students of private schools cannot be evaluated as is being done in government schools where regular assessment of the understanding of online lessons is being carried out.The state has nearly 40 lakh school students of which at least 25.78 lakh are enrolled in government schools. The director of a programme for government schools said, “We don’t have the exact number of private schools that are closed. However, it will not be wrong to say that at least 3.50 lakh of more than 14 lakh students studying in private schools are sitting in their homes without online classes.”Secretary, School Education, Krishan Kumar, said, “Government schools are connected with the NCERT, Doordarshan and many other online portals. These are also available for private school students. I agree with the fact that students of private schools cannot be evaluated for their work like it was being done in government schools to assess the understanding of the lessons.”Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “The current situation has led to a few students missing their classes completely but all this is beyond our control. At the same time, students who are interested to study will definitely find a way to stay connected. We will work out ways to compensate them for their loss of study when the Covid crisis ends.” A senior department official said, “Students wishing to take online classes have to just apply online on our website. We will ensure they are compensated for their missed classes.”“If the current situation continues, children in schools which are not taking any classes will stand to lose a full academic year. The department needs to take a call on the situation immediately,” a government school teacher said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-online-classes-3-5-l-private-school-students-suffer-103410
24-06-2020||Amritsar||Bihar cops paste notice outside  Navjot Sidhu’s house||With no response coming from Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, Bihar police officials today pasted a notice in a case over election code violations at the entrance to his house in Amritsar.For the past five days, two Bihar Police Sub-Inspectors, Javed Ahmad and Janardan Ram, have been waiting for the former minister so that they could serve him the notice in a case that was registered against him for his remarks at a poll rally in Katihar in 2019.Since June 18, they have been camping under a tree outside Sidhu’s residence.Javed Ahmad said since Sidhu was not ready to meet them, they had no option but to take the legal recourse by pasting the notice at the entrance to his house. He said Sidhu’s staff members did not tell them about his availability or whereabouts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bihar-cops-paste-notice-outside-navjot-sidhus-house-103411
24-06-2020||Amritsar||748 Indians to return from Pakistan in 3 phases||The Attari-Wagah border will be opened on June 25 to facilitate the repatriation of 748 Indian nationals stranded in Pakistan due to the Covid-19 lockdown.As per the understanding between the authorities of Islamabad and New Delhi, the repatriation process will be completed in three phases. Immigration officials, who have been notified by the Pakistan Government to ensure smooth repatriation, said the first batch consisting of 250 Jammu and Kashmir residents, mostly medical students, would arrive on June 25 through the Attari-Wagah border.An equal number of people would return on June 26 during the second phase and 248 on June 27 in the third phase of the repatriation process. They will be screened and quarantined for at least 14 days in their respective states.Islamabad has also asked New Delhi to schedule the return of Pakistani nationals stranded in India under identical circumstances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/748-indians-to-return-from-pakistan-in-3-phases-103412
24-06-2020||Faridkot||Accused positive in Faridkot, judge, 19 cops quarantined||A judge, eight employees in his court and two advocates were today asked by the District and Sessions Judge to undergo precautionary self-quarantine for 14 days after an accused in an NDPS case was tested positive for Covid-19.The accused was produced in the court of Suresh Kumar, Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMIC), on June 16. On Monday, the police informed the judge about the health condition of the accused.Following this, the JMIC wrote to the District and Session Judge on Tuesday and the latter asked the JMIC, eight employees in his court and two advocates to undergo home quarantine for 14 days.The accused, Jatinder Singh, was nabbed with 100 gm of cannabis on June 15, when he had brought a truckload of gravel to the Faridkot Central Jail.All 19 police personnel, including the SHO, who had come in contact with Jatinder during his arrest and his six-day stay in the police lockup here, have been told to quarantine themselves. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/accused-positive-in-faridkot-judge-19-cops-quarantined-103413
24-06-2020||Sangrur||Covid patient, kin go missing in Sangrur, probe on||After a patient, who tested positive for Covid-19, went missing from her house in Sehna town, the police have registered a case and started probe.  The woman, along with her mother and brother, has been missing since Monday evening.  “We have registered a case. We are trying to trace the trio,” said Rashvinder Singh, munshi, Sehna police station.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-patient-kin-go-missing-in-sangrur-probe-on-103414
24-06-2020||
||BJP demands   audit of Covid  funds in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 23 Blaming the state government for failing to properly handle the Covid-19 outbreak, senior BJP leader Vineet Joshi today demanded a medical audit under the supervision of a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. He also sought issuance of a ‘white paper’ on the utilisation of Covid-19 funds in the state.  Claiming that the saffron party had analysed the government’s response since the lockdown was imposed on March 23, Joshi said Health Minister Balbir Sidhu’s tall claims of corona treatment were exposed by statements of late Hazoori Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa and an ASI who contracted the infection. The Hazoori Ragi had claimed that he was not given “proper treatment and medicines” at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, while the ASI had sent a complaint to the Ludhiana Commissioner of Police, describing his stay at two government hospitals as “torturous”. Combating Covid-19 requires good medical infrastructure, equipment and experts which Punjab’s 22 district and 44 tehsil hospitals acutely lack, said Joshi, adding that the ventilators were not available in many district hospitals.  He said even the doctors  and staff attending to the patients did not have sufficient PPE kits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-demands-audit-of-covid-funds-in-punjab-103415
24-06-2020||Tribune Reporters||Private hospitals protest clinical Act||Ropar, June 23Private hospitals in the state remained closed in protest against the implementation of the Clinical Establishment Act (CEA) today. OPDs and emergency services remained suspended from 6 am to 8 pm. The state government had given standing instructions for the implementation of the CEA in April.After a meeting of Indian Medical Association units at Ropar and Anandpur Sahib with the Indian Dental Association, doctors said even though the CEA was passed by the government in 2010, it was subsequently and unanimously rejected by the SAD-BJP government in the Assembly.Phagwara:On a call given by the state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), headed by its president Dr Navjot Singh Dahiya, almost all doctors kept their clinics and hospitals shut here today.Dr Dahyia said the IMA couldn’t understand the logic of the state government to bring in an ordinance against the medical fraternity, which had been serving the people amid the Covid crisis.They said the Act was implemented even as the government had signed an MoU with some private hospitals for providing treatment to Covid patients.IMAofficials said the state government had abdicated from its responsibility to provide treatment to the patients infected with Covid-19. They accused the government of extending the treatment facility to VIP patients at the cost of taxpayers. They urged the Punjab Government to scrap the notification regarding the CEA, which “if enforced will establish inspector raj and breed corruption”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/private-hospitals-protest-clinical-act-103416
24-06-2020||Bathinda||U-turn on  patient stirs controversy||A serious lapse on the part of Health Department has come to fore after they declared a Covid positive person negative. A day later, the Health Department officials reached the workplace of the person at gaushala to hospitalise him again.Sri Gaushala Sirki Bazaar general secretary Sadhu Ram Kusla said Sunil returned to work after his report, which came out on June 22, said he was Covid negative.DC B Srinivasan said: “With a pile of Covid test reports lying with the department, some misunderstanding had ensued. However, the matter came to the notice of the officials, and Sunil Kumar was called back.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/u-turn-on-patient-stirs-controversy-103417
24-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC: Can’t add non-bailable offence to pre-existing FIRs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23The Punjab and Haryana High Court has put an end to the age-old practice among police officials to add non-bailable offences to the FIRs after the accused have been granted interim bail for defeating the purpose of anticipatory bail.Justice Arun Monga ruled that an investigating officer or a police official could not add an offence to a pre-existing FIR after the court had granted interim bail to the accused. Otherwise just about every investigating officer would have the convenient option to subvert and sabotage a judicial order.THE EXCEPTIONAt the same time, it is not to be construed that if an accused who is enlarged on bail, subsequently commits a non-bailable offence, unrelated to the FIR in question, he cannot be arrested without permission or cancellation of bail order. Justice Arun Monga The ruling came in a case where the police added the offence of rape to an FIR in a kidnapping case after the accused was granted the concession of interim bail.Taking up the petition filed against the state government by the accused through counsel Meenu, Justice Monga also directed Punjab DGP to sensitise all police officers in the state “in the overall interest of better administration of criminal justice”.The DGP was also given the liberty to issue appropriate orders stating that an investigating officer or police official would seek the court’s prior permission before further adding any section to the existing FIR, after the accused had been enlarged on interim anticipatory or regular bail.“At the same time, it is not to be construed that if an accused who is enlarged on bail, subsequently commits a non-bailable offence, unrelated to the FIR in question, he cannot be arrested without permission or cancellation of bail order,” Justice Monga added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-cant-add-non-bailable-offence-to-pre-existing-firs-103418
24-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo
||Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini opposes transfer of case||Tribune News Service Mohali, June 23 Opposing the transfer of the case, former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini through his counsel HS Dhanoa filed his reply today in the Sessions Court seeking dismissal of the application. The application for transfer of the case was filed by Palwinder Singh Multani in the disappearance and murder of his brother Balwant Singh Multani 29 years ago. The former DGP is the main accused in the case, which came up for hearing before District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Singh Rai. The case has now been adjourned to June 29. Claiming that the court had adjourned the case for arguments, Dhanoa said they had prayed before the court that the transfer application was not maintainable and requested its dismissal. On June 15,  the Sessions Judge had deferred the hearing on the application seeking transfer of the case from the court of Additional District and Session Judge Monika Goyal. Palwinder Singh had filed the application after the Additional Sessions Judge had allowed interim bail to Saini in anticipation of the SIT adding Section 302 of the IPC to an earlier FIR. Sartej Singh Narula, special public persecutor, argued that the anticipatory bail granted to Saini without the addition of Section 302 of the IPC in the FIR was not maintainable. Narula and District Attorney Sanjiv Batra said they had argued that the grant of anticipatory bail was arbitrary and the case must be transferred to some other court.  “The Sessions Judge has also called for the comments of the Additional Sessions Judge on the issue,” they added. An FIR was registered afresh against former DGP Saini at the Mataur police station accusing him of abduction of Balwant Singh Multani following the complaint of Palwinder under Sections 364, 201, 330, 344, 219 and 120-B of the IPC on May 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-opposes-transfer-of-case-103419
24-06-2020||Mohali||6-day remand for SFJ activist||A key conspirator behind recruiting youth for the banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), who was arrested recently, was produced in an NIA court in Mohali which remanded him to NIA custody till June 29.  The accused is identified as Pargat Singh (23), a resident of Tarmala, Muktsar. An NIA spokesman said Pargat Singh had been recruiting Sikh youth on the directions of handlers located abroad to further the activities of the SFJ, which was already declared an unlawful association. The accused was booked on October 19, 2018.  The NIA said the case was related to a series of acts of violence, including arson, in Punjab during 2017-18, carrying out of propaganda activities online and on ground, and organising campaigns in support of ‘Referendum-2020’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-day-remand-for-sfj-activist-103420
24-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Pakistan agencies roping in youth through social media: Intel||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 23Pakistan-based agencies and anti-national elements are targeting youth via social media platforms for carrying out terror attacks and targeted killings in Punjab.This came to fore during the interrogation of Khalistani operative Gurmeet Singh, who along with another aide Vikram Singh, was held by the Punjab Police on June 19. The duo is under 10-day police custody.‘LURING PUNJABI YOUTH OF ANY FAITH’ The Pakistan-based agencies are looking for Punjabi youth of any faith whom they can radicalise for furthering their interests, including disrupting peace and promoting hatred in the region.—  Police officer The agencies are targeting the youth who are economically weaker and have inclination towards ‘separatism’. They are also trying to lure gangsters for the purpose.A police official privy to the investigation said Gurmeet Singh, a drug addict, was involved in trafficking of opium from Rajasthan though there was no FIR registered against him. The official said he was ‘spotted’ by Pak agencies through social media. Later, he was called with a religious jatha to Pakistan where he met his handlers in 2017.He remained in touch with them via video-conferencing through various apps.Talking to The Tribune, the investigation officer said Gurmeet revealed that the Pakistan-based agencies were not targeting youth of a particular community. “They are looking for Punjabi youth of any faith whom they can radicalise for furthering their interests, including disrupting peace and promoting hatred in the region,” the officer said.Busting a terror module with their arrest, the police had confiscated a German-made MP5 sub-machine gun, a 9-mm pistol with four magazines and two mobile phones from them.Meanwhile, the police are trying to identify those persons who had dumped sophisticated weapon in the fields near Gurdaspuria Dhaba on GT Road. When some persons came to retrieve the weapons, locals got suspicious and informed the police, following which the suspects were arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-agencies-roping-in-youth-through-social-media-intel-103421
24-06-2020||Chamkaur Sahib||Two  labourers die of snakebite||Two farm labourers — Tapeshwar Thakur (45) and Ravinder Rai (36) — died of a snakebite at nearby Rolumajra village today.  The police said both were  sleeping near a tubewell. As soon as they woke up, they fell on the floor. They were taken to a government hospital in Morinda, where Thakur breathed his last. Rai was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh, where he died. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-labourers-die-of-snakebite-103422
24-06-2020||
||Sangrur DSP booked for taking bribe||Sangrur, June 23 The Sangrur police have booked the Deputy Superintendent of Police (Jails), Kultar Singh, under the Prevention of Corruption Act for allegedly seeking bribe from prisoners.  “We have registered a case against the DSP (Jails), Kultar Singh, under the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988. There are allegations that he got money deposited from a relative of a prisoner in the bank account of some other person and later withdrew it,” said Satpal Sharma, DSP (Rural), Sangrur. According to information, a resident of Mansa had accused the DSP of demanding bribe. He had alleged that Kultar was harassing his relative, who was lodged in Sangrur Jail and sought bribe. The complainant had submitted recording (CD) of conversation with the DSP. He alleged that he had got the money deposited through Paytm and Google Pay in the bank account of other person. “As money was transferred online, we need to get details of all the transactions from various banks. We are conducting thorough investigations,” Sharma. SP (Jails) Balwinder Singh said, “I do not know about the registration of an FIR. Kultar is on leave today.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-dsp-booked-for-taking-bribe-103423
24-06-2020||
||RTA driver held for graft||Mohali, June 23 The state Vigilance Bureau (VB) today arrested a driver of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Faridkot-cum-General Assistant (GA) to the Deputy Commissioner, Faridkot, red-handed while taking a bribe at the district administrative complex, Faridkot. A spokesperson for the VB said the accused, Amarjeet Singh, who was a head constable with the state police, had been arrested on the complaint of Baaj Singh of Malout town in Muktsar district. The complainant had approached the VB and alleged that the RTA and his driver were demanding a bribe of Rs 25,000 from him to allow his new tourist bus to run on the road. The accused has been booked and further investigation is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rta-driver-held-for-graft-103424
24-06-2020||---||No let-up, 7 more deaths in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 23Jalandhar and Ludhiana continue to witness a spike in Covid-19 cases. While 38 cases were reported in Jalandhar today, 34 tested positive for the infection in Ludhiana. A total of seven deaths were reported.With 162 fresh cases today, the tally has mounted to 4,397. The death toll stands at 108. Three deaths were reported in Jalandhar, Ludhiana (two) and Amritsar and Patiala one each. As many as 222 patients were discharged after recovery.Jalandhar reported 38 fresh cases, including six children in the 6-15 age group. Three women succumbed to the virus. One of them aged 28 years was suffering from pneumonia.Amid the rising number of cases, MLA Sushil Rinku also home-quarantined himself after he came in contact with the son of a Congress councillor, whose test report came as positive yesterday.Thirty four positive cases were reported in Ludhiana district today. Of these, 18 are the contacts of positive patients and belong to Sidhwan Bet, new Vishkarma Colony, Luvkush Nagar, Manohar Nagar, Jamalpur, Azad Nagar, Pakhowal Road.A 44-year-old man from Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana, with travel history to Bihar, and a 29-year-old man from New Gurnam Nagar, Jassian Road, with travel history to Delhi, were also found infected . A 22-year-old pregnant woman from Laxman Nagar Daba Road, a 33-year-old pregnant woman from Prem Nagar, a 46-year-old man from Banda Bahadur colony, Basti Jodhewal, who is a TB patient, and a 45-year-old health worker, who is a lab technician, have also contracted the virus.An Assistant Sub-Inspector posted with a PCR has also tested positive. His son, a Punjab Police commando, had tested positive earlier.Apart from this, seven new cases of ILI (influenza-like illeness) have also reported to be positive.Meanwhile, with one death today, the toll in Amritsar district has reached 32. The deceased was identified as Usha Arora (67), a resident of the Loha Mandi area. She was admitted to Government Medical College, where she died this morning. Health officials said she had reported to the flu corner at the Civil Hospital with the symptoms of SARI. The patient was on ventilator support and was a known case of diabetes mellitus and psoriasis.The state media bulletin also reported seven new cases today, taking the tally to 792. Of the new cases, four are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases, one a police official and two are the contacts of already positive cases.The district administration has notified three micro-containments zones with five or more positive cases. The administration had earlier notified two containment zones with 15 or more cases.Meanwhile, a 65-year-old resident of Sangur, having co-morbid conditions, died in Ludhiana today. With this, the total number of fatalities in the district has reached eight.In Phagwara, seven more patients, including two sub-inspectors and a constable posted at the City police station, were found infected.Senior Medical Officer Dr Kishore said 124 samples, including 52 of policemen, were taken and sent for testing on Monday and Tuesday. Two of the positive patients had travel history to Delhi.The SMO said all seven patients, who tested positive today, had been sent to Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-let-up-7-more-deaths-in-punjab-103428
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab eateries to open at 50% capacity||In a major relief to hospitality industry, the Punjab Government today allowed hotels, restaurants and marriage palaces to operate at a limited capacity, but with strict adherence to social distancing and other protocols.Read also: Finally, dine-in resumes today, restaurant owners a happy lot A government spokesperson said the restaurants would have to shut by 8 pm and the number of guests wouldn’t exceed 50 or 50 per cent of their seating capacity, whichever was less.In hotels, bars would remain closed but liquor could be served in rooms and restaurants, as permitted under the excise policy.Weddings and other social functions in banquet halls, marriage palaces and open venues could be organised with no more than 50 guests. The size of the venue shall be at least be 5,000 sq ft to ensure social distancing. Bars would continue to remain closed in banquet halls and marriage palaces, but liquor could be served in functions as per the excise policy, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-eateries-to-open-at-50-capacity-103399
24-06-2020||Aman Sood||Covid scares away Punjab investments, just 90 proposals in 6 months||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 23The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted new investments in Punjab. As compared to over 1,000 applications for new investments in 2019, only 90 proposals have been received for major expansion and modernisation projects this year so far.Down from 475 last year475 applications for various projects were received from January to June last year300 of those were for new projects, 92 for expansion and the rest for modernisation70 of the 90 applications received this year are for new projects, but many applicants are now not keen on pursuing those projectsThe data provided by the Punjab Pollution Control Board, which grants sanction for new units and expansion projects, indicates that the state faces a major loss in terms of attracting new investments this year.Read also: For bread and butterThe fact that over 10 lakh migrant workers have already left the state following job loss due to Covid-19 lockdown has further compounded the situation.During the same period last year, various departments had received and processed 475 applications out of which 300 were for new investments, 92 for expansion and the remaining for modernisation.Of the 90 applications received this year so far, 70 are for new investments, but a number of the applicants are now not keen on pursuing those projects, officials maintain.“We had received 90 applications by March and no new proposal has been received thereafter. Out of 90, only around 20 applicants are still interested in carrying forward their projects,” says Karunesh Garg, Member Secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board.“These are hard times for the industry. We are allowing relaxations to the existing units as regards requisite sanctions,” he said.With the industry facing heat because of the massive drop in demand for industrial products due to Covid scare, industry representatives have already demanded deferment of GST payment, cut in bank interest rates and immediate release of tax refunds.Senior officials in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited also confirm that the power demand has gone down in the industrial sector. There is a slump of around 2,000 mega watts in industrial consumption, they maintain. “All we can do is to wait for the industrial units to become operational. Cement, bicycle, rolling mills, brick-kilns, plywood units etc. are all almost shut,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-scares-away-punjab-investments-just-90-proposals-in-6-months-103400
