25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cops show humane face, distribute food to underprivileged||The Punjab Police on Wednesday distributed food to the underprivileged in many parts of the state and also ensured home delivery of essentials to daily wagers and slum dwellers amid a countrywide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, officials said.The humane action comes a day after several videos purportedly showing the police personnel slapping and hitting those defying prohibitory orders went viral on social media.The police personnel organised ‘langars’ (community meal) to feed those who can barely manage a meal without their daily wage, the officials said.In Amritsar, police made arrangements at Ghah Mandi and Ram Bagh area for distributing food to daily wagers. After making announcements from police vehicle, food was given to the poor while maintaining social distance, said Amritsar Station House Officer Neeraj Kumar.“We have distributed over 300 packets each of milk and fruit to the needy people. We have a list of people to whom food items will be distributed,” he said.In Tarn Taran, police distributed chapattis and other items to the poor. At Nakodar in Jalandhar, police with the help of residents distributed ration to 300 households, which included rickshaw pullers, slum dwellers, daily wagers within and on the outskirts of the city, the officials said.Videos showing police personnel delivering essential items at doorsteps of houses of slum dwellers and daily wagers were also widely circulated on social media.On Tuesday, police had registered 232 FIRs and arrested 111 people for violating prohibitory orders. — PTI
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Forced to stay in Chandigarh, Congress MLAs want CM Amarinder Singh to intervene||Stuck in Chandigarh because of a curfew, several Congress Members of Legislative Assembly have asked for Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s intervention so they could go back to their constituencies to help with ongoing campaign against coronavirus.The legislators say they want to go back and help with relief operations in their own constituency but that the curfew has made it difficult for them to leave Chandigarh."Despite best efforts by Punjab Police, there were problems in the dispatch of relief material to the homeless, destitutes and idle sitting daily wage earners in Khanna, Taran Taran, Zira, Jagroan, Ferozepur, Quadian, and other places. Due to personal rapport with the locals, we can add impetus to the drive", said the MLAs.Legislators Sukhpal Bhullar (Khem Karan), Parminder Pinki (Ferozepur), GP Singh (Bassi Pathana), Kulbir Zira (Zira), Fateh Jung Bajwa (Qadian), Gurkirat Kotli (Khanna) are among those who have been forced to stay on in the city.A lawmaker said that all ministers and MLAs should be asked to go back to their constituency in this hour of crisis.“People have voted us and it was our responsibility,” a lawmaker said.
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Bhakra Beas Management Board exceeds power generation target by 28 per cent||Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has generated 12,000 million units of energy from all its power houses against the target of 9,329 million units allocated to it by the Central Electricity Authority.This translates to 28.63 per cent more energy being produced than envisioned. The feat was achieved by 6 am Wednesday morning, according to a statement issued here.Generation of excess energy had been possible due to judicious operation of reservoirs as well as efficient operation and maintenance of the generating units in its six power plants.Plant load availability of generating machines in BBMB power houses has been 98.85 per cent, which is one of the highest in the country.Besides its primary role of managing irrigation and drinking water as well as flood control, BBMB has an installed capacity of 2918.73 MW—the third largest installed hydro power capacity in India and it also transmits power to the Northern Grid through a widespread network of transmission lines.With its projects lying on the Sutlej and Beas rivers, it has a total of 28 generating units in its six power houses, benefiting five states. It also maintains some of the largest water reservoirs in the country such as Bhakra Dam and Pong Dam reservoirs.BBMB chairman DK Sharma has felicitated all the employees of the board for their untiring efforts to surpass the target and to maintain highest standards of operation and maintenance of its generating units.He also asked the staff to maintain essential services during the present unprecedented situation created due to the outbreak of COVID-19.
25-03-2020||---||Curfew: Punjab issues fresh guidelines on supplies, movement control||Chandigarh, March 25To streamline the supply of essentials in the curfew-bound Punjab, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday issued fresh directives, including instructions for issuance of passes to maintain critical services.A press statement issued by the government said the CM constituted a committee under the chairmanship of ACS (Industry & Commerce) to oversee the procurement processes for all CoViD-19 related items. To ensure supply of materials and equipment to government medical facilities, the DCs have been asked to contact PSHFW and MD, PHSC, with the facility of sending advance indents.He directed the police and administrative officials to ensure that door-to-door delivery of essential services was maintained, and it may be further streamlined with the assistance of e-commerce companies/service providers. Volunteers may also be engaged, if necessary.The providers of essential services (hawkers/delivery boys) or institutions should be allowed to operate for fixed duration, but on specific permissions.For special goods trains, which have been arranged to move food grains out of the state to ensure adequate storage space for the coming wheat crop, the Department of Food has issued complete protocol.Secretary Arun Sekhri on Wednesday issued revised curfew management guidelines to all Divisional Commissioners, Deputy Commissioners, Commissioners of Police/SSPs, and others.DGP Dinkar Gupta also issued instructions to officers to ensure that functioning of delivery boys, rehris, small motorised vehicles, etc, was facilitated to ensure smooth supplies.Offices that have been designated in the Government of India’s order will be allowed to remain open with skeletal staff. Specific state government offices may also be required to remain open with minimal functional staff. Employees of such offices will be allowed to travel from home to office on their institutional identity card, and specific curfew passes would not be necessary.For employees of governments, including PSUs and SPUs, of Haryana, Punjab and UT of Chandigarh, who are residing in Mohali district (especially Mohali and Zirakpur), it has been decided that they may be allowed to commute to their offices for official duty (not with their families or in groups) by showing their official or institutional photo ID cards, and they would not be required to obtain curfew passes.All other government employees will be directed to work from home.Permissions may be given in the following manner:a) Permits may be issued for fixed period to all those exempted by GoI/GoP. Such permits can even be in the form of authorisation letters.b) Institutional permits to the exempted institutions such as media houses, IOC/HPCL, post offices, banks, Railways, petrol pumps, LPG suppliers, etc., should be given through specific letters, attaching therewith the list of employees of each of such institutions. These employees should then be allowed to go to office in duty hours on their institutional identity cards, but they may not be allowed elsewhere such as markets, etc, for their personal work.c) Those institutional permissions, which are issued for maintaining essential supplies, in the form of authorization letters, should clearly mention so and would be valid across the state.d) Individual passes may be given only in an emergency and if so required, such an individual may be permitted to use vehicle but for a given purpose only.e) Healthcare establishments (hospitals, nursing homes, PHCs, CHCs), both private and government, and their employees, should be given a general permission to operate and their employees may be allowed to commute for duty/work on their institutional identity card.To simplify the process, the issuance of passes has been tasked to various officers as follows:For point-to-point movement of individuals or providers of essential goods and services, the passes can be issued by the authorised signatories at origin, clearly giving address of destination and purpose of traveling. Such passes should be honoured both during transit and at destination, but such pass holders should not be allowed to stop or go anywhere other than the specified destination.The Government of India in its order has also emphasised maintaining supply chains of essential goods and commodities. Vehicle number and mode of transportation should also be specified. However, movement of people in groups should be avoided.For individual emergencies, DCs should continue to follow up and facilitate the common man through helplines already established in the districts. The number of helplines and persons attending such lines may be increased and properly publicised, the guidelines state.For procurement of wheat, ACS (Dev.) and PSFS would issue a comprehensive mandi-wise plan in due course. Likewise, for harvesting of the potato crop, ACS (Dev.) would issue necessary guidelines by March 27.
25-03-2020||---||Naresh Gujral pledges Rs 2 crore of MPLADS fund for coronavirus relief||New Delhi, March 25Punjab Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral said he has placed Rs 2 crore from his MPLADS at the disposal of Jalandhar district authorities for utilisation in the Covid-19 health pandemic requirements.Earlier Wednesday, the government revised MPLADS guidelines allowing MPs to contribute to procurement of coronavirus testing, screening equipment and facilities.
25-03-2020||Vibha Sharma||BJP leader cites Kabul gurdwara attack to question Punjab CM and others ‘opposing’ CAA||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, March 25BJP leader RP Singh cited the Kabul gurdwara attack to question Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and others "opposing" the CAA -- the controversial issue occupying political mindspace before COVID-19 took centrestage.Calling the attack a glaring example of religious minorities, Singh said, "I hope Capt Aamrinder and others who are opposing #CAA will have answer for attack on 150 innocent Sikhs who were praying for Sarbat Da Bhalla (save humanity from #Corona) in a Gurdwara in Afghanistan. It is a glaring example after Nankana Sahib of religious persecution of minorities.”Several persons were killed and injured after gunmen opened fire at a gurdwara in Afghanistan's capital Kabul, the local media has reported. The terror group ISIS has claimed the attack, according to agency reports.The attack comes a day after the United States said it would cut its aid to the government by $1 billion over frustrations that feuding political leaders could not reach an agreement and form a team to negotiate with the Taliban.
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder writes to Amit Shah for evacuation of stranded devotees at Nanded||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to help evacuate devotees who are stranded at the historic Gurdwara Hazur Sahib at Nanded because of the countrywide lockdown."Have written to HM @AmitShah ji & Maharashtra CM to facilitate the evacuation of devotees stranded at Nanded Sahib Gurdwara. The pilgrims have been stranded there for long & we owe them safe return to their homes & families," Singh tweeted.The chief minister said around 2,000 pilgrims from Punjab had gone to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded in Maharashtra."Due to cancellation of trains some days back and the nationwide lockdown imposed since midnight earlier today, there is no possibility of their being brought to Punjab without special approval of Government of India," Singh wrote in a letter to Shah.He pointed out that the Punjab government had already written to the railways for plying special trains to evacuate stranded devotees."Our offices have been in touch with the district administration of Nanded and I have also written to the Maharashtra chief minister for making suitable interim arrangements for their board and lodging in Nanded," wrote Singh.He urged the union minister to facilitate evacuation of devotees through special trains or flights. PTI
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt employees don't have to worry about salaries: Manpreet Badal||Punjab government employees do not have to worry about salaries, at least for the time being, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal told The Tribune on Wednesday.“We have an effective system of financial management in place to handle the current situation of salary disbursement to our employees. All input flows are functional for allowing our staff to work out their disbursement details on time,” Badal said.As there is growing apprehension among staff that they might default on their monthly EMIs, Badal said: “We have sufficient financial backing for the moment. Our Finance Secretary, along with his team, is working out a detailed paper on the worst-case scenario in case we are not able to handle the Covid-19 situation by April 16. We are also ready for a best-case scenario.”“I am hopeful that we will be able to curtail the current crises, well within time, to avoid any salary goosebumps to employees next time,” he said.Expressing concern over the current situation, Badal said: “Under the current scenario, our country is losing GDP worth Rs one lakh crore daily. The affected collections from petrol, diesel and alcohol, alone, were very big. Punjab alone is suffering Rs 1700 crore GDP loss daily."Badal said: “Shortly, we will be faced with a bigger problem of managing the harvest season of the wheat crop. Not just the harvesting and storage but also the payments. We cannot postpone the harvest, but, we don’t know the definite solution at this moment.”
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Congress MLAs appeal for help to homeless; ask Punjab CM to provide free ration||Amid the 21 days curfew ordered by the Centre to check the spread of COVID-19, Congress MLAs have appealed politicians, including MLAs of all political parties, cutting across party lines, to come forward to help the homeless and downtrodden in the hour of crisis.Flagging the urgency of helping and feeding the homeless, rickshaw and cart pullers, beggars, physically challenged poor, daily wage earners and those below the poverty line, Ferozpur MLA Parminder Pal Pinki and Payal MLA Gurkirat Kotli have sought the help of the wealthy politicians, NGO and religious sect in feeding the needy.They have also appealed to the Punjab CM to provide free ration Wheat, Dal & sugar by utilizing MNREGA funds, on the pattern of Telangana and Tamil Nadu.Appreciating the role of Punjab Police and district authorities in helping the needy, they said more efforts were required to reach out to all the neglected.They urged the politicians and MLAs, while adhering to the mandatory precautions against the Virus, to span out in their respective areas and help the poor by creating awareness and extending succor to them during this hour of crisis.
25-03-2020||---||India condemns terrorist attack on Kabul gurdwara||New Delhi, March 25The government has strongly condemned the terrorist attack on Gurudwara Guru Har Rai in Kabul and commended the Afghan forces for their brave response.Making a pointed reference to the targeting of a minority place of worship, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) suggested there was a pattern behind them. It also offered to extend all possible assistance to the affected families of the Hindu and Sikh communities of Afghanistan.“Such cowardly attacks on the places of religious worship of the minority community, especially at this time of COVID 19 pandemic, is reflective of the diabolical mindset of the perpetrators and their backers,’’ said an MEA statement while conveying the government’s sincerest condolences to the immediate family members of the deceased and wishing a speedy recovery to the injured.The MEA said the Afghan security forces had shown exemplary courage and dedication in protecting the Afghan people and securing the country.The attack was also condemned by Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh who asked Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to track down the perpetrators and “look after our people’’. The reaction by Union Minister Hardeep Puri was close to the MEA statement by stressing on the “minority” aspect. “These killings are a grim reminder of atrocities that continue to be inflicted upon religious minorities in some countries and the urgency with which their lives and religious freedom have to be safeguarded,’’ he noted.
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Govt allows deliveries in private hospitals under insurance scheme||In view of the emergent situation, arising out of the spread of coronavirus and the increasing pressure of public healthcare infrastructure, the government has allowed all kinds of deliveries in the impanelled private hospitals under Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana without any need of taking referral from the Government facilities.As per an order issued by Secretary Health, the decision was taken by exercising of powers under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the Government of Punjab has already issued the Punjab Epidemic Diseases, COVID-19 Regulations, 2020 for the containment and prevention of the spread of COVID-19.The government said that amid the current situation the government hospitals may be over-burdened with various quarantine, treatment and containment measures to be implemented to meet the exigency of the situation.Therefore, considering the current situation, ten procedures pertaining to obstetrics and gynecology including high-risk deliveries and cesarean section which was earlier reserved for government hospitals stands de-reserved with immediate effect.Thus, the treatment of these ten procedures can be availed from impanelled private hospitals under the scheme which was earlier prohibited without getting referred from the government facilities.Procedures:1 Caesarian Delivery2 High-risk delivery: Premature delivery3 High-risk delivery: Expected Gestation at delivery less than 35 weeks4 High-risk delivery: Mothers with eclampsia or imminent eclampsia5 High-risk delivery: Obstructed labour6 High-risk delivery: Major Fetal malformation requiring intervention immediately after birth7 High-risk delivery: Mothers with severe anemia8 High-risk delivery: Other maternal and fetal conditions as per guidelines such as Rh haemolytic disease, uncontrolled diabetes, severe growth retardation, etc that qualify for high-risk delivery, etc.9 Normal Delivery10 Caesarian hysterectomy
25-03-2020||---||One man responsible for Punjab’s 70 pc coronavirus cases; count reaches 31||Chandigarh, March 25With two more cases reported on Wednesday, the number of confirmed coronavirus (COVID-19) cases has reached 31 in Punjab. One of the fresh cases is from Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur and the other from Ludhiana.This Hoshiarpur case is also linked to 70-year-old Baldev Singh of SBS Nagar district, who succumbed to the deadly virus last week.With the new case, the total number of cases getting infected from Baldev alone has reached 22; those affected include 18 of his family members from Banga and Phillaur towns. He had returned from Germany after which his condition deteriorated last week. He was found positive after death.The latest to be affected by the deadly virus is a resident of Moranwali village in Garhshankar. He is the son of a priest, who was serving at Pathlawa dera of Banga where deceased Baldev Singh was serving too. The priest, Harbhajan Singh, has already been confirmed positive last week and Moranwali village has been sealed since then. The family members of Harbhajan Singh had been quarantined a few days ago. His son showed symptoms of fever and cough a few days back after which he, too, tested positive today.According to health department, close contacts of the fresh case have been put under quarantine and surveillance. Samples of close contacts of these cases have also been taken and sent to the designated labs for testing.As per the state health department, at present besides 130 suspected cases, around 1,150 people have been quarantined and one has succumbed to the deadly virus.  The results of 229 cases are awaited.At present, confirmed 31 cases have been reported from five districts. This includes 18 from SBS Nagar, five cases from Mohali, three each from Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur and one each from Amritsar and from Ludhiana. Interestingly, the reported from Ludhiana doesn’t have any travel history. So the health officials are trying to locate his source of infection.No confirmed case has been reported from rest of the 17 districts.The health department has ordered to set up 2,500 isolation beds at 20 treatment-cum-isolation facilities for Covid-19 in the state’s various district hospitals and medical colleges.These facilities will offer services free of cost. According to orders issued by Secretary (Health), all the 20 facilities have been made operational today.District-wise casesSBS Nagar           18SAS Nagar           5Jalandhar             3Hoshiarpur          3Amritsar               1Ludhiana              1
25-03-2020||---||Punjab asks village sarpanches to provide info on those with travel history||Chandigarh, March 25The government has asked all sarpanches/nambardars in villages to immediately provide information of all residents in their respective villages, who would have travelled abroad after March 1 or who would have received relatives from abroad.Instructions have been issued to also find out the number of persons who visited Hola Mohalla festival at Anandpur Sahib, where the Banga-based COVID 19 patient had gone. These representatives have been told to immediately furnish a list of such persons to the government doctors and patwaris in the villages.As many as 94,000 NRIs and foreign returned persons have reportedly landed in Punjab, since March 1. While the government maintains that most of these had been tracked and 30,000 placed under home quarantine, efforts to trace the remaining are being made. For this, the revenue department staff and panchayat staff were being asked to trace such persons.“This information is very important to curb the spread of corona virus in Punjab. If anyone is found to be hiding this information, the government can register cases under relevant sections, against such persons,” reads the government directive, flashed on Tuesday evening.The nambardars and panchayat members have been made accountable for reporting on all people, living in villages under their jurisdiction.
25-03-2020||Amritsar||SGPC offers to treat corona patients at its hospitals||Extending a helping hand amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has offered to treat corona positive patients in all its hospitals.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday expressed his gratitude to the SGPC for such and offer, including 'serais' or inns for lodging attendants of patients.“We are in this together and we will win this fight against this deadly disease,” the Chief Minister tweeted.The SGPC directly controls 79 and indirectly controls 87 gurdwaras in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, including the Golden Temple here.It runs Sri Guru Ramdas Medical College in Amritsar.Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has also asked his party's district presidents to help the administration, reaching out to doctors and patients in hospitals by providing them much-needed masks, ventilators, and medicines, or simply by ensuring free 'langars' or community kitchens for the needy. IANS
25-03-2020||Patiala||Only symptomatic people, contacts of infected patients, require masks: Punjab health officials||The Patiala Health Department on Wednesday said that only those symptomatic of coronavirus were required to wear a mask and urged healthy people to stop purchasing them.The appeal has come at a time when the district is facing an acute shortage of masks.“Not everyone requires a mask,” said the Patiala Health Department.The appeal comes amidst rampant misinformation about masks' role in preventing coronavirus which has caused large-scale, panic-buying of marks.This has led to a situation where doctors and health officials, who are at the forefront, are without masks.The district health department said that there was no need to purchase the mask by corona-free people.“Mask is required only if someone has been in contact with the affected patient or is symptomatic,” said the Health Department.However, the department said that people who had a cough, fever or respiratory disease should wear a mask.
25-03-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjab Police make people aware of coronavirus threat by dancing to Bhangra beats||Punjab Police has come up with an interesting way to spread awareness about the novel coronavirus.Punjab Director General of Police Dinka Gupta shared a clip on Twitter, which shows several Punjab police officials dancing to a rehashed version of 'Bari Barsi'.Adding their own touch to the lyrics, the Punjabi folk song spreads awareness about coronavirus.Officer Dinkar Gupta shared the video with the caption: "A message from the entire PunjabPoliceInd to all. We urge all to follow the instructions. Wash your hands frequently, Stay at home and maintain social distance to stay safe. Request you all to share this video across to increase awareness amongst everyone."A message from the entire @PunjabPoliceInd to all. We urge all to follow the instructions. Wash your hands frequently, Stay at home and maintain Social Distance to Stay Safe. Request you all to share this video across to increase awareness amongst everyone. #PunjabFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/eWxKkEfzWqIn the video, Punjab Police shared dos and don'ts one must follow to control the spread of the COVID-19 while performing bhangra.It urged people to cover their mouths while coughing and avoid shaking hands.Impressed with the video, netizens flooded the tweet with several comments. Many users praised the Punjab Police's innovative effort to spread awareness. "Superb effort," a comment read. "So impressive, beautiful," read another comment.
25-03-2020||Kabul||25 killed in suicide bombing at Kabul gurdwara, IS owns it||At least 25 worshippers were killed and eight others injured when a heavily armed suicide bomber stormed his way into a prominent gurdwara today in the heart of Afghanistan’s capital of Kabul, in one of the deadliest attacks on the minority Sikh community in the strife-torn country.The Islamic State (IS), which has targeted Sikhs before in Afghanistan, claimed responsibility for the attack on the gurdwara in Shor Bazar area around 7.45 am (local time) as 150 worshippers were inside the building.Amarinder Singh, Punjab CMIt’s tragic, unfortunateExtremely tragic and unfortunate. Request President @Ashraf Ghani Ji to find out the perpetrators and look after our people.“Unfortunately, 25 civilians were killed and eight others injured,” the Ministry of Interior said on the attack carried out by a gunman, who was killed by Afghan special forces. It said 80 persons, including women and children, stranded inside the gurdwara were rescued by the security forces.Harsimrat Kaur Badal, union ministerEnsure safety of sikhsShocked to learn about a ghastly terror attack. I request EAM @DrS Jaishankar Ji to ensure the safety of our Sikh brethren trapped there. Earlier, the Afghan media reported the attack that lasted about six hours was carried out by four terrorists.The IS issued a statement confirming its members carried out the attack on Sikhs in Kabul city, Khaama Press News Agency reported.VIDEO: Foreign troops and Afghan special forces at the scene of an attack on Dharamshala, a Sikh worship place in #Kabul. The 6-hour attack finished after all four attackers were killed. #Afghanistan pic.twitter.com/yMybogxjDW  TOLOnews, quoting sources in the Afghan government, blamed the Haqqani group for the attack. The Pakistan-based Haqqani group, designated by the US as a banned terror outfit, has conducted several deadly attacks inside Afghanistan.Suicide attack on a Gurudwara Sahib in Kabul needs to be strongly condemned. These killings are a grim reminder of atrocities that continue to be inflicted upon religious minorities in some countries & the urgency with which their lives & religious freedom have to be safeguarded. pic.twitter.com/yQM3u41dVI  Kabul police said that at least 11 children have been rescued from Dharamshala, a Sikh worship area in PD1 of #Kabul, after a "suicide bombers attack." pic.twitter.com/11iGol1bmY  Photos show security forces transferring victims of the attack at Dharamshala, a Sikh worship area in PD1 of #Kabul. #Afghanistan pic.twitter.com/NDyCvmWnH9  Earlier, Taliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid said in a statement the militant group had no link with the attack in Shor Bazar area of Kabul. Police in Kabul said at least 11 children were rescued from the gurdwara.Also read: India condemns terrorist attack on Kabul gurdwaraAfghan President Ashraf Ghani condemned the attack. “The attack on the religious sites shows the extreme weakness of the enemy, religious sites should not be vulnerable to attacks and violence,” he said. In New Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was saddened by the attack. - PTIReflects diabolical mindset, say MEANew Delhi, March 25The government as well as ruling BJP emphasised on the minority community aspect while condemning the terrorist attack on Gurdwara Guru Har Rai in Kabul.The BJP questioned Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and others “opposing” the CAA — the controversy issue occupying political mind space before Covid-19 took over the centre stage. Making pointed reference to targeting of a minority place of worship, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) suggested there was a pattern behind it. It also offered to extend all possible assistance to the affected families of the Hindu and Sikh community of Afghanistan.“Such cowardly attacks on the places of worship of the minority community, especially at this time of Covid-19 pandemic, is reflective of the diabolical mindset of the perpetrators and their backers,” said an MEA statement while conveying the government’s sincerest condolences to the victims’ kin.Union Minister Hardeep Puri said, “Suicide attack on the Kabul gurdwara needs to be strongly condemned. “BJP’s Delhi leader RP Singh said he hoped, “Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh and others who are opposing CAA will have answer for attack.”The Rashtriya Sikh Sangat has sought PM’s intervention to ensure safety and security of Sikhs and Hindus trapped in the shrine and their properties. Sangat president GS Gill condemned the attack. — PTI/TNS
25-03-2020|| Chandigarh||Coronavirus: People violate curfew in Punjab, Chandigarh; rush to markets||People violated the 21-day nationwide lockdown in several parts of Punjab on Wednesday and thronged the markets to purchase essential items.India on Tuesday had declared a lockdown as a major enforcement exercise to make people stay at home and prevent the rapid spread of coronavirus as the country enters a decisive stage to combat the global pandemic.In Ludhiana, a large gathering was witnessed at the vegetable market near the Jalandhar bypass. Several parts of the city were flooded with people and many markets remained open.Despite this, people in various parts of Ludhiana suffered as essential commodities were yet to be delivered at their doorsteps during the curfew. They complained that they are not getting vegetables, milk and other required grocery items.On March 24, District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal had said that the home delivery of essential commodities such as milk, vegetables, ration, medicines, green fodder for animals and LPG would be done. He requested the public to remain in their homes and not allowed to come out during curfew due to COVID - 19 threat.Several people came out of their houses to buy necessary ration, vegetables, and milk in various areas on Wednesday morning but some were forced to return homes without getting required grocery items due to curfew.Opinder Sharma of Punjab Mata Nagar Ludhiana said, “We had got information yesterday that the relaxation will be granted from 6 am to 9 am on Wednesday but there was no relaxation today. There is no supply of milk by the agency concerned. All important announcements must be made in advance to avoid any confusion. The government should give relaxation for a few hours during day time”, he said.A senior doctor in Ludhiana said, “The grocery stores were not opened in our area. However, there is no service available for home delivery of grocery items. Even a person who supplies milk packets to us was stopped by police mid-way.”The residents of Civil Lines and other areas faced a similar experience. In outer ward areas on Tajpur Road, Tibba Road, Dhandari Khurd, Giaspura and several others, a large number of labourers and daily wagers reside. The members of Karhana Mazdoor Union said that the required supply of ration should be ensured to these people at the earliest.The vegetable market in Bathinda was also open and has had a large number of visitors since morning.In Chandigarh, in the absence of door-to-door supply of milk, people queued up in front of Verka booths, in a direct violation of the curfew orders.While medicine shop and grocery shops remained open in Mohali, people exercised social distancing while standing in a queue. Supply of milk and newspapers remained disrupted across the region.
25-03-2020||Shivani Bhakoo||Panic in Ludhiana as first case of corona surfaces in industrial hub||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, March 25The first case of coronavirus was reported from the industrial city of Ludhiana here on Tuesday evening. With this, panic has spread in the city as it is densely populated and not all the residents are taking precautionary measures.It is learnt that travel history is still being concealed by many residents who themselves or their family members/children recently came from the virus-hit countries just to avoid the quarantine/isolation process. And these residents are freely moving in social get-togethers, temples etc and even if they have mild symptoms, they prefer not to tell about these to the consulting doctors too, putting every life they come in contact with, at risk.Also read: Ludhiana patient has no travel historyDr G.S.Grewal, a city-based doctor has warned that if these people roam freely in society then no curfews or isolation would be able to control the spread of disease.One of the domestic helpers said that this was “rich-disease” as poor cannot afford to visit abroad but if this disease is spread among poor and needy, it would be disastrous. “Since we work in these big houses, we cannot afford to express our feelings but we too are scared”, said one a Nepalese servant.At the same time, many grocery shops were opened in the morning but since residents thronged these shops in huge numbers, they had to shut the shutters to avoid spread of disease.Confusion prevails among residents as there was distribution of essential commodities like milk, ration and medicines. People were seen asking each other on social media about availability of necessary items.
25-03-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Complaints of NRIs not getting themselves tested pour in||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 24Residents are making complaints against NRIs, who returned to the city from foreign countries a few days ago, that they have not got themselves tested for coronavirus so far. Lots of complaints have been received by the coronavirus control office that NRIs are not following the quarantine procedure and meeting their relatives.Notably, the NRIs are not going to undergo tests for the virus. The district administration, the Health Department and police officials are on their toes to trace them. The fear of NRIs has increased manifold, with several complaints reaching the control room and many of them are related to NRIs only.As per the information received from the officials dealing at the control room, reports from residents of Rama Mandi, Jalandhar Cantt, villages and several other areas in the city have been received about the NRIs who are staying in their neighbourhood.Sources said a few queries had been made by NRIs who were asking where to get themselves tested. Staff at the control centre listened to their queries or complaints and then informed the officials concerned about them who acted accordingly. Baldev Singh of Pathlawa village in Nawanshahr, who had a foreign travel history, died of Covid-19, and until now, 21 persons who had come in contact with Baldev Singh tested positive for the disease.An official said it had become clear that people were afraid of NRIs now and were aware that they must stay away from them and at this crucial stage, it was the duty of the NRIs to come forward and got themselves tested.Cops distribute food items among needyNakodar: A police team, headed by ASP Vatsla Gupta, was seen helping people during curfew hours on Tuesday. Several cops distributed food items among daily wage workers, rickshaw pullers and people residing at rain baseras, as they are most affected by the lockdown. ASP Vatsla appreciated the efforts of NGOs and social activists who have contributed for the well-being of poor. She said they were proving out to be warriors working behind the curtain. SDM Amit Kumar and the ASP have appealed the people to cooperate with the administration at this crucial hour.
25-03-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Punjab Medical Council allows doctors to provide e-consultation to OPD patients||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 24Amid the coronavirus scare and curfew imposed in the state by the government till March 31, the Punjab Medical Council has allowed all doctors in the state to provide consultation to patients on phone or through any electronic medium.Dr Navjot S Dahiya, state president, IMA, Punjab, Dr Paramjit Mann, honorary state secretary, IMA Punjab, said they had written to the Punjab Medical Council president that e-consultation be allowed to reduce OPD patients and let them avail consultation of general ailments on phone.“On our request, the council chief has conveyed to all medical practitioners of the state that they are allowed to provide consultation to the patients through phone or WhatsApp due to the curfew imposed by the state government till March 31. We will not charge any fee from the patients and provide them whatever service we can provide. For all patients who need emergency services or suffer from serious|ailments, our doors will remain open,” said Dr Dahiya and Dr Mann.Meanwhile, the state IMA held a meeting wherein all members assured support to the Health Departmentt and the civil administration, including mobilisation of resources to tackle coronavirus cases. After the meeting, all members were conveyed a set of instructions: “Every hospital is required to keep sufficient number of beds reserved for Covid cases, if need be. Those hospitals which have ventilation facility are required to keep the ventilators reserved as per their capacity. At your own hospital, take all precautions to keep yourself and your staff safe. Depute a staff member at the entrance with sanitiser to sanitise the hands of all, separate patients suffering from cough and fever, and give them masks to wear.”The instructions also say: “You must take the travel history of each and every patient and note the address and phone number, if you find someone doubtful. Refer him/her to the Civil Hospital. If anyone does not cooperate, call government agencies. Suspend your routine work such as OPD and other routine procedures after explaining and educating the public about the reason behind the same. Do the emergency work and keep yourself and the establishment ready to deal with any emergency if government agencies desire so. This is the the most disastrous calamities of all times. The government and society at large are looking towards our fraternity with high hopes. Remembering and keeping the Almighty in mind, let us do our job with utmost care and zeal to prove ourselves as real saviours of our society.”
25-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Police use innovative methods to punish curfew violators||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Raikot/ Payal, March 24Uploading pictures of curfew violators with placards displaying confession statements such as “I am an enemy of the mankind”, the police carried the same drive today in some areas of Malwa to keep in check the violators of the curfew imposed in wake of Covid-19 threat.Milder punishments such as kneeling and sit-ups while holding ears were among other methods adopted to teach the violators a lesson. Videos of various treatments meted to violators by cops to check unauthorised movement of vehicles on highways and roads were circulated on various social media platforms. Owing to the fear of being met with the same treatment, not many residents were seen on the streets and eased problems for the police in supervising implementation of the curfew in residential areas as well.The police were deployed at various points on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla, Ahmedgarh-Payal, Ludhiana-Bija and Ahmedgarh-Raikot roads to maintain law and order. Teams of cops issued challans to the violators while some, to ensure that pleaders do not repeat the mistake, made the violators confess by holding placards with statements “I am an enemy of society and will not stay at home” , “I don’t want to live”, “I don’t love my family and friends” and “Business is more important than my life for me”.Police hold flag marchesThe police continued intensive patrolling and organised flag marches to highlight the gravity of the situation.Police personnel led by Ahmedgarh SHO Amandeep Kaur, Sadar SHO Sanjiv Kapoor and Amargarh SHO Rajesh Malhotra conducted extensive flag marches with the intent to boost the morale of patrolling parties to check unauthorised movement of vehicles and individuals on the streets.DSPs Karanveer Singh (Ahmedgarh), Sukhnaj Singh (Raikot) and Hardeep Singh (Payal) supervised law and orders situation and implementation of curfew orders at localities falling under their respective jurisdiction.
25-03-2020||---||Salary worries: Punjab, Haryana say will be paid on time||Chandigarh, March 24The nationwide lockdown has had the employees worried over salaries, especially those working in the informal sector. While Punjab, with 3.50 lakh employees, will be transferring salaries directly into the accounts of its employees in April (March salaries are always released in April because of year-end closing), it will also be releasing the salaries of employees in semi-government institutions, including universities, boards and corporations, which further employ 1.50 lakh persons.A senior functionary in Punjab’s Finance Department explained that treasuries had to be kept open as an essential service.“The treasury officer in each district has the password and user name of the account and can transfer the salary of employees,” he said while assuring that even the pensions would be transferred on time.Dr BS Dhillon, VC, PAU, said they would release the salary of employees on time after they received the grant from the state government. There could be a problem for private sector employees, especially those in small and medium enterprises and even those in informal jobs. Most companies make cash payments, and a lockdown would make paying salaries impossible.Industry sources say many industrialists had already told the contractual staff that salaries would be only for the days they had worked. In Haryana, government sources said all employees would get their salaries on time. TVSN Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance Department, Haryana, said, “We have an online system of treasury in Haryana which is centralised. The drawing and disbursing officers will present salary bills online.”
25-03-2020||---||94K NRIs returned to Punjab, 30,000 in isolation, says Capt||Chandigarh, March 24Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said strict measures have to be taken as nearly 94,000 NRIs have reached the state since the spread of Covid-19.The state government has put 48,000 persons, including 30,000 NRIs, in a quarantine, mainly at their houses, besides imposing curfew in the state to check further spread of the pandemic.The case history of Covid positive persons in the state so far traces them to NRIs or someone who had travelled abroad. The government’s medical bulletin said 29 persons had tested positive for the virus. Of these, 21 were traced to only one NRI from Banga in Nawanshahr, who died within a few days of return from abroad.The CM said the curfew orders were revised as people came out in droves during the relaxation hours thus defeating the purpose of the exercise. “Curfew has been imposed for the safety of your family, not because of any law and order situation. We all need to stay indoors to fight the deadly virus,” he said.The police arrested 111 persons and lodged 232 FIRs for violation of curfew today.“It is imperative to trace and test all those who had returned from Covid-affected countries,” said the CM, adding that of the over 94,000 NRIs and foreign-returned persons, who had entered the state in recent days, most had been tracked.“Around 30,000 have been placed under isolation. All-out efforts are being made to trace the remaining,” he said, adding that constant monitoring was in progress to keep check on new travellers from abroad.The CM said DCs had been asked to ensure door-to-door delivery of essential commodities, such as grocery, milk, fruits and vegetables, through pre-identified hawkers/ distributors, wherever possible.As per the new guidelines, general exemption is completely barred, with no vehicular movement allowed without curfew passes. Only in case of emergency, people may be permitted to go on foot for essentials or to visit doctors and nursing homes, he said.“In emergency, a resident can call police or civil control rooms to avail necessary essential services,” said the CM, adding that the police and civil administration had instructions to ensure that the citizens do not face hardships and were not harassed.“Instead of blanket permission for opening of grocery shops, milk vendors, fruits and vegetable shops and chemists, it has been decided to allow them to open on a rotation. so that at any point of time at least one shop each is open in a given area. Such shops will also be allowed to provide door-to-door delivery on a call,” said Capt Amarinder.
25-03-2020||---||Ludhiana patient has no travel history||Ludhiana, March 24A city-based 55-year-old woman has tested positive for Covid. The patient, who has no travel history, has been admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the initial report of the patient had turned positive and again a test was done for confirmation which also tested positive. The sample will now be sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune.“Since she has no travel history, we are looking for her contacts to know from where she contracted the infection. Her family members, including her children, driver and maid and all those who came in her contact will be quarantined,” said Bagga.The patient first complained of fever on March 16 and was detected with UTI and later again came to the hospital on March 23. She was keeping herself in quarantine due to fever and none of her family members has any travel history, said Dr Sandeep Sharma, DMCH.All the family members of the patient are being shifted to DMCH and will be kept in isolation. “The family members of the patient, including her husband and son, and two servants are asymptomatic and tests will be done on them also,” she said.
25-03-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can’t avoid decision post poll code: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 24The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the imposition of model code of conduct is a temporary phase and the state is required to pass an order after its conclusion. The Bench also ruled that the model code and other grounds taken by the state and other respondents for non-regularisation of the services of petitioner-peons could not be accepted in one such matter.Allowing the petition, Justice Augustine George Masih directed the respondents to consider the claim of the petitioners for regularisation as in the case of similarly placed nine other employees, whose services were regularised.The ruling came on a petition filed by Baljinder Singh and another petitioner through counsel Vikas Chatrath. The petitioners had approached the court praying for regularisation of their services in the light of the fact that similarly placed employees selected and appointed in pursuance to the same advertisement dated August 30, 2010, stood regularised.Justice Masih was told that the petitioners’ claim was not considered and decided, resulting in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. Chatrath submitted that the Punjab Government decided to regularise the services of its employees. In pursuance of it, the services of nine employees similarly appointed on contract basis on the basis of the same advertisement were regularised. But the model code came into force when their claim was being considered and the process for regularisation was stalled. After the model code came to an end, the petitioners again put forth their claim for regularisation, but it was not decided.
25-03-2020||---||Moga police seize heroin worth Rs 21 cr||Moga, March 24The Moga police have recovered 4.290 kg of heroin, of an international market value of Rs21 crore, from the Indo-Pak border in Ferozepur district. This was revealed here on Tuesday by Senior Superintendent of Police Harmanbir Singh Gill.He said one Bagicha Singh, a resident of Ferozepur’s Chugee village, was arrested by the local police from Dharamkot bus stand with 50 gm of heroin on March 20. During investigation, he revealed that another consignment of more than 2 kg of heroin was smuggled from Pakistan into his fields across the fencing along the Indo-Pak border.Moga Deputy Superintendent of Police (Investigations) Jangjit Singh and CIA staff incharge Kikkar Singh visited the fields of the accused and recovered four plastic bottles filled with heroin. Besides, a .30 bore pistol was also recovered from him.Further investigations revealed that the accused had been getting consignments of contraband from his counterparts in Pakistan for the past many years.The SSP said one Amrik Singh, elder brother of Bagicha Singh, had also been involved in the smuggling of heroin, and was arrested. At present, he was under judicial custody at Amritsar Central Jail. He said the police had registered a fresh case against Singh under relevant sections of the NDPS Act and the Arms Act. Further probe was underway.On Monday, the CIA and the BSF had seized 4.27 kg of heroin from an area close to the border outpost Bareke along the India-Pakistan border.Officials said the consignment was stored in four plastic bottles. A China-made pistol was also seized along with the contraband.In another incident, BSF troops seized three packets of heroin weighting around 3.25 kg in the Abohar sector.
25-03-2020||Rajmeet Singh||117 ULBs’ term over, SDMs take charge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 24Days after completing three years in office, the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government today appointed sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) as administrators in urban local bodies that have completed the five-year term.In 117 ULBs, the SDMs, mostly PCS officers, have been appointed administrators. In Zirakpur, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC), Mohali, has been appointed administrator. The list of administrators issued yesterday was withdrawn and a revised list was issued today by the Secretary, Local Government, Sanjay Kumar.Sources said a senior government functionary objected to the move by the local government to appoint deputy directors, who are departmental officers, as administrators in civic bodies like Zirakpur, Kharar, Lalru and others. The civic bodies are witnessing mushrooming of housing projects. Following this, the list was revised and SDMs were appointed as administrators.The move indicates that the government has brought functioning of the ULBs under its direct control, with the elections to the civic bodies in mind. The government plans to conduct elections towards the fag end of the year.Sources say pockets in the ULBs had fared poorly during the 2019 Assembly elections, when Navjot Singh Sidhu held the charge of the department. The government had cited lack of development as one of the reasons.Now, the government wants to ensure enough funds are allocated for development works under the administrators before the elections.The Punjab Municipal Act rules allow the appointment of administrators for six months once a ULB completes its five-year term.As per the government’s decision to reserve 50 per cent seats for women in ULBs and panchayati raj institutions, the exercise to incorporate reservation in the delimitation was being applied. The delimitation exercise in a number of ULBs is expected to be over by April 30.Govt does a ‘flip-flop’
25-03-2020||---||Potato growers in Punjab seek relief to harvest crop||Bathinda, March 24Potato growers in the state have demanded that they be allowed to harvest the crop during the curfew. They say the crop is perishable with a relatively short shelf life, if not stored in time.In addition, in view of the outbreak of Covid, farmers are also concerned about harvesting wheat.BKU (Ekta Ugarahan) leader Shingara Singh Mann said: “The state government should allow the farmers to harvest potato. Besides, it should also provide mask and other equipment for the safety of labourers.”Growers in the Rampura Phul region recently began to harvest the crop, delaying the process by 20 days owing to rain. The process of harvesting needs to completed at the earliest, as the rise in temperature above 32 degrees can pose a serious threat to the crop.Moreover, the government has already ruled out closure of vegetable supplies, which are high up in the list of essential services exempted from any lockdown or curfew.The growers urge that labourers and other persons involved in harvesting and storage process be given green passes to ensure that trucks/vehicles carrying the agricultural produce are not held up or harassed.They allege that despite fruit and vegetables being in the exempt category, there is massive disruption in the supply chain.
25-03-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab in a spot over wheat procurement||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 24At least 135 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrain is expected to arrive in 1,800 mandis of Punjab, beginning next fortnight. Its procurement is going to be one of the biggest challenges faced by the state amid Covid scare.Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MinisterWe will try and persuade the Centre to delay the procurement. It is expected to make an announcement within two or three days. Agriculture officials, too, have been asked to appeal to the farmers to hold on to their wheat stock after harvesting.With lakhs of people associated with the process of harvesting the wheat crop, the government stares at a nightmarish situation. It would be impossible to ask the farmers not to harvest wheat or bring it to mandis.Admitting to the problem, Food and Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu says they are waiting for directions from the Centre. “We will try and persuade the Union Government to delay the procurement. The Centre is expected to make an announcement within two or three days. Agriculture officials, too, have been asked to appeal to the farmers to hold on to their wheat stock after harvesting and do not bring it to the mandis,” he told The Tribune.Since a huge labour force is required for both harvesting and post harvest operations, it is unclear whether labour movement from outside the state would be allowed, although it is still three weeks before the procurement starts.Ashu says his immediate concern is to shift the existing foodgrain out of the state and create space for the fresh stock. “Special trains have been arranged to lift the old stocks and move it to the recipient states. Today itself, four special trains will be carrying goods out of Punjab and tomorrow 16 trains will be carrying the grain to other states. But even with these efforts, we foresee that a shortage of space for 30-40 lakh metric tonnes. That is why we are creating additional open storages in the mandis, besides using the space at rice shelling units,” he says.
25-03-2020||Moga||Cops face hard time in enforcing orders||On the second day of the state-wide curfew, the Punjab Police had a harrowing experience as people continued to be seen on streets with no essential work to do.At some places, the police personnel came down heavily on people for violating the prohibitory orders. A few cases have also been registered against habitual violators of the government orders. Also, in some cases, the violators attacked the police personnel deployed on streets.Reports emerging from Bathinda, Faridkot, Kotkapura, Moga, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Mohali and few other districts of the states revealed that some people, particularly youth, took undue benefit of the curfew relaxations and stepped out of their houses without any real cause.Initially, the cops let go of the violators with a warning, but after reviewing the situation, they made the violators do sit-ups, kneel-down and also slap themselves.In Moga, the cops even resorted to cane-charging on the offenders. — TNS
25-03-2020||---||111 held for violating curfew in Punjab, 232 FIRs lodged||Chandigarh, March 24The state police on Tuesday registered 232 FIRs and arrested 111 persons for violation of the curfew imposed by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in the state to contain Covid spread, even as they worked out a comprehensive strategy to ensure doorstep delivery systems and other basic facilities to people across the state.While the maximum of 38 FIRs were registered in SAS Nagar (Mohali), 34 Amritsar (rural), and 30 each in Tarn Taran and Sangrur, said DGP Dinkar Gupta, adding that the maximum of 43 persons were arrested from Tarn Taran, followed by 23 Kapurthala, 15 Hoshiarpur, 13 Bathinda, five Ferozepur, five Patiala, four Gurdaspur and two Ludhiana rural.The districts that had zero violation of curfew were Khanna, Pathankot, Barnala, Ludhiana, Fazilka and Mansa. Two cases of violation of quarantine restrictions were also reported during the day, disclosed Gupta, adding that these were from Muktsar, which also reported four cases of curfew violation.A total of 38,160 police personnel have been deployed on the ground in various districts for the enforcement of curfew, including sealing of affected clusters (SBS Nagar), besides maintenance of essential supplies and law and order. These include 981 volunteers.The DGP directed all district police chiefs to ensure that curfew passes were provided on need basis to maintain essential services, including telecom, banks, ATMs, journalists, newspapers, doctors, paramedics, sanitary workers, electricians, plumbers etc.He also exhorted the field staff to work as missionaries and social workers in such testing times for the citizens. He asked them to raise and deploy a team of about 50-100 policemen to coordinate the supply of food and medicines to the people.He further asked them mobilise young citizens along with delivery boys to establish a supply line between kirana shops and consumers to ensure doorstep delivery of food and other essential items.The DGP advised the district police chiefs to allow the smooth movement of trucks across interstate borders to carry food items into Punjab.Rights panel told to act against copsChandigarh: A human rights body has appealed to the Punjab State Human Rights Commission to act against the state police for thrashing people for curfew violation and circulating their videos. Satnam Singh Dhaliwal, president, Universal Human Rights Organisation, has sought directions to the DGP to stop “on-the-spot punishment” terming it illegal and violation of human rights. TNS
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Relief for food industry on cards||Blood banks take a hitHoshiarpur: In the wake of outbreak of Covid, the supply of blood in blood banks has been affected. Dr Ajay Bagga, Civil Surgeon (retd), and a social activist said no blood donation camps were being organised and the number of regular blood donors visiting the banks had declined. Dr Bagga said if any donor developed flu-like symptoms after donating blood, he should inform the blood bank immediately. OCDeras offer premises for patientsChandigarh: Radha Soami Satsang Beas and the Sant Nirankari Mission on Tuesday proposed to CM Capt Amarinder Singh that the government can use Satsang Ghars and Nirankari Bhawans across the state to fight the battle against Covid. Radha Soami Satsang Beas head Baba Gurinder Singh and Sant Nirankari Mission chief Shri Gobind Singh called the CM and told him that Satsang Ghars and Nirankari Bhawans located across the state were at the disposal of the government. TNSSupply of essential goods affectedPatiala: The supply of essential commodities such as milk, groceries and newspapers was affected on Tuesday in view of the curfew. In Patiala, several shops opened for a brief time in the morning, but soon the district administration got the shops closed. Vegetable market, hawker market near the bus stand and vending sites at Leela Bhawan Chowk, which remain crowded, were deserted. Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said the police used mild force to disperse people who did not take the warning to stay indoors seriously. TNS
25-03-2020||Chandigarh||Announce relief for daily wagers: AAP||Senior AAP leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema has demanded that amid Covid scare, the state government should immediately announce relief schemes for labourers, daily wage earners, vendors, small-time workers and beneficiaries of the government’s social welfare schemes.Cheema, in a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, said the government should allow a minimum of Rs3,000 (advance) per month to skilled and unskilled laborers and other categories, including rickshaw pullers, masons, electricians, plumbers and others to overcome the testing times. — TNS‘Defer loan repayment’The party, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has urged him to issue directions through the RBI to all public and private banks across the country to defer loans liability of each category at least for the next six months (till September 30) offering 100 per cent waiver on interest incurred thereon.
25-03-2020||---||Lockdown: MLAs take to cooking, playing chess||Chandigarh, March 24Confined to their houses with the imposition of curfew in the state, it is time for lawmakers to do something different. Often surrounded by large gatherings, amid their supporters and party workers, the MLAs are happy pursuing their hobbies — be it cooking, gardening, playing snooker or chess, or spending time with their pets.Happy to be among his family members, Faridkot MLA Kikki Dhillon said he visited his stud farm to see his horses. “I am in touch with panchayats and district authorities over a campaign against Covid,” he said.Young and energetic Zira MLA Kulbir Singh Zira tried his hand at cooking as the official cook had been given leave. Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring played chess and did gardening.Gurdaspur MLA Barindermeet Pahra preferred to play snooker, apart from participating in a sanitation campaign in his area.
25-03-2020||---||CM sets up relief fund, asks Centre for tax exemption||Chandigarh, March 24Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday set up Punjab CM Covid Relief Fund as a separate entity for donations to fight the crisis in the state.While appealing to the people to donate generously to the fund, the Chief Minister sought from the Centre exemption for the same on the lines of the exemptions provided to the CM Relief Fund.According to a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office, the Covid relief fund account would enable people to make contributions electronically through various payment gateways facilitating quick and easy transfer.All contributions may be made to the account in the name of “Punjab Chief Minister Covid Relief Fund”; account no: 50100333026124; account type: savings; IFSC code: HDFC0000213; swift code: HDFCINBB; branch code: 0213; branch name: Chandigarh, Sector 17 C.Thanking the people, the Chief Minister said their instant response to assist the government and their fellow Punjabis in his hour of distress would go a long way in mitigating their hardships to a large extent.He appealed to all the people to donate generously in the fund, which would be utilised for the welfare of families and people in distress due to the lockdown. He also called upon the people to work towards helping their Punjabi fellows in this difficult time. He said the people’s contribution to the fund would be a welfare step for the poor and the under-privileged during this critical period of curfew/lockdown.‘Centre doing little’Capt Amarinder has expressed disappointment over the announcements made by the Union Finance Minister, terming these inadequate to address the concerns of the people, businesses and industry.“The announcements made by Nirmala Sitharaman do not fully reflect the concerns in the prevailing situation,” said the Chief Minister, underlining the need for a comprehensive package to build the confidence of all sectors of the economy and support the underprivileged.Lockdown need of the hour: CaptCapt Amarinder Singh has welcomed the 21-day country-wide lockdown announced by PM Narendra Modi. He said, “The lockdown is necessary to save millions of lives from the deadly virus. It is imperative to break the coronavirus cycle, but it is equally important to support those left with no means to fulfill their daily basic needs.”
25-03-2020||---||With 7 new cases, Punjab’s count 30||Jalandhar, March 24With seven more persons testing positive for Covid-19 today, the total number of cases has gone up to 30 in the state. Barring one, the six persons are relatives of the 70-year-old Nawanshahr resident who died due to the virus last week.Now, the tally of persons who became infected after coming into contact with the Nawanshahr victim has risen to 21.While three of the six who tested positive today are grandchildren of the Nawanshahr man, the remaining are his relatives, including his brother-in-law (50), from Phillaur.According to information, the two of patients had accompanied the Covid victim to a doctor during a check-up.The Health Department said close contacts of the six persons had been put under quarantine. Their samples have been taken and sent for testing.With the surfacing of new cases, there is an atmosphere of fear among residents of Virk village in Phillaur sub-division.Virk village sarpanch Darshana Kumari said some of the locals had gone to the house of the Nawanshahr victim's brother-in-law to offer condolences to the family. This had put them in a high-risk category. Hence, nine such persons were taken to Jalandhar Civil Hospital for further tests.The victim’s brother-in-law also used to play cards with his friends. This could put them under scanner too. “We are trying to verify it. If found correct, then more villagers will be tested for the disease,” a senior police official said.Superintendent of Police (Investigations) Sarabjit Singh said the friends and neighbours of the latest patients were being contacted. "We are also checking the places where the trio might have gone to shop or buy grocery," he added.As per the department, 86 suspected cases and more than 1,200 people have been quarantined. Till now, only one man has died of Covid in the state.The 29 cases have been reported from five districts — 18 from Nawanshahr, five from Mohali, three from Jalandhar, two from Amritsar and one from Hoshiarpur.Besides, the department on Tuesday ordered to set up five treatment-cum-isolation facilities for Covid. These facilities will offer services free of cost. According to an order issued by Principal Secretary Anurag Aggarwal, all five facilities have to be made operational immediately. These are Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, Civil Hospitals in Nawanshahr and Jalandhar, Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, and Advanced Cancer Centre in Bathinda.Door-to-door survey in Phillaur villagePhillaur: The district administration on Tuesday started a door-to-door survey in Virk village after it reported three Covid cases. Under the supervision of Sub-divisional Magistrate Vineet Kumar and Deputy Superintendent of Police Davinder Attri, 20 medical teams went door to door examining each and every villager. The police were identifying people with whom the three patients who have tested positive had met in the past couple of days. The Deputy Commissioner said the entire Virk village would be sanitised to check the spread of the virus. OC2 cops quarantinedThree days ago, two cops had accompanied patients to Phillaur Civil Hospital. A video emerged recently wherein it appeared the cops had not taken precautions. After the reports came positive on Tuesday, both policemen — an SHO and his gunman — were quarantined.Get treated here
25-03-2020||---||SGPC to state: Help pilgrims stranded at Nanded, Patna||Amritsar, March 24In the wake of restrictions on movement due to Covid threat, the SGPC has urged the state government to initiate steps to extend help to the pilgrims stranded at Takht Hazur Sahib and Takht Patna Sahib so that they can return home safely.Also, the SGPC has directed all gurdwara managements to ensure supply of adequate face masks, sanitisers and hygiene in the community kitchen.In a letter to CM Capt Amarinder Singh, SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal said the SGPC and its infrastructure would be available in the need of hour.“I have requested the CM to establish contact with the Central ministry concerned to help out pilgrims who are stuck up at Takht Hazur Sahib, Nanded, and Takht Patna Sahib, Bihar, due to disruption of rail and air service following the outbreak,” he said, adding the SGPC was geared up to help the health authorities in combating the spread of the virus.
25-03-2020||Karam Prakash||Majority of civil hospitals in Punjab ill-equipped to tackle crisis||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 24Though the state appears to have taken steps to delay the community transmission by a complete lockdown, the healthcare system seems to be not well-equipped to handle the Covid outbreak.Barring a few, a majority of the civil hospitals in the state lack ventilators. Not only just civil hospitals, but some district hospitals also don’t have ventilators.Currently, hospitals attached to Government Medical Colleges (GMC) in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot, collectively, have around 60 ventilators dedicated to Covid patients.According to the Health Department website, the tertiary care, which is advanced healthcare facility, is being provided at the hospitals attached to GMCs only.Though the department claims they have already designated around 250 ventilators, including those in private hospitals, for the disease, the number is still small, given the growing spread of virus.As per the latest department figures, 251 persons have been tested for Covid while 30,000 are under home quarantine. Experts said if all ventilators were utilised for Covid patients, it would be done at the cost of other emergency patients (cardiac, chest, TB and head injuries).The department said not each Covid patient would require a ventilator. Ventilators were required only in extreme cases, it said.Health Minister Balbir Sidhu said they had already dedicated around 300 ventilators in the state. He said, “We are trying to increase the number to 500 in the coming days so that we are well-equipped with any situation related to Covid.”
25-03-2020||---||Akal Takht: Be wary of rumour-mongers||Amritsar, March 24The Akal Takht has appealed to the public not to get swayed by rumours and cooperate with the authorities by observing the shutdown religiously.Akal Takht’s Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh appealed to the Sikh community to recite prayers twice a day and do ‘ardas’ for ‘sarbat da bhala’.Giani Harpreet Singh, Akal Takht JathedarA section of media is educating people to take precautionary steps to fight Covid. However, some media channels have been creating misconceptions and false notions about the virus. I appeal to people to ignore the rumours being spread on social media.“Under prevailing circumstances, the Sikhs all over the globe should make optimum use of their time by spending it with their children and educating them on Sikh principles, tenets and ethics. One must spare at least half an hour in a day to perform prayers, be it Sukhmani Sahib, Japji Sahib or recitation of mool mantra followed by ‘ardas’ for the welfare of mankind at 10 am and 5 pm daily,” he said.The Jathedar said the world was plagued by Covid and it was incumbent upon every individual to be vigilant and take precautionary measures.Several social media handlers are under the scanner of cyber teams of the Amritsar Police. ASI Shamsher Singh of cyber crime cell said despite repeated warnings, fake news was being circulated. “One of the fake messages which was being circulated read that a vaccine has been developed to fight Covid. I warn group administrators to refrain from circulating messages which have no authentic source or else be ready to face action,” he said.
