25-11-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 31 more deaths, 785 new cases in Punjab||The death toll from COVID-19 rose to 4,684 in Punjab with 31 more patients succumbing to the infection, while the caseload climbed to 1,48,435 after detection of 785 new cases on Wednesday, according to a medical bulletin.Four deaths each were reported from Gurdaspur and Rupnagar, three each from Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar and Pathankot and two each from Ludhiana, Mohali, Muktsar, SBS Nagar and Sangrur, according to the bulletin.One death each was reported from Bathinda, Faridkot, Mansa and Patiala.Jalandhar recorded 145 new COVID-19 cases, the maximum in the state, followed by 138 in Mohali, 110 in Patiala and 104 in Ludhiana.There are 7,129 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 444 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the recovery count to 1,36,622, the bulletin said.Thirteen critical patients are on ventilator support while 137 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 30,75,865 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, according to the bulletin. PTI
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali Police issues advisory to take diversions as farmers’ protest leads to traffic jams||Mohali Police issued an advisory against taking the Chandigarh-Zirakpur-Delhi and the Patiala-Zirakpur-Chandigarh routes, where an ongoing farmers’ protest march to the national capital has caused traffic snarls.The advisory, issued on Wednesday evening, suggests alternatives---Chandigarh-Panchkula-Nada Sahib-Yamunanagar-Delhi route for Delhi, and the diversion from Chhatt Light point towards Mohali to Chandigarh.This is the full text of the advisory.  “Due to farmers (sic) agitation on 26-11-2020 and 27-11-2020, the commuters travelling from Chandigarh/Punjab towards Delhi/Ambala might face heavy traffic congestion on the roads.We humbly suggest not( sic) to undertake non essential travel towards these routes:1. Chandigarh-Zirakpur-Delhi(Alternative route :Chandigarh-Panchkula-Nada sahib-Yamunanagar-Delhi) 2. Patiala-Zirakpur-Chandigarh(Diversion from Chhatt Light point towards Mohali)Sorry for inconvenience caused @sasnagarpolice @trafficsasnagarpolice”
25-11-2020||Raj Sadosh||Trains carrying 3,800 tonne urea, 2,500 tonne DAP reach Abohar, Fazilka||Abohar, November 25As farmer unions agreed to allow the movement of freight and passenger trains with the interventions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, freight train movement continued on Wednesday.In Fazilka district, two rakes of fertiliser landed at Abohar and Fazilka while goods train carrying rice left Fazilka for Karnataka. Another empty freight train also arrived at Jalalabad to take foodgrains to other states.After a long hiatus, the railway loading yards at Abohar and Fazilka were seen busy. The IPL Company’s DAP and urea fertiliser has reached Abohar by rail. It contains 1,200 metric tonnes of urea and 2,500 metric tonnes of DAP. This fertiliser was much needed by farmers. With the arrival of a full rake, there will be no shortage of fertiliser in the district.Krishan Sokhal, a farmer of Sayeedwala village near Abohar said DAP was required for sowing wheat, while the same is required for Kinnow orchards next month.Sowing of wheat in this region is delayed as it is a cotton belt where this fiber crop matures late as compared to paddy.Chief Agriculture Officer Surinder Singh said another rake of IFFCO fertiliser also arrived at Fazilka. It contained 2,600 MT of urea and the same was being sent to the cooperative societies so that its distribution could be made to farmers of the district without any delay.On the other hand, the authorities were also making arrangements so that fertiliser arriving for the border district is not transported to the neighbouring state of Rajasthan. As the freight trains were running, farmers would not face any shortage of fertiliser and they should not be in panic to buy it, officials said.District Food Supply Controller Gurpreet Singh Kang said transporting of rice milled in the district has started to other states. This will be a great relief to the rice milling industry. A freight train loaded with rice had left Fazilka for Karnataka last evening. While two more special trains were proposed from Fazilka and Jalalabad to transport rice and wheat, respectively. With the commencement of food grain transportation, there will be space available in the shellers for storage of fresh rice now.
25-11-2020||New Delhi||PM Modi releases book on life and ideals of Guru Nanak Dev||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday released a book on the life and ideals of Guru Nanak Dev, the founder of Sikhism and first of its 10 gurus.In a tweet, Modi posted a picture of him releasing the book and noted that the book has been penned by Kirpal Singh, who is based in Chandigarh.Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi was also present during the book release.“Released a book on the life and ideals of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji. The book has been penned by Kirpal Singh Ji, who is based in Chandigarh,” the PM tweeted. — PTI
25-11-2020||Bathinda||Dera followers call off protest after assurance from IGP Bathinda||The Dera Sacha Sauda followers on Wednesday called off the protest and agreed to cremate the body of dera follower Manohar Lal after the assurance of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Bathinda Range Jaskaran Singh at Salabatpura Dera in the district.Before calling off the protest, dera followers today recited a prayer in front of senior police officials.IGP Jaskaran Singh along with SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk today visited the dera and addressed the dera followers. IGP Singh said, “Police teams are working professionally in this case and he assured that the accused will not be spared and they would be arrested soon and action will be taken against them as per law.”Dera committee member Harcharan Singh said, “A meeting was held today with the police officials, in which they have shared with us the progress of the teams working on this case and they have assured us that two days are of farmers’ agitation, after which they would arrest the killers. They have also shared with us the probe of old murder cases of dera followers and on their assurance we are ending the protest and with the consent of family members and dera followers, now we would cremated the body.”Dera member Manohar Lal, father of the Jatinderbir Singh Jimmy Arora, accused in sacrilege incident, was shot dead by two unidentified persons in his shop at Bhagta Bhaika on Friday evening.After which dera followers had refused to cremate the body and had started an indefinite protest at Salabatpura dera. Their protest continued for four days and they were adamant that they would cremate the body only after the killers would be nabbed.The district and police administration was continuously holding talks with them, but the meetings were not leading to any conclusion. Even DGP Dinkar Gupta also had visited Bathinda to review the probe in this incident.On Wednesday, the meeting between them remained fruitful and dera followers agreed to call off the protest after the assurance.
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh suspends bus services to Haryana; Punjab and Himachal may get affected||As farmers plan to march towards Delhi, the Union Territory administration has decided to suspend all Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) bus operations in and out of Haryana.The march is from November 25 to 27.The official spokesperson said, that the CTU operation in Punjab and Himachal may get affected as well. As such, commuters are requested to plan their journey on CTU buses after enquiring at 0172-2700006 (ISBT-17), 0172 2624403 and 0172-2624413 (ISBT-43), the spokesperson added.
25-11-2020||Faridkot||School Education Dept releases scheduled for December offline exam for Class 9 to 12 students||State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) on Wednesday issued directions to all district education officers (DEOs) for the conducting the mid-term December exams for all primary, upper primary, secondary and senior secondary classes in the state.These tests will start from December 7 to 24.While all students of I to VIII classes will be evaluated on the basis of online test, the Class IX to XII students will write the exam in their schools, offline.The SCERT has also released the date-sheet for these test. As per the date-sheet, the online exam of 1 to V classes will be conducted from December 15to December 19.The exam schedule for VI to XII class has been fixed from December 7 to December 24.Though these exams for Class I to VIII would be conducted online on Google Quiz, there would be objective and subjective questions in these online exams.The SCERT has already reduced the syllabus for all classes in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The syllabus has been reduced on the basis of the recommendation of a committee of experts.Sources in the SCERT revealed that the opening of government schools for Class IX to XII students last week notwithstanding, the attendance of the students in most of the schools is very poor. Approximately 10 to 15 per cent of students are attending the offline classes in the schools. So with an objective of bringing more and more students of Class IX to XII in the schools, the school education department has decided to conduct the offline exam for these students/ Besides assessing their learning through the online mode since March 23 when all schools were closed, the school education department want these students to be regular in attending their offline classes in the schools with the December exams so that they could brace up for the final exams in March, 2021, said the sources.Aim of the examination is to understand where students stand after months of online teaching and learning.“We want to use the examination as a diagnostic tool to figure out where students are going wrong, so that remedial classes can be held,” said a senior functionary in the school education department.
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Honouring contribution of south Asians, New York City street named Punjab Avenue||Honouring the contribution of the South Asian community to the Richmond Hill area of the Queens borough, a New York City street has been named in its honour.The area was nicknamed 'Little Punjab' as it was a hub of businesses run by Punjabis and has two gurudwaras, has now been named 'Punjab Avenue'.A tweet which went viral on Wednesday featured the residents of the area displaying a board that read 'Punjab Av'.A lane in #NewYork has been named #Punjab avenue because a local Gurudwara fed over 10,000 people daily during Covid times. (Via W/A).#Sikh #love #food #proud pic.twitter.com/5jo56X2Oac  According to a CBS New York report, the initiative was a joint effort by several South Asian groups and City Council Member Adrienne Adams.“This community has been underserved, not really recognized,” Adams told the news website.“Invisible, which is a travesty, knowing everything that all of our community brings to this wonderful district.”
25-11-2020|| Chandigarh||A host of issues on menu as Amarinder and Sidhu meet over lunch||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his former cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu held an hour-long meeting at the former's farmhouse in Siswan.Sidhu left for Amritsar after the meeting.In a tweet shared by the CM's media advisor: "It was a warm & cordial luncheon meeting that saw CM @capt_amarinder and Navjot Singh Sidhu discuss a host of important political matters of Punjab and national interest. The two leaders spent a pleasant over an hour sharing thoughts on vital issues. @sherryontopp @INCIndia."It was a warm & cordial luncheon meeting that saw CM @capt_amarinder and Navjot Singh Sidhu discuss a host of important political matters of Punjab and national interest. The two leaders spent a pleasant over an hour sharing thoughts on vital issues. @sherryontopp @INCIndia pic.twitter.com/Xul7mUsVSx  Sources privy to the rapprochement between the two leaders said discussions were held on a host of political issues, including on the farmers' agitation.The meeting could soon see the re-induction of Sidhu into the state cabinet in the coming days. There could be a possible reshuffle of departments soon after Sidhu’s induction.In the past, the two leaders had been cold-shouldering each other before rapprochement efforts between the two gained steam due to the intervention of Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat.
25-11-2020||---||Night curfew to be imposed in Punjab as Capt announces fresh curbs from December 1||Chandigarh, November 25Amid the grim Covid situation in Delhi-NCR and apprehensions of a second wave in Punjab, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday ordered a series of fresh restrictions in the state, including re-imposition of night curfew in all towns and cities as well as doubling of fine for not wearing masks or following social distancing norms, with effect from December 1.The curbs, which will be reviewed on December 15, also restrict opening timings of all hotels, restaurants and marriage palaces till 9.30 pm. Night curfew will remain in force from 10 pm to 5 am, announced the Chief Minister, warning people against letting their guard down under any circumstances.Giving details of the new restrictions after a high-level state Covid review meeting, an official spokesperson said fine for not following Covid-appropriate would be hiked from the present Rs 500 to Rs 1,000.Given the inflow of patients from Delhi for treatment in Punjab, it has also been decided to review and optimise the beds availability in the state’s private hospitals. The Chief Minister has asked Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to work with the departments concerned to encourage more private hospitals to come on board and earmark beds for Covid care.To further strengthen the availability of oxygen and ICU beds, Amarinder has ordered strengthening of the L II and L III, with constant monitoring of districts that are not equipped with L III facilities. The management practices in GMCHs and Civil Hospitals should also be examined in light of the recommendations of the report received from the expert group, he said.The Chief Minister has also directed the Health and Medical Education departments to make emergency appointments of specialists, super-specialists, nurses and paramedics, to further augment the manpower which was recently strengthened with the recruitment of 249 specialist doctors and 407 medical officers. The departments have also been asked to consider preparing 4th and 5th year MBBS students as reserve and back-up, in case needed in the future.On the testing front, the Chief Minister stressed the need to fully utilise the 25,500 daily RT-PCR testing capacity and directed targeted and regular testing of potential super spreaders, including government officials. The district hospitals must have 24x7 testing available, and the same must also be made available at other convenient locations where people can easily access the same, he said.While the increase in contract tracing was a positive sign, steps must be taken to ensure that all these contacts are also tested, said the Chief Minister, adding that the Patient Tracking Officers must also be assigned this task.To ensure that no deaths take place in home isolation, Amarinder said the agency hired to look into these cases should keep close tabs on such patients. While mortality audit was ongoing, it was a matter of satisfaction that the Department was now collecting reasons for placing patients on ventilator by private hospitals, and there was a referral group available to monitor these patients, he added.Referring to the reports of early vaccine coming in, the Chief Minister said while he was happy to note that the data base for health care workers was ready, the departments should also look at the other categories of frontline workers who could be prioritised for the vaccine.
25-11-2020||New Delhi||Punjab records 47 per cent increase in stubble-burning incidents this year||Punjab recorded the highest number of stubble-burning incidents this year, registering an increase of 46.5 per cent as compared to last year, according to the Central Pollution Control Board.However, Haryana saw farm fire incidents reducing by 28.6 per cent this year.Every year at the onset of winters, crop residue burning or stubble-burning begins in Punjab and Haryana leading to heavy air pollution in Delhi.In its data released on Tuesday, pollution watchdog CPCB said the total count of active fire events reported in Punjab in 2020 is 76,537 while in 2019 it was 52,225 (between September 21 and November 22).“Stubble-burning has increased by 46.5 per cent (or 24,312 incidents) during 2020 in comparison to 2019,” the apex pollution control body said.In 2020, districts such as Sangrur, Bathinda and Ferozepur continued to be highest contributors to active farm fire events in comparison to 2019, it said.In 2020, districts such as Moga, Amritsar, Fazilka, Ludhiana had shown more than 75 per cent increase in their number of fire counts in comparison to 2019.“In 2020, all the districts of Punjab except SBS Nagar have shown an upward trend in their active fire events contribution," the CPCB said, adding it showed lack of ground-level implementation of the Centre-supported scheme.The average contribution of external biomass burning to PM 2.5 has increased from 10 per cent in 2019 to 15.63 per cent in 2020.The maximum contribution of external biomass burning to PM 2.5 at 42 per cent was observed on November 5, 2020.In Haryana, total count of fires reported in 2020 is 4,675 while in 2019 it was 6,551 (between September 25 and November 22).“With the support of central government schemes initiated to stop stubble-burning, about 28.6 per cent (1,876 incidents) of stubble- burning reduced in 2020 in comparison to 2019,” the CPCB said.In 2020, districts such as Fatehabad, Kaithal and Karnal continued to be major contributors to farm fires but still had shown reduction by 40 per cent in comparison to 2019, it said.Districts such as Palwal and Kurukshetra had shown major reduction by 50-60 per cent this year in comparison to 2019, it said.The pollution watchdog also said that under the central government scheme 'Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation for In-Situ Management of Crop Residue in the States of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and NCT of Delhi', funds amounting to Rs 1178.47 crore were released from 2018-2020 and it had been approved for continuation during 2020-21 with Rs 600 crore.Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar had earlier said that the central government's PUSA institute had demonstrated a bio-decomposer technology which converted stubble to manure and is being experimented on a pilot basis in five states, including Delhi, and its trial is on. “It will help in dealing with crop residue and is cheap as well. In the future, there will be several ways, both in-situ and ex-situ, to fight against the problem of pollution emerging out of stubble-burning,” he had said.Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai had on Tuesday said that a 15-member impact assessment committee had ascertained the effectiveness of ‘Pusa bio-decomposer’ solution in reducing stubble-burning in the capital and it was submitted to the Environment Ministry's Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on Monday. PTI
25-11-2020||New Delhi||Guru Granth Sahib sacrilege trial: SC refuses to transfer case out of Punjab||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to shift the 2015 Guru Granth Sahib sacrilege case trial to another state, saying “no credible case for transfer of trial to alternative venues outside the state of Punjab is made out”.A Bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy, however, said the state of Punjab “must make all arrangements to ensure safe conduct of proceedings at the trial courts and also provide adequate security to the petitioners (accused) and their associates as might be warranted from the security perspective”.Accused Jatinderveer Arora and others – members of Dera Sacha Sauda—had sought transfer of trial of cases pending before the courts at Bathinda, Moga and Faridkot in Punjab to a court in Delhi or to a nearby state.They had contended that they were facing bias and prejudice and were unlikely to get a fair trial in the face of strong presumption of culpability. The situation in Bathinda and other places was communally surcharged where fair trial was a near impossibility, they said.However, the top court rejected their plea, saying, “The transfer of trial from one state to another would inevitably reflect on the credibility of the state’s judiciary. Except for compelling factors and clear situation of deprivation of fair justice, the transfer power should not be invoked,” it said dismissing the transfer plea.“It cannot just be the convenience of the petitioner but also of the complainant, the witnesses, the prosecution. The larger issue of trial normally being conducted by the jurisdictional court must also weigh on the issue.“When relative convenience and difficulties of all the parties involved in the process are taken into account, the conclusion is inevitable that no credible case for transfer of trial to alternative venues outside the state of Punjab is made out, in the present matters,” it said.Eight Dera Sacha Sauda members were charged with sacrilege for allegedly tearing Guru Granth Sahib and throwing it on the ground. The FIR in the matter was registered at Baja Khana police station on June 2, 2015, after a “bir” of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.The Supreme Court had on February 20 this year dismissed the CBI’s petition against the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s 2019 order refusing to interfere with the Punjab government decision to take back all sacrilege cases from the central probe agency.It had rejected the CBI’s petition on the ground of delay while leaving the question of law open.
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||'Delhi Chalo' protest: Haryana Police use water cannon on farmers in Karnal||Hundreds of farmers from Punjab and Haryana marched towards Delhi with tractor-trailers on Wednesday to protest against the Centre’s agriculture-related laws, prompting the Haryana Government to deploy their police force in large numbers and invoke Section 144 of the CrPC to prevent assembly of protesters.Haryana's government under Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had ordered borders between Punjab and Haryana to be closed in an attempt to force the protesters back---a development that farmers criticised later as an attempt to silence them.In Haryana's Kurukshetra, farmers tore down police barricades near Shahabad and were heading towards Pipli. Haryana Police used water cannons to unsuccessfully scatter the crowd.Modi government is scared, says farmers’ alliance Samyukt Kisan MorchaIn Karnal, police put up a check point at Oasis Tourist Complex on the National Highway 44. Protesters stopped to set up camp near Karnal's  Samanabahu village for the night. They will resume their march to Delhi on Thursday.Meanwhile, the protest march led to traffic jams on the NH-44, catching out several commuters, including wedding parties with grooms. Harried commuters now accuse authorities of not diverting traffic in advance. "Today is my wedding and we left for Delhi from Ludhiana at 11 am, and we had to reach in Delhi before 8pm and now we are here in Karnal at 8.30pm. There’s still no clarity of how long this will take to clear,” a groom stuck in the traffic jam said. Also, the police had taken nearly 100 farmer leaders from the state into "preventive custody".As per the police estimates, around 2,00,000 farmers from Punjab are set to leave for Delhi as part of their 'Delhi Chalo' agitation from November 26.Farmer body Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) President Balbir Singh Rajewal said Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has got sealed the interstate borders for Punjab farmers to prove that "Punjab is not part of India"."We will peacefully block the routes to Himachal and Jammu and Kashmir. Will start dharna on the roads," he tweeted.Rajewal questioned Khattar for refusing to give passage to the farmers to go to the national capital.At a press interaction in Rohtak, Inderjit Singh, a senior leader of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), condemned the sealing of the borders and demanded an anser from Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala for the police action against farmers."Dushyant claims himself to be a big well wisher of the farmers but why he is keeping mum when the farmers are being suppressed by the police at the instance of his government,” he said.Farmers affiliated to 33 organisations are part of the United Farmers Front, an all-India body of over 470 farmer unions that will participate in the indefinite protest in the national capital from November 26.The protesting farmers have threatened to block all roads to Delhi if they were denied permission to travel towards Delhi.The Delhi Police asked the farmers not to enter Delhi as they don't have permission to protest in the city.Haryana Police too have issued a travel advisory, asking commuters to avoid certain national highways along the state border with Punjab and Delhi for three days, starting Wednesday, in the wake of the protest.Road blockades have been put at several places along the state border as per Chief Minister Khattar's directive to ensure "law and order", the police said.A state police spokesperson told IANS that elaborate arrangements have been made by the civil and police administration.The primary objective of these arrangements is to maintain proper law and order to prevent any kind of violence, facilitate functioning of traffic and public transport systems and to ensure public peace and order.The spokesperson said a large number of protesters are likely to enter Haryana from Punjab through various border entry points for their onward journey towards Delhi.The main focus points of the protestors originating from within Haryana will be the four major national highways leading towards Delhi, i.e., Ambala to Delhi, Hisar to Delhi, Rewari to Delhi and Palwal to Delhi.A specific call has been given by protesting organisations for congregation at Shambhu border near Ambala city, Mundhal Chowk in Bhiwani district, Anaj Mandi in Gharaunda town in Karnal district, Tikri border in Bahadurgarh town in Jhajjar district, and the Rajiv Gandhi Education City in Rai in Sonipat district.The spokesperson said that to ensure appropriate law and order arrangement, it is likely that the traffic diversion or roadblocks may be put up by the police on November 25, 26 and 27.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday welcomed the Centre's decision to take forward the talks with various farmer organisation on the farm laws issue in Delhi on December 3.He said the forthcoming talks would pave the way for early redressal of the concerns of the farmers on the Central agricultural laws.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU-Ekta Dakonda) President Buta Singh Burjgill said the 'langar' (free meal service) will go on until the Central government takes back the laws."It will be a historic protest in Delhi amid the presence of two lakh farmers. We won't go back from our protest even half an inch." Farmers protesting against the laws have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the 'mercy' of big corporate entities.With agencies
25-11-2020||Our CorrespondentMandi Ahmedgarh||Residents hold candle march in support of farmers’ protest||Farmers’ protest against agri laws received a shot in the arm after residents of villages of the region, irrespective of their political allegiance, joined candle march being conducted to persuade masses to join ‘Delhi Chalo’ march on November 26-27.Villagers, including men, women and children, led by office-bearers of various constitutional, social and religious organisations took part in the march.Farm laws to affect all sections of societyConveners of the event Jaswant Singh Golu and Dr Saraaj Khan said activists of various social, constitutional, sports and religious organisations had announced to join protesters.Addressing gatherings during concluding sessions of Candle Marches at Kanganwal, Baurhai, Latala and Lohgarh village leaders of various organisations acknowledged that outcome of the ensuing farmers’ struggle was bound to affect fate of members of all sections of society, besides small and marginal farmers. “Though apparently it looks that the farm laws are concerned with the progress of agriculture, almost all sections of society, including farm labourers, commission agents, artisans, mechanics and small traders would be equally affected directly or indirectly,” said Jaswant Singh Golu and Dr Saraaj Khan.Saudagar Singh Ghudani, an office-bearer of Bhartiya Kissan Sabha Ekta (Ugrahan), said similar candle marches were organised at other villages too.All India Kissan Sabha office-bearers Jugraj Singh and Baldev Singh Latala said jathas of protestors would leave the region from specified places at Raikot, Barundi, Sadhar, Jodhan and Mullanpur from tomorrow onwards. Efforts have been made to ensure that each team was accompanied by healthcare workers and mechanics.
25-11-2020||---||200 bags of urea seized in Ambala; 2 from Punjab nabbed||Ambala, November 24The Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department and the police seized 200 bags of urea loaded in a tractor-trailer and a truck here on Monday. The stock was being illegally transported to Punjab.Two men, Hardev Singh of Moga and Gurmukh Singh of Gurdaspur, have been arrested in the matter.Virender Kumar, SDO, Agriculture, in his complaint, said there were reports that some people were supplying bags of urea in Punjab illegally from Haryana.On a tip-off, the toll plaza near Devi Nagar in Ambala was barricaded. The team accosted a tractor-trailer without a number plate. On checking the tractor-trailer, 150 bags of urea were found in it. Tractor-trailer driver Hardev Singh failed produce a bill or any other document related to the stock.The team also signalled a truck to stop. Its driver, Gurmukh Singh, claimed that sand was loaded in the truck and produced a document to substantiate his claim. But on checking the truck, 50 bags of urea were found. Gurmukh did not have a bill for urea.The accused were produced before a court, which sent them to a day’s police remand. A case was registered under Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, and Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC at the Ambala Sadar police station.Sadar police station SHO Suresh said, “The police will interrogate the accused to know about the source of urea and the point of delivery.”
25-11-2020||Abohar||1 killed in accident||
25-11-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Won’t let restrictions stall march: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24Undeterred by the actions of both BJP-led Centre and Haryana Government to stop them from reaching Delhi for their protest on November 26-27, over three lakh farmers from Punjab, including 30,000 women, are preparing for a long-drawn dharna on the borders of the national capital, or in Haryana, wherever they are stopped.While the Delhi Government has reportedly sealed its borders, Haryana, too, has started stopping farmers and trucks carrying supplies for farmers for their protest at its borders with Punjab. Farmers are to begin their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march tomorrow, though the food and other supplies are being dispatched towards Delhi since last night. At least 40 tractor-trailers carrying ration supplies for the protesters were stopped at the Khanauri border in the wee hours of today, and not allowed to go to Delhi. Interestingly, the gurdwaras in neighboring Dhamkaan are providing them food and other necessities.With Haryana also deploying a posse of police personnel at its borders and imposing strict travel restrictions for vehicles moving towards Delhi, the farmers’ strategy now will be to start indefinite peaceful protests wherever they are stopped. There are 10 main roads from Punjab to Delhi that pass from Haryana. The Haryana Government has put road blocks in Panchkula, Ambala, Kaithal, Jind, Fatehabad and Sirsa. The national highways in Ambala, Hisar, Rewari and Palwal leading to Delhi and six border posts in Haryana, too, have been sealed.For almost a week now, farmer unions have been mobilising their cadres for the Delhi protest by organising torch marches and ‘jago’ in almost all villages. Harinder Kaur Bindu, state president of the women wing of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) said other than contributing ration and beddings, an average of Rs 2 lakh cash donation had been made by farmers from each village of Malwa. “Farmers, their children and spouses, know that this is a battle for their survival. So they are giving their all,” she said.Interestingly, the Government of India has invited farm unions for a fresh round of talks on December 3. The offer has met with sharp reactions from farmer unions. “Why does the Centre indulge in doublespeak? On the one hand, it is going all out to stop a peaceful dharna, including arresting the 31 farm union leaders in Haryana, and on the other, it is extending an invitation for talks. The negotiations would be beneficial only if they accede to our demand of repealing the farm laws and ordinance imposing hefty fines for stubble burning and not introducing the new Electricity Act,” said Joginder Singh Ugrahan, president of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan).“At least a minimum common programme should first be decided. Otherwise, we know that it is just a diversionary tactic to stop the protests,” he added. Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union said wherever they are stopped, they would start an indefinite dharna.Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala of the Kirti Kisan Union and Harmeet Singh Qadian of the BKU (Qadian) said they were mobilising farmers from the southern districts of the Malwa region to march to Delhi on Wednesday. They said in case they were stopped from entering Haryana, they would make the farmers stay at Takht Damdama Sahib for the night, and then again start on foot on the morning of November 26.All sections should join stir: ChandumajraFormer MP and SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra on Tuesday called upon all sections of society to join the farmers’ march to Delhi on November 26 and 27 to press for the withdrawal of the farm laws and making the Minimum Support Price a fundamental right of farmers. He said the issue was not just of growers as consumers would be equally affected by the lawsBJP creating anarchy in state: KhairaFive AAP rebel MLAs on Tuesday made a fervent appeal to all political parties of Punjab to join the farmers’ protest in Delhi. Addressing the media, MLAs Sukhpal Khaira, Jagtar Singh Hissowal and others urged all sections to support the cause of farmers. Khaira said the farmers’ agitation had been totally peaceful but the adamant attitude of the BJP government was virtually pushing Punjab towards anarchy
25-11-2020||---||Angry over arrests, BKU burns Haryana Government effigies||Bathinda, November 24Irked over the arrest of farmers in Haryana ahead of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ agitation, farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) today burnt an effigy of the Khattar government at various protest sites in Bathinda district.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) district president Shingara Singh Mann condemned the Haryana government for arresting farmers last night in a bid to stop them from going to Delhi.Mann said the farm unions had given the call of the Delhi march to mark their protest against the three controversial farm laws on November 26, but the Khattar government in Haryana was arresting farm leaders to weaken their movement.He said they would march towards Delhi as per the plan and if the Haryana Government tried to stop them, they would stage a protest there only.
25-11-2020||---||Track blocked, train services from Amritsar disrupted||Amritsar, November 24The Railways has suspended the departure of all trains from the Amritsar railway station whose schedule was issued earlier. It has also announced cancellation of all trains except two pairs of mail express trains due to hassles posed in operations by activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. Members of the committee refused to lift the blockade on the main Amritsar-Delhi railway line at the Jandiala Guru railway station today.Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, said only 02903/04 Mumbai Central-Amritsar-Mumbai Central Golden Temple Mail, 04649/50 Saryu Jamuna Express and 04673/74 Shaheed Express would be operated from the Amritsar railway station.The Railways announced the departure of three trains, namely 02716 Sachkhand Express, 02926 Paschim Express and 09026 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus, from the Amritsar railway station tomorrow as these trains had already chugged in at the local railway station via detour from Tarn Taran.Meanwhile, the already announced departure of three trains, namely 02030 Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi, 02054 Amritsar-Haridwar Janshatabdi and 05212 Amritsar-Saharsa Jansewa from tomorrow stands cancelled. The trains will remain suspended till the lifting of the agitation by the farm organisation.Stalled for over two months, train services resumed from the Amritsar railway station today as a couple of trains arrived via alternative Beas and Tarn Taran routes to reach Amritsar. Freight trains were allowed to cross as many of them were carrying urea.However, the main Amritsar-Delhi railway line remained paralysed near Jandiala Guru as activists of the committee squatted on the line at 3 am which necessitated diversion of 02903 Mumbai Central-Amritsar Golden Temple Mail. It arrived over three hours behind the schedule.Amritsar-Delhi railway line paralysedThe main Amritsar-Delhi railway line remained paralysed near Jandiala Guru as protesting farmers squatted on the line at 3 am which necessitated diversion of 02903 Mumbai Central-Amritsar Golden Temple Mail. The train arrived over three hours behind the schedule
25-11-2020||Abohar||Growers seek better price for kinnow, halt traffic||A dharna that started on Sunday under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Sidhpur) today turned into a ‘chakka jam’ as the protesters demanded remunerative prices for kinnow fruit. The farmers staged a sit-in on the overbridge on National Highway-10, near Dangarkhera village on the Abohar-Fazilka stretch of the GT road, and blocked the traffic. Due to this, hundreds of commuters coming from both sides had to face problems. Farmers raised slogans against traders and commission agents (arhtiyas), alleging that they were denying sufficient price for the fruit at the mandi here. BKU vice-president Bhupinder Singh Dhillon said the farmers were not being given a fair price for kinnow and were being financially exploited by agents who were buying the crop for Rs 4-5 per kg. “We started raising a voice against the economic exploitation of the farmers, staged a sit-in at the kinnow mandi in the new grain market complex and shut business, but none has so far resolved the issue,” Dhillon added.  The protesters decided to stay near the overbridge throughout the night. SDM Jaspal Singh Brar tried to resolve the dispute but traders reportedly claimed that unripe fruit was being transported to the mandi, which couldn’t fetch good price due to transportation problems that had erupted due to the agrarian stir and the November 26 Delhi protest call. — OC
25-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Finally, urea bags reach Abohar||Abohar, November 24After two months, manned level crossings downed for 15 minutes to facilitate entry of a goods train here today. The crossings stayed lifted since the last week of September due to protests by farmers.The arrival of the train brought cheer among farmers as it carried 66,000 urea bags which were dispatched by the Indian Potash Limited for distribution among farmers here.The civil authorities and police had already laid special nakas near the interstate borders on the highways to prevent transport of fertilisers to Rajasthan.Even when none of the unions had staged a dharna on the rail tracks here in the past two months, the Railways had decided not to run freight trains. This had created acute shortage of DAP fertiliser that was to be used at the time of sowing wheat. Also, there was scarcity of urea fertiliser that was needed for cereal crops and fruit orchards.The Abohar Pesticides and Fertiliser Dealers’ Association had appealed to farm unions to let goods trains run since it was in their interest also.Farmers had to halt transporting cotton produce to the new grain market for 10 days as the Cotton Corporation of India suspended purchase after suffering Rs 5-crore loss in a major factory fire.
25-11-2020||---||Capt: Hope December 3 talks resolve farmers’ issues||Chandigarh, November 24Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has welcomed the Centre’s decision to take forward the talks with farm unions, in the wake of the farmers’ decision to lift their agitation to allow passenger and goods trains in the state.The Chief Minister, who had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah last week to urge them to resolve the issue at the earliest, said he was happy to note that the Central Government had reportedly invited farmer organisations for talks on December 3. Referring to media reports to this effect, he hoped that the forthcoming talks would pave the way for early redressal of the concerns of farmers on the agricultural laws. It was vital for Punjab’s interests that the matter be resolved as soon as possible, the CM said, expressing satisfaction at the fact that both the unions and the Government of India had shown flexibility and intent to come to an amicable solution on the issue.
25-11-2020||Bathinda||Dera followers to intensify stir over member’s murder||Members of the Dera Sacha Sauda Committee have indicated that if they don’t get justice in the murder case of their prominent member Manohar Lal, more followers would reach Salabatpura, the state headquarters of the Sirsa-based sect.Around 3,000 dera members from nearby blocks have already reached Salabatpura. Dera committee members from Haryana and Rajasthan, who came to Salabatpura to participate in the protest, said many more followers wanted to join the protest. Dera committee member Harcharan Singh said, “We are flooded with phone calls from followers in Haryana and Rajasthan, who want to come and join the protest. As the days are passing by, they are calling for a new course of action for the protest.”He said their talks with the district administration were on, but these had failed to reach any conclusion. “We want the issue to be resolved at the earliest,” he said. Pressure is mounting on the state government and the police to act quickly in the case as dera followers are adamant that they won’t cremate the body till the police nab the killers. — TNS
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||State’s 3rd mega food park opens in Phagwara||After Fazilka and Ludhiana, Punjab has a third mega food park at Phagwara. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union Minister of State for Food Processing Industries Rameswar Teli virtually inaugurated Sukhjit Mega Food Park and Infra Ltd.  Set up at an investment of Rs 135 crore in Phagwara, Sukhjit Mega Food Park and Infra Ltd will create a huge demand for maize and would also give impetus to food processing industries.  The food park has a cold store and IQF facilities, multi-vegetable processing line, deep freezers, silos, dry warehousing facility, sorting grading facility, etc. — TNS
25-11-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Singers target Centre, strike a discordant note||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 24Many singers from Punjab have come out with songs challenging the Union Government over the issue of the three farm laws.Singers Kanwar Grewal and Harf Cheema have come out with a new song ‘Jatta khich tyari, pecha pae gaya Centre naal’ on the standoff between farmers and the Centre over the agrarian laws.The video of the song showcases aged farmers and women participating in protests. Earlier, Harf Cheema had composed a song ‘Tera vaah peya eh kihde naal, tainu dasange sarkare ni’ (Listen government, we’ll tell you what you are up against).”Jass Bajwa has also come out with a song saying, ‘Centre di sarkaar rahi sada Jatta layi gaddar, Jatta tagda hoja (The Centre has always been a traitor for the Jatt farmer, the Jatts must strengthen themselves).”Similarly Korala Maan’s song also warns the Centre not to compel farmers to become rebels by saying ‘Dilliye khyal rakh layi, kite kahi aale modhe te bandook na aa je’ (Delhi better be careful, lest the shoulders carrying agri tools start carrying weapons).Elly Mangat’s song ‘Baghi Kisan’ invokes Baghel Singh, the Sikh general who in late 18th century launched an attack on Delhi and inflicted several defeats on the Mughals.Reminding the Modi government of Baghel Singh, the song tells the government, ‘Lagda Baghel Singh yaad tainu nahi reha nai’ (It seems you have forgotten Baghel Singh).Protesting farmers are also not behind as they have come out and composed songs in support of their ongoing agitation against the Narendra Modi government.Apart from these, many Punjabi singers are openly sharing the stage at farmers’ agitation since the protests started on September 25. Most of the singers are claiming that they were sons of farmers and whatever they were today was due to farmers.Hit out at Union Government
25-11-2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana realtor axes four of family to death||A 60-year-old property dealer and building contractor killed four of his family members by slitting their throats with an axe at Mayur Vihar in Ludhiana on Tuesday. He met with an accident while fleeing in his car, which caught fire on Hambran road.Rajiv Sunda had left behind a “suicide note” in which he admitted to have committed the crime and that he was ending his life. The police said prima facie it appeared Rajiv’s dispute with his sons in law was the reason behind the killings.The deceased are Rajiv’s wife, Sunita (55), son Ashish (35), daughter-in-law Garima and grandson Saket (13).Additional DCP-3 Sameer Verma said the accused had a scuffle with family members in the morning over some issue. Scared, Saket called his maternal grandparents and told them to reach Mayur Vihar house.The moment Garima’s parents reached there, the accused himself opened the door. After letting them in, the accused fled in his Swift car, he added.“Garima’s parents found the family members lying dead with throat badly slit,” said ADCP Verma, adding that the blood stained axe had been recovered from the house.Neighbours said the accused and his family maintained no contact with them. Four days ago, the family had a big scuffle over some issue and today morning also they heard noises from the house.In his ‘note’, Rajiv Sunda accused his son’s wife and in-laws of demanding money from him and threatening to implicate him in a fake domestic violence case, said ADCP Sameer Verma. — TNS
25-11-2020|| 
||CBI obstructing state’s probe into sacrilege cases, says Capt||Chandigarh, November 24 Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today slammed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) over its tactics to obstruct the state government’s investigation into the Bargari sacrilege case with its “false statements” in the High Court, which had, in fact, verbally termed the agency’s actions as “contemptuous”. Citing the High Court’s verbal observations of Monday, the Chief Minister said the CBI’s attempts to further delay and derail the probe into the sacrilege cases had exposed the Central agency’s malicious intent, but the state government would not allow it to succeed in its efforts to scuttle the investigations. After itself closing the case without completing the probe into the sacrilege cases, the CBI was now indulging in politically motivated acts to prevent the state from undertaking and completing its own probe, he said. A government spokesperson said the Punjab and Haryana High Court had on Monday, while dismissing a review petition filed by one of the accused, had orally noted that “these actions of the CBI are contemptuous.”
25-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||State more callous than pvt employer: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped the State of Punjab for being “more callous than a private employer”. The Bench made it clear that the state was required to adopt a humane approach “so that the employees remain motivated and serve to the best of their abilities”.Justice Sudhir Mittal said the state was supposed to be a model employer. A private employer may justify his actions citing profit. But the state did not have this excuse. “It may try to impute callousness to the impersonal nature of the state machinery, but such justification can never be acceptable. While considering issues concerning its employees, the state cannot remain impersonal”.The admonition came in a case where deputy project officers with Punjab State Forest Development Corporation were denied revision of pay scales in accordance with the 5th Pay Commission recommendations. The petitioners were also seeking additional increments in accordance with the Assured Career Progression Scheme applicable vide instructions dated November 31, 2006.The Corporation’s stand was that the posts of deputy project officer were created but not included in the by-laws. Unless and until the state government approved the amended by-laws, revised pay scales could not be granted. The state’s submission was that deputy project officer was not a separate cadre post, but merely a designation accorded to field supervisors with five years of experience.Justice Mittal asserted that all employees of the Corporation were granted revised pay scales. Its denial to the petitioners was arbitrary and discriminatory. For the same reason, they were entitled to assured career progression scheme applicable to all employees. Justice Mittal said the state’s objection on not granting revised pay scales to the petitioners unless the Finance Department granted approval was noticed to be rejected. A committee for revision of pay scales of corporations’ employees was constituted only after the state Finance Department accepted the Pay Commission recommendations. As such, there was no logic behind the objection being raised now.“Only a bureaucratic hurdle is being created, even though the same is not supported either by rule or logic,” he asserted, while allowing the petition and directing the grant of revised pay scales from the date the benefit was granted to the Corporation’s other employees. Justice Mittal also directed the grant of the scheme’s other benefit. Since the delay occurred on account of the state machinery, the petitioners were also held entitled to 10 per cent per annum interest on the arrears of pay, he added.
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||6 of Punjab Raj Bhavan staff positive||Punjab Raj Bhavan today said six employees had been found Covid-19 positive in extensive testing this week. Entry and meetings have been restricted at the Raj Bhavan for the time being. A spokesperson said all employees, including security personnel, were tested for Covid-19. Of 338 tests conducted, six persons including Principal Secretary to the Governor, were found to be positive. They have been immediately isolated.The Governor and his family have tested negative. All protocols regarding the pandemic are being followed, the spokesperson said. — TNS
25-11-2020||Amritsar||Bring back women stranded in Oman, MP Gurjit Aujla urges Centre||Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla today urged Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar to take steps for the repatriation of women stranded in Oman. He said around 24 womenwere living in poor conditions as the Indian Embassy in Muscat had failed to help them.He said these women had gone to the Arabian country as domestic helps in search of livelihood. He said he had written to the MEA in June and October, but he had not got any response. — TNS
25-11-2020||---||Punjab govt to recruit 8,393 regular teachers||Chandigarh, November 24The Punjab Education Department today announced the recruitment of 8,393 regular teachers. Online applications have been invited from eligible applicants from December 1, 2020, to December 20, 2020.The department has also given a golden chance to education providers, education volunteers, EGS volunteers, AIE volunteers and STR volunteers to get regular appointment as they have been working on contractual or ad hoc basis for several years. Special age relaxation has also been given to these volunteers.As per the letter issued by the Directorate of Recruitment, in educational qualification, 12th pass or at least 45 per cent marks in equivalent examination and Diploma Certificate in Nursery Teacher Education Programme or any other equivalent course along with Punjabi subject as a compulsory or elective subject in Class X, has been prescribed.The age limit for these posts has been fixed from 18 to 37 years but according to the notification of the Education Department, education providers, education volunteers, EGS volunteers, AIE volunteers and STR volunteers working in government schools of Punjab have been given a relaxation equal to the service rendered in the upper age limit, while divorced women, widows, Scheduled Castes and Backward Class candidates have been given a relaxation of five years in the upper age limit.Of the total 8,393 posts, 3,273 posts are in the General category.Golden chanceThe Education Department has also given a golden chance to education providers, education volunteers, EGS volunteers, AIE volunteers and STR volunteers to get regular appointment as they have been working on contractual or ad hoc basis for several years. Special age relaxation has also been given to these volunteers.
25-11-2020||Moga||Villagers, cops clash; SHO among 4 hurt||Dharamkot police station SHO Guljinder Singh and three others were injured in a clash between the policemen and protesters outside the police station in Moga on Monday night.   Rehrwan villagers, under the leadership of Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee president Sukhjit Singh Khosa, held a protest outside the police station, demanding a case of murder against the mining mafia who attacked village residents on November 3 in which a few persons were injured. They alleged that the police were protecting the mining mafia. Jagsir Singh, one of the injured, later died on November 15. His family members along with protesters kept his body outside the police station, demanding action against the accused. When they tried to cremate the body, the policemen resorted to cane-charge. The police have registered an FIR against Khosa, Tarsem Singh and other protesters. — TNS
25-11-2020||Ferozepur||Five booked for illegal sand mining||Five persons have been booked for illegal sand mining in the border district. Acting on tip-off, the mining department carried out a raid and three trucks laden with sand were intercepted outside a “dhaba” near Arif Ke village.Arif Ke police station SHO Jaswinder Singh said the accused Gurjant Singh and Rai Singh were residents of Ganganagar district in Rajasthan. He said the driver managed to give a slip to the police. “The accused were using fake receipts which did not match with the record of the mining department,” said the SHO.Later, a case under various sections of the IPC and 21 of the Mining and Mineral Development and Regulation Act, 1957, was registered against the accused at Arif ke police station. Besides the erring drivers, the police also booked the owners of the seized trucks. — OC
25-11-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||CM invites Manmohan Singh, Governors||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak, November 24Notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, the concluding ceremony of the 550th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev may turn out to be a high-voltage affair with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh sending invitations to former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh and many other dignitaries for the event to be held here on November 30.Cabinet Minister and local MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa confirmed that apart from Dr Manmohan Singh, the Chief Minister had invited state Governor VP Singh Badnore, his Haryana counterpart Satyadev Narayan Arya, former AICC president Rahul Gandhi, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs, besides all MLAs.Randhawa presided over a meeting here today to oversee the preparations.The Chief Minister will be presiding over in as many as five functions in one day. He will begin his tour by having a view of the Kartarpur Sahib shrine located in Pakistan through binoculars from the Darshan Sthall near the Integrated Check Post.Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq maintained that Covid safety guidelines, including sanitisation of the venues, were being followed.
25-11-2020||---||22 more succumb to Covid, Punjab braces for second wave||Chandigarh/Ludhiana, Nov 24The state has reported 614 cases and 22 deaths in the past 24 hours. As per the media bulletin released on Tuesday, with fresh cases the total Covidcount has reached 1,47,665 and the number of deaths 4,653.In the district-wise breakup, Sangrur topped the chart with four deaths, followed by Jalandhar and Ludhiana with three deaths each, Bathinda and Gurdaspur with two deaths each, Fatehgarh Sahib, Mansa, Moga, Pathankot and Patiala reported one death each.Meanwhile, the state government has released several updates for the treatment of Covid patients ahead of the expected second wave in mid-December. This is the third amendment made by the state since the pandemic spread. The guidelines have been revised according to the regional updates and have been sent to all districts.Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), who is also a member of the Covid-19 task force formed by the state government, shared the revised guidelines for treating mild, moderate and serious patients. He said there were some important points to remember while treating Covid patients, like low dose of steroids have a good outcome when patients are on oxygen support. However, giving steroids with normal saturation and on the basis of CT scan can cause more harm.“Ramdesivir injection has not shown benefit in reducing death rate. However, in some cases of moderate severity, when given in early phase, it can help in reducing stay in the hospital. In addition to this, blood thinners like Heparin, given in required dose, help. HCQ Prophylaxis for high-risk contacts and frontline healthcare workers should be considered. Mental health issue should be managed in consultation with a psychiatrist/psychologist, Dr Mohan said.Fresh guidelines
25-11-2020||---||4 dismissed over HIV blood transfusion||Bathinda, November 24The Health Department has dismissed four contract lab technicians after incidents of transfusion of HIV-positive blood to patients came to light at the Civil Hospital in Bathinda. The Health department will also be seeking a Vigilance probe into the case.The action has been taken on the directions of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu after these employees were found guilty in a probe.Health Secretary Husan Lal confirmed that the four contract employees of the Bathinda blood bank had been suspended. He said repeated incidents in this regard seemed to be more of conspiracy than negligence, so they would call for a Vigilance probe. In October; a seven-year-old thalassaemia patient was given blood of an HIV-positive donor. In this case, lab technician Baldev Singh Romana is in jail, while contract workers Richa and Karishma were suspended.This is the second action on the blood bank employees at the Bathinda Civil Hospital as earlier this month, two incidents of HIV blood transfusion were reported.Meanwhile, a group of health workers have started protesting after the suspension of the lab technicians. These employees have announced to come out in favour of the suspended lab technicians from Wednesday by holding a strike in the labs of all government hospitals in the district, besides the blood bank of the Civil Hospital. They have called for a “fair” probe. They have alleged that they were being falsely implicated for the negligence in the blood bank.Another thalassaemic kid tests HIV-positiveBathinda: Another thalassaemia-affected child was found HIV-positive at the Bathinda Civil Hospital on Tuesday. When the nine-year old from Barnala district was tested for HIV before blood transfusion, his report came out positive. The Bathinda Thalassaemia Association claims that he has been undergoing treatment at the hospital for the last four years and was administered blood from the hospital 15 days back. Earlier, three kids and a woman were reported to have been given HIV-positive blood by the government blood bank. TNS
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Terms relaxed to appoint anganwari workers’ kin||Punjab Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary on Tuesday announced that the conditions to appoint relatives of Anganwadi workers and helpers on compassionate grounds had been relaxed.During a three-hour marathon meeting with the representatives of Anganwadi Workers Union at the Punjab Civil Secretariat, she also assured to meet all their legitimate demands.Chaudhary said the existing condition of appointment on compassionate grounds was to give preference only to widow daughter-in-law of the deceased Anganwadi worker and helper, which would now be replaced to any dependent concerned. Earlier, workers and helpers received ex-gratia after the age of 70, while their retirement age was 65. Now, they could claim ex-gratia anytime between the age of 60 to 65.The Cabinet Minister also announced to reduce the condition of graduation for promotion to Anganwadi worker status to Class XII, coupled with the experience of five years.Chaudhary also apprised that Anganwadi workers would be equipped with smartphones, which would have dedicated software for smooth field work. — TNS
25-11-2020||Sangrur||Cattle shed ‘set afire’, no FIR yet||More than 24 hours after a group of unidentified persons set the cattle shed of a Dalit on fire in Kasba Bharal village, the Sandhaur police are yet to register an FIR.Gurmale Singh, owner of the shed, has been admitted to the Malerkotla civil hospital while police officers said they were conducting investigations as a member of the opposite party was also under treatment.As per Gurmale, he had constructed his cattle shed on the village panchayat land and had been using it for the past 15 years. However, some upper caste people allegedly wanted to encroach upon the panchayat land and the matter was pending in court.“On Monday, around 20 persons set my shed on fire. When I reached there, they pushed me into the flames and fled. My nephew saved me and got me admitted here. The cops are not taking any action and have not even visited the crime spot yet,” Gurmale alleged. Zora Singh, president of the Bahujan Samaj Trade Association, Punjab, alleged that the police had been pressurising Gurmale for a compromise.Meanwhile, a video of some persons setting the cattle shed on fire has gone viral on social media.Sandhaur SHO Kulwant Singh confirmed that Jaswinder Kaur, wife of Gurmale Singh, had submitted a complaint in this regard on Monday. “The matter is under investigation as the other party has alleged that Gurmale and others also attacked them and their member Karminder Singh was admitted to the hospital,” he added. — TNS
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Thaw in ties? Capt to meet Navjot Sidhu at lunch||After months of cold-shouldering, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today invited his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu for a luncheon meeting tomorrow, setting the ball rolling for the cricketer-turned-politician’s likely return into the state Council of Ministers.Sharing the information on Twitter, the CM’s media adviser, Raveen Thukral, said the meeting agenda was to discuss state and national politics. The political circles, however, were abuzz with the possibility of Sidhu returning to the Cabinet by early next month.Sidhu was divested of the Local Bodies portfolio after the Lok Sabha polls in July last year and offered Power, which he didn’t accept and resigned from the Cabinet.With the BJP flexing its muscles and planning to contest all seats on its own in the next Punjab Assembly elections, Sidhu’s rehabilitation would come as a shot in the arm for the Congress, which is already in a confrontational mode with the saffron party over the central farm laws.Sources said the Congress high command’s larger concern was to ensure a miffed Sidhu, who had skipped party functions for quite some time, doesn’t leave the party.
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||3 lakh Punjab farmers head for Delhi today||Around 3 lakh farmers are set to leave for Delhi from Punjab today, as part of their “Delhi Chalo” protest against the three farm laws passed by Parliament.The farmers owing allegiance to 33 organisations are part of the United Farmers Front, an umbrella body of 472 farmer unions that will participate in the protest on November 26-27.The attempt by the BJP-led Centre to schedule the second round of talks with the protesting unions on December 3, has failed to cut much ice with Punjab farmers.The farmers will begin their march to Delhi tomorrow morning. Heavy police deployment has been made on all roads leading to Delhi through Haryana. Trucks carrying rations for farmers are already being denied passage through the BJP-ruled state. Farmer unions are prepared to stage indefinite dharnas wherever they are stopped.
