26-09-2020||Chandigarh||COVID: 54 more deaths, 1,588 new cases in Punjab||Fifty-four more fatalities due to COVID-19 pushed the toll to 3,188 in Punjab while 1,588 new cases took the infection tally to 1,08,684 on Saturday. Ten deaths were reported from Mohali, eight from Jalandhar, six each from Ludhiana and Amritsar, five from Patiala, four from Sangrur and three from Pathankot, according to the medical bulletin. Two deaths each were reported from Barnala and Gurdaspur and one each from Faridkot, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Kapurthala, Mansa, Moga, Muktsar and Rupnagar.Among the places which reported new cases were Jalandhar (195), Ludhiana (172), Patiala (172), Mohali (153), Gurdaspur (147) and Amritsar (132). There are 19,483 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin. A total of 1,988 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured people to 86,013.                   Sixty-eight critical patients are on ventilator support while 422 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 17,40,183 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-54-more-deaths-1-588-new-cases-in-punjab-147009
26-09-2020||---||Farmer ends life, commission agent among two booked for abetting suicide||Amritsar, September 26At a time when farmers’ organisations are protesting against the Farmer Bills, a peasant on Saturday ended his life as he was perturbed over the alleged harassment by a commission agent.The deceased has been identified as Ranjit Singh (40), a resident of Harsha Chhina village.The police have booked the commission agent identified as Satinderpal Singh or Chhindu of Vanali village and Jagroop Singh of Harsha Chhinna village.Satinderpal was a Congress sarpanch and vice-president of Aarhtiya union.Before allegedly hanging himself, Ranjit Singh wrote a suicide note and made a video while holding the duo responsible for taking the extreme step.The police have taken the body into their custody and launched further probe.In the video, Ranjit Singh alleged that the accused were harassing him and his family members by submitting false complaints.Gurjit Singh, brother of the deceased, told the police that his brother was upset for past couple of months.A few days ago he told the family that he had taken loan of several lakhs from the two, said Gurjit Singh.He had given cheques to them while taking loan, said Gurjit, adding that though Ranjit Singh told them that he had returned all the money, the accused were still harassing him for the same and threatened to get an FIR registered against him for bouncing of cheques.Gurjit said last night Ranjit ended his life by hanging himself in the house.SHO, Rajasansi police station, Narinderpal Singh said on the basis of the complaint and the suicide note the police had booked Satinderpal and Jagroop on charges of abetting suicide.He said further investigations were underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-ends-life-commission-agent-among-two-booked-for-abetting-suicide-147007
26-09-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Shiromani Akali Dal breaks away from BJP-led NDA||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 26The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday night broke alliance with the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) on the issue of farm legislations against which farmers were protesting across the nation.The party core committee took the decision after a four-hour meeting.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced partying ways with the BJP after the meeting.He said the core committee at its emergency meeting here tonight decided unanimously to pull out of the BJP-led NDA because of the Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of farmers' crops on MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and Sikh issues like excluding Punjabi language as official language in Jammu and Kashmir.Addressing mediapersons, Sukhbir Badal said SAD will continue stand by its core principles of peace, communal harmony and guard the interest of  Punjab, Punjabi in general and Sikhs and farmers in particular.He described that the decision has been taken in consultation with the people of Punjab, especially party workers and farmers.Badal said the Bills on agricultural marketing brought by the BJP government are lethal and disastrous for the already beleaguered farmers.He said the SAD was the oldest ally of the BJP but the government did not listen to it on honouring the sentiments of farmers.Former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra said the SAD was forced to first leave the Union Cabinet and now the NDA as the BJP-led alliance was obstinate and stubborn over bringing the farm legislations despite protests by farmers, opposition and the Akali Dal.SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal was among the main founder members of the NDA. The Akali-BJP alliance had contested elections in Punjab together for three decades.Even as Harsimrat Badal quit as minister at the Centre, SAD has been attacked by the Congress as doing too little, too late.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shiromani-akali-dal-breaks-away-from-bjp-led-nda-147006
26-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Farmer protest: Railways cancels 14 trains on September 27||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26Keeping in view the undergoing blockade of railway lines by farmers at several places, the Northern railway’s Ferozepur division has extended the cancellation of 14 trains (up and down) for one more day on September 27.Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), said the trains which had been cancelled included the Golden Temple Mail Covid-19 Special from Amritsar to Mumbai Central (02903 and 02904), Amritsar-Kolkata Superfast (02357 and 02358), Karambhumi Covid-19 Special from Amritsar to New Jalpaiguri (02407 and 02408), Paschim Deluxe Express from Amritsar to Mumbai (02925 and 02926), Sachkhand Covid-19 Special from Amritsar to Nanded (02715 and 02716), Jan Shatabadi Express from Amritsar to Haridwar (02053 and 02054), and Shaheed Express from Amritsar to Jaynagar (04673 and 04674).In the state, railway stations falling on the railway lines from Ludhiana to Ferozepur, further Bathinda to Fazilka, Jalandhar to Pathankot and Amritsar form Ferozepur division will be affected.He added that as a precautionary move and to save harassment to the passengers it was decided to cancel departure of all trains.Besides, all incoming trains will be handled at Ambala, Saharanpur, Moradabad and Chandigarh railway stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-protest-railways-cancels-14-trains-on-september-27-146991
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Declare entire state agriculture market: Sukhbir to Punjab govt||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday demanded that the Punjab government immediately bring an ordinance to declare the entire state as an agriculture market to thwart the implementation of the Centre’s farm legislations.“Instead of being obsessed with the Akali phobia day and night and indulging in petty mudslinging against his opponent, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh must act to safeguard farmers,” the SAD chief said in a statement.“The best and in fact the only way to block the implementation of the Centre’s new Acts in Punjab is to declare the entire state a principal market area or a mandi for farm produce,” he said, adding that any area declared as a “mandi” is exempt from the application of the new legislations. Badal said with the move, “big corporate sharks” will not be able to enter the state, thus saving farmers from their “fangs”.Badal also asked the chief minister to repeal the amendments made by his government in the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act in 2017.The Amarinder Singh government had amended the Act to include all provisions like the creation of private yards, direct marketing and e–trading, he said.“These amendments are exactly the same as the black laws of the Centre against which the farmers are protesting. Amarinder’s APMC provisions have actually pre-dated the Centre’s black laws,” Badal said. “These APMC amendments need to be repealed by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. We will fully support the state government initiative to repeal these,” he added.Badal said this initiative needed to be taken by the CM the earliest. “There is no time to waste,” he said, adding that an ordinance should be issued to this effect before the farm Bills become Acts and notified by the Centre.Earlier, addressing farmers and Akali workers in Patiala and Ludhiana, Badal said his party will “wholeheartedly support” the CM regarding the ordinance.“We urge him to first immediately issue an ordinance declaring Punjab a mandi and follow it up quickly by convening a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to convert it into a formal Act,” he said.Badal urged all political parties to rise above political considerations to ensure a unanimous passage of such a Bill. The SAD expresses support to all initiatives, agitations or any other programme announced by farmer representative, regardless of which organisation or party starts them, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/declare-entire-state-agriculture-market-sukhbir-to-punjab-govt-146986
26-09-2020||---||Punjab Cabinet Secy bats for lifting every single grain of paddy in a smooth and safe manner||Chandigarh, September 26Following the directions of Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Saturday reviewed the state’s preparedness for paddy procurement season, which will start from September 27.Presiding over a high-level review meeting of Paddy Procurement Committee for Kharif Season - 2020, Vini Mahajan directed the concerned departments to ensure the social distancing to avoid the spread of COVID-19.She also said that procurement be made in a staggered manner as farmers would enter the mandis with passes issued to them 72 hours in advance and only one trolley will be allowed on one pass.Mandi yards have been marked with 30ft X 30ft blocks to maintain the social distance, she said.The Punjab Chief Secretary said that a total 4,019 procurement centres had been set up, which include 152 main yards, 283 sub-yards, 1,436 purchase centres, 524 temporary yards and 1,624 mills.She also directed the Punjab Mandi Board and Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department to explore possibilities to increase the number of centres to over 4,500 to ensure hassle-free, smooth and timely procurement of paddy crop.Vini Mahajan stressed that alternative procurement centres should be identified to divert arrivals if any centre was sealed due to COVID-19.Directing the procurement agencies to ensure the lifting of procured paddy within 48 hours of weighment, the Chief Secretary said that Deputy Commissioners would be overall in-charge of procurement operations and Mandi Board would start issuing passes from September 29, 2020.Check-points will be set up and only one farmer or representative with valid pass will be allowed to enter mandis and a person showing dry cough/respiratory symptoms and fever must not be allowed at these check-points, said Mahajan.She instructed the Mandi Board to make arrangements for 50,000 tarpaulins to save the grain in case of rain.The Chief Secretary also said that Punjab Mandi Board solicited the services of 3,195 Guardians of Governance (GoGs) in this procurement season.The GoGs would monitor and enforce safety and sanitisation protocols, with special focus on social distancing and maintain a hygienic environment in all the mandis.Urging the farmers to bring the ripen and dry crop to mandis for smooth and hassle-free procurement, the Chief Secretary asked the Deputy Commissioners to ensure that combine harvesters were sanitised with sodium hypochlorite solution and no combine should be allowed to run after allowed time.She also called upon farmers to download ‘COVA App’ to get real time information about COVID cases.Additional Chief Secretary, Development, Anirudh Tewari informed the Chief Secretary that 30 line Mandi Board Control Room would be set up with one line for each district and it would be functional immediately for smooth procurement.District level control room will be set up under Deputy Commissioners for coordination with Mandi Board and Procurement Agency, Tewari said.He further informed that Market Committee would arrange 1,123 hand free water dispensers and soaps, 30,000 litres of sanitiser, 1.5 lakh masks and fumigate mandis with 13 lakh litres of sodium hypochlorite to contain the spread of the COVID, besides making available drinking water and clean toilets for farmers and laborers.Arthias and procurement agencies have also been asked to make the arrangements for soap, sanitisers and mask for farmers and labour and staff. Social distancing would be practiced during harvesting, loading paddy, in mandi operations, he added.To ensure zero tolerance towards the defaulters for residue burning, Vini Mahajan directed all the departments concerned to make elaborate arrangements to curb the menace of stubble burning.She directed the Deputy Commissioners to ensure Cluster Officers/Village Level Nodal Officers to be appointed to stop this hazardous practice, besides appointing an SP rank officer as Nodal Officer in each district.She also underlined the need to close coordination of DCs and SSPs to initiate strict and swift action against violators.Stressing on active involvement of Department of Rural Development and Panchayat, Cooperation, School Education and Anganwari workers in the awareness campaign, Mahajan directed to initiate massive awareness campaign to sensitise farmers about the ill effects of residue burning.The meeting among others was attended by DGP Dinkar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Finance) KAP Sinha and Principal Secretary (Transport) K Siva Prasad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-secy-bats-for-lifting-every-single-grain-of-paddy-in-a-smooth-and-safe-manner-146976
26-09-2020||Sandeep Dikshit||A gentler proponent of laissez faire in economic policy||Isher Judge Ahluwalia’s biography, ‘Breaking Through — A Memoir’, will be read with more than a touch of poignancy as the author passed away within a month of its release.There is an added poignancy to the passing away of a brilliant economist in the midst of the country’s worst-ever economic crises and to not having been consulted by the powers that be.In her brilliant saris, coiffured hair and her presence at high visibility events, Isher Judge may have seemed to be the epitome of the Harvard-bred Khan Market Gang that the current regime deigns to shun.But as her book reveals, it was the hard work of this number nine of eleven children of a Punjabi pickle maker that propelled her with distinction through Presidency College, Delhi School of Economics and, finally MIT. Her mentors along the way: Bimal Jalan, Amartya Sen, Manmohan Singh and Paul Samuelson.A gentler proponent of laissez faire in economic policy Isher Ahluwalia was one of India’s distinguished economists, and author of an influential book ‘Industrial Growth in India’. She built up ICRIER, a fine economic think tank.Jairam RameshShe was among the young turks of economic liberalisation who along with her husband positioned themselves against the status quoits crowd of the licence-quota-permit-raj early on in her career.She was a distinguished economist whose life, work and contribution to economics are beautifully captured in her recently published autobiography, a must read for every student of economics. P ChidambaramThough the central governments of Congress persuasion absorbed the homilies that came from Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER), an institution she built herself, her home state Punjab saw fit to requisition her services only in 2005 when Amarinder Singh was the Chief Minister.It is also a tribute to her mite in building up ICRIER that when she stepped down as Chairman on August 11, she was unanimously made its first Chairman-emeritus, never mind that this may not have been to the current regime’s liking.As was the case with her husband, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, there was just no doubt where they stood in the politics of economic development. But like their common guru Manmohan Singh, they never pushed the envelope of economic reforms too hard. There was always an acknowledgement from them that the other side’s story also has merit and needs to be listened to.Theirs was not a case of the converted preaching the gospel without the help of the bible. After speaking on outdated economic ideas being pushed in Indian universities, her book in 1985 on the mis-delivery of economic growth had marked her out as someone not afraid of speaking her mind while the more accomplished economists like Manmohan Singh refrained from showing the mirror to the then reigning economic czars.Her high noon of being involved in the government’s policy formulating circles lasted for a quarter of a century. With the advent of the BJP government, Isher Judge focused on ICRIER, encouraging her wards to keep pushing the boundaries of economic thought. Her recent co-authored series on economic possibilities in waste management were as much a gentle rap on the government’s knuckles as suggestive of the possibilities of monetising the Swachh Bharat concept.Though Isher Judge would have been supportive of all of PM Modi’s move to privatise the economy, one wonders if she would have approved its current ramrodding while lives have already been upended by Covid? Isher Judge also sought a similar end where the private sector occupies the commanding heights. But her means to achieving that aim were always gentler, gradual and persuasive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-gentler-proponent-of-laissez-faire-in-economic-policy-146970
26-09-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Spurned youth ‘throws’ acid at girl in Sangrur village; both injured||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, September 26After a 24-year-old girl from Benra village refused to accept “friendship proposal” of a youngster from her neighborhood, the latter allegedly threw acid at her on Friday night.Both the accused and girl have suffered injuries. Police have started investigations.As per police, Ravi Singh allegedly threw acid on the girl when she was going to the house of her relative last night. She has suffered burns on her face, chest, eyes, hands and other parts of the body. She raised the alarm and her family members took her to Dhuri hospital, from where she was referred to Sangrur hospital.“Both girl and boy have suffered injuries and the girl is admitted to Sangrur hospital while boy is at Patiala hospital. The girl alleged Ravi threw acid on her after she refused to accept his proposal for friendship. We have registered a case against Ravi under Sections 354 A and 326A,” said ASI Sukhchain Singh, who is conducting investigations.He confirmed that matter is suspicious because boy has also suffered injuries.“Though we have registered a case against Ravi, we are also conducting thorough investigation as Ravi has also suffered burns,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spurned-youth-throws-acid-at-girl-in-sangrur-village-both-injured-146954
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab marriage palace owners seek reopening amid COVID-19 pandemic||A body representing owners of marriage palaces and resorts on Saturday demanded from the Punjab government that they be allowed to operate with coronavirus norms in place.The body also threatened to resort to an agitation if the permission was not granted to them by the month-end.Sukhdev Singh Sidhu, president, Punjab Marriage Palace and Resort Association (PMPARA), said they could not understand why they were not being permitted to operate despite having spacious gardens, halls and proper parking.On the contrary, hotels, restaurants, malls, gyms and markets that have been allowed to operate are having less space, he said, adding that coronavirus standard operating procedures can be implemented easily by them.Sidhu said his association has already handed over a letter in this regard to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.“There is no forthcoming action yet by the Punjab government. We want to give the state government an ultimatum that if it does not take the decision of reopening marriage palaces and resorts by end of this month, the association will adopt a course of agitation and protest from October 2,” he said.Sidhu said Punjab has over 5,000 marriage palaces and resorts which have been closed for over seven months.This has rendered hundreds of vendors connected with marriage functions and other events jobless, resulting in massive unemployment and extreme financial distress for marriage palace owners, he added.Karamjit Singh Canadian, joint secretary of the body, said all norms related to coronavirus will be followed once allowed to operate marriage palaces and resorts.“A majority of venues have a capacity to accommodate 1,000-2,000 guests. If the government allows reopening with 300 guests per event, all vendors left jobless will get work. Even the state government will gain as revenue will start pouring in,” he said.Under the current phase of the coronavirus lockdown, most states neighbouring Punjab have allowed events up to 100 guests while marriage palaces and resorts in the state remain shut.Raman Khanna, president, Mohali Marriage Palace Association, said the marriage season has started, and they are feeling the heat as people from Punjab are heading for Chandigarh, Panchkula or even Himachal to organise marriages.”"This coupled with months of zero income may result in the closure of most marriage palaces and resorts if the government does not get up from its slumber and orders reopening,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-marriage-palace-owners-seek-reopening-amid-covid-19-pandemic-146953
26-09-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Diljit Dosanjh asks trolls to have 'some shame' on farm bills post: 'Punjab has taken to streets for politics?'||Punjabi singer and actor Diljit Dosanjh has been supporting the countrywide farmers' protest on all social media platforms. However, the singer was trolled by a few users, who claimed, that the farmers were on the streets for their "political reason".  Furious Diljit told the trolls to have "some shame".The singer added, that not everything is about politics.  “Yes, entire Punjab has taken to streets for the sake of politics. Please use your brains, not everything is about politics. Have some shame and stop it,” read the singer's tweet.Haan Sara Punjab Jehda Sadkan Te aa Oh Rajneeti di Tyari Hee kar riha ..? Hadd aa sali akal nu hath pair maar Lao Koi.. har gal ch Rajneeti .. Oye Bas karo Oye Sharm kar Lao Thodi .. https://t.co/ijV0NfCnWU  Replying to another tweet he wrote: “Putt Rajneeti ton Utey uth... Gal Kisaan Di aa .. Har gal ch Rajneeti Na Ley ke aoo (Son, rise above the politics. This is about the farmer, don’t bring politics into everything)”. Both the original tweets have now been deleted.On Thursday, Diljit had shared a post in support of the farmers on Instagram. “25 September. We all will stand with the farmer community. Every single person of all age groups from Punjab is standing with the farmers. Everyone who is defending the bill, at least try to talk to the farmers. Punjabi language has been eradicated from Government languages in Jammu and Kashmir. What is happening?” Diljit wrote on Instagram.“ ਕਿਸਾਨ ਬਚਾਓ ਦੇਸ਼ ਬਚਾਓ “A post shared by  DILJIT DOSANJH (@diljitdosanjh) on Sep 23, 2020 at 7:10pm PDT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/diljit-dosanjh-asks-trolls-to-have-some-shame-on-farm-bills-post-punjab-has-taken-to-streets-for-politics-146930
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||MSP procurement of kharif paddy begins immediately in Punjab and Haryana: Centre||The Centre on Saturday advanced paddy procurement in Haryana and Punjab due to the early arrival of paddy this year.In its order issued today, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution has allowed procurement of paddy in the two states from today instead of the earlier announced schedule from October 1.The order says that the step has been taken in view of early arrival of paddy this year.The Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2020-21 for paddy /rice is already scheduled to commence in all the procuring states from October 1, 2020, and the state procuring agencies, including FCI, are in a state of readiness for smoothly undertaking procurement operations.However, in view of early arrival of paddy in the ‘mandis’ of Haryana and Punjab, Government of India has approved the commencement of procurement operations for paddy/rice immediately in both these states from today i.e. with effect from 26th September, 2020 to ensure that farmers are facilitated in selling their produce at Minimum Support Price (MSP) expeditiously.With the Central government allowing Haryana and Punjab to advance procurement of paddy by five days beginning it from Saturday instead of October 1 as announced earlier, the Haryana government has decided to begin purchase of the paddy already arrived in the grain markets from Sunday.PK Das, Haryana’s Additional Chief Secretary for Food and Civil Supplies Department, said that the government agencies will purchase only the paddy crop which has already arrived in grain markets of the state on Sunday and Monday.He said that from Tuesday onwards, regular procurement activities for paddy crop will begin.Das clarified that paddy crop of only those farmers will be procured who have registered it on “Meri Fasal Mera Byora” portal.He said that the state government had sought permission for advancing the procurement activities in view of early arrivals of the crop and the Centre has acceded to Haryana’s request.Das said that the government procurement agencies were fully geared up for the procurement starting from tomorrow morning. The move is being seen in view of the ongoing strike of farmers against the three controversial agriculture Bills, as the biggest concern farmers have shown during their stir is that they would lose MSP once the new laws are implemented.The state government has been maintaining that there would be no threat to the MSP.The Centre, had, however, clarified that the period of milling of paddy would remain unchanged for Kharif Milling Season – 2020-21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/msp-procurement-of-kharif-paddy-begins-immediately-in-punjab-and-haryana-centre-146913
26-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||As protesters go bare-chested in Amritsar, scores of farmers join in||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26Protesters continued to block the Amritsar-Delhi railway line at Devidyal Pura village on the city's outskirts for the third consecutive day on Saturday as more farmers and their farmers joined in.The protesters reached the protest site in tractor trailers, buses, four-wheelers and even on motorcycles.Called by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), the agitation got aggravated as the protesting farmers went bare-chested to express their resentment over the response their Friday's pan-India stir got from the Union Government.After taking off their shirts, they shouted slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and their leaders lambasted his "anti-farmer" policies.Sarwan Singh Pandher, KMSC general secretary, said the Prime Minister continued to flay the Opposition for allegedly misguiding farmers on the farm ordinances. "This exhibits Modi's frame of mind who still thinks the farmers are dependent on political parties for charting out their future course of action. Soon, all-women protests will be held and their core committee members will meet on September 28 to decide next course of agitation," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-protesters-go-bare-chested-in-amritsar-scores-of-farmers-join-in-146903
26-09-2020||---||Mohali sees 6 more Covid deaths; toll reaches 179||Mohali, September 26Mohali district witnessed six deaths till Friday night taking the toll to 179.The district also witnessed 237 fresh cases of coronavirus taking the tally to 9,368.As many as 326 patients were cured and discharged.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said among the deceased is a 70-year-old woman from Lalru. She was admitted to GMCH, Patiala. The second death was reported from Banur as a 50-year-old man, who was also suffering from heart disease, died at the PGI, Chandigarh. The third death was reported from Isapur village as a 65-year-old woman died at Indus Hospital. The fourth death was reported from Mubarakpur as a 57-year-old man died at the PGI. A 61-year-old woman from Kharar also died at the PGI. The sixth death was reported from Nayagaon as a 59-year-old man died at the PGI.The Civil Surgeon said 77 cases were reported from Mohali (Urban), 46 from Kharar, 40 from Gharuan, 37 from Dhakoli, 19 from Dera Bassi, four from Banur, three from Bhootgarh, six from Kurali and five from Lalru.Meanwhile, 326 patients had been cured and were discharged from various hospitals in the district.As of now, there have been a total 9,368 corona positive cases in the district, of which 6,586 patients have been cured and discharged. There are 2,603 active cases with 179 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-sees-6-more-covid-deaths-toll-reaches-179-146900
26-09-2020||Jalandhar||Adampur woman held for murdering 12-year-old son||The Jalandhar rural police on Friday arrested Gurmeet Kaur, an Adampur resident, on the charge of murdering her 12-year-old son, whose body was found in the fields of Padhiana village in Adampur on September 17. A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against the woman.On the complaint of the victim’s mother the police started investigation of the case. On September 24, Gurmeet’s father-in-law (boy’s grandfather) alleged that his daughter-in-law had murdered the boy and sought detailed investigation.The police said during investigation the woman confessed her crime. Gurmeet lived with her three children at Padhiana village, while her in-laws lived next door in another house. Her husband Amarpreet Singh lives in Dubai. The police said the boy had seen his mother with her paramour. The boy threatened to inform his father about his mother’s affair. Enraged over this, the woman killed the child. DSP Harinder Singh said, “During interrogation, her replies did not satisfy the police. She took her son to the fields, mixed sulphas tablets in the drink and hit his head with a brick.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/adampur-woman-held-for-murdering-12-year-old-son-146843
26-09-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||BJP activists support bandh in Gurdaspur||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, September 25Bharatiya Janata Party MP Sunny Deol, who just a few days ago, had supported the farm Bills passed by Parliament and triggered off protests from the SAD, Aam Aadmi Party and Congress alike, today received a major jolt as saffron party’s activists supported Punjab bandh.Amid strong police presence, shops and commercial establishments remained closed throughout the day in Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Batala, Sujanpur, Bhoa, Dera Baba Nanak, Fatehgarh Churian, Dinanagar and Qadian.The consensus among intelligence agencies was that the trading community, including shopkeepers, which form the backbone of the BJP, would stay away from Punjab bandh. However, their assumptions were proved to be wrong when not even a single shop opened in any of the major cities.The talking point among farmers was that Deol “had not done the right thing” by tweeting in favour of the farm Bills following which protesters vented their ire against him today. “He is an MP from Punjab, the food basket of India. The Bills will destroy economy of the agrarian state, but Deol praised the farm Bills. Leave alone offering a solution, Deol is playing into the hands of forces out there to destabilise Punjab. He should resign,” said Satbir Singh Sultani, general secretary, Punjab Kirti Kisan Union.The BJP leaders claimed that they had not expected that the party cadre would go along with farmers. “We were thinking that shops would open, but they remained closed. Even die-hard BJP shopkeepers decided to stay indoors,” said a senior BJP leader. Even in Sujanpur, a known BJP stronghold, shops remained shut.“We had demarcated the district into eight zones. Each zone was headed by a DSP-rank officer. At some places, where there were reports that situation could go out of control, we deployed more security,” said Gurdaspur Senior Superintendent of Police Rajinder Singh Sohal.Political observers claimed that traders knew that their business depends upon agriculture. “If something drastic happens to agri-economy, we too will be hit. It is going to have a cascading effect. That is why we decided to back the farming community. We all know if the farmer is distressed, we too will suffer,” said, Tarsem Lal, a Pathankot-based businessman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-activists-support-bandh-in-gurdaspur-146811
26-09-2020||---||A rare unity among diverse professions||Amritsar, September 25The protests against the farm Bills exhibited a rare scene of unity in diversity as people from all walks of professions such as traders, industrialists, teachers, members of the SGPC, journalists, etc, supported the agitation of farmers.A business leader, Rajinder Singh Marwaha, held a protest, stating that the intervention of the Centre in farming will upset other businesses as these rest upon liquidity ensured by produce sold by farmers.The SAD (Taksali) flayed the Union Government for passing the Bills without holding discussions. Manmohan Singh Sathiala of the SAD (Taksali) said the laws would exacerbate the problem of unemployment which will ultimately cause havoc on allied businesses and trades.Research scholars of Guru Nank Dev University held a protest in front of the campus. National Student Union of India members took out a ‘mashal’ march from the Town Hall chowk to the Jallianwala Bagh.Tarksheel Society, Punjab, accused the Narendra Modi government of demolishing the spirit of parliamentary democracy by avoiding debate on the bills.Members of the Majlis-Ehrar-Islam-E-Hind protested against the passage of farm. On the call of the majlis, members of the Muslim community offered namaz while wearing black badges on their hands at Hamza mosque, situated in Katra Baghiyan.Teachers and government employees, including ASHA workers, extended support to the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-rare-unity-among-diverse-professions-146821
26-09-2020||Vijay C Roy||Technology startups prefer Punjab to metros||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The absence of seed capital and venture funding support notwithstanding, a couple of startups in the technology space have relocated to Punjab in the past few years. According to entrepreneurs, low operating cost and good Wi-Fi infrastructure are major factors for attracting new investments.Jorie Healthcare Partners, a Chicago-based company providing revenue cycle management and practice management services to the US healthcare industry, set up an Indian arm — Jorie Healthcare (P) Ltd — in Mohali with an investment of over $7 million in September 2019. Since its inception, it has grown from 11 employees to over 250 today.Jaspinder Singh, Founder, S30Exponential growthShifting to inexpensive places like Punjab has enabled us to provide services at one-fifth of the cost than our nearest competitor and it has resulted in an exponential growth. Dwelling upon the reasons behind setting up operations in Punjab, Jorie Healthcare Partners’ CEO Anita Sumra Singh said, “I was overwhelmed by the growth of industry in Hyderabad, Bangalore and Delhi, but there was stagnation. I wanted fresh approach and that’s when I decided to visit Chandigarh. The entire belt spanning Punjab and Himachal is evolving and there is a huge enthusiasm. I would prefer to invest in such an environment.”The company intends to play a pivotal role in digitising data of Indian healthcare system.Similarly, S30 — an edtech startup that prepares US for FAANG (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google) companies via live zoom classes — relocated to Ludhiana in April this year. Initially, they were based in Chandigarh.“The Covid brought an opportunity to make the whole team remote first. We have realised that the startup community doesn’t need Bangalore or San Francisco to start operations and it can be built out of Ludhiana as well. Over the past four months of the pandemic, we have a monthly recurring revenue of $30,000,” said Jaspinder Singh, founder, S30.Similarly, Taranjeet Singh Bhamra, an NRI, returned home in 2015 with over a decade-long experience with MNCs and incorporated Agnext — an agritech company — and chose Punjab as its head office. Similarly, Sarvjeet Singh Virk, co-founder and MD of Finvasia Group of Companies, relocated to Mohali this year from Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/technology-startups-prefer-punjab-to-metros-146539
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Protests by Punjab farmers at 125 sites||Punjab farmers on Friday took to the streets and held protests at 125 sites against the three farm Bills cleared by Parliament, which they dubbed as “black laws”. They blocked roads, including highways, to press the Centre for the withdrawal of the legislations, which are yet to get the President’s approval.Read also:Popular Punjabi singers at dharnasPunjabi singers, including Moosewala, Harbhajan Mann & Ranjit Bawa, back farmersTussle at Shambhu barrier between radicals and YC workers led by Nirbhay S MiltiAkali ex-MLA Sarabjit Makkar leaves protest site as farmers question his party standBhagwant Mann, Punjab AAP chief and Sangrur MP, joins the protesters at BhawanigarhWith the farmers squatting on rail tracks, the supply of essential commodities was hit. Shops, commercial establishments and vegetable markets remained shut at several places.At least 31 farm organisations from Punjab, including the Bharti Kisan Union Krantikari, Kirti Kisan Union, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and BKU (Lakhowal), participated in the nationwide bandh. The Malwa belt comprising Bathinda, Patiala, Ludhiana, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Barnala, Faridkot, Muktsar and Mansa areas saw thousands of farmers taking part in the dharnas. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress held parallel protests at various places.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee announced that the ‘rail roko’ stir against the farm Bills had been extended till September 29.Bhagwant Mann, Punjab AAP chief and Sangrur MP, joined the protesters at Bhawanigarh. “I am here as a farmer. People have begun to raise their voice. It’s a good sign for democracy,” he said. Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala sat on a dharna at Mansa. He was accompanied by another singer Amrit Mann.Folk singers Harbhajan Mann, Tarsem Jassar, Ranjit Bawa, Kulwinder Billa and Harjit Harman also sat on a dharna. “The government should have consulted the farmers on the Bills,” argued Bawa. There was a tussle at the Shambhu barrier between a group of radicals and Youth Congress workers who were led by Nirbhay Singh Milti. In Jalandhar, former Akali MLA Sarabjit Makkar had to leave the protest site when a group of farmers pointed out that his party leadership had initially backed the contentious Bills.Will benefit marginal farmersFor the first time in decades, the Centre has framed laws that will benefit small, marginal farmers and workers… but the Opposition is misleading them. — Narendra Modi, Prime MinisterThey have no faith in govtA flawed GST destroyed MSMEs. The new agriculture laws will enslave farmers. One thing is clear after talking to farmers — they do not have even an iota of faith in the Modi government. — Rahul Gandhi, Congress leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protests-by-punjab-farmers-at-125-sites-146621
26-09-2020||New Delhi||Sumedh Saini moves Supreme Court  for quashing FIR||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini has moved the Supreme Court challenging a Punjab and Haryana High Court order dismissing his plea for quashing of the FIR in the 1991 Multani murder case.A Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan on Friday posted his petition for hearing on October 1 as the impugned order of the High Court was not on record.The Supreme Court had on September 15 granted him interim protection from arrest and posted his plea for anticipatory bail for hearing after four weeks. The Punjab and Haryana High Court had on September 7 dismissed his anticipatory bail plea. “This case is of 1991. After 30 years what is the hurry to arrest him... We will grant you time to file a reply,” the court had said, adding he could not be arrested till further orders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sumedh-saini-moves-supreme-court-for-quashing-fir-146678
26-09-2020||---||Farmers block major highways, essential supplies hit||Patiala/ Moga/Faridkot/Amritsar/Bathinda, Sept 25A bandh call given by farm organisations over the three contentious farm Bills brought life to a standstill in Bathinda, Jalandhar, Patiala, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Barnala, Faridkot, Muktsar, Mansa, Bathinda and other districts across the state today.Ferozepur division suspends spl trainsThe supply of essential commodities was badly hit and fruit and vegetable markets remained closed in all cities and towns of the Malwa belt. The other markets also did not open throughout the day.Patiala and its surrounding towns observed a complete bandh following farmers protesting on roads and blocking all major state and national highways passing through it. Barring an untoward incident near the Shambhu barrier, where an Army convoy was stopped by some people, no major violence was reported.Farmers held protests on many roads and highways throughout the day. All markets wore a deserted look for the entire day and only shops of essential commodities opened late evening.In Bathinda and Mansa, shops in almost all areas remained closed. Farmers blocked the Bathinda-Zirakpur national highway at Rampura Phul, Bathinda-Amritsar national highway at the Kahniya chowk, and the Bathinda-Mansa road among others.Buta Singh Burjgill of the BKU (Dakonda) said: “People have given us full support by voluntarily closing shops. This is a historic movement as state’s people have extended support to farmers over the issue”.Punjabi singers Sidhu Moosewala, Amrit Mann, R Nait and Korala Mann joined farmers in Mansa.In Nabha, Punjabi folk singers led by Harbhajan Mann announced they would continue the fight until the farmers got their due. Besides Mann, Tarsem Jassar, Ranjit Bawa, Kulwinder Billa and Harjit Harman extended their support to the farmers and staged a sit-in for hours. The public transport remained off road.In Moga, farmers blocked the rail and road traffic on the national highway at Dagru village on the border of Moga and Ferozepur. All trains remained off the track. The Ferozepur Railway Division suspended all special trains in Punjab, J&K and HP till tomorrow as a precautionary measure.Railway officials said the “rail roko” agitation had badly affected the transportation of foodgrains and other essential goods. In total, at least, 25 trains had been affected in the Ferozepur railway division. At Badhni Kalan, activists of at least 15 trade unions staged a protest and blocked the highway.Almost all national and state highways in the Malwa belt were blocked by the protesters. The link roads were open.In Faridkot, a complete bandh was observed. Almost all shops and commercial establishments remained closed in Faridkot, Kotkapura, Jaito towns. Various farmer organisations and political parties blocked the National Highway on the Amritsar-Bathinda road and farmers sat on the Faridkot-Ferozepur road.In Amritsar, farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee continued their 'rail roko' protest for the second day by blocking train tracks near Devidas Pura village.A complete shutdown was observed in the city which wore deserted looks and shops were closed. Showing solidarity with them, the SGPC shut down its offices and institutions for the day. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the Centre should review this move and revoke it keeping in view the farmers’ cause at the ground level. Kar Sewa Baba Kashmir Singh Bhurewale arranged food for the farmers.ExpertspeakCentre must allay fearsIt is the responsibility of the Centre to remove all apprehensions that farmers may have. In a democracy, you can’t steamroll and change policies. The Centre must realise that this can destabilise Punjab. Let the policy makers initiate a dialogue with farmers. - Sardara Singh Johl, Economist & Padma Bhushan AwardeeWill have adverse impactThe very fact that 31 farmer unions have launched a joint protest speaks volumes about angst in farmers. Even Khet Mazdoor Union and Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee, that have otherwise been hostile towards farmers, have lent support. Centre must intervene or it may have adverse consequences for the entire country. - Prof Gian Singh, Farm EconomistFarmers will uproot Modi govt, says YadavMansa: All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee coordinator Yogendra Yadav, while addressing farmers here, said if the farm Bills were not rolled back, farmers would “uproot Narendra Modi’s wicket”. “Punjab farmers have started a fight for second Independence. The first wicket fell in the shape of lone SAD minister quitting the Modi government. Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala will have follow suit soon.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-block-major-highways-essential-supplies-hit-146691
26-09-2020||---||Our stir has shaken Centre: SAD||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar/Chandigarh,September 25Terming the three contentious farm Bills as “kaale kanoon” (black laws), SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the party had shaken the NDA government at the Centre over the issue and would now hold a ‘Punjab Kisan March’ on October 1 from Takht Damdama Sahib, Akal Takht Sahib and Anandpur Sahib to Chandigarh.Lukewarm response in BathindaBathinda: SAD’s parallel protest saw a low turnout at ITI Chowk here. Only a handful of leaders and workers had turned up by noon. Former MLA Sarup Chand Singla claimed, “A sizeable number of party workers and farmers participated in the protest. In the wake of Covid-19, a large gathering was avoided and only select representatives took part.” TNS“SAD’s bomb has shaken Modi. Those who were not uttering a single word on the farmers’ issue are now speaking daily. Five Union Ministers are daily giving statements on the issue,” he said.Sukhbir led a tractor march from his Badal village residence to the protest site in Lambi village. He lashed out at CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Congress ex-president Rahul Gandhi, terming them “anti-farmer”. “Amarinder has amended the state APMC Act as per his party’s election manifesto and ratified private mandis, contract farming and e-trading,” Sukhbir said.He dared Capt Amarinder to come out of his farmhouse and lodge a protest against the Bills along with the farmers.“I urge Amarinder to call a Cabinet meeting and bring an ordinance declaring the entire state as one mandi (principal market yard) to ensure the Central Bills are not enforceable here,” Sukhbir said.Targeting state Congress and AAP MPs, Sukhbir said at the time of voting, they were not even present in the House. “The AAP is a B-team of the Congress in the state. You know some of the AAP MLAs had tendered their resignation, but these were not accepted by Captain,” he said.Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said it was her duty to resign in such circumstances. “Some people are saying it’s a drama. I challenge them to resign. If Amarinder is so concerned about farmers, he should also resign from his post,” she said.Meanwhile, the SAD held protests across the state as part of its ‘chakka jam’. Addressing farmers at a protest site in Amritsar, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said if the farming community was destroyed, the entire state would be affected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/our-stir-has-shaken-centre-sad-146692
26-09-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Non-farming groups, gurdwaras offer food||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, September 25The call for a state-level bandh given by 31 various farm organisations seems have to further strengthened the bond of residents. Apart from special committees of various farm organisations, various gurdwaras, individuals and non-farming groups played a big role in ensuring food and tea to protesters all through the day.“The Milkman Union of Bhawanigarh had taken the responsibility to serve tea to thousands of protesters. It kept its word as the supply of tea continued till the end of protest in Bhawanigarh,” said Gurmeet Singh, state vice-president of the BKU (Dakaunda).At many places, the protesters made their own arrangements to cook food and prepare tea while at other places, gurdwara committees and area residents took up the responsibility.“We have been supplying food to protesters since the start of the protest. Today, our vehicles supplied food to protesters at Longowal, Sangrur and Chhajli. It’s our duty to stand with the farmers. Apart from food, we have also provided four buses to protesters to reach at the agitation sites,” said Jaswant Singh Khaira, secretary of the Akal Council of Mastuana Sahib, which supervises gurdwara and educational institutes.Narinderpal Singh, a member of the management committee of Gurdwara Sahib Haa Da Naara, Malerkotla, said they had been helping farmers by supplying langar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/non-farming-groups-gurdwaras-offer-food-146693
26-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Great-grandsons of Ghadarite join farmers' cause||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 25During a protest by the Kisan Morcha in 1938, five Ghadar revolutionaries fighting for the rights of farmers were arrested and tied in chains at the Amritsar railway station. They were Sardar Santa Singh, Sardar Sohan Singh Bhakna, Darshan Singh Pheruman, Fauja Singh and Karam Singh Cheema.Keeping legacy aliveMy children have heard stories of their great-grandfather, who did not fear anyone and fought for farmers’ rights and went to jail. They are so inspired that they often say they would keep his legacy alive. — Gurtej Singh, Santa Singh’s grandsonAfter 82 years, great-grandsons of Sardar Santa Singh have joined the farmer protests in Jalandhar.Like their great-grandfather, Gurshaan Singh (13) and Paramraaj (10) have also resolved to fight for the cause of farmers. “Mere dada ji kinne saal kisaana de hak layi lade si, te ajj mere bête vi ladan ge. Par kisaan da haal ajj vi ohi e’ (My grandfather fought for the rights of farmers for years, and now my sons are doing the same. The condition of farmers remains unchanged),” Gurtej Singh, Sardar Santa Singh’s grandson, said.A farmer from Mehatpur, Gurtej said his sons told him they wanted to join the protests. he said both his sons knew that nobody would purchase their crop if the farm Bills were passed.Chiranjilal Kangniwal, a research scholar and librarian at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall, said Santa Singh had started the Kirti Kisan movement in Punjab after returning from abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/great-grandsons-of-ghadarite-join-farmers-cause-146696
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh urges President not to sign Bills||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today expressed the hope that the pain of the agitating farmers would reach the Centre and it would back off from “destroying” the farm sector.The BJP-led Union Government had pushed the farmers to the brink, forcing them to come out on the roads and endanger their lives amid the Covid pandemic, said the CM, expressing concern over the plight of the farmers and others associated with the agriculture sector.“Maybe the distressing visuals of tens of hundreds of farmers out on the roads at hundreds of locations in Punjab, and in several other states, will touch the heart of the central leadership,” the CM hoped. Captain Amarinder also urged the President of India not to give his assent to the Bills that would destroy not just the economy of Punjab and the food security of the nation, but also the lives of lakhs of farmers and those dependent on the agricultural food chain for their livelihood. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-urges-president-not-to-sign-bills-146698
26-09-2020||Ferozepur||Farmer unions extend ‘rail roko’ till Sept 29||Thousands of farmers blocked a railway track near the Basti Tankan Wali crossing on Friday. Similar protests were witnessed at other locations in the district.Satnam Singh Pannu, state president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Morcha, while addressing farmers, said the ‘rail roko andolan’ would continue till September 29 and even further if the farm Bills were not withdrawn. All markets and commercial complexes remained closed throughout the day. Farmers blocked traffic at various places, including NH-95, Makhu-Amritsar highway and Arifke village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-unions-extend-rail-roko-till-sept-29-146700
26-09-2020||---||Sumedh Saini appears before SIT, Mohali court||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 25Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, the main accused in the Balwant Singh Multani murder case, appeared before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police at the police headquarters in Mohali on Friday.‘Missed appearance on September 23’Sartej Singh Narula, special public prosecutor for state, said instead of joining the probe on September 23, Saini, along with his counsel, appeared before the court on Friday and sought withdrawal of his arrest warrant.Accompanied by a counsel, Saini arrived at the headquarters at 8:30 am and left for the Mohali district court around 9:40 am. Members of the SIT refused to investigate him, saying they would first summon him.Saini then appeared before the court, which had earlier issued an arrest warrant against him and had directed him to appear on or before September 25. The court, accepting Saini’s plea for the withdrawal of arrest warrant as the Supreme Court has already stayed the arrest, issued orders to the state for a reply and till then recalled the previous arrest warrants as it now turns infructuous.The next date of hearing is September 30.Advocate HS Dhanoa, counsel for Saini, said they had appeared before the duty magistrate and filed an application seeking cancellation of arrest warrants issued by the court on the grounds that the Supreme Court has already given an interim stay on his arrest. The court asked the state to file its reply.A local court had, on September 12, issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against Saini. The warrant was issued following the request of the SIT to get assistance from other state police departments to arrest the former DGP.Sartej Singh Narula, special public prosecutor for state, said instead of joining the probe on September 23, Saini, along with his counsel, appeared before the court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class) Ravinder Kaur, Mohali, on Friday, with an application seeking withdrawal of his arrest warrant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sumedh-saini-appears-before-sit-mohali-court-146705
26-09-2020||---||Abohar girl Shree to compete in Miss World America pageant||Our CorrespondentAbohar, September 25The organisers of Miss World America pageant have announced this year’s contestant list. Indian- American Shree Saini, who was born in Abohar, Punjab, is also vying for the title.Shree is the chosen representative of Washington State. She is a survivor of a heart surgery, which she underwent at the age of 12. She is also a burns survivor.A graduate from University of Washington, Saini has been a visiting student at Harvard, Stanford and Yale Universities. She has earned the “Best Pageant Titleholder” award and recognitions from the Secretary of State, Senate, Governor and the American Heart Association CEO.“Serving and inspiring others is a responsibility for me. It is our duty that we shine with enthusiasm and serve others with love. That is “Beauty with a Purpose” for me,” Shree said. She had collapsed before the final night of the Miss World America 2019 and could not finish competing.This year’s event will be held in a series of virtual web casts in combination with online submissions. All contestants would participate in real-time preliminary competitions and would receive camera time in front of a live audience and judges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-girl-shree-to-compete-in-miss-world-america-pageant-146706
26-09-2020||---||Why should contempt action not be initiated against her, HC asks Chief Secy Vini Mahajan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court has called upon Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to explain why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against her for making wrong submission before the court in the form of affidavit.The Bench said the facts clearly indicated an attempt on the Chief Secretary’s part to mislead the court, while asking her to offer an explanation within a week. The case pertains to imposition of preferential location charges.The direction by the Bench of Justice SN Satyanarayana and Justice Archana Puri came on pleas filed by Daulat Ram Bhatti and other petitioners against the State of Punjab and other respondents.As the case came up for resumed hearing through videoconferencing, the Bench observed the point for consideration in the writ petitions was the competence of the state in imposing preferential location charge on persons acquiring title to the plots from original allottees/land losers.The Bench observed the petitioners were seeking parity with persons similarly placed in ECO City-I. They brought to the court’s notice certain developments at the Punjab Chief Minister’s level in proceedings held on March 20 and July 16.The Bench observed that the contents therein were contrary to the contents of the affidavit filed by Mahajan, clearly indicating an attempt to mislead the court.“In the affidavit, she should also explain as to why the present set of purchasers or their status is treated different from that of the those similarly placed with reference to ECO City-I, which is not specifically explained by the Chief Secretary in her affidavit despite there being an order in that regard,” the Bench asserted. The case will now come up for hearing in the second week of October.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-should-contempt-action-not-be-initiated-against-her-hc-asks-chief-secy-vini-mahajan-146707
26-09-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda man held for killing daughter||A man has been arrested for allegedly killing his 28-year-old daughter at Goniana Khurd village here.The married woman, Manpreet Kaur, had moved into her parents’ house after separation. The Nehianawala police station was informed about the alleged murder by members of a local NGO. After initial investigation, the police arrested Davinder Singh. The police have sent the body to the Civil Hospital for post-mortem and are further investigating the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-man-held-for-killing-daughter-146708
26-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Communicate all ACRs to staff: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25In a significant judgment that could change theway annual confidential reports (ACRs) are communicated to employees, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that all reports, including average, were required to be communicated.Petitioner’s contentionThe ruling by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came in a case where the employee claimed he was graded “average” in the ACRs for relevant years but the reports were never communicated “on account of instructions in vogue at that time”.In his petition against the State of Punjab and other respondents, Dr Harinder Kumar’s counsel Gagneshwar Walia contended that the ACRs were used against the petitioner to deny him the benefit of placement in the higher pay scale under the assured career progression scheme. As the ACRs were not communicated to the petitioner, these could not be used against him to deny him the scheme’s benefit, Walia contended.Referring to a Supreme Court judgment, Justice Kshetarpal asserted it was considered appropriate by the apex court to allow the entries to be communicated to the appellant and give him/her an opportunity to make a representation in this regard.It was noticed that only adverse remarks in the ACR were being communicated, as per relevant instructions/rules prevalent at that time. As such, directions were issued that all reports, including excellent, very good, good, average or adverse, should be communicated.Justice Kshetarpal further added that the petitioner’s claim for placement in the higher scale on the basis of the scheme was entirely dependent upon the remarks in ACRs for the relevant years. Unless those remarks were revised and upgraded, the petitioner could not claim entitlement to any relief.As such, the court was of the opinion that the writ petition deserved to be disposed of by granting the petitioner the liberty to make a representation to the Principal Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, demanding copies of the uncommunicated ACRs used against him. The ACRs, if any, would be communicated within a month from receiving the representation. If he, in turn, made a representation against the entries, the Principal Secretary would decide it within two months thereafter, Justice Kshetarpal concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/communicate-all-acrs-to-staff-hc-146710
26-09-2020||Fazilka||3 held for illegal sand mining||The police have arrested three persons for illegal sand mining and confiscated three sand-laden tractor-trailers.Surjit Singh, a resident of Ghubaya, was arrested and his tractor-trailer seized near a seepage drain in Badha village. He was going to Fazilka to sell the sand.Similarly, Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Roomwala, was nabbed near the Fattewala drain bridge and his sand-laden tractor-trailer was seized. Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha, was arrested near Tharasingh Wala village for illegal excavation of sand. A tractor-trailer carrying sand was recovered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-held-for-illegal-sand-mining-146711
26-09-2020||---||Conduit of two drug smugglers arrested in Tarn Taran district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25The Tarn Taran police have nabbed Gurdeep Singh, alias Gopi, an alleged conduit of the two smugglers — Jora Singh and Ranjit Singh, alias Rana — arrested along the India-Pakistan border yesterday.In 7-day custodyJora and Rana, arrested on Thursday with 13 kg heroin along the IB, were produced in a Tarn Taran court, which remanded them in 7-day police custody.Gopi, a resident of Sarai Amanat Khan village, used to supply heroin sneaked in from across the border by Jora and Rana to Pawandeep Singh. The latter is yet to be arrested.The police had confiscated 13 kg heroin near border outpost (BO) Rattoke in Khemkaran following information provided by the two.SSP Dhruman Nimbale said raids were on to arrest Pawandeep. Jora and Rana were produced in a local court, which remanded them in seven-day police custody, he said.The SSP said Jora came in contact with Rana when they were lodged in an Amritsar jail in 2014-15. They planned to join hands in smuggling drugs. After Jora got bail from the High Court in 2017 after four years of imprisonment, he stayed in regular touch with Rana once he too got out on bail. They told interrogators they were in contact with six Pakistan-based smugglers and had brought a number of cross-border consignments.They did not have any ancestral property but purchased expensive houses, cars, etc, over the past seven years through drug trade, investigations revealed.The SSP said Jora had some land on both sides of the fencing near his native Mehadipur village. He used to collect the contraband dropped by Pakistan smugglers between pillars or thrown into fields inside the fencing. They chose areas that were farther from the fencing gates and close to the border to evade BSF jawans.Details of Jora, his brother and labourers had been sought from theBSF for further investigation, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/conduit-of-two-drug-smugglers-arrested-in-tarn-taran-district-146712
26-09-2020||Patiala||Rajindra Hospital to take feedback from patients||Going a step further in its bid to improve patient care at the Covid ward, the Government Rajindra Hospital management will take direct feedback from patients at the time of discharge.For better careWe will get feedback from patients, improve the facilities and rectify our shortcomings, if any. The idea is to make things better at the Covid ward. - Dr Rajan Singla, GMC PrincipalIn fact, the hospital authorities will now hold a meeting with the discharged patients to get first-hand account of the facilities and treatment provided by the hospital staff at the Covid ward. The step is said to have been taken by the new guard that took charge on Saturday.Dr Rajan Singla, the newly appointed principal of the Government Medical College (GMC), said the steps were being taken to improve the functioning of the Covid ward. He said, “We will get the feedback from patients and improve the facilities and shortcomings, if any. The idea is to make things better at the ward. Moreover, during the meeting with patients, the medical superintendent and Covid staff will also be present.”Singla said the patients would also be asked for suggestions to make any further improvements at the ward. Notably, Medical Education Minister OP Soni had replaced the top brass at the hospital and the medical college over “poor functioning” of the ward. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajindra-hospital-to-take-feedback-from-patients-146713
26-09-2020||Sameer Singh||Once Bathinda’s hotspot, it’s curtains for Sukhraj Cinema||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 25Unable to recover the Covid-19-induced losses, the four-decade-old Sukhraj Cinema, a single-screen theatre in the city, has shut its operations permanently. The dismantling of the cinema hall building, that was operational since the 1980s, has already started.Film aficionados, including students from other Malwa districts, would often throng the cinema, among other single-screen theatres, to watch movies. Bathinda city gained unprecedented popularity after movie buffs from neighbouring districts started coming here, thereby giving a push to the local cinema industry. Subsequently, the city witnessed mushrooming of single-screen cinemas. But the onset of multiplexes meted out a severe blow to the single-screen theatres, hurting their business prospects irreparably. Many of them have already closed down over the past decade.Moviegoers in the city said between 1980 and 2000, Sukhraj Cinema was the hot favourite single-screen theatre. Talking to The Tribune, Jagjit Singh, an ardent movie lover in the city, said: “During my school days, I used to watch movies at Sukhraj Cinema. It showcased movies before any other cinema in the city after their countrywide release. And if the movie was a hit, movie buffs would even buy tickets in black.”Shivjant Singh, manager of the theatre, said after the irreparable losses suffered due to the lockdown and the restrictions thereof, they had decided to dismantle the cinema hall’s building.It was a gut-wrenching experience for Amarjit Sharma, who claims to be associated with the film world for the past over 20 years. Sharma once operated a canteen inside the cinema building. He also worked at the bicycle stand here and later, sold tickets at the counter. When the decision to shut operations was taken, Amarjit shifted and started selling tea right outside the cinema building.While narrating his experience, Amarjit said: “I still cannot believe that the theatre that provided me livelihood for the past 20 years is getting dismantled. After gatherings were prohibited by the government in the wake of Covid, there was no source of income for the cinema hall as electricity and water bills, among other expenses, kept mounting.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/once-bathindas-hotspot-its-curtains-for-sukhraj-cinema-146715
26-09-2020||Bathinda||Steno, 2 conductors in Vigilance net for fraud||A team of the Vigilance Bureau (VB) arrested a stenographer and two conductors posted with the Punjab Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Bathinda depot, for a fraud with the corporation and private contractors.VB officials said acting on a complaint by Ajmer Singh, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagari, Malout, they conducted an investigation which indicted stenographer Yashpal Goyaland conductors Pradeep Kumar and Baljit Singh.The complainant alleged that the depot had conducted an auction of 17 shops located near the Bathinda bus stand. As per the prescribed rules of the corporation as well as the state government, the interested parties were required to deposit refundable security fee to the tune of Rs 10,000 per shop to the cashier and this amount was to be returned to the unsuccessful bidders after the auction process.Harpal Singh, Mahesh Singh, Jagdish Kumar and Surinder Kumar had deposited Rs 10,000 each to conductor Pradeep Kumar and he had issued temporary receipts to the bidders. However, after the completion of the auctioning process, the security amount was not returned to the unsuccessful bidders.A VB spokesperson said the amount was neither shown in the cashier’s register nor deposited in the government treasury. A case has been registered at the VB police station, Bathinda, under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC to probe the allegations of embezzlement. Further investigation in the matter is underway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/steno-2-conductors-in-vigilance-net-for-fraud-146716
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt deputes sports mentors in schools||The Punjab Government has deputed district mentors (sports) to raise the standard of sports in schools. After the approval of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, the Director, School Education, has released the list of mentors.The decision has been taken to ensure smooth functioning of sports activities in all districts. According to a spokesperson, the mentors have been deputed in the ‘Khedo Punjab, Tandrust Punjab’ project on the lines of the ‘Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab’ project.The mentors will monitor sports activities at the district level and provide suggestions and training to physical education lecturers and teachers. They will evaluate students and ensure talent hunt and annual athletic meets in every school. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-deputes-sports-mentors-in-schools-146717
26-09-2020||Abohar||Man, father booked for murder||The police have booked a man and his father for the murder of the former’s wife at Khuyiansarwer village here.Sarpanch Mangat Ram informed the police that Gurmeet Kaur, 32, was allegedly killed by husband Gurdev Singh and his father Mukhtiar Singh. Prima facie it appeared she was strangled. Preliminary investigation indicated the victim had left the village with her alleged paramour and agreed to return home after an assurance of forgiveness from her in-laws. The body has been shifted to the Civil Hospital here for a post-mortem and a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-father-booked-for-murder-146720
26-09-2020||---||68 more die of Covid in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25With 1,930 fresh cases and 68 deaths, the state  Covid count reached 1,07,096 today. The total number of casualties stands at 3,134.There are 19,937 active cases in the state and 84,025 patients have recovered so far.Jalandhar reported the maximum 256 cases today, followed by Amritsar (176), Ludhiana (171), SAS Nagar (160), Bathinda (163) and Patiala (118).Meanwhile, the maximum deaths were reported from Amritsar (11), followed by Hoshiarpur(eight), Ludhiana (seven) and Bathinda and Jalandhar (six each).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/68-more-die-of-covid-in-punjab-146722
