27-09-2020||Chandigarh||COVID: 50 more deaths, 1,458 new cases in Punjab||Fifty more fatalities pushed the death toll due to COVID-19 to 3,238 in Punjab while 1,458 more cases took the infection tally to 1,10,106 on Sunday.Nine deaths were reported from Ludhiana, eight from Jalandhar, six from Patiala, five each from Amritsar and Pathankot and three each from Hoshiarpur and Rupnagar, as per the state health department’s medical bulletin.Two deaths each were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur, SBS Nagar, Tarn Taran and one each from Mansa, Moga and Sangrur.The places which reported new cases included Amritsar (167), Mohali (165), Ludhiana (151), Patiala (131), Pathankot (115) and Jalandhar (108).There are 18,556 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 2,299 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 88,312 in the state.Sixty-three critically-ill patients are on ventilator support while 451 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 17,63,498 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI
27-09-2020|| ||Multani case: SIT issues summons to Punjab ex-DGP Saini, asks him to join probe on Monday||Mohali, September 27 The Special Investigation Team (SIT) has issued summons to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini to appear before it at Mataur police station at 11am on Monday in connection with alleged kidnapping and murder case Balwant Singh Multani. The summons was sent to the residences of Saini in Chandigarh and Delhi through a special messenger, but he was not found there. Hence, the summons were pasted outside his both houses. Sources in the SIT said copies of the summons were also sent to his counsel Himmat Singh Deol and H S Dhanoa over Whatsapp. Accompanied by his counsel, Saini appeared before the SIT on September 25 to join the investigations. However, the sources said the SIT would first issue summons to Saini and then asked him to join investigations. The Supreme Court had granted anticipatory bail to Saini in the case on September 15 and directed him to join investigations with the SIT. Saini was facing arrest in the case after the SIT added Section 302 of the IPC to the FIR registered against Saini when two co-accused turned approvers and deposed against Saini of being eyewitness to the inhumane torture given to Multani at Sector 17 police station.Earlier, former Inspector Jagir Singh and ASI Kuldeep Singh also co-accused with Saini became approvers and were granted pardon in the case. Then, another person who was in the lockup along with Multani also became approver.Saini and six other police officers were booked in a 29-year-old case of alleged abduction, torture and stage-managed elimination of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani. Balwant, the victim, was accused of carrying out an attack on Saini when he was the Chandigarh SSP on December 11, 1991. He, along with Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar, convict in a Delhi bomb blast case, and two others, was booked but the police later claimed Balwant escaped from the custody of Qadian (Gurdaspur) police.
27-09-2020||---||Capt Amarinder terms Presidential assent to farm Bills as unfortunate, distressing||Chandigarh, September 27Terming the President’s assent to the Farm Bills as unfortunate and distressing, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday said his government was exploring all options, including possible amendments to the state laws, to protect the interests of the farmers.All farmer organisations and other stakeholders would be taken into confidence before taking any decision on the way forward, the Chief Minister said, adding that the state government was committed to the procurement of every single grain of the farmers without compromising on the pricing.“My government is already in consultation with legal, agricultural experts and all those impacted by the Central Government’s calamitous legislations to decide on the future course of action,” Captain Amarinder said.“Besides legal recourse, my government was looking at other options to scuttle the Centre’s new agriculture laws that are designed to ruin Punjab’s farmers and economy,” he added.The Chief Minister is also scheduled to sit on a dharna against the legislations on Monday at Khatkar Kalan, SBS Nagar, after paying tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh at the Samadhi Sthal of the martyr, a press release by the state government read.The Chief Minister expressed disappointment and anguish over the decision of President Ram Nath Kovind to give the nod to the three unconstitutional and anti-farmer agriculture Bills, without giving the Congress and other Opposition parties the opportunity to put their concerns before the Parliament. The President’s assent had come as a big blow to the farmers, who were out on the roads protesting against the Centre’s assault on their interests, he said.“Implementation of these dangerous new laws in their current form will destroy Punjab’s agriculture — the lifeline of its economy,” said the Chief Minister, adding that the very livelihood of farmers was at stake due to these legislations, which the Government of India had succeeded in imposing on the states and the farming community by a brute majority.The exclusion of MSP from the legislations had raised serious concerns about the intent of the BJP-led Union Government, which had triggered the widespread unrest among the farmers and prompted the Congress to take the lead in aggressively opposing the central laws, the Chief Minister said. The state of Punjab, which would be the worst affected by these treacherous laws, would take this fight forward with all its might, he added, vowing not to give up till farmers got back their due rights.Captain Amarinder also reacted strongly to Akali chief Sukhbir Singh Badal’s response to the Presidential assent, terming it a cruel joke on the farmers since it was the Shiromani Akali Dal’s active support to the farm Ordinances that had brought things to such a pass. “Even now, after the farce of his party’s break-up with the NDA, all Sukhbir seemed concerned about was not the farmers’ plight but exploitation of the issue to boost the Akali prospects in the next state Assembly polls,” he added.“The fact that Sukhbir and Harsimrat Badal’s entire efforts were aimed at attacking him (Captain Amarinder) personally and his government showed how desperate they were to transform this serious issue of national repercussions into a local issue for Punjab, the Chief Minister noted. The dark day of democracy, as Sukhbir is now calling it, was a gift of the Badals to Punjab and its farmers, just like the plethora of other gifts they have given to the state over the years, including sacrilege and false cases, economic devastation, massive debts, among others,” he quipped.
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar hails SAD for walking out of NDA over farm Bills||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday congratulated Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leadership for its decision to quit the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm Bills issue.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the decision to snap ties with the NDA on Saturday night amid the stepped up farmer agitation in Punjab over the three farm legislations which were recently passed by Parliament.“Congratulations to Shri Sukhbir Badal, president of Akali dal and the party MP Harsimrat Badal who under the leadership of Prakash Singh Badal pulled out of the NDA in protest against the farmers Bills. Thanks for firmly standing with the farmers!” Pawar tweeted.Congratulations to Shri Sukhbir Singh Badal President of @Akali_Dal_ and MP @HarsimratBadal_ who under the leadership of Hon. Shri Prakash Singh Badal pulled out of NDA in a protest to Farmers’ Bills. Thanks for firmly standing with the Farmers! @officeofssbadal  Harsimrat Kaur Badal had on September 17 quit the Union Cabinet after Sukhbir Badal strongly opposed the Bills in Lok Sabha, claiming these legislations will “destroy” the agriculture sector in Punjab. PTI
27-09-2020||---||Sad and extremely unfortunate: Sukhbir on Presidential assent to farm, J-K Bills||Chandigarh, September 27Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday described as “sad, disappointing and extremely unfortunate” the Presidential assent granted to three Bills regarding farmers’ produce and to the Jammu and Kashmir Bill, excluding Punjabi as official language of that state.In a statement here, Badal said it was really a “dark day for the country” that the honourable President has refused to act as the nation’s conscience. “We were very hopeful that the honourable President would return these Bills to the Parliament for reconsideration as demanded by SAD and alter by some other opposition parties too.”Badal said his party will chalk out the next course of action after due deliberations.
27-09-2020||---||160 fresh COVID-19 cases surface in Mohali, 264 recover||Chandigarh, September 27Mohali on Sunday reported 160 new COVID-19 cases, taking the caseload in the district to 9,992.Meanwhile, the district today witnessed more recoveries than the reported cases. As many as 264 people recovered and were discharged from various hospitals across the district.Mohali also reported three more deaths today, pushing the death toll to 183Mohali (urban) recorded the maximum cases at 134 followed by Dera Bassi (9), Kharar (8), Lalru (6), Zirakpur (2) and Nayagaon (1).The three deaths include a 53-year-old man from Baltana, who died at Rajindra Hospital and had a history of blood sugar and hypertension; a 72-year-old man from Dera Bassi, who died at Max hospital, Mohali, and was also suffering from hypertension, anaemia and blood sugar; and a 49-year-old man from Saidpura village, who also died at Rajindra Hospital and had a history of diabetes and hypertension.With the fresh discharged cases, the recovered tally in the district has reached 7,623. Mohali now has 2,186 active cases.
27-09-2020||Vibha Sharma||Post SAD breakup, BJP senses open space for growth in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 27A story doing rounds is that when Akali leader Harsimrat  Kaur Badal submitted her resignation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi (from his council of ministers) to protest against the three agri-legislations, “he just took it and signed it” .Without getting into debate over its authenticity, basically what the BJP wants to convey is that if Harsimrat Kaur was hoping that she will be asked to stay back or that the PM will relent with an assurance on re-think/consultations on the contentious legislations, it did not happen. In any case, the very next day the President accepted the resignation and gave the charge of her ministry to Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, “as advised by the PM”.  “These reforms are not about one state but the entire nation, including those who really need them, the 85 per cent small and marginal in the country. We stood by them (Akalis) even when it meant sacrificing aspirations of our cadres (in Punjab). The local leadership had been demanding it (separation) for long, but the BJP never walks out on allies with whom we have long associations, it is not our ‘sanskaar’,” says a leader who did not wish to be named. This more or less also explain feelings of majority of BJP leaders in Punjab who believe that after playing second fiddle for years, with Akalis out of the way there is an opportunity for the saffron party to come on its own. As Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik puts it “sky is the limit now. You will see how fast the BJP grows in Punjab”. “Because we were limited to 23 seats, our political space also remained limited. We just had 20 per cent of the political space. The Prime Minister always tells us to create opportunities out of challenges. Whenever faced with a challenge, the BJP has always emerged a winner. It is a new opportunity for us, we will reach out each and every one and spread the right message on the agriculture reforms,” says Malik.Regarding the possibility of negative perceptions due to the fallout, Malik says, “The Ordinances were not passed yesterday, rather Akalis are on the record saying they are pro-farmers, etc. They resigned because of political compulsions, the Congress was misleading farmers and they got caught in its misinformation campaign.” The feelings that Akalis let the BJP down is evident from what senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said when asked about Harsimrat Kaur’s resignation from the Cabinet. “She (Harsimrat) was a part of the Cabinet where the decisions were taken. She only asked if it was legally possible and as the Law Minister I clarified. She has been a distinguished minister in the Cabinet and I would like to remember her like that,” said Prasad.However, while the majority is looking forward to increasing the BJP’s base and contesting all the 117 seats, a section has some reservations. “The break-up may be good for the party but it is not good for the country. Politically we (BJP) may be able to do well but due to this alliance we were able to control the language, anti-national sentiments etc...The alliance was also a symbol of Hindu-Sikh unity, now it will be free for all in the sensitive border state.”Besides the BJP has to a long way to go given its lack of organisational strength. “Of the 43 office bearers (in the state unit), 27 belong to the 23 Assemblies we contest,” they say. Though with next Assembly elections still a few months away (2022) the BJP has the time to sync its aspirations by building leadership representing dominant Sikh community and farmers. The elevation of Punjab leader Tarun Chugh as the national general secretary and appointment of former IPS Iqbal Singh Lalpura as national spokesperson are also being seen as steps towards building the leadership in the state.
27-09-2020||Parvesh Sharma||SAD, Cong equally responsible for passage of farm Bills: Bhagwant Mann||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, September 27Punjab chief of AAP and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Sunday alleged that the decision of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to break away from the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) on the issue of farm Bills is another drama of SAD leaders. “It’s the latest drama of SAD leaders and in fact they were compelled to leave NDA after Punjab farmers banned the entry of all politicians, who supported farm Bills, into their villages. The latest drama of SAD would not help them as they stand exposed and residents are well aware about their greed for power,” said Mann at his Sangrur office on Sunday.Mann alleged that both Congress and SAD leaders are equally responsible for the passing of farm Bills by Central government.“Neither Punjab CM nor SAD leaders opposed the bills at early stage. They started opposing when the bills reached Parliament and Punjab farmers started agitation. Why the leaders of both parties were silent earlier? Congress and SAD leaders could not fool state residents more and they would have to face dire consequences for supporting anti-people bills,” said Mann.He also said Punjab residents are more worried from farm Bills than Covid-19 and it’s the reason that residents are converging in huge numbers during protests despite the spread of Covid.“We have been requesting all Panchayats to call Gram Sabhas and pass resolutions against farm bills. We could counter farm bills through Gram Sabhas effectively,” said Mann.
27-09-2020||New Delhi||After Arun Jaitley, none in BJP understands psyche of Punjab: SAD MP Naresh Gujral||A day after the SAD announced to quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm Bills issue, party leader Naresh Gujral said on Sunday that after Arun Jaitley’s demise no one in the BJP understands the psyche of Punjab.Gujral, who is the Shiromani Akali Dal’s Rajya Sabha MP, hoped the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre will show “some sensitivity” in dealing with the situation in Punjab.On Saturday, SAD president Sukhbir Badal announced that the party is pulling out of the alliance with the BJP to protest against the farm Bills.Gujral said the decision to break the alliance was taken based on the feedback from party cadre. Being a cadre-based party, the SAD respects their wishes, he said.About the long association with the BJP, he said, “Unfortunately, after Arun ji’s (former Finance Minister Arun Jaitley) death, there is no one in BJP who understands the psyche of Punjab.”Underlining that all sections of people in Punjab are extremely angry over the farm Bills issue, Gujral said, “I hope that even at this late stage the Centre would show some sensitivity in dealing with the Punjab situation before it gets out of hand.”                Another senior Akali leader Balwinder Singh Bhunder said the alliance between the SAD and BJP continued for four decades, but the equation has now changed.“We came together to fight against the atrocities of the Congress. The Akali Dal was always consulted on issues of farmers and Punjab. But now BJP didn’t listen to our concerns about Punjab and issues related to farmers,” he said.Bhunder further said unlike Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s rule, allies have not been given much importance in the current NDA dispensation. PTI
27-09-2020||---||Farm bills can have disastrous implications for national economy: Sukhbir Badal||Chandigarh/Jalandhar, September 27Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday called upon all political parties and organisations to close ranks for a united fight to protect the interests of the farmers, farm labour and farm produce traders in the country, especially in Punjab.“We are ready to join or follow any struggle in the overall interests of the farmers, farm labour, Arhtiyas and other farm produce traders,” the SAD president said.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who made his first public speech after the party broke alliance with the BJP-led NDA last night, said the country needed to understand and empathise with farmers and farm labour in view of the pathetic conditions in which they are living.“Anything like the new farm bills of the Government of India, which increases the uncertainty over the fate of the farmers’ produce, can have disastrous implications not only for the economy but also for social stability in the country. Farmers’ economic plight affects the entire economy. Therefore, what we are fighting for is to protect the country’s wider national interests.”Sukhbir Badal also reiterated his party’s firm commitment to preserving peace, communal harmony and fraternity in Punjab at all costs. “We must not flinch from the ideals of keeping our struggle for people’s rights absolutely peaceful and democratic.  I must caution against attempts to defame our struggle by disturbing peace but that should only strengthen our resolve to safeguard the age-old values of Punjabi fraternity and the path of peaceful democratic struggle,” said Badal.The SAD president was addressing large enthusiastic gatherings of party workers and farmers at Ropar, Hoshiarpur and Phagwara today.
27-09-2020||Kabul||Facing Islamic State, last embattled Sikhs, Hindus leave Afghanistan||Afghanistan’s dwindling community of Sikhs and Hindus is shrinking to its lowest levels. With growing threats from the local Islamic State affiliate, many are choosing to leave the country of their birth to escape the insecurity and a once-thriving community of as many as 2,50,000 members now counts fewer than 700.The community’s numbers have been declining for years because of deep-rooted discrimination in the majority Muslim country. But, without what they say is adequate protection from the government, the attacks by the Islamic State group may complete the exodus.“We are no longer able to stay here,” said a member of the tiny community, who asked to be identified only by his last name, Hamdard, out of fear he may be targeted for speaking out.          Hamdard said seven relatives of his, including his sister, nephews, and son-in-law were killed by Islamic State gunmen in an attack on the community’s temple in March, which killed 25 Sikhs.Hamdard said that fleeing his homeland is as difficult as leaving a mother behind. Still, he joined a group of Sikhs and Hindus who left Afghanistan last month for India, from where they will eventually move on to a third country.Although Sikhism and Hinduism are two distinct religions with their own holy books and temples, in Afghanistan the communities are interwoven, having been driven into a kinship by their tiny size, and they both gather under one roof or a single temple to worship, each following their own faith.The community has suffered widespread discrimination in the conservative Muslim country, with each government “threatening us their own way,” said Hamdard, whose home was seized by warlords after the US invasion in 2001, forcing him to live in one of two Sikh temples in the Afghan capital of Kabul.Under Taliban rule in the late 1990s, Sikhs and Hindus were asked to identify themselves by wearing yellow armbands, but after a global outcry, the rule was not enforced.Also driving the exodus is the inability to reclaim Sikh homes, businesses and houses of worship that were illegally seized years ago.Hindu temples in Kabul’s old city were destroyed during brutal fighting between rival warlords from 1992-96. The fighting drove out scores of Hindu and Sikh Afghans.Aside from the March attack by IS gunmen, a 2018 Islamic State suicide attack in the city of Jalalabad killed 19 people, most of them Sikhs, including a longtime leader who had nominated himself for the Afghan parliament.“Suffering big fatalities for a small community is not tolerable,” said Charan Singh Khalsa, a leader of the Sikh community living abroad, who declined to say where he was living out of fear for his safety.He left Afghanistan after his brother was kidnapped and killed in an attack by gunmen in Kabul two years ago.He said the last three years have been the worst period for all Afghans, but especially so for Sikhs and Hindus.Community leaders have slammed recent governments for failing to step up security in the face of the IS threat.Afghanistan’s government in 2010 decided to dedicate a chair in the national assembly to religious minorities, and there have since been two Sikh representatives.But Khalsa called these posts “symbolic”. He criticised the government for taking too long to grant political representation powers to the community and for failing to “provide security to our places of worship.”                A senior Sikh community leader told The Associated Press that the group is in negotiations with the government over its security needs and the repairing of the temple after it was destroyed in March’s attack. The community leader spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the negotiations with the media.At a press conference last month, President Ashraf Ghani’s spokesman, Sediq Sediqqi, said that members of the Afghan Sikh and Hindu community will return once peace is restored.   The president’s office did not respond to a request for comment from the AP, but other Afghan officials have pledged to assist the community.“We will use all our facilities to provide security to the people,” Interior Ministry spokesman Tariq Arian said, without elaborating.       “We are committed and responsible for their (Sikhs and Hindus) mental and personal security.” It is not clear what kind of security measures are being discussed, nor when they might be seen on the ground.Until then, the community’s flight is accelerating, with large numbers of Sikhs and Hindus continuing a recent trend of seeking asylum in India.In August, a group of 176 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus went to India on special visas. They were the second batch since March, with the first 11 members arriving in India in July.Khalsa said that a group of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus in Canada and European countries has volunteered to sponsor the exodus of those remaining in Kabul who cannot afford air tickets and temporary accommodation in a transit country.Several Canadian legislators have asked the country’s immigration ministry for a special programme for Afghan Sikh and Hindu refugees, requesting that they be brought to safety in Canada amid the increasing security threat.For Afghan Sikhs, the thought of being uprooted is painful, despite the circumstances.“It’s hard to leave our birthplace but we have no other option,” said Hamdard. “Afghanistan does not want us anymore.” — AP
27-09-2020||Amritsar||Farmers continue rail blockade in Amritsar||Farmers squatted on the Amritsar-Delhi railway track here on Sunday, continuing their 'rail-roko' agitation against the contentious farm bills passed by the Parliament last week.People from nearby villages brought cooked food and other items for the demonstrators. 'Langar' (community kitchen) has also been organised at the site by local gurdwaras.Women wearing saffron dupattas also joined the protest, raised slogans against the Centre and said they would not allow the implementation of the three legislations.Farmers, under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, have been staging a sit-in on the rail track in Punjab since last Wednesday.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher demanded that all the sitting 13 MPs from Punjab should tender their resignation with immediate effect in support of the farmers' demands. He asserted that BJP leaders would not be allowed to enter villages.The committee had announced to extend their agitation till September 29. Trains services remained suspended in the state because of the protest.Farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm reforms would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big companies.Parliament had passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill. These are yet to get the assent of the President.  PTI
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Akalis snapping ties with NDA unfortunate: Punjab BJP leaders||Described the SAD's decision of snapping ties with the NDA as “unfortunate”, Punjab's senior BJP leaders Manoranjan Kalia and Master Mohan Lal on Sunday asserted that the party is able to fight and also win the 2022 Punjab assembly polls alone.The SAD on Saturday night had announced to quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm bills issue.The announcement was made by Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, amid the stepped up farmers agitation in Punjab over the three farm Bills, recently passed by Parliament amid the Opposition protests.Reacting to the SAD's decision of breaking ties, BJP's senior leader Manoranjan Kalia said it was unfortunate that they broke a long association.He said there was a generational change in the Akali Dal as several senior leaders like Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Sewa Singh Sekhawan, who used to work with Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal, have left the SAD.“Now, the second generation has taken over and some leaders are more reactive now,” said Kalia.Kalia said the BJP had always tried to accommodate the SAD and cited an example that in 2007, the post of deputy chief minister was given to the alliance partner Akali Dal when the government was formed in Punjab due to the good performance of the BJP in polls.On the issue of three farm legislations, Kalia said the Akalis had been supporting them initially, saying that they were favourable to the farming community.Former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal even made a statement in its favour, said Kalia.“But they took a U-turn later. This is unfortunate,” he said.Kalia defended the farm Bills, saying that they were in the interest of farmers.“The BJP is also a party of farmers and BJP knows how to protect the farmers' interest,” he said.Asked about 2022 Punjab assembly polls, Kalia said the party was ready to contest the polls alone. “We are ready. We will fight (polls) and we are definitely going to form the government,” he said.Another BJP leader Master Mohan Lal described Akalis' move of pulling out of the NDA as a “decision taken in haste”.Lal said the Akalis should have held a meeting with BJP's core group.“I do not understand what were Akalis' compulsions and why they took this decision,” he said.The former minister said the SAD and BJP had entered into an alliance for development, peace and harmony in Punjab.Lal said nobody should take the BJP as weak.“The BJP will win the 2022 Punjab assembly polls. Our workers and cadre are ready at 117 constituencies,” he said.As per the arrangement, SAD used to contest assembly polls on 94 seats while BJP on 23 seats in Punjab.Former Punjab minister Anil Joshi also said it was unfortunate that the Akalis have walked out of the alliance.He said the farm bills were in the interests of farmers.“Has anybody said that MSP, mandi system and procurement will end? Farmers are being misled and those doing so will soon be exposed,” Joshi said.Parliament had recently passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; and Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.The Bills are yet to get the assent of the President. PTI
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt appoints 8,000 nodal officers, sets up call centre to check stubble burning||In a series of measures to check stubble burning in the ongoing Kharif season, the Punjab government has appointed 8,000 Nodal Officers in the paddy growing villages of the state, with 23,500 more machines being given to farmers for in-situ management of paddy straw.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has also appealed to the farmers not to burn the crop residue, as it could aggravate COVID conditions apart from leading to pollution spread.Seeking the support and cooperation of the farmers in preventing stubble burning amid the pandemic, he said that experts had warned it could have serious implications for the vulnerable people, already suffering from other lung and other diseases.Captain Amarinder said while he had been repeatedly following up with the Prime Minister for compensation to the farmers for defraying the cost on the management of paddy straw, the state was also taking various steps to educate the farmers about the problem. The state government has been seeking from the Centre Rs 100/quintal as compensation to enable the farmers to manage the paddy straw without burning it.The nodal officers, who will be working in the villages till November 15, will work in close coordination with the staff of Cooperation, Revenue, Rural Development & Panchayats, Agriculture, Horticulture and Soil Conservation Departments, as well as the Punjab Pollution Control Board and the Guardians of Governance. Armed with a Super SMS system, these officers will also prepare lists of owners who have given their land on rent and then call each landowner on phone with the warning that a red entry shall be made in their land record if they fail to ensure that no paddy straw is burning.The nodal officers will create awareness in villages through CRM machines, distribution of pamphlets/leaflets, announcements from Gurudwara or by other modes, personal interaction with village schools for organizing rallies and awareness lectures to students who can create further awareness among their parents and other farmers in their villages.The Agriculture Department has also deputed a dedicated team at the Call Centre on Toll-Free No. 1800-180-1551 for quick resolution of the queries of farmers about farm machinery for paddy straw management.The Chief Minister said as part of the state’s stubble management strategy, the Agriculture Department, which he heads, 23,500 more agri-machines are being provided this year to farmers, either individually or in groups or through cooperative societies at a subsidy ranging from 50% to 80%. This is in addition to 51,000 paddy straw in-situ management machines provided over the past two years.Further, various sites have been identified/ earmarked in the districts for collection of residues in Common Lands /Cattle Ponds and Gaushalas, where farmers or any entrepreneur can store paddy straw. This stored basmati residue can be transported to places where it can be used as cattle fodder, said the Chief Minister, adding that the District Administration had been directed to facilitate the logistics for transportation of the straw from these sites. The Punjab Government has approached to the Chief Secretaries of the adjoining States for the procurement of this paddy straw and queries had been received so far from the State of Uttarakhand, said the Chief Minister.Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Anirudh Tiwari said that State Government was also taking appropriate legal and administrative measures, besides creating awareness among people, to curb the menace of paddy stubble burning in view of the pandemic.Notably, Paddy has been grown over 27 lakh hectares of land in Punjab this year. This includes cultivation of Basmati on 7 lakh hectares. Cumulatively, this is expected to yield paddy residue of 16.50 million tons.
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||SAD snapped ties with NDA 'out of compulsion': Sukhdev Dhindsa||Dissident Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Sunday said the Shiromani Akali Dal snapped ties with the NDA “out of compulsion” as farmers were angry with it over the farm bills.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had on Saturday quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm bills issue, the third major party to walk out of the BJP-led coalition in the last couple of years.“They (SAD) have done it out of compulsion as farmers are upset with them,” Dhindsa, a Rajya Sabha member, said.He said the Akali Dal initially supported the bills with even party stalwart Parkash Singh Badal speaking in the favour.“They then took a U-turn, saying it is not in the interest of farmers. Were these bills not bad for farmers earlier?” the dissident Akali leader said.“They have lost support at the ground level in the state,” he alleged.Dhindsa, who had formed the SAD (Democratic) party, said his political outfit has been supporting farmers from the beginning over the issue.“From day one, we have been supporting farmers and standing with them. Our party wants the issue to be resolved at the earliest,” he told PTI.Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, along with his son and former state finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa, was expelled from the SAD in February this year over “anti-party” activities.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced the decision to snap ties with the NDA, amid stepped up agitation by farmers in Punjab over the three legislations which were recently passed by Parliament amid opposition protests.Badal's wife and SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal had on September 17 quit the Union Cabinet after he strongly opposed the bills in Lok Sabha, claiming these legislations will "destroy" the agriculture sector in Punjab.Parliament had recently passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill; Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill.These are yet to get the assent of the president.—PTI Chandigarh, Sep 27 (PTI) Dissident Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Sunday said the Shiromani Akali Dal snapped ties with the NDA “out of compulsion” as farmers were angry with it over the farm bills.  The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had on Saturday quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm bills issue, the third major party to walk out of the BJP-led coalition in the last couple of years.“They (SAD) have done it out of compulsion as farmers are upset with them,” Dhindsa, a Rajya Sabha member, said.He said the Akali Dal initially supported the bills with even party stalwart Parkash Singh Badal speaking in the favour.“They then took a U-turn, saying it is not in the interest of farmers. Were these bills not bad for farmers earlier?” the dissident Akali leader said.“They have lost support at the ground level in the state,” he alleged.Dhindsa, who had formed the SAD (Democratic) party, said his political outfit has been supporting farmers from the beginning over the issue.“From day one, we have been supporting farmers and standing with them. Our party wants the issue to be resolved at the earliest,” he told PTI.Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, along with his son and former state finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa, was expelled from the SAD in February this year over “anti-party” activities.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced the decision to snap ties with the NDA, amid stepped up agitation by farmers in Punjab over the three legislations which were recently passed by Parliament amid opposition protests.Badal's wife and SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal had on September 17 quit the Union Cabinet after he strongly opposed the bills in Lok Sabha, claiming these legislations will "destroy" the agriculture sector in Punjab.Parliament had recently passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill; Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill.These are yet to get the assent of the president.—PTI
27-09-2020||Dinesh Manhotra||Narinder Singh’s elevation in BJP aimed at pacifying Punjabi-speaking population of J&K||Tribune News ServiceJammu, September 26The appointment of Dr Narinder Singh, a Sikh leader of the UT, as the national secretary of the BJP is being seen as a move to placate the annoyed Punjabi-speaking population of Jammu and Kashmir amid the ongoing stir against the J&K Official Languages Bill.Narinder Singh belongs to a PoJK refugee family and is the first leader from J&K who has been inducted in the national team. A former ABVP leader, Singh is professor in the Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology (SKUAST), Jammu. He worked as the national vice-president of the ABVP before formally joining the BJP in 2016. He was appointed the general secretary of the party and in 2019, he was made the vice-president of the J&K unit of the BJP.Various organisations have started agitations in different parts of J&K against the Centre’s decision to exclude Punjabi in the official languages of the UT.Known for his organisational skills due to his RSS and ABVP background, Singh was earlier made incharge of the Kashmir unit of the BJP to expand the party’s footprints in the Valley.“I will work with dedication to come up to the expectations of the party leadership,” Singh told The Tribune while expressing his gratitude to the party high command for giving him responsibility at the national level. Narinder Singh said being the national secretary of the party, he would take every section of society into confidence.Singh had worked under the leadership of the BJP national president JP Nadda in the ABVP during his student days in Himachal Pradesh. He studied at Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Solan, Himachal Pradesh.
27-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Will dedicate Banda Singh Bahadur’s day to farmers: Bairagi Mahamandal||Mandi Ahmedgarh, Sept 26The Bairagi Mahamandal, Punjab, has announced to dedicate the 350th birth celebrations of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur to the ensuing struggle of farmers of the state against three farm Bills passed by the Centre.The announcement was made during the concluding session of a function held at MGMN Senior Secondary School today. Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation chairman Krishan Kumar Bawa chaired the inaugural session and Mandal head Ravinder Nandi presided over the concluded function.“Unfortunately the Union Government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is bent on reducing the status of small and marginal farmers to mere tillers by implementing the Bills that are detrimental to whole society in general and agriculture in particular,” said Krishan Kumar Bawa.He said the outfit would keep supporting the movement launched by farmer organisations and political parties to get the farm Bills withdrawn.
27-09-2020||Chandigarh September 26||SAD, oldest BJP ally, walks out of  NDA over contentious farm Bills||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) core committee, the party’s highest decision-making body, at its emergency meeting here tonight decided unanimously to pull out of the BJP-led NDA alliance because of the Centre’s “stubborn refusal” to give statutory guarantee to protect assured procurement of crops on MSP and its continued “insensitivity” to Punjabi and Sikh issues such as excluding Punjabi as official language in J&K.Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterSheer Compulsion The Badals were left with no other option after the BJP’s public criticism of SAD over the Bills. The BJP had made it clear that it held SAD responsible for failing to convince the farmers. The meeting was presided over by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. The decision came at the end of a marathon four-hour meeting.Addressing mediapersons, Sukhbir said the SAD would continue to stand by its core principles of peace and communal harmony and guard the interests of Punjab, Punjabis and Sikhs, farmers in particular. He said the decision had been taken in consultation with the people of Punjab, especially party workers and farmers. Sukhbir said the Bills on agricultural marketing brought by the BJP government were disastrous for the farmers.Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD PresidentSafeguard FarmersInstead of mudslinging, the CM must act to safeguard the farmers. The only way to block the implementation of Centre’s Bills in Punjab is to declare the state principal market area for farm produce. He said the SAD was the oldest ally of the BJP but the government did not listen to it on honouring the sentiments of farmers.— TNS
27-09-2020||---||Punjab's Tarun Chugh among five new BJP general secretary||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 26The much-awaited team of BJP president JP Nadda was announced on Saturday, with many prominent names from among the previous office-bearers missing and several new faces included.J&KNew EntrantsTarun Chugh of Punjab, Dalit leader Dushyant Kumar Gautam, D Purandeswari of AP, CT Ravi of Karnataka and Dilip Saikia of Assam.Uma, Madhav outParty leaders claimed that efforts had been made to maintain regional balance with adequate representation to all prominent states. Major changes are on the list of eight general secretaries, the crucial organisational position that serves a link between states and the central leadership. It now has five new faces, including Punjab’s Tarun Chugh, who is a national secretary at present.Vacancies yet to be filledHis elevation holds significance in the wake of the BJP’s recent fallout with the Akali Dal over farm Bills. It is being seen as an effort by the saffron party towards projecting leadership in the state. Punjab has got another representation with the appointment of former IPS officer Iqbal Singh Lalpura as national spokesperson. Dr Narinder Singh, a Sikh leader of J&K, has also been appointed as the national secretary.Though Haryana does not have any direct representation, newly-appointed general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam (Rajya Sabha MP) has state connection.Senior leaders Bhupender Yadav (Rajasthan), Arun Singh (Uttar Pradesh) and Kailash Vijayvargiya (Madhya Pradesh) have been retained as general secretaries, while Ram Madhav, P Muralidhar Rao, Saroj Pandey and Anil Jain dropped to make way for Chugh, Gautam (Delhi), D Purandeswari (Andhra Pradesh) , CT Ravi (Karnataka) and Dilip Saikia (Assam).Young and fiery advocate of “Hindutva” Tejasvi Surya has made an entry as president of the party’s youth wing in place of Poonam Mahajan.Nadda also expanded the list of spokespersons to 23 with Rajya Sabha MP and current media head Anil Baluni elevated to chief spokesperson. Others on the list include former ministers Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, Rajiv Pratap Rudy and Shahnawaz Hussain.Uttar Pradesh leader Rajesh Agarwal has been appointed treasurer and Mandsaur MP Sudhir Gupta his deputy. Amit Malviya has been retained as the IT cell and social media in charge. Other appointments include K Laxman, head of the OBC Morcha, Jamal Siddiqui, chief of the minority wing, Lal Singh Arya, chief of the SC Morcha, and Fatehpur Sikri MP Rajkumar Chahar, head of the Kisan Morcha. Besides, Radha Mohan Singh, Mukul Roy, Rekha Verma, Annapurna Devi, Bharti Shiyal, DK Aruna, M Chuba Ao, AP Abdullakutty were appointed national vice presidents.Punjab’s Aviansh Rai Khanna, Uma Bharti, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Prabhat Jha, Om Prakash Mathur and Shyam Jaju were among those dropped.The party also gave place to West Bengal leader Mukul Roy and Maharashtra’s Vinod Tawade and Pankaja Munde in the team. Changes are also expected in the Parliamentary Board — the BJP’s highest decision-making body — where there are vacancies due to the passing away of senior leaders Ananth Kumar, Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley and the election of veteran leader M Venkaiah Naidu to the post of the Vice President of the country.
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Procurement in Punjab, Haryana begins from today||Amid the farmers’ agitation, the Centre today allowed Haryana and Punjab to begin paddy procurement from tomorrow (September 27) instead of October 1. Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan reviewed preparations for the same. PK Das, Haryana’s Additional Chief Secretary for Food and Civil Supplies, said initially procurement would be started in four districts — Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal and Ambala — where about 4 lakh quintals of paddy had arrived in mandis. Regular procurement would begin from Tuesday.Das said that Hafed, Haryana State Warehousing Corporation, Food and Civil Supplies and the Consumer Affairs Department had made adequate arrangements for hassle-free procurement. He made it clear that paddy would be purchased only from farmers listed on the “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” portal.By preponing procurement by five days, the government hopes to allay farmers’ apprehension that the MSP regime may be dismantled once the new laws come into force. The milling period remains unchanged. — TNS
27-09-2020||New Delhi||Eminent economist Isher Judge Ahluwalia dead||Noted economist Isher Judge Ahluwalia died today after battling brain cancer for months. She was 74.The wife of former Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Isher served as the head of the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Affairs for 15 years. She stepped down from the post on August 10 due to poor health.CM Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted, “Saddened to learn of the passing away of Dr Isher Judge Ahluwalia, one of India’s most distinguished economists.” — TNS
27-09-2020||Harkiran Kaur Sodhi||Harpreet Kaur and her 31 rings, an Afghan Sikh refugee’s tale||HARPREET Kaur was a young girl in Delhi when she married her love and moved to Kabul. “At first, I couldn’t understand where I had come. I used to cry in my room,” she recalls. Slowly, the community’s irresistible warmth touched her. “Phir mera bahut dil lag gaya and I didn’t want to leave.” Her parents had left Afghanistan for Delhi after Baisakhi in 1947. She grew up as a daughter of refugees in Delhi but little did she know she was going to become one herself, when she had to move back from Kabul after her husband’s death in a blast in Afghanistan. Harpreet Kaur is one of the rare Delhi transplants into Kabul, who eventually returned to Delhi, now a city of strangers for her.Harpreet has two children, both born in Afghanistan. Her husband, Rawail Singh, was a community leader and trader. “He taught me to read and write. I am literate because of him,” she says. “Every day we made lunch at home, and went out for dinner,” she recalls. Her kids went to good schools and speak fluent Punjabi. She remembers the little things he did. “Every evening their father would come home from work and teach them Punjabi,” she says. “Every year on our anniversary and my birthday, he gifted me a ring,” Harpreet remembers, “I had 31 rings in all. I felt like a queen.”When a six-year-old Muslim girl landed at her doorstep, Harpreet took her in. She became her third child, and grew up with her own children. “Whenever my kids got a dress made, she would get one too”. To Harpreet, it didn’t matter what faith she belonged to.Never in their wildest dreams had the family imagined that their life would change forever. In 2018, her husband received an invitation to join a caravan of Sikh leaders of Afghanistan to meet the President, Ashraf Ghani, in Jalalabad. “I had a feeling that something bad was about to happen,” Harpreet says. But her husband didn’t think twice, “Mein seva karan ja rehan, meinu kuch nahin hunda,” he said, and left. That was the last time Harpreet saw her husband. In a country where explosions and bombings are so frequent, life is uncertain. When Rawail Singh, along with 12 other Sikh leaders, went to meet President Ghani, their van was asked to wait at the gate of the President’s complex. Before they knew it, a suicide bomber appeared and the leaders were no more. Ghani was unharmed. He continued with his meetings.The tragic incident changed the lives of the families related to these 17 leaders. Harpreet’s life was thrust into turmoil. Living in areas of conflict does not make the pain of loss any less. Trauma translates into a blur sometimes, and before she knew it, Harpreet had landed in Delhi. “Afghanistan wasn’t safe,” she says. She left her house in care of the Muslim girl she had raised, now 20 years of age. She left Afghanistan six months after the blast, and took next to nothing with her. But despite having arrived in Delhi more than two years back, Harpreet still considers Afghanistan her home.Harpreet now lives in the Tilak Vihar neighbourhood of Delhi, along with many other Afghan Sikh refugee families. The community continues to struggle. While stories of Partition are romanticised from afar, there is nothing beautiful about this modern-day Sikh refugee crisis. As they all wait to emigrate, the question remains — how are they doing in Delhi?When the pandemic struckThings took a turn for the worse for the community when Covid-19 struck. “My son assisted at a local shop for a meagre pay but during the lockdown, the shops were closed. One day I found him crying like the way he did when his dad died,” says Harpreet. When she asked him the reason, he said, “I want to go back to Afghanistan. I cannot find work; I can’t sit here and be useless all day. If we’re going to die, we’re going to die, why not just go back home?”Harpreet had taken on seamstress tasks but low demand caused that to shut down too. “We live in a rented house. There are bills to pay: electricity, water and phone,” says a teary-eyed Harpreet. She says, no organisation was providing any support, and even if there was any such support available, she doesn’t know how to go about seeking it. “No one asks about us. It’s as if we don’t matter,” she adds, “no one cares to know how we put food on the table — saada koi puchan wala nahin hai”. She goes on, “We moved to Delhi for a better life, but sometimes I wonder if Afghanistan was better.”Similar has been the fate of most Afghan refugee families. Losses trickled down to lay-offs and many members of the community went without even the paltry assured income. “The situation in Afghanistan has continued to worsen. Thinking of going back means accepting death. Yet, this thought continues to cross our minds — not just because it is home, but because of what Delhi has given us,” says Harpreet.Earlier this year, 25 Sikhs were killed when a militant attacked a gurdwara in Kabul in the midst of an ardas. Efforts have been on to bring back remaining members of the Afghan Sikh community to Delhi for reasons of safety. But is that enough, asks another Afghan Sikh refugee Giani Gurnaam Singh, who has moved from Jalalabad to Delhi. According to him, evacuating Afghan Sikhs has a laudable effort but more needs to be done."We must not assume that landing in Delhi is the solution - it is only a new beginning", he says. International efforts to resettle the community appear limited to newly arrived refugees.They must be provided long-term foreign resettlement and short-term empowerment efforts. All the individuals interviewed for the Afghan Sikh Voices project view Delhi as only a temporary relocation, as they hope to leave for the West soon.Harpreet’s story is a testament that time is not always healing, and humanity is not always forgiving. It has been two years since Harpreet came here but her situation continues to worsen. Now, as a 40-year-old, with two teenage children, she has no NGO assistance to register with the UNHCR or resettle in a different country. Foreign philanthropy provided short-term resettlement assistance to other families.Harpreet’s three-year visa will expire next year and she has no clue as to what comes next. Nothing makes sense to her. When asked how she pays the bills, she says, “I sold the 31 rings my husband gave me.”
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||54 more succumb to virus in Punjab||With 1,588 fresh cases and 54 deaths having been reported in the past 24 hours, the state’s Covid tally has reached 1,08,684, while the toll has climbed to 3,188.Besides, 86,013 patients have recovered from the virus, and at present there are 19,483 active cases.As many as 422 patients are on oxygen support and 68 on ventilators. In the district-wise break-up of fresh cases, Jalandhar topped the chart with 195 cases, followed by Patiala and Ludhiana (172 each), SAS Nagar (153), Gurdaspur (147), and Amritsar (132).Of the 54 fresh deaths, SAS Nagar has reported 10, Jalandhar (eight), Amritsar and Ludhiana (six each), Patiala (five), Sangrur (four), Pathankot (three), Barnala and Gurdaspur (two each), and Faridkot, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Kapurthala, Mansa, Moga, Muktsar and Ropar (one each). — TNS
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Paddy purchase to be staggered amid Covid||Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan today reviewed the state’s preparedness for the paddy procurement season, slated to begin from September 27 to November 30.Presiding over a high-level review meeting of the Paddy Procurement Committee for kharif season, Mahajan directed the departments concerned to ensure social distancing to avoid the spread of Covid-19 and that the procurement be made in a staggered manner as farmers would enter the mandis with passes issued to them 72 hours in advance. Only one tractor-trailer would be allowed on one pass. Mandi yards have been marked with blocks to maintain social distancing.The Chief Secretary said total 4,019 procurement centres had been set up, which included 152 main yards, 283 sub-yards, 1,436 purchase centres, 524 temporary yards and 1,624 mills.She also directed the Punjab Mandi Board and the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department to explore possibilities to increase the number of centres to over 4,500 to ensure hassle-free, smooth and timely procurement of paddy.
27-09-2020||Sangrur||Spurned, youth throws acid on woman, booked||A youth allegedly threw acid on a 24-year-old woman from Benra village last night after she spurned his overtures.Both suffered injuries in the incident. The police have started an investigation. The police said Ravi Singh allegedly threw acid on the woman while she was going to her relative’s house last night.“The woman has been admitted to a Sangrur hospital, while the youth was taken to a Patiala hospital. We have registered a case against Ravi,” said ASI Sukhchain Singh from Dhuri Sadar police station. — TNS
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Let marriage palaces function: Owners||The Punjab Marriage Palace and Resort Association (PMPARA) has urged the state government to reopen marriage palaces and resorts by putting a cap on the number of guests allowed.PMPARA president Sukhdev Singh Sidhu, during a media interaction here, said a minimum of 300 guests or guests equal to half of the palace or resort’s seating capacity must be allowed.“Generally, marriage palaces have 10,000 to 1 lakh sq feet of open space, besides 5,000 sq feet to 30,000 sq feet of banquet halls. While hotels, restaurants, malls, gyms and markets have been allowed to open, why have marriage palaces not been given the approval? Besides, SOPs can be easily followed in resorts and palaces,” said Sidhu. The PMPARA has already handed over a letter in this regard to CM Capt Amarinder Singh via the Group of Ministers.
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||High Court refuses CBI probe into illicit distillation||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has refused to order a CBI probe into the alleged “rampant distillation” of illicit liquor in Punjab, but has expressed confidence that fair and impartial investigations would be carried out by the state agencies.The Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli also made it clear the police probe in the matter, in its opinion, could neither be dubbed as farce, nor fair at the current stage.The Bench was hearing a petition filed in public interest by Tarsem Jodhan and another petitioner. Referring to five FIRs registered in different parts of the state between 2018 and this year, the petitioners’ counsel submitted only petty labourers, workers and bootleggers were booked.He added a racket of this magnitude required finances, infrastructure and logistic support at all levels, unviable without active connivance of district police officials and administration, besides patronage of local political leaders.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Palli asserted the petitioner’s concern for the state and its subjects was undoubtedly appreciable. But it was also true the police authorities registered FIRs, made arrests and carried out recoveries after taking cognisance of incidents in different parts of the state. The Bench added the investigation was in progress. No cogent or conclusive material was placed before it, at least at this stage, on the basis of which it could form an opinion that the ongoing investigation was farce, misdirected by design or lacked credibility. The Bench, at the same time, clarified it was not recording its satisfaction or finding that the investigations were just, fair and credible. The question was, as such, kept open to be examined on merits if the situation so warranted at an appropriate stage.The Bench also took note of state counsel’s assurance that the petitioners’ concerns would be duly examined and dealt with at the earliest. If necessary, suitable action would also be initiated.“We are sanguine that fair and impartial investigations shall be carried out by the state agencies to provide credibility and instil confidence in the investigating process. The petition is accordingly disposed of in terms of the statement/undertaking submitted by the state counsel,” the Bench concluded.
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Nine storage centres busted, 1.2K litre liquor seized||Continuing with the crackdown on illicit liquor, the police have busted nine illegal liquor storage and distribution points in Majitha, Ajnala and Attari subdivisions and recovered 1,230-litre liquor.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the Amritsar (Rural) police carried out a special drive over three days and busted nine such illegal liquor distribution centres based on local intelligence sources. Separate FIRs had been registered and the accused, including the owners of such illegal centres, arrested, he said. — TNS
27-09-2020||Rajneesh LakhanpalLudhiana||Enforcement Directorate to inspect Punjab CM, son’s IT case files||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is set to inspect pending income tax case files of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh in a local court on September 28. The inspection pertains to alleged violations of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA).One such inquiry was under ED’s investigation but nothing incriminating was found against the CM. The ED now wants to bring the pending investigation to a logical conclusion after inspecting the files and documents. The ED claimed it was seized of the matter with regard to the subject matter of the present IT case. For conducting a probe under the FEMA, documents attached with the complaint were required to be examined, which were already placed on record by the IT Department.
27-09-2020||Bathinda||Punjab farmers end ‘rail roko’ briefly, to resume blockade from October 1||Farmer unions led by Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) ended their three-day ‘rail roko’ protest against the recently passed farm Bills across the state on Saturday.BKU leaders said they would resume the ‘rail roko’ stir from October 1 onwards for an indefinite period. Scores of farmers blocked the Bathinda-Delhi railway line and raised slogans against the Union Government and the SAD over their alleged failure to protect the interests of the farming community in the state.“We have ended the rail roko agitation today, but we have decided to resume it on October 1 for an indefinite period. Protesters would not be influenced by the political drama being played out to gain mileage out of the farmers’ misery. The agitation against the Bills will continue until the government relents and addresses the concerns of farmers,” said Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha, president, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan).“New farm Bills would prevent farmers from getting the MSP for their agricultural produce. The basic structure of mandi board will be altered completely and procurement by the government agencies will not take place. Besides, private players will control the farm sector and procure produce by fixing their own rates,” he further said.
27-09-2020||Amritsar||Protesters go bare-chested, extend stir||Even as farmer unions decided to suspend protest till October 1, members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KSMC) went bare-chested to show their displeasure at the Centre’s indifference here on Saturday.The blockade of the Amritsar-Delhi railway line continued as more farmers and their families arrived in tractor-trailers, buses, cars and jeeps and on motorcycles to join the protest at Devidyal Pura village, on the outskirts of the city.Taking off their shirts, they raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and lambasted his “anti-farmer” and “pro-corporate” policies.The KSMC has already extended its three-day railway line blockade till September 29.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, KMSC, said women protesters would join the railway blockade here tomorrow. On the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, i.e. September 28, youth from the farmers’ families will join them. — TNS
27-09-2020||Ferozepur||Trains to remain suspended due to farmers' agitation||The 14 trains that had been cancelled due to the farmers’ agitation will continue to remain off track till the situation normalises.This was stated by Sudhir Singh, Senior Divisional Operations Manager, Ferozepur Division, today. He said there was no clarity on the further course of farmers’ agitation, as at some places they were still blocking the tracks. He said the already cancelled 14 trains would remain suspended till the time the situation returned to normal.The farmer unions had yesterday announced that they would continue to block the tracks till September 29. The trains which were cancelled included Golden Temple Mail Covid-19 Special from Amritsar to Mumbai Central, Amritsar-Kolkata Superfast, Karambhumi Covid-19 Special from Amritsar to New Jalpaiguri, Paschim Deluxe Express from Amritsar to Mumbai, Sachkhand Covid-19 Special from Amritsar to Nanded, Jan Shatabadi Express from Amritsar to Haridwar, Shaheed Express from Amritsar to Jaynagar, Saryu Yamuna Express from Amritsar to Jaynagar, Amritsar-Dibrugarh Express, Amtisar-Jammu Tawi Express, Ganga-Satluj Express from Ferozepur to Dhanbad, Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri Express, Ferozepur-Patna Covid-19 Special and Amritsar to Bandra Terminal Covid-19 Special. — TNS
27-09-2020||Patiala||Will back govt on farm issues in Assembly: Sukhbir to Capt||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today demanded immediate promulgation of an ordinance by the Punjab Government to declare the state an agriculture market (mandi) so as to ensure Centre’s “anti-farmer” Acts are not applicable to the state.“We urge Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to immediately issue an ordinance declaring Punjab a mandi and follow it up quickly with a special Vidhan Sabha session to make it an Act. The SAD urges all parties to ensure unanimous passage of the Bill,” said Badal, in his address to Akali workers and farmers here, adding the party would support the CM on the farmers’ issue.“Instead of being obsessed with Akali phobia and indulging in mudslinging, the CM must act to safeguard farmers. The only way is to block the implementation of central Acts by declaring the state a ‘Principal Market Area’ or mandi for farm produce. The new laws will not be applicable to areas declared as mandi by the state. This way, big corporate sharks will not be able to enter the state,” said Badal.He also asked the CM to get the 2017 amendments to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act repealed. “These are similar to the ‘black laws’ of the Centre. The amendments actually pre-date the Centre’s black laws passed now. These need to be repealed by the Vidhan Sabha. We will fully support the government on the initiative.”
27-09-2020||Fazilka||Over 2,000 tractors hit  road against farm Bills||A day after SAD president and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal led a tractor rally from his native Badal village, Jalalabad Congress MLA Raminder Singh Awla on Saturday took out a similar rally to protest the agriculture Bills.More than 2,000 tractors, driven by farmers from different parts of Jalalabad segment, were part of the rally. MLA Awla, former MP Sher Singh Ghubaya, former minister Hans Raj Josan, Congress leaders Sandeep Jakhar and Ranjam Kamra, commission agents and farmers raised slogans against the NDA government and demanded the rollback of the Bills. He pledged his support to farmers in future agitation also. — OC
27-09-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar farmer ends life, arhtiya among 2 held||Amid ongoing protests against the agriculture Bills, a farmer committed suicide by hanging himself over alleged harassment by an arhtiya (commission agent) and his aide. The two have been arrested. The victim has been identified as Ranjit Singh (40), a resident of Harsha Chhina village.The police have booked the commission agent, Satinderpal Singh, alias Chhindu, of Vanali village, and Jagroop Singh of Harsha Chhinna village. Satinderpal was a Congress sarpanch and vice-president of the arhtiya union.Before ending his life, the farmer wrote a suicide note and made a video, accusing the two of driving him to suicide. In the video, the farmer alleged the accused had been harassing him and his family by filing false complaints. The police have launched further probe.Victim’s brother Gurjit Singh claimed Ranjit, who had been upset for the past few months, told the family a few days ago that he had taken a loan amounting to several lakhs of rupees from the two and given them certain cheques.In his complaint to the police, he said though Ranjit had returned the money, the accused started harassing him and threatened to get a cheque dishonouring case registered against him. Gurjit said his brother ended his life by hanging himself in the house last night. Rajasansi police station SHO Narinderpal Singh said Satinderpal and Jagroop had been booked for abetting suicide. — TNS
27-09-2020||Hoshiarpur||Centre working for corporates,  alleges minister||Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora today accused the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Central Government of ignoring the interests of farmers and “securing benefits” for corporate houses.The minister said the Centre would not succeed in its ‘nefarious’ design to destroy the agrarian sector. “The Punjab Government will stand by farmers against the apathetic attitude of the Centre and will work shoulder-to-shoulder with them as our farmers have been feeding the entire country for long,” Arora said. The minister said the farm Bills would ruin all sections of society.The minister said the recent exclusion of cereals, pulses, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities would further lead to hoarding and black-marketing. — OC
