27-06-2020||---||Rs 50-lakh ex gratia, govt job for family of martyr Saleem Khan||Chandigarh June 27Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, here on Saturday, announced Rs 50-lakh ex gratia along with a government job to a family member of Lance Naik Saleem Khan, who laid down his life in the line of duty in Ladakh.Extending sympathies to the kin of the 24-year-old Patiala youth, martyred at Sheok near the India-China Border, the Chief Minister said the state government would provide all possible help and support to them."Saddened to hear about the demise of Lance Naik Saleem Khan in Ladakh. He belonged to Mardaheri village in Patiala district. My sincere condolences to his family. The nation salutes the brave soldier. Jai Hind!," the Chief Minister earlier tweeted.Lance Naik Khan of the Bengal Engineer Group became a battle casualty on June 25 while patrolling at a river close to LAC in the Ladakh sector.His mortal remains were laid to rest with full military honours at his village. Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot represented the state government in paying homage to the fallen soldier, who is survived by parents, a married sister and a brother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-govt-job-for-family-of-martyr-saleem-khan-105312
27-06-2020||---||Punjab lifts restrictions on passenger capacity in buses||Chandigarh, June 27Amid the spiralling increase in fuel prices which had made public transportation unviable, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced lifting of the restrictions on the passenger capacity in all buses, including mini buses, but made it clear that masks would have to be mandatorily worn by all those travelling in the buses.Chief Minister made the announcement in response to a question by a resident regarding problems faced in commuting due to non-availability of buses.The state government had earlier allowed plying of buses with 50 per cent capacity on account of the Covid crisis.At today's #AskCaptain edition on Facebook Live, Chief Minister said he had learnt that buses were refusing to ply with restricted capacity due to the financial losses it entails, especially in the current situation when the prices of petrol and diesel are going up on a daily basis.This was causing problems to the commuters, he added, but stressed on the need to strictly adhere to the mandatory wearing of masks, which can reduce the spread of Covid by 70 per cent.On the issue of petrol and diesel price hike, he said the Congress Working Committee (CWC) had already passed a resolution and he hoped the Central government would roll back the increase.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-lifts-restrictions-on-passenger-capacity-in-buses-105311
27-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab records seven deaths, 99 new cases; numbers shoot past 5,000||Punjab reported seven deaths from coronavirus and nearly 100 new cases in a span of 24 hours, the state's medical bulletin showed on Saturday---developments that take the state’s COVID-19 tally to past 5,000.There appeared to be a slight dip in the number of reported coronavirus infections on Monday---Punjab reported 99 new cases, a slight fall for the state that has been consistently recording more than 100 cases every day since June 15.Sangrur (19), Amritsar (19), Jalandhar (17),  Ludhiana (13), Patiala (1), SAS Nagar (8), Hoshairpur (5), Bathinda (4), Barnala (4), Gurdaspur (1), SBS Nagar (1), Muktsar (1), Ropar (1), Moga (2), Ferozepur (2), Kapurthala (2) all reported new cases, the state’s COVID bulletin showed.   Sanrgur continued to show a worrying trend in cases---the district reported 19 new cases and accounted for three of seven deaths on Saturday.Amritsar reported two deaths. Jalandhar and Bathinda reported a death each.Amritsar also reported 19 new cases. Ludhiana and Jalandhar also recorded double digits in cases.Punjab's death toll now stands at 128.Twelve of Sangrur’s19 new cases were contacts of already diagnosed cases. Of the rest, two were jail inmates, two were domestic travellers and three were new cases with no known contact or travel history.Of Amritsar’s 19, ten were contacts, six were self-reported new cases and three were cases categorised as ILI (influenza-like illness).Fourteen of Jalandhar’s 17 were contacts of diagnosed cases. Two had recently returned from abroad and one was a new case.In Ludhiana, eight were ILI cases, two were contacts, one was an OPD patient, one was a doctor and the last one was categorised as ANC.Both Moga and Bathinda had cases of policemen testing positive.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (871), Ludhiana (742), Jalandhar (686), Sangrur (363), Patiala (275), SAS Nagar (242), Gurdaspur (208), Pathankot (205), Tarn Taran (187), Hoshiarpur (171), SBS Nagar (128), Muktsar (126), Fatehgarh Sahib (107), Ropar (102), Faridkot (101), Moga (94),  Fazilka (90), Ferozepur (90),  Bathinda (89), Kapurthala (85), Barnala (50), and Mansa (44).  The state's death toll stands thus: Amritsar (38), Jalandhar (19), Ludhiana (19), Sangrur (12), Hoshiarpur (5), Pathankot (5),  Kapurthala (5), Patiala (5), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3),  Tarn Taran (3), Moga (2), Bathinda (2), SBS Nagar (1), Ferozepur (1), Ferozepur (3) Ropar (1), and Barnala (1).Punjab’s COVID-19 cases have been steadily rising in June, as have its deaths. The state has been reporting a steady rise in cases---and deaths---in this past fortnight: a quick glance at the numbers show that 35 per cent cases state’s total coronavirus cases (1,789) and 44 per cent of the total deaths (57) have been reported since June 15.   Fifteen of Punjab’s 22 districts now have over 100 cases.Three districts---Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar---account for 45 per cent of Punjab’s cases and 59 per cent of its deaths.Additionally, Sangrur’s rising numbers appear to be some cause for concern---the district’s COVID-19 tally stood at 221 infections with six deaths, according to the state COVID tally on June 22, but has since risen over 1.5 times to 363, with death toll doubling since to stand at 12.Some 22 patients are on oxygen support in Punjab, and seven people are critical and on ventilator support.The bulletin shows that 1,608 people are in institutional isolation.  CasesJune 27: 99June 26: 188June 25: 142June 24: 230June 23: 162June 22: 161June 21: 122June 20: 120June 19: 217June 18: 118June 17: 126June 16: 104June 15: 127||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-punjab-records-seven-deaths-99-new-cases-numbers-shoot-past-5-000-105310
27-06-2020||---||3 girls choke to death after they get locked inside car in Punjab's Ropar||Ropar, June 27Three girls reportedly suffocated to death when they got locked inside a parked car while playing near their home at Chamkaur Sahib here.The trio has been identified as Gudia and Asha, both five years old, and three-year-old Sweety. Their bodies were found lying in the car by police this evening.Fathers of all the three girls – Ravi, Suresh and Wakil – work as labourers and were not home when they were found missing around 2.30 pm on Friday.According to Superintendent of Police Ajinder Singh the parents initially tried to search the girls with the help of nehigbours and informed the police around 8 pm.Police started the search for the girls and even footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area was also scrutinised, but nothing suspicious was found, said Singh.Today, police again started search in morning and finally their bodies were found in a car around 5.30 pm, he added.The officer said the locals informed the police that a door of the car used to remain unlocked. He said prima facie it was suspected that the children entered the car while playing and later could not come out and suffocated to death.The exact reason of their death, however, would be known after receiving the post mortem report, Singh added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-girls-choke-to-death-after-they-get-locked-inside-car-in-punjabs-ropar-105304
27-06-2020||Sangrur||Malerkotla reports 3 COVID-19 deaths, city's toll at 12||Malerkotla reported three COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the city's death toll stands at 10, while Sangrur reports 12 COVID-19 deaths in total. Malerkotla's tally reaches 187. The first death was of a 55-year-old woman from Malerkotla, who was suffering from diabetes mellitus, hypertension, left ventricular failure (LVF), hypothyroidism and morbid obesity, died of the deadly disease.    She was admitted on June 24 at a private hospital in Ludhiana—where she was put on a ventilator on June 25—and died on the night of June 26.   The second deceased was a 63-year-old male patient, who also hailed from Malerkotla city. He was being treated at a Ludhiana hospital since June 22, but died on Friday night due to COVID-19 infection, severe acute respiratory, distress syndrome, multi-organ dysfunction syndrome and shock and type 2 diabetes mellitus.The third loss was of a 48-year-old male, who had been admitted at the Ludhiana hospital, since June 22, but he succumbed to the infection on Friday night due to COVID-19 infection, Type 2 diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, acute coronary syndrome and acute left ventricular failure.  Number of COVID-19 deaths in Sangrur:Apart from it, out of total 187 positive patients, 77 are from Malerkotla, 30 from Amargarh, 23 from Dhuri followed by other blocks of Sangrur district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/malerkotla-reports-3-covid-19-deaths-citys-toll-at-12-105303
27-06-2020||New Delhi||3 Khalistani sympathisers planning targeted killings arrested by Delhi Police||The Delhi Police has arrested three suspected sympathisers of the Khalistan Movement who were planning to execute targeted killings in various northern states, officials said on Saturday.The accused have been identified as Mohinder Pal Singh (29), a resident of Delhi; Gurtej Singh (41), a resident of Punjab; and Lovepreet (21), a resident of Haryana, they said.Three pistols and seven live cartridges were recovered from their possession.Three phones with many "incriminating" videos and photographs related to the Khalistan Movement were also recovered from them, a senior police officer said."Police got a tip-off regarding the activities of Mohinder, a sympathiser of Khalistan Liberation Force. He was planning to commit a terrorist activity in the national capital. Thereafter, a trap was laid near Hastsal on June 15 and...Mohinder was arrested," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said. Following his interrogation, Lovepreet was arrested from Kaithal district in Haryana. Later, the duo led the police to Mansa in Punjab where Gurtez was arrested, Yadav said.The arrested persons have disclosed their links with the Khalistan Liberation Force leaders settled abroad and revealed their plans to commit targeted killings on instructions from Khalistani militant sponsored by Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), the police added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-khalistani-sympathisers-planning-targeted-killings-arrested-by-delhi-police-105290
27-06-2020||---||Lance Naik dies during rescue operation in Ladakh||Patiala, June 27A pall of gloom descended on Mardaheri village in Patiala district after the news of the death of Lance Naik Saleem Khan reached on Saturday morning.Lance Naik Saleem Khan died in Ladakh on Friday during a rescue operation in Shyok river. The 24-year-old died after his boat capsized in the river at around 1.30 pm.Saleem, who joined the Indian Army in 2014, belonged to the 58 Engineer Regiment.The mortal remains of the soldier will reach the native village in the afternoon.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh also expressed his condolences on Twitter. He said he was saddened to hear about the demise of Lance Naik Saleem Khan in Ladakh. He said the nation stood with the brave soldier.Saddened to hear about the demise of Lance Naik Saleem Khan in Ladakh. He belonged to Mardaheri village in Patiala district. My sincere condolences to his family. The nation salutes the brave soldier. Jai Hind! 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/BPOQjXmKLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lance-naik-dies-during-rescue-operation-in-ladakh-105239
27-06-2020||Islamabad||Pakistan conveys readiness to reopen Kartarpur Sahib Corridor on June 29||Pakistan has conveyed its readiness to India to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor from June 29 on the occasion of the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjeet Singh, the Foreign Office said on Saturday, over three months after it was temporarily closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.India temporarily suspended the pilgrimage and registration for the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara in Pakistan on March 16 in view of the COVID-19 outbreak.“As the religious places are gradually opening up around the world, Pakistan has also made necessary arrangements to reopen Kartarpur Sahib Corridor for Sikh pilgrims,” the Foreign Office said.To ensure adherence to the health guidelines, Pakistan had invited India to work out necessary SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures) for the reopening of the corridor, it said.In November last year, the two countries threw open the corridor linking Dera Baba Sahib in Gurdaspur in India and Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan, in a historic people-to-people initiative.As places of worship open up across the world, Pakistan prepares to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor for all Sikh pilgrims, conveying to the Indian side our readiness to reopen the corridor on 29 June 2020, the occasion of the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjeet Singh.  The Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is located in Pakistan’s Narowal district across the river Ravi, about four kilometres from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine. It is the final resting place of Sikh faith’s founder Guru Nanak Dev, who had spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur.Indian pilgrims of all faiths are allowed to undertake round the year visa-free travel to the historic gurdwara.The Foreign Office said the Kartarpur Corridor wa a true symbol of peace and religious harmony and this landmark initiative by Pakistan had been immensely appreciated by the Sikh community all over the world, including India.The relations between India and Pakistan nosedived after India scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5, 2019, and bifurcated it into two union territories. Pakistan downgraded diplomatic ties with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner.On Tuesday, India told Pakistan to slash its embassy staff in New Delhi by half, saying it would do the same in Islamabad amidst the allegations of spying. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistan-conveys-readiness-to-reopen-kartarpur-sahib-corridor-on-june-29-105236
27-06-2020||Death anniversary today||Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s memorials face neglect both in India & Pak||The monuments associated with the Maharaja were taken care of in India but sans conservationists. The walled city, which houses the Golden temple, has its gates restored, but new buildings are coming up where the wall used to exist initially. For instance, many modern structures have come up at the exit point of Sikandri gate and its adjoining part as well and in place of the wall. Most areas of the walled city are a picture of neglect and need special care from the conservation perspective. They are of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s time. Pakistan has most important landmarks associated with him and the Khalsa Raj.Neeraj BaggaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 26Like every year, the death anniversary of the legendary Sikh king Maharaja Ranjit Singh will be observed on Saturday, but memorials associated with him are facing neglect both in India and Pakistan.His rule for Punjab in general and Amritsar in particular was considered as the golden period. He brought various path-breaking and dynamic reforms during his rule. He is even known to introduce various art forms in decorating buildings and areas. But, it’s unfortunate that no serious efforts have been made to protect and conserve buildings and areas contributed by him.Prof Balvinder Singh, Conservation Spatial Planner and former head of Guru Ramdas School of Planning, Guru Nanak Dev University, said: “During research, I observed that the Maharaja had always named areas and buildings after the names of Gurus such as Rambagh on the name of Guru Ramdas and Gobind Garh Fort on the name of 10th Guru Gobind Singh. He never named any building or area after him.”Prof Singh has written ‘Splendid Artworks in Historic Sikh Shrines of India and Pakistan: Conservation Perspective’, for which he had visited Pakistan on numerous occasions. He found the monuments associated with the Maharaja in a dilapidated and neglected state there as well. He carried out photographic documentation of such memoirs and feels that no efforts have been made to preserve them both in India and Pakistan.Such monuments and areas are scattered in the East and West Punjab. He said Pakistan has most important landmarks associated with the Maharaja and the Khalsa Raj. The samadhi of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in Lahore is a double storey structure and contains beautiful frescoes, but these, too, were in a complete neglect, he said, adding that many structures have been whitewashed and the remaining are decaying due to the neglect of the authorities.The portion of the fort in Lahore, where Maharani Jinda used to stay, also lies in a neglected state. He found that the archeology department of Pakistan had even added a modern brick structure to it, which is an eyesore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/maharaja-ranjit-singhs-memorials-face-neglect-both-in-india-pak-104976
27-06-2020||---||215 Indians return home from Pakistan||Amritsar, June 26The second batch of over 215 Indian nationals, who were stranded in Pakistan due to Covid-19 lockdown, returned through Attari-Wagah border on Friday.According to information, 124 belonged to Jammu and Kashmir, 55 to Gujarat and 36 to Maharashtra.While the J&K residents were ferried back to their destination through special buses arranged by the J&K Transport Corporation from Attari, whereas 60 were quarantined in a hotel and 31 in a government quarantine centre.They were part of the 748 Indian nationals hailing from various states, who were being repatriated in three phases. Yesterday, 204 J&K residents, mostly the medical students, had arrived through same channel.The remaining ones would come tomorrow which included five persons from Gujarat, 25 from Maharashtra, 46 from Uttar Pradesh, 38 from Rajasthan, 36 from Punjab, 26 from Delhi, 15 from Madhya Pradesh, 14 from Haryana, 11 from Telangana, six each from Karnataka and Chandigarh, five from Chhattisgarh, four from Tamil Nadu, three from West Bengal, two each from Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and one from Bihar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/215-indians-return-home-from-pakistan-104984
27-06-2020||Neha Saini||Silver lining: Covid pandemic pushes theatre artistes in Punjab to explore digital space||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, June 26It is not for the first time that the theatre has been faced with an existential crisis. As the Covid-19 lockdown wreaks havoc, the theatre fraternity is hopeful that this too will pass.Taking the pandemic in their stride, senior theatre professionals from the city are now switching to digital platforms to keep the theatre and performing arts discourse alive and kicking. Online performances, live streaming of plays and group enactment through various digital media are becoming the new normal.“Though it was difficult to sustain these times, yet theatre has managed to combat this phase. Most artistes are now conducting online sessions and performances. The artistes have come out of their conventional roles as live performances became a thing of past. All this might be new for us, but it is not necessarily bad,” shares Arvinder Chamak, a senior painter and performing artist.Chamak, who is also the general secretary of the Indian Academy of Fine Arts has been conducting online sessions on arts and theatrical culture, featuring Indian and Pakistani artistes and audience throughout lockdown.Taking the storytelling through drama and arts to digital space, many city-based artistes have already live-streamed their performances online. These include Gurinder Makana, a senior actor and director. Makana staged the acclaimed story Ram Gau, picked up from anthology that was once directed by Kewal Dhaliwal for the stage.“The only difference is that you have to improvise a lot and make use of lesser props and also use yourself more expressively, to give an engaging performance. Even the audience understands the constraints of digital performance, so, it is not an impossible task to achieve,” says Makana. He adds that the pandemic has somehow pushed artistes to explore the digital medium that has a larger reach,” he says.Suvidha Duggal is another young artiste who has been busy with online theatre. “As a creative person, I have found my own ways to turn this into an opportunity. I have been performing solo plays online. Scripts need to undergo changes to adapt to digital space.”Speaking out The pandemic has opened new horizons by giving more of a virtual space for showcasing talent and feel the pain of the humanity. This new normal has opened gates for artistes from different nations. — Arvinder Chamak, painter and performing artisteDigital space for theatre arts has to be explored for creative and commercial aspects. I have been developing a digital space where we can support artistes to give solo live performances. — Gurinder Makana, actor and directorI have been uploading short videos of my performances on social media platforms and digital space. Artistes and audiences both need to shift to digital space to keep the theatre experience alive. — Suvidha Duggal, theatre artisteWe need to create a digital platform for audio-video performances, live streaming and online discussions where experts like Bansi Kaul, Surjit Patar interact with audience. — Kewal Dhaliwal, president, Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/silver-lining-covid-pandemic-pushes-theatre-artistes-in-punjab-to-explore-digital-space-104990
27-06-2020||Mohali||Punjab Government committed to creating drug-free state: Minister||The onus lies on each of us to protect our youth from falling into the trap of drugs. Healthy youth can play a vital role in creating a better and drug-free society.This was stated by Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu while addressing a state-level function on International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking at a drug de-addiction centre in Sector 66, here, today.He said: “It is reassuring for us that the new generation is becoming aware of the ill-effects of drugs use. The number of drug addicts in the state has come down drastically. However, the new generation must be stopped from going the wrong way”.Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Punjab Government was committed to creating a drug-free state. As a result of the government’s efforts, 5.47 lakh patients had so far registered themselves at drug de-addiction and rehabilitation centres across the state.The Minister said health workers were working day and night for the success of “Mission Fateh” being run by the Punjab Government to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Balkar Singh Sidhu, IG, anti-drug special task force, highlighted the role being played by the task force in curbing drug menace. He said the state government had constituted this task force with the objective of eradicating drugs from the state. He said the cooperation of the common man was essential to win the war against drugs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-committed-to-creating-drug-free-state-minister-105114
27-06-2020||Vijay C Roy||Punjab, Haryana, Himachal in fray for bulk drug park||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26CENTRE TO GIVE Rs 1,000 CRORE PER PARKThe northern region is set to compete with the southern and western region to set up bulk drug parks. The Centre is likely to announce the setting up of three such parks next month to promote local manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and reduce dependence on China.Under the scheme, the Central government will give a grant to states with a maximum limit of Rs 1,000 crore.Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh have come forward with their proposals and would compete with Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra.These parks are part of measures to boost domestic manufacturing of critical key starting materials (KSMs), drug intermediates and APIs in the country.Punjab plans to set up the park at Fatehgarh Sahib. It is also in the process of sending a proposal for Bathinda as land is vacant there after the shutdown of thermal plant. Haryana plans it in Panipat where it has 900 acres in its possession.Himachal is eyeing such park at Nalagarh. The state has 1,700 acres in its possession for the project.Rajesh Gupta, president, Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association, said, “Besides Nalagarh, the state is looking for land near Rupnagar district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-haryana-himachal-in-fray-for-bulk-drug-park-104956
27-06-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Vini Mahajan Punjab's 1st woman Chief Secretary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26Vini Mahajan’s elevation as the Chief Secretary of Punjab — the first woman to hold the post in the state — comes after years of struggle of a family dislodged from its roots in Shakargarh village of Pakistan following Partition.Vini Mahajan, Chief SecretaryTo Focus on schemesMy focus will be to ensure effective implementation of state government schemes. I am here to establish synergy between various departments.Starting from scratch at relief camps in Sujanpur (Pathankot), her family elders went on to make it big. Her father BB Mahajan topped the IAS exam in 1957 and retired as the Union Food Secretary. His dream that his children rise higher came true today as Vini Mahajan took up the top post. From being the first woman Deputy Commissioner of the reorganised Punjab in 1995 to working with the PMO for seven years (2005-12) during the tenure of Manmohan Singh, she has set a rare record where her husband, Dinkar Gupta, is the Punjab Police chief and she would be heading the bureaucracy.Mahajan has taken over from Karan Avtar Singh at a time when Punjab needs new impetus in the fight against Covid. Also, the posting would be quite challenging amid difference in opinion between some ministers of the Congress government and bureaucrats, a factor blamed for her predecessor being shunted out.She is an Economics graduate from Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi University, and a post-graduate from the Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vini-mahajan-punjabs-1st-woman-chief-secretary-104965
27-06-2020||Manav Mander||Increase hospital beds, hire medical staff, Punjab government tells DCs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 26In view of a surge in Covid cases in the state, several measures are being taken to tackle the emergency situation.The districts have been asked to increase the bed capacity in their Covid care centres. The honorarium to be paid to the hired medical staff has also been increased.The present bed capacity of 500 in the care centres of Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar should be enhanced to 1,200 each, the respective Deputy Commissioners have been told. The total operational beds in the centres will be enhanced to 7,000 by June 30. Keeping in view the continuous rise in the positive cases in Jalandhar, the Deputy Commissioner has been asked to identify an additional care facility with a capacity of 1,000-2,000 beds.Further, to address the problem of shortage of medical manpower to operationalise the centres, the honorarium paid to the medical staff will be increased. They will be paid on a monthly basis and the initial contractual agreement will be for a period of three months with a provision of extension depending upon requirement.In order to engage the staff at the earliest, the district administrations have been asked to advertise walk-in interviews immediately. The districts have been asked to give preference to MBBS doctors and in case of unavailability, BDS doctors can be hired.The recommended honorarium for an MBBS medical officer is Rs 1,10,100, for BDS officers is Rs 80,000 and for Ayurveda officers, it is Rs 60,000. For paramedical staff (nurses, lab technicians and pharmacists), the honorarium is Rs 35,000, and for ward attendants, it is Rs 25,000 per month.The districts have also been asked to maintain a waiting list of medical manpower to be given appointment in case of shortage due to attrition or some medical professionals getting infected.The decisions were taken during a meeting held under the chairmanship of Satish Chandra, Additional Chief Secretary (Home).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/increase-hospital-beds-hire-medical-staff-punjab-government-tells-dcs-104906
27-06-2020||Bathinda||Staff protest ‘auction’ of thermal plant land in Bathinda||Members of the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) Employees’ Federation, Bathinda, today staged a protest against the state government and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal over their decision to “redevelop and auction the thermal plant land”.The protesters raised slogans and burnt effigies of the state government and Finance Minister, accusing them of closing down the state-run thermal plant to help private thermal plants in the state.They lashed out at the government for extending the date for implementing the recommendations of the pay commission. GNDTP Employees’ Union president Gursewak Singh Sidhu said: “After shutting down the thermal plant on wrong pretexts on January 1, 2018, the government has now given approval to give away 1,764 acres to PUDA.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/staff-protest-auction-of-thermal-plant-land-in-bathinda-104907
27-06-2020||Karam Prakash||MBBS interns of GMC Patiala await 6-month dues||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 26Amid the Covid crisis, MBBS interns, who are working round the clock at the Government Rajindra Hospital, have not been given their stipend.‘Risking lives but not being paid’We have been risking our lives in the Covid crisis. We have to work for over 10 hours a day during routine postings. Despite performing duties regularly, we have not been given any stipend. — An internThe interns haven’t got their dues for the past six months. They said they had been risking their lives during the Covid crisis, but had not been paid a single penny since January. An intern said, “We have to work for over 10 hours a day during routine postings. Despite performing duties regularly, we have not been given any stipend.” The interns submitted a memorandum to the principal demanding release of the stipend at the earliest.‘Issue will be resolved in a few days’There was some budget-related issue. The file pertaining to the stipend has been sent to the Finance Department. The interns will get paid in the next few days. — Dr Harjinder Singh, Principal, GMC, PatialaThey said they had already submitted all documents of their attendance as demanded by the authorities. The college authorities said the stipend was given to students at least three months after joining the internship. However, this time, there was a hike in the amount of stipend which delayed the release, they claimed.Notably, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had increased the stipend from Rs 9,000 to Rs 15,000 per month in April.Dr Harjinder Singh, Principal, Government Medical College, Patiala, said, “There was some budget-related issue which delayed the release. The file pertaining to the stipend has already been sent to the Finance Department. The interns will get the stipend in the next few days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mbbs-interns-of-gmc-patiala-await-6-month-dues-104910
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||SAD must clear stance on resolution: Congress||State Congress leaders on Friday lashed out at SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal for his “doublespeak” on the issue of a resolution on ordinances related to the farm sector passed at the all-party meeting.The leaders accused him of keeping mum when the Union Cabinet approved ordinances on agricultural reforms. His wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal is a part of the Cabinet that gave nod to the ordinances. PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar alleged the SAD chief was caught between opposing the ordinances and protecting the Cabinet berth of his wife. “He does not know whether he is supporting the anti-farmer ordinances or opposing them,” said Jakhar. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh asked Sukhbir, “Are you or are you not opposed to the resolution? Are you with the resolution, either totally or conditionally?” Pointing out that the SAD chief’s explicit support on two of the three points in the resolution was a matter of record, he said the same was duly communicated through the government statement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-must-clear-stance-on-resolution-congress-104911
27-06-2020||Mansa||Rs 25-lakh grant for martyr’s village in Mansa||The bhog ceremony of martyr sepoy Gurtej Singh (23) of the 3rd Punjab Regiment, who laid down his life during a clash with the Chinese army in the Galwan valley on June 16, was held at Birewala Dogra village in Mansa district today. The ceremony was attended by officials from the Army, district administration and political dignitaries.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar also attended the ceremony. They paid homage to the martyr and assured every possible help to the family.The Finance Minister announced Rs 25-lakh grant for the development of the village besides assuring to fulfil the demand of the martyr’s family to lay village roads and install tubewell connection.He said the government middle school in the village had been named after martyr Gurtej Singh and a library has also been established.The state had already announced Rs 50 lakh ex gratia along with a government job to the next of kin of the martyr. Kangar along with Mansa DC Mohinder Pal handed over two cheques of Rs 2.5 lakh each to the martyr’s father Virsa Singh and mother Parkash Kaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-25-lakh-grant-for-martyrs-village-in-mansa-104913
27-06-2020||---||BJP claims 383 drug deaths; Punjab govt says 220||Chandigarh, June 26On International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, the state BJP has claimed that 383 youths have died of drug overdose since the Congress government took over in March 2017. However, state government figures account for 220 deaths due to drug overdose till 2019.Vineet Joshi, senior BJP leader, said his team had record of each death and the same could be verified. “The government downplays the deaths to save its image,” he said.A senior police officer said only those cases were termed drug overdose deaths where a government lab had confirmed it after chemical examination. “Merely media reports can’t be compiled to claim a certain number of deaths,” the official said.Joshi claimed that the state government had failed to combat drug menace. He said official data on the unprecedented rush and spurt in cases at de-addiction centres and OOAT clinics in the state had exposed the claims of the government.He said 23 per cent of the total cases at these centres had come in the last three months of the lockdown. “This suggests that the availability of drugs has been checked owing to curfew, lockdown and ‘thikri pehras’ in villages which led to addicts reaching out in large numbers for treatment at these de-addiction centres,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-claims-383-drug-deaths-punjab-govt-says-220-104914
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||New Chief Secretary of Punjab supersedes 5 officers||Vini Mahajan, the wife of state DGP Dinkar Gupta, on Friday took over as the first woman Chief Secretary of the state, superseding five officers. This is perhaps the first time any power couple serves simultaneously as the Chief Secretary and the DGP of a state.A 1987-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, Vini replaces Karan Avtar Singh. She has 33 years of experience in a host of key positions in both Central and state governments. Karan Avtar Singh takes over as the Special Chief Secretary, Governance Reforms and Public Grievances. Vini has been playing a key role in the government’s response to the Covid crisis as the Chairperson, Health Sector Response and Procurement Committee.Most of the officers superseded by Vini Mahajan are scheduled to retire before 2022, when the state Assembly elections are due. By appointing her on the top position, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has ensured continuity in the state’s highest administrative hierarchy in the run-up to the elections, as the next one-and-a-half year is very crucial for the government.Her appointment also comes at a time when the corridors of power were abuzz with the removal of Karan Avtar Singh from the post after his recent face-off with Cabinet ministers on the excise policy. The ministers, led by Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, had boycotted a pre-Cabinet meeting on the excise policy after "objectionable" comments by the bureaucrat. Though the CM had hinted at allowing him to continue till his retirement on August 31, 2020, the appointment of Vini Mahajan at this time has taken many by surprise. “The move has ensured that any political intervention from the Central party high command in favour of any other officer is nullified. The new appointment will set new power equations in the Chief Minister's office," said a source.Meanwhile, Karan Avtar, who is tipped to take over as the Chairman of the Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority, proceeded on a two-month leave after handing over the charge to Mahajan. The officers superseded by the new Chief Secretary are 1984-batch officer KBS Sidhu and 1985-batch officers Arun Goel, Satish Chandra, Kalpana Mittal Baruah and C Roul. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-chief-secretary-of-punjab-supersedes-5-officers-104915
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court to work in restrictive mode in July as well||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that the justice delivery mechanism would continue to function in restrictive mode in July as well due to Covid outbreak.In an order issued on Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha’s behalf by Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry, all cases fixed or listed for hearing between June 29 and July 31 would mechanically be adjourned and the interim orders passed in the matters would remain in force till the next date of hearing.These cases would now be listed for further hearing between August 4 and October 30.Eviction benefit for NRIsThe Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that the right to recover immediate possession of a building was available to a non-resident Indian (NRI) once in his lifetime for only one building of “each category”. After exercising the right for only a part of a larger building, he could not avail the special benefit for remaining portion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-work-in-restrictive-mode-in-july-as-well-104916
27-06-2020||Ropar||Rape probe: SHO sent to police lines||Anandpur Sahib SHO Bharat Bhushan was sent to police lines today after The Tribune reported that he refused to register an FIR regarding an alleged rape of a Dalit minor. Sub-Inspector Rupinder Singh has been posted as new SHO.Meanwhile, the victim’s mother, who yesterday alleged that she was being pressured to withdraw the case, said today that she didn’t want to pursue the case anymore.She had alleged that her daughter was raped by Munish of Paharpur area on March 16 and her complaint was not registered. She had also alleged that her complaint was registered after a delay of over one month and that too only after she brought the matter to the notice of then DSP Davinder Singh.In his report, the DSP had recommended departmental action against the SHO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rape-probe-sho-sent-to-police-lines-104917
27-06-2020||Abohar||Murder case cracked, 1 held||The Sriganganagar police today claimed to have solved a nine-month-old murder case. The suspect, Ramesh Meghwal (26), was nabbed from Dhakoli in Mohali. The police tracked him through his call details.Complainant Soma Devi was living with her daughter and two sons. Ramesh, a taxi driver, used to live in the same house and wanted to marry Anuja (19), but she rejected his proposal. On September 17, 2019, while Anuja was on way to her school to collect her admit card, Ramesh offered her lift. Later, he allegedly pushed her into a canal near Mohan Pura village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/murder-case-cracked-1-held-104930
27-06-2020||Amritsar||Punjabi singer Preet Harpal apologises to Takht after row over lyrics||Punjabi singer Preet Harpal approached the Akal Takht to tender an apology over the use of some “obnoxious” words in one of his songs related to Covid.After submitting a letter to the office of the Akal Takht Secretariat, he said he inadvertently included some objectionable words about a Guru in his song for which he was repentant and volunteered to accept the mistake. “The moment I realised it after seeing comments by some viewers, I deleted the song from the social media,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-preet-harpal-apologises-to-takht-after-row-over-lyrics-104931
27-06-2020||On International Day against Drug Abuse and Illegal Trafficking||‘Fight against drug menace uphill task’: Dinkar Gupta, DGP, Punjab||The killing of drug dealer Brij Lal and his family’s involvement in the trade shows the menace has woven into the fabric of people’s life. What’s your take?Drug trade has been running in the families of a number of dealers. All family members of Brij Lal were involved in liquor and drug smuggling for decades. There were 49 cases registered against them. His wife, who was lodged in Amritsar jail, died this year. His two sons are admitted to a de-addiction centre in Tarn Taran.The CM has given us a free hand in controlling illegal liquor menace. In case anything concrete comes against suspects, they will not be sparedThe name of former DSP Jagdish Bhola indicated involvement of an international syndicate in drug smuggling. But why no arrest of any big fish so far?We arrested Ranjeet Singh, alias Cheeta, in May who was one of the key links in the drug smuggling network. The police in February seized a truck smuggling heroin from Gujarat to Amritsar at the instance of kingpin Simranjit Singh Sandhu, who was arrested in Italy by Interpol. A major narco-terrorism module was busted in January involving 75 kg heroin from Pakistan. The kingpin was Rahul Chauhan, an Army Naik posted in Bareilly. The police made a record seizure of 504 kg heroin this year.What steps are being taken to check drug menace during Covid pandemic?Reduced availability of drugs in villages and towns had led to approximately 1.3 lakh drug users joining the de-addiction programme. As per a Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment survey, the state has 12 lakh drug addicts. Only 5.41 lakh among them are enrolled for regular treatment. The remaining 6.59 lakh and 30 per cent of those who have dropped out of de-addiction centres continue to be potential buyers.Raids were conducted in various parts of the state some time ago. Why were they stopped?Cordon and Search Operations were carried out based on inputs on illegal activity from the public and the police. The drive witnessed a decent response. It will be started once things get better.Illicit liquor has been an age-old reality in the state. However, now we have cases of liquor being sold under costly brand names. What is your take?Liquor is a part of lifestyle of people in the state and buying expensive one is just a way of showing the boisterous side of their personality. People are willing to spend money in the name of show-off. However, the liquor being poured into bottles is illicit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fight-against-drug-menace-uphill-task-dinkar-gupta-dgp-punjab-104932
