27-04-2020||Patiala||Beyond the call of duty: Patiala district officials perform coronavirus positive woman’s last rites||Officials of Patiala’s district administration took it upon themselves to perform the last rites of a woman who died from coronavirus infection on Monday afternoon after a a “dom”---a caretaker at a cremation ground---refused to it.After a 63-year-old woman in Patiala’s Rajpura died from the Covid-19 on Monday afternoon, district officials said they went to the caretaker’s house.  When he refused, the officials---- District Public Relations Officer Ishwinder Grewal, APRO Hardeep Singh, Patwari Gurmukh Singh and Harpal Singh, hospital attendant Kulwinder Singh and ASI Balwinder Singh---decided to do it themselves and, with the woman’s nephew, helped collect firewood to light the funeral pyre.The woman’s family are currently at an isolation ward at Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital, where they have been since testing positive. The woman’s nephew meanwhile kept the woman’s family on video call so they could see the rites.When asked what prompted them to be perform the last rites, an official said they wanted to stand by victims and their families in “such hour of sorrow”.
27-04-2020||---||Delhi police perform ‘Parikrama’ of Bangla Sahib gurdwara to express gratitude||New Delhi, April 27As a rare gesture of respect towards the unwavering commitment of the Sikh community in the battle against Covid-19, Delhi Police on Monday performed a full-sirened ‘Parikrama’ (circumambulation) of Gurdwara Sri Bangla Sahib.This gesture comes as a token of appreciation for Sikhs who have been distributing langar to the masses and accommodating healthcare workers by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) in various gurdwaras amid the Covid-19 lockdown.This Parikrama was led by DCP, North Delhi, Eish Singhal and the convoy included 35 police vans and 60 motorcycles. DCP Singhal paid obeisance at Gurdwara Sahib and thanked DSGMC for running an incessant langar for the needy and poor while the nation is battling coronavirus and lockdown challenge.DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa thanked the Delhi Police as well as Ministry of Home Affairs and Union Home Minister Amit Shah.“This Parikrama should not be seen just as physical activity. This gesture of Delhi Police reflects respect towards the Sikh community of the whole nation. We are humbled that the tradition of langar started by Guru Nanak is now seen as the best way to serve humanity. Gurdwara Sri Bangla Sahib has served langar to nearly 50 lakh people in the last 35 days of lockdown,” he added.The Sikh community has hailed this gesture of Delhi Police and thanked both DSGMC and police for highlighting the Sewa done by Sikhs.Meanwhile, police SI Ranjeev Kumar has donated Rs 51,000 to the PM CARES COVID19 fund.
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab seeks releases of GST arrears, grant to meet revenue shortfall||Flagging the fund crunch in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh once again on Monday sought the release of GST arrears of over Rs 4,000 crore from the Centre. In a written submission to the Union government, the Punjab chief minister also demanded a grant due to meet the revenue deficit caused by the coronavirus outbreak.In a letter, he urged Union Home Minister Amit Shah to allow the opening of small shops, businesses and industries in all areas, except the containment zones, with full compliance of COVID prevention measures.The Punjab CM made the submission as only nine CMs were selected to speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video-conference on Monday.Those from other states, including Punjab, were asked to send a written submission, listing pending issues for consideration, a government release said.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has once again drew the Centre’s attention to critical needs of the state in light of the unprecedented crisis and lockdown, said the release.Among various state-related issues, the CM listed the release of Punjab’s goods and services tax (GST) arrears of Rs 4,386.37 crore, and a grant to meet the shortfall in revenue to contain COVID-19.Other pending issues cited by the CM included a bonus to farmers for staggered purchase of wheat and direct cash assistance to industrial and agricultural labourers.He reiterated the state’s demand for assistance to micro, small and medium enterprises besides power generation and distribution companies by way of interest subvention, deferment of loans and reduction in GST on coal.These issues are of paramount importance and needed immediate attention, said Singh, urging the Home Ministry to “appreciate and ensure an early action on these issues for further effective management of COVID-19 as also to provide requisite relief to all those who are adversely affected by this crisis”. The CM said a revenue grant for the next three months, with flexibility to states in spending as per local conditions, will help them tide over the acute fiscal crisis faced due to revenue shortfall. He suggested that the 15th Finance Commission should review its report for the current year as the situation has completely changed due to COVID-19. The Finance Commission should recommend devolution of funds for five years beginning from April 2021, instead of April 2020 onwards, after factoring in the impact of the pandemic, he said.Singh also urged the Centre to announce special risk insurance for police personnel and sanitary workers engaged in the fight against the virus.He sought a relief of Rs 6,000 per month for daily wagers and industrial workers.Other key demands of the state government included the payment of unemployment allowance for three months under the MGNREGA to help the rural poor; and the utilisation of the 14th Finance Commission grants by urban local bodies and panchayati raj institutions for emergency relief, including food and medicines, to the rural poor. — PTI
27-04-2020||---||Covid: IIT-Ropar, DMC Ludhiana develop aerosol containment box||Ropar, April 27In order to provide additional layer of protection from infection to health care workers (HCW) during Covid-19 pandemic, Dr Ashish Sahani from Indian Institute of Technology at Ropar along with Dr Vivek Gupta and Dr G.S. Wander from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana have developed an aerosol containment box.This box can be manufactured out of readily available material and need not to depend on material supply chains which have been snapped due to countrywide lockdown.Dr Sahani said coughing, sneezing or aerosol generating procedure in COVID-19 patients leads to spread of heavy viral load among HCWs and in spite of using PPE and taking appropriate precautions they get infected due to which higher than normal infection rate has been noted among them.Story HighlightsAn aerosol containment box that can be manufactured out of readily available materialsBox has a design that can allow it to be converted into a negative pressure chamber by connecting the vacuum from the wall-gas suppliesThe aerosol particles are passed through a micron level filter before being passed out to atmospheric air which are standard fittings in most hospital vacuumsThis box has been tested at DMCH for its aerosol containment capabilityMajor transmission of virus to them was through the respiratory route which might happen due to coughing, sneezing or aerosol generating procedure required during the treatment of these patients such as intubation, suction, accidental disconnection of ventilator circuit with endotracheal tube, non-invasive ventilation or nebulisation, he said. Ideally these patients need to be put up in negative pressure isolation rooms. But the volume of patients is too high during COVID-19 like pandemic to place them all in isolation rooms. And converting all isolation rooms and ICUs to negative pressure room was costly and difficult to be done immediately.He said the newly-developed aerosol containment box could be quickly made out of commonly available resources such as wood, thick PVC sheet, Velcro and pasting and fixing materials.This box has a design that can allow it to be converted into a negative pressure chamber by connecting the vacuum from the wall-gas supplies, readily available in most hospitals.The aerosol particles are passed through a micron level filter before being passed out to atmospheric air which are standard fittings in most hospital vacuums.He also claimed that the box has been tested at DMCH for its aerosol containment capability and patient comfort has been validated through volunteers lying with the box over their heads for more than one hour. They didn’t feel claustrophobic and their oxygen saturation levels remained normal throughout the test, he said.
27-04-2020||Batala||6-year-old boy spills beans on illegal tuition classes in Batala||A six-year-old school boy, apparently irked over his parents’ decision to force him to attend tuition classes, vented his anger by guiding the cops to houses where the lucrative business was being carried out even as all such activity has been banned during the ongoing curfew.DSP (Crime) Gurdeep Singh and his team were patrolling the area near Thathiari gate when the officer started questioning a father-son duo as to why they were roaming the streets.The father was holding the arm of his son and suddenly the latter broke away and started spilling the beans. He led the DSP to one house, then another and after two hours the police had managed to identify several houses where teachers were holding classes in violation of social distancing norms.SSP Opinderjit Singh Ghuman said the police had prepared a list of such houses, and teachers, and would book them under Section 188 IPC (disobeying government orders).“This is a serious offence,” he said.“I was patrolling the street when I saw a boy and his father. When I questioned the latter, he said they were going to buy groceries. However, I noticed the son was feeling a bit uneasy. Suddenly, he yanked his father’s arm, broke free, and told us that his father was bringing him back home after he had attended a tuition class in the adjoining street. When I asked him where was the house where he went to take tuitions, he calmly guided us there. Not only this, he also told us that he knew many other houses where such activity was taking place,” said the DSP.SSP Ghuman added that normally these classes were held in crowded rooms where nobody wore masks.“This, in itself, is an infringement of curfew rules,” he said.“Even social distancing rules are not followed. On the one hand we are making fervent appeals asking residents to stay indoors while on the other hand some unscrupulous people are taking undue advantage of the situation by clandestinely holding classes. We have drawn up lists and will book the offenders soon,” he added.The tuition business is quite lucrative in the city.Among all cities of Gurdaspur district, Batala plays host to the maximum number of schools.Word soon spread to the neighbouring towns of Dera Baba Nanak, Fatehgarh Churian, Qadian, Naushera Majha Singh and Gurdaspur where teachers, fearing reprisals from the cops, were quick to wind up classes.
27-04-2020||New Delhi||22.17 per cent COVID-19 patients have recovered: Health Ministry||A total of 6,184 COVID-19 patients have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate in the country to 22.17 per cent, the Health Ministry said on Monday.here has been a rise of 1,396 cases since Sunday morning, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases to 27,892 in India, the ministry said.According to Health Ministry data, the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the country stood at 872.Addressing a press briefing, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said 16 districts which earlier had positive cases have not reported any new case of COVID-19 in the last 28 days.Punjab’s SBS Nagar and Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit reported new COVID-19 cases after remaining in green zone and free of new infections for 28 days, the health ministry said on Monday.A total of 85 districts in 25 states and UTs have not reported any fresh case in the last 14 days, Agarwal said.He further urged people to ensure that no community or area should be blamed for the spread of the virus and healthcare and sanitation workers should not be attacked as they are helping in bringing the crisis under control.At the briefing, empowered group-5 chairperson Param Iyer said cooked meals are being served to 1.5 crore people daily by the government, NGOs and industry as per data available on April 25.SBS Nagar, which formerly went by the name Nawanshahr district, was first district in Punjab to report a coronavirus case and was considered a hotspot for some time. It recently reported a new coronavirus case after going almost a month without reporting new infections.
27-04-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||SI Harjeet Singh recovering, hand has started to regain movement: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday shared a video of Sub-Inspector Harjeet Singh, who is recovering at PGIMER in Chandigarh after his hand was dismembered by 'Nihangs' earlier this month.Read: Punjab Police launch #mainbhiHarjeetSingh campaign on social mediaIn his tweet, the chief minister said: "It has been 2 weeks since SI Harjeet Singh's hand was operated upon in PGI. I am extremely happy to share that he is recovering well & that his hand has started to regain movement. Sharing this video of braveheart Harjeet Singh with you all."It has been 2 weeks since SI Harjeet Singh's hand was operated upon in PGI. I am extremely happy to share that he is recovering well & that his hand has started to regain movement. Sharing this video of braveheart Harjeet Singh with you all. pic.twitter.com/5PD4JyyvdS  Shortly after the shocking clash with the 'Nihangs', a team of doctors at PGIMER had managed to successfully re-implant his left hand after a nearly eight-hour surgery.In the video, the sub-inspector can be seen in high spirits as he responded to questions about his health. The 50-year-old managed to slightly move the fingers of his injured hand.Singh was promoted to the rank of Sub Inspector (SI) in recognition of his exemplary courage.
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab death toll rises to 19; case count 330||A 63-year-old woman who was suffering from coronavirus died at the Rajindra Hospital in Patiala on Monday, taking the death toll in Punjab to 19.With eight new cases — five from Tarn Taran and three from Kapurthala, the total count rose to 330.Kapurthala district lost 'corona-free' tag after three people who returned from Nanded tested positive for the virus, at Phgawara.Punjab Special Chief Secretary KBS Sidhu said that the deceased was the only symptomatic and primary COVID-19 patient in Rajpura. The woman passed away at 12:15 PM. Her funeral will take place in Rajpura later this evening, said Sidhu. Rajpura/Patiala:1 Covid patient dies.Smt. Kamlesh Rani, F/63, the only symptomatic primary Covid positive patient from Rajpura, today expired and Rajindra Hospital Patiala at 12:15 PM.Her cremation will take place in Rajpura later this evening.￼  Patiala district has witnessed a surge of cases in the past few weeks, taking the total of those infected by the deadly disease to 61 in the district. However, this is the first COVID death in the district. The doctors at the Rajindra hospital said that the woman had been on ventilator support since her admission to the hospital. The hospital authorities said that the body had already been shifted—with all safety measures—from the isolation ward to her hometown.All the family members of the woman had tested positive for coronavirus and have been admitted into the isolation ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital.
27-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab hospitality sector in crisis, writes to PM||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 27With the hospitality and tourism sectors hit hard by the Covid-19 crisis, the Punjab Hotel, Restaurant and Resort Association has written a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) seeking help in mitigating the financial losses.“The Punjab hospitality industry has never been hit this hard, it is fighting for its survival,” Satish Arora, Punjab Hotel, Restaurant and Resort Association president, said.Arora claimed that around 5,000 small, medium and large hotels and restaurants, including national and international chains, had suffered losses of around Rs 1000 crore in the state due to the recent lockdown.He said that the association had written to PMO to take concrete steps at the earliest to help and rescue hospitality sector. He added that the association also demanded that the government should defer payment of electricity, water and sanitation charges by six months, and other fee such as license fee and property tax.
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police launch #mainbhiHarjeetSingh campaign on social media||Punjab police on Monday launched a #mainbhiHarjeetSingh campaign on social media to highlight the bravery and calmness of ASI Harjeet Singh in the face of adversity. Singh’s hand was chopped off by Nihangs earlier this month. Police officials led by DGP Dinkar Gupta would wear a badge of his name on Monday and post it on social media.The social media campaign was launched at 10 am.Let’s show everyone that any attack on policemen & doctors, fighting COVID-19 on the frontlines,like SI Harjeet Singh, will unite India together as One.In solidarity with SI Harjeet& all warriors, I urge you all to wear his name proudly on your chests today.#MainBhiHarjeetSingh pic.twitter.com/lar3AAhXrF  In a press release, Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta described the steps to participate in the “solidarity initiative”.“1. Please write Harjeet’s name on a placard or say it in any other innovative way conveying ‘#MainBhiHarjeetSingh’ and ‘#MainBhiPunjabPolice’ and post a picture or a video and upload it on your Facebook page/Twitter account/Instagram page with the hashtag #MainBhiHarjeetSingh and #MainBhiPunjabPolice and tag Punjab Police and PGI.#HaryanaPolice showing gratitude for Hero of Police - #HarjeetSingh by wearing his name on call of @DGPPunjabPolice Every police official is taking inspiration and oath to discharge duty without fear like him.@police_haryana @rewaripolice #MaiBhiHarjeetSingh pic.twitter.com/UxZqxfOfiu  2.   Please ask all your family, friends and associates to do the same.3.   Please also WhatsApp your pictures/videos to all friends and family so that they too can forward yours and their pictures in support of #MainBhiHarjeetSingh.”Gupta also penned a letter in support of the campaign:“SI Harjeet Singh has emerged as the symbol of the nation’s fight against COVID-19. The battle is being led on the frontline by policemen and healthcare professionals, who have unfortunately been attacked by people in many places across the country.After the unfortunate episode of Harjeet’s hand being dismembered, all the frontline warriors have united in a demonstration of solidarity and support to each other: to convey a clear message - don’t attack policemen, the ‘protectors’; and doctors, the ‘saviours’.Harjeet symbolizes two top attributes of a good cop: being calm (not meeting violence with violence or tit for tat), and courage in the face of fire. Therefore, starting Monday, April 27, 2020, at 10 am, we will flag off a unique initiative #MainBhiHarjeetSingh across social media. That morning, I will personally change my name on my badge to ‘Harjeet Singh’ for the whole day.You are requested to join in to support and encourage all the frontline warriors fighting COVID-19 in different parts of the country. Please refer to the next message for more details!” the officer said in the letter.
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Langar passes being misused  in Rajpura to hold hookah parties: Phoolka||In a letter to the Chief Minister, Phoolka said though an FIR had been registered against four persons, stringent action should be taken against them to set an example that no one should violate the law. TNS
27-04-2020||Patiala||On way to bring back devotees from Hazur Sahib, driver dies||
27-04-2020||Muktsar||Badal turns tech savvy||Striking the right chordFatehgarh Sahib: Assistant Sub-Inspector Charanjit Singh has been creating awareness about coronavirus among the public by singing songs. He appeals to the people to stay at home and stay safe. His songs are catchy and melodious that attract the attention of the people. The ASI tells people to practise social distance as suggested by the administration. He says it is challenging time for the police force. SSP Amneet Kondal has appreciated his talent and encouraged him to continue his campaign.Birthday surprise by copsFazilka: Sejal, who turned nine on Sunday, was in for a pleasant surprise when she saw social activists and a team of the police, led by Fazilka DSP Jagdish Kumar, outside house with a cake. “We thought of this gesture since people are facing a tough time amid lockdown. Big celebrations aren’t possible these days so a small gesture like this is sure to lift their morale,” said the DSP. Sejal’s father Pankaj Narang is a social activist, who has been distributing ration among the poor.
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police nab Hizbul activist||The Punjab Police have arrested a Hizbul Mujahideen activist carrying Indian currency worth Rs 29 lakh. DGP Dinkar Gupta said Hilal Ahmed Wagay of Naugam in Anantnag district of Kashmir was nabbed by a team of the Amritsar Commissionerate while on patrol late Sunday evening. A case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act has been registered.
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Sanitisation drive via drones||Central varsity creates Covid portalBathinda: The Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, launched a unique Covid-19 information portal. The portal would provide authentic information and sources available for references, research and common understanding of the disease. It will provide exclusive information to scientists, medical practitioners, administrators, mediapersons, bureaucrats and diplomats. TNSProbe illicit liquor unit case: AAPChandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded a high-level probe into the unearthing of a spurious liquor factory at Khanna's Bahomajra village. In a statement, Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema alleged that illicit liquor business of this scale was not possible without the patronage of police and politicians. He urged the Congress government to probe the matter in the interest of Punjab and expose the liquor mafia. TNS
27-04-2020||---||Despite curfew, increase in theft cases in Muktsar dist||‘ MAINTAINING VIGIL’The police are on round-the-clock duty, but some miscreants manage to give them the slip. We have held some flag marches and instructed SHOs to keep an eye on every suspicious person in their respective areas.Gurmail Singh, SP (Headquarters)Muktsar, April 26The district has seen a spurt in theft cases amid the lockdown. This month, 21 cases of theft and snatching were reported in the district and that too when every nook and corner has police presence.Recently, thieves struck at 10 shops, located 150 m away from the Muktsar (City) police station. The police later arrested two persons. Shopkeepers said the theft came to light when one of them went to check the stock and found the shops ransacked. On April 22, a motorcycle-borne youth snatched a bag containing Rs 57,000 from a 72-year-old man, who was returning home after withdrawing his wife’’s pension in Malout town.On April 2, a car was stolen from Gidderbaha, while thieves had fled with goods worth Rs 3.2 lakh from a house at Mandi Killianwali on April 3.An attempt to snatch a mobile phone was made in Muktsar town on April 5. Goods worth Rs 12,000 were stolen from an anganwadi centre at Jhorar village on April 6 and 10 shops were ransacked in Muktsar on April 8.Not only this, wheat crop was harvested by someone else at Gilzewala village on April 19, goods worth Rs 6,000 were stolen from Government Primary School at Kuraiwala village on April 21, a resident’’s gold chain was snatched at Marh Mallu village on April 21, Rs 3,000 were stolen from a man’s pocket in Muktsar on April 22, Rs 57,000 were snatched from an elderly man in Malout town on April 22 and two shops were burgled in Muktsar on April 23.Gurmail Singh, SP (Headquarters), Muktsar, said, “The police are on round-the-clock duty, but some miscreants manage to give them the slip. We have held some flag marches, instructed SHOs to keep an eye on every suspicious person in their respective areas. Besides, those roaming aimlessly are questioned. Action has been taken against a number of such people.”
27-04-2020||---||Stopped from playing PUBG, teen ends life||Patiala, April 26The body of a 13-year-old boy was recovered from the Bhakra canal near Shutrana here on Sunday afternoon. The police claim that the boy committed suicide after his parents stopped him from playing mobile games. The victim, identified as Aryan, a student of Class VIII, had gone missing from his house on April 20.His father Lal Chand of Bharat Nagar had filed a complaint with Model Town police post. Ronie Singh, in charge of the post, said, “The father complained that his son went missing after they scolded him for playing PUBG the entire day.”He said, “CCTV footage taken from near his house revealed that he had gone on foot towards the canal on April 20 and divers had been searching for him ever since.”His body was finally recovered today. “We informed his parents, who have identified him. The body has sent to hospital for a post-mortem examination to ascertain the cause of death,” he added.
27-04-2020||Tribune Reporters---||Spike in positive cases in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 26 With nine more positive cases in Jalandhar, the district tally has risen to 78. Three persons, including a deceased, were confirmed Covid-19 positive in Jalandhar late last night. An additional nine were confirmed positive late this evening. Five of the nine are among the contacts of the media house, while the source of the remaining is being ascertained. Late evening developments in the district have been a regular feature for the past week, sometimes adding to the confusion. Health teams have placed Basti Gujan among other areas under the contamination plan and placed under quarantine 35 employees of a private hospital, who treated a Covid-19 victim. Kapurthala Covid-free: DC Phagwara: Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal on Sunday said Kapurthala district was Covid-free as the only positive patient, a Lovely Professional University (LPU) student, was discharged from hospital on Saturday after she tested negative for the virus. Congress MLA Rana Gurjit Singh along with Civil Surgeon Dr Jasmeet Bawa were present when the patient was discharged. The MLA interacted with hospital staff and got photographs clicked with the LPU student. He among BJP’s Vijay Sampla had lodged a complaint against the LPU for “hiding” student’s information.
27-04-2020||Bathinda/Amritsar||Stranded pilgrims return from Hazur Sahib||A group of pilgrims from Hazur Sahib, Nanded, reached Punjab today. The pilgrims had gone to Hazur Sahib in March and were stuck there due to the lockdown.Eight buses reached the state of which seven came to Bathinda and one through Abohar in Fazilka. The administration conducted the medical check-up of the pilgrims and they were given snacks, water, masks and sanitisers.Meanwhile, another bus with 41 pilgrims reached Amritsar today. Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said after a medical check-up, all were found to be asymptomatic but were recommended to stay in 14-day home quarantine as a precautionary measure. Baljinder Singh and Tarsem Singh, who belong to Amritsar and Jandiala Guru, respectively, and came back in the bus, said, “We started the journey at 8.15 pm from the Nanded gurdwara yesterday. We had medical certificates issued by the Nanded medical authorities. Still, we were ready for a medical test here and were asked to go under home quarantine,” they said. — TNS
27-04-2020||---||Truck ferrying 72 labourers seized in Bathinda||Bathinda, April 26The police intercepted a truck illegally ferrying 72 Punjabi labourers on their way to Ludhiana from Gwalior (Madhya Pradesh) on Sunday. The truck was intercepted on the Bathinda-Amritsar highway here. The labourers were sent to a quarantine camp.The truck driver, identified as Jagdish Singh from Madhya Pradesh, was arrested on the charge of violating the lockdown guidelines and trying to smuggle the labourers. He reportedly dropped many persons en route. The truck owner, Jagmal Singh, has also been booked. During the interrogation, the driver reportedly claimed that the truck owner had directed him to ferry labourers from Madhya Pradesh and drop them at Ludhiana. Bathinda City DSP Gurjit Singh Romana said, “The Punjabi labourers had gone to Gwalior for some work. As the lockdown was imposed, they got struck there.”The police had traced the persons, who the truck driver dropped on the way to Bathinda, he said.In another incident, the police have booked a man from the district’s Akalia Jalal village, for escaping from a quarantine centre by scaling a wall on Thursday night. The accused, identified as Ranjit Singh, was later arrested and booked under Sections 188, 269, 271 and 506 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.The case was registered on a complaint by village sarpanch Lakhvir Singh. He said 18 persons had gone to Madhya Pradesh for agricultural work during the lockdown. On their return, they were examined and put under quarantine in a school. On the night of April 23, one of them Ranjit Singh fled from by scaling a wall.
27-04-2020||Vishav Bharti||Punjab lags in testing, 3,500 samples pending||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26The government-run Covid-19 testing laboratories seem to be overworked as the reports of nearly 3,500 samples are pending in the state.There are three government-run laboratories, located in each of the three government medical colleges in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot. All three together has the capacity to process 1,200 samples, if these operate round the clock.As per the government’s media bulletin for the past two days, results of over 3,500 samples are pending. The number has gone up by 15 times in one week. It was just 245 on April 20 and increased to 335 on April 21, 530 the next day and swelled to 3,569 on April 25.Officials of the Health Department in various districts reveal that the laboratories are now rejecting samples on flimsy ground. Sources claim on Sunday alone over 600 samples were sent back to various districts on the pretext of small mistakes accompanying forms. The sources say that there are even instances when a complete lot of samples was turned down only because there was error in some of the forms.So far in the past almost two months, the state-run laboratories have conducted 14,317 tests. Punjab is far behind Haryana in testing. The state has done 35 per cent less tests than Haryana. The neighboring state has tested a total of 21,467 samples so far and the reports of only about 1,930 samples were awaited.DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Meanwhile, the state reported 14 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. With this, the count has reached 322. According to the media bulletin, 12 new cases were reported from Jalandhar, one each from SBS Nagar and Ludhiana. In Jalandhar, which is now the worst affected district in the state, the 12 patients included a 48-year-old migrant originally from Maharashtra, who died due to complications related to Covid-19.The others comprise a mediaperson (60) of Bhagat Singh Colony and another relative (37) of three persons who had earlier tested positive. Besides the three cases mentioned in state’s official bulletin, nine more cases were reported from Jalandhar, taking the total count of the district to 78.
27-04-2020||---||Shut in peak season, air cooler industry feels heat||Bathinda, April 26The air cooler manufacturing industry in the region is on a precarious footing after the lockdown was imposed in the wake of Covid-19.The manufacturers in Bathinda, which is the hub of air cooler manufacturing in the region, said they had already suffered huge losses after remaining shut for 25 days during the peak season and now with every passing day, they could do nothing but stare at mounting losses. They said the government must allow manufacturing and selling of coolers so that the losses could be mitigated to some extent.Notably, there are 88 small and large-scale cooler manufacturing firms and 22 others which make parts of coolers in Bathinda. They supply goods to Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. The peak season for selling coolers begins in March and continues till May-end.Manufacturers said they had not witnessed a complete shutdown of operations like this in the past 40 years.Talking to The Tribune, Anil Goyal, president of the Malwa Cooler Association, said, “It is high time the government gives us permission to resume manufacturing and selling as we have already missed out on crucial few weeks during the peak season. If the government fails to do so, the cooler industry is set to hit the lowest ebb in decades and there is a possibility that many of us may shut our operations permanently.”As per records available with the association, the livelihood of more than 6,000 workers depends on the industry.“The cooler is a necessity and not a luxurious item like air-conditioners which everyone cannot afford. People living in slums also buy coolers to protect themselves from scorching heat in the summer season,” said Ankit, a cooler manufacturer in the city.
27-04-2020||Amritsar||Government yet to take call on Hemkund Sahib yatra||With Covid-19 outbreak, uncertainty surrounds the pilgrimage to Hemkund Sahib.Though the Hemkund Sahib Trust had announced to open the doors of the shrine on June 1, given the present scenario, chances are bleak that it would happen, sources said.The hurdles include restriction on the movement of the people across the country and 15-18 ft thick layer of snow covering the 4-km “astha path” leading to the shrine.Trust vice-chairperson Narinder Pal Singh Bindra said the reopening of the shrine would have to be pushed beyond June 1 and the fresh dates would be announced only after reviewing the situation.“Nothing can be decided till the situation returns to normal. It was proposed to start the work of clearing the track, but it could not happen till May 3,” he said.Hemkund Sahib is located at an altitude of 15,000 ft in Uttarakhand. The yatra is done in summers.Gurdwara Gobind Ghat manager Sewa Singh said usually Army men with the assistance of gurdwara employees and devotees cleared the track for the devotees in May. “Under prevailing circumstances, this task could not be taken up,” he said. — TNS
27-04-2020||Chandigarh||Government: Keep premises ventilated to limit risk of Covid||In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the state government today said the best action to limit the risk of spread of infection through air was to ventilate the indoor environments with outdoor air as much as possible.An official spokesperson said in residences, recirculation of cool air by room air-conditioners must be accompanied by outdoor air intake through slightly opened windows and exhaust fans.The room temperature should be set between 24 and 27 degrees Celsius and the relative humidity should be maintained between 40 per cent and 70 per cent. The circulated air inside the room should be vented out frequently.Talking about the evaporative/desert air cooler, he said that it was advisable to prevent dust entry and maintain hygiene. Evaporative cooler tanks must be cleaned and disinfected and the water drained and refilled frequently. — TNS
27-04-2020||Bathinda||FM, Union Secy in Twitter war||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Sunday had a Twitter spat with the Additional Private Secretary of the Ministry of Finance And Corporate, Astik Sinha, over Central grants to the state.The incident happened when veteran journalist Rajdeep Sardesai, after his discussion with Manpreet Singh Badal on his live show, posted on Twitter, “Punjab Finance Minister claims the state has just got Rs71 crore from the Centre to fight Covid. Rs71crore!! That’s crazy.”To this, Astik Sinha commented on his Twitter handle, “Fact check: Punjab received Rs638.25 crore post-devolution revenue-deficit grant, Rs247.50 crore as first instalment of Central share, SDRM fund of Rs823.16 crore and Rs1.2 lakh crore GST compensation.”Manpreet again posted, “Repeat: Punjab has received only Rs71 crore from the Centre to combat Covid-19.” — TNS
27-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Expecting surge in demand, dealers hoard bricks||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26Expecting a surge in demand and hike in prices of construction material post lockdown, dealers have started hoarding bricks.Lakhwinder Singh, District Food Civil Supplies Controller, said four construction material shops had been issued show-cause notices to submit documents for storing bricks.A firm was found storing 28,000 pieces, while three others had stocked 18,000, 6,000 and 2,500 bricks. He added that these bricks were supplied from Fazilka and Ferozepur.The Punjab Control of Brick Supplies, Price and Distribution Control Order, 1998, prohibits resale of bricks out of kilns, which can sell these to customers only.Mukesh Nanda, general secretary of the Punjab Brick Kilns Owners’ Association said transportation of bricks could spread the virus.After the state government allowed the manufacturing of bricks at kilns, their expenditure was the same, but income had stalled.If bricks are bought from outside, it will damage the business prospects of local brick manufacturers.He said: “It takes about Rs70,000 to operate a brick kiln a day. There are about 2,800 brick kilns in the state and between five lakh and eight lakh workers are employed in these.”
27-04-2020||New Delhi||Railways starts ops at RCF in Kapurthala||The Railways have restarted production at the Rail Coach Factory (RCF) at Kapurthala (Punjab) after 28 days. The work was suspended because of nationwide lockdown, which was clamped on April 23 on account of the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.In less than two days, the RCF produced an LHB high-capacity parcel van and a luggage-cum-generator coach. The LHB parcel vans are attached with Rajdhani and Shatabdi trains.In all, 3,744 employees have been permitted to join duty. They are residing on the RCF premises. The employees have received a safety kit, comprising a mask, a bottle of sanitiser and soap.Hands-free liquid soap dispenser and washbasins have been installed on the shop floor, the Railways said. — TNS
27-04-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Rain hits wheat quality; Punjab may miss procurement target||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26With wheat grain shrivelled at many places because of untimely rains, its procurement could be less than the target of 135 lakh metric tonnes (LMT).The produce arrived in many mandis of Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib and Mohali has been found to be shrivelled, which could lead to a fall in procurement by 5-10 LMT. A central team of analysts that undertook a tour of the rain-affected areas last week has submitted its report, saying that the percentage of shrivelled grain in these three districts vary between 15 and 30 per cent.Official sources in the Food and Civil Supplies Department say up to 6 per cent of shrivelled grain is permissible for procurement at the MSP. This time, because of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre could make some relaxation without imposing a value cut. “The issue is to be decided by the Centre in a day or so,” said KAP Sinha, Principal Secretary, Food and Supplies.Last year, a value cut of Rs 4.60 per quintal was imposed on wheat procured in six districts after untimely rains led to shrivelling of grain.Meanwhile, with over 49.36 LMT wheat arrivals in state mandis till this evening, there is a glut-like situation. This is not just because of the shortage of labour, but also because the initial shortage of gunny bagsSinha said, “Traditionally, the state government builds a capacity of lifting a maximum of 6 LMT of grain a day. On an average, 6.5 LMT of wheat is arriving. We do not have the specialised labour this time because of the lockdown.” He, however, claimed that they were building the capacity to lift and transport the grain faster.He also admitted that there was a shortage of gunny bags, as jute mills in West Bengal were shut. “We have now allowed one-time used bags. This process has started and soon the crop will be stored and lifted,” he said.Relax purchasing norms, says BKUMoga: Untimely rain here on Sunday drenched thousands of bags of wheat in the local grain market and those in the adjoining areas, adding to the miseries of farmers. Farmers said the shortage of tarpaulin at the local market was the main reason for the bags getting drenched. Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, general secretary of the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), said: “The state government must allow relaxation in procurement norms.” TNS
27-04-2020||---||Create jobs, upgrade health system: MLAs||Chandigarh, April 26As the Punjab Government has appointed a high-level committee under economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia to develop a medium-to-long-term recovery strategy for the state in light of the economic impact of Covid-19, Congress leaders and MLAs have urged the state government to prioritise generating jobs and upgrading health infrastructure once the lockdown is lifted.‘LESSONS LEARNT’The battle against the virus has taught us several lessons in disaster management. I will request Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to build health and nursing institutes in each segment.Fateh Jang Bajwa, Qadian MLAPPCC chief Sunil Jakhar said the top priority should be generating livelihood for people. “Wheat harvesting and procurement will ensure money in the pockets of farmers. That is one job done. The other priority is to create livelihood in urban areas and the industrial sector,” the PPCC chief said, adding another priority should be setting up two well-equipped hospitals in each district, ensuring adequate number of ventilators.He said though Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was doing his best, absence of financial help from the Centre was discouraging.Qadian MLA Fateh Jang Bajwa said the strongly fought battle against the virus had taught us several lessons in disaster management. “I would request the CM to build health and nursing institutes in each constituency,” Bajwa said.Jalandhar (West) MLA Sushil Rinku said Covid-19 had helped the state understand loopholes in health infrastructure. Party leaders want the government to go for graded lifting of curfew in green zones.
27-04-2020||Sameer Singh||Losses mounting, no infra to house workers: Industry||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 26Owners of small and medium scale industrial units are finding themselves in a quandary as a majority of them do not have the required infrastructure and resources for in-house accommodation of workers as mandated by the government in the wake of Covid-19.‘CAN'T VEAR EXTRA COST’I cannot afford the additional cost on the accommodation and transportation of workers, especially at this juncture… Not a single case has been reported in Bathinda. The government should give relaxation to the industry.Raman Watts, IndustrialistIndustrialists have sought relaxations from the government saying neither they had the infrastructure nor they could afford to comply with conditions laid down by the government.MSME owners in Bathinda said unlike big corporates, they had limited resources and low budgets. Talking to The Tribune, Raman Watts, one of the industrialists, said: “I cannot afford to bear additional costs of in-house accommodation and transportation of workers, especially at this juncture. Moreover, a majority of small and medium scale manufacturing units in Bathinda do not have adequate infrastructure or space and stuffing workers inside factories will again compromise the precautionary measure of social distancing. Not even a single positive case of Covid has been reported in Bathinda. The government and administrative machinery could have given relaxations to industry to resume its operations.”Another industrialist from a transformer-manufacturing firm said, “With permission for only 50 per cent workforce, we will not be able to maintain production flow which will result in increased costs. Also, providing medical insurance for employees will add to the expenses.”There are more than 227 small, micro and medium scale units whose owners submitted a representation to the state government to intervene in the matter and provide a viable solution.The industrialists met Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and demanded a solution to the problem. Badal assured them of taking up the matter during the Cabinet meeting scheduled on April 29.
27-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||Inderjit, a Khalsa Aid volunteer who lived to help others||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 26On April 20, 2020, a 25-year-old Khalsa Aid volunteer died in a road accident at Bajakhana village.He was on his way to give PPE kits to doctors fighting Covid-19. The same volunteer was providing relief to the flood affected here a year ago. When Khalsa Aid volunteers camped in Jalandhar for over a month during the 2019 Punjab floods, Inderjit Singh was at the forefront in the relief operations in countless villages across Nakodar and Shahkot. Touching lives across Kashmir, Orissa, Punjab and Kerala among other places, his death has left countless people heartbroken.Whenever Inder was sent on a mission, his passion and energy were contagious. He went on back-to-back missions since 2019. He started from Assam, then Kerala, Orissa, Maharashtra, Punjab, again Kerala, Indore and finally Delhi riots last month. He made friends everywhere he went. From little children to elderly, he made a fan base across age groups. Wherever he went, he made a new family. A family that he protected and cared for. - Nazia, a fellow Khalsa Aid volunteerWhile colleagues rue the loss of a kind and passionate worker who turned things around during adversity, social media was also flooded with messages expressing gratitude to him from those who were helped by him.The Tribune had also published his interview in September last year in which he constantly raised concerns not only about providing ration or relief to the flood hit but also the disappointment about the dreams that many had lost due to the natural calamity. A service engineer by profession hailing from Dehradun, Inderjit was among the first two persons from Dehradun to voluntarily join the Khalsa Aid relief team, eventually leading to many following suit.He was also part of the team that came to the safety of Kashmiri students in distress in Dehradun after the Pulwama attacks and extending monetary help and recourse to those trying to reach their families after the abrogation of Article 370.His colleague Nazia, who also works with Khalsa Aid and accompanied him during the flood relief operations, said: "Whenever he called from the field, his voice had an extra energy and hope that even his darkest and most difficult days in field sounded like our mission would be successful. He used to video call from Orissa and make us talk to little friends he made in the community. They were in awe of him, literally. Despite language barriers, he would manage to crack jokes with the host community with ease."Nazia said Inderjeet was fond of dressing in choicest of clothes and known for going the extra mile. During the Nakodar flood relief operations, he kept working for a week without seeing a doctor amid knee pain so that the relief work would not suffer. He also accompanied an all-woman team of Khalsa Aid during a mission to provide relief to women stuck in flood-hit areas.Inderjeet Singh while speaking at a Khalsa Aid warehouse in Malsian on September 1, 2019, had said: "There are many people who lost livelihoods, homes and cattle due to floods. At Mandala Channa, a man who was banking on his agricultural produce this year to finally fulfill his dream of building a house lost all his crops. At Khaira Majha in Ropar, a man, who incurred huge losses during the Partition and in the 1988 floods, lost his house again this year. Some of them lost all their earnings and hopes too. Along with losses of money and property, they have lost dreams too. We are making detailed assessments on the basis of which aid would be provided."The J&K Students Association also rued the loss by tweeting: "Veerji's loss has left an indescribable void which we can never overcome. His loss really left a big void which world can never forget. We all remember and memorise movements of life spent in his company with love, affection, respect and peace."
