27-05-2020||Ludhiana||Seed store owners booked for selling 'spurious' seeds in Ludhiana||A few days ago, the Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department Punjab had conducted a raid on the premises of Brar Seed Store located opposite Gate No 1 of Punjab Agricultural University, here.The officials had confiscated seed samples, bill books and other documents, after which an FIR was registered by the police.The Vigilance Bureau has now started investigating this matter and SSP, VB, Ludhiana, Rupinder Singh on Wednesday held a meeting with Chief Agriculture Officer Narinder Singh Benipal at his office, here.It is pertinent to mention that several farmers’ organisations were complaining that the owners of Brar Seed Store were selling spurious seeds to the farmers and that too at high rates.A farmer had also submitted a written complaint in this regard to the deputy commissioner stating that he was sold PR 128 seed at Rs 200 per kg.Following this complaint, the deputy commissioner had directed the chief agriculture officer, Ludhiana, to take action in this regard and the team of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department had conducted a raid and took samples of PR 128, 129 varieties, a large quantity of filled bill books and samples of all other seed varieties found in the shop.The police also registered a case under section 420 of IPC.During the meeting, Rupinder Singh deputed his department officials to investigate the matter thoroughly. He said that this particular seed of paddy can only be sold by Punjab Agricultural University and no private seed store can sell it.
27-05-2020||Patiala||GMC Patiala begins the process of plasma therapy||Government Medical College, Patiala, has started the process of the Convalescent Plasma Therapy for critical COVID-19 patients. In the therapy, plasma (a component of blood) of patients — who have already recovered from COVID-19 — is used to treat moderately severe COVID-19 patients. Notably, a few weeks ago Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had given its nod to Punjab Government to conduct the trial of this therapy. The process of drawing the plasma was conducted under the guidance of Dr RPS Sibiu, Professor & Head, Department of Medicine, and Dr Rajni Bassi, Transfusion Medicine Specialist.It is pertinent to mention that this procedure is being done for the first time in the state. Dr RPS Sibia said, “The aim of the procedure is to assess the safety and efficacy of Convalescent Plasma Therapy.” Talking about today’s procedure, he said that they drew the plasma from a fully recovered COVID-19 patient — who had got his treatment at Rajindra Hospital.“First, we had to motivate him (donor) to donate his plasma for this trial. We told him ‘it is safe to donate the plasma’,” said Sibia.Sibia further said, “Currently, there is no critical COVID patient at Rajindra. However, the collected plasma can be used to treat the COVID patient at any of the selected institution to carry out the therapy by the ICMR.”Dr Rajni Bassi told that plasma had been drawn as per the stipulated protocol and would be stored at minus 80 degree C which would be used to treat moderately sick COVID-19 patients. She hoped that the use of convalescent plasma would improve the clinical outcomes in COVID-19 patients with moderate disease.She said, “Currently, we (GMC Patiala) are the first one to start the process of plasma therapy out of the selected institutes in the state.”
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM to decide on lockdown extension on May 30||The Punjab government will decide on the future course of action with respect to the lockdown in the state on May 30.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will chair a review meeting with the departments concerned on the overall Covid situation in the state on May 30, and announce the government's decision on lifting or further extension of lockdown thereafter.Disclosing this on Wednesday after the Cabinet meeting, an official spokesperson said the Cabinet decided that the decision should be taken after on-ground assessment of the situation a couple of days before the current lockdown is due to end.Any decision on extension, with or without relaxations, will be taken after the review meeting.Meanwhile, the Cabinet complimented the Food and Civil Supplies Department for ensuring seamless procurement of wheat, especially amid the trying COVID-19 and lockdown situation.The Cabinet also placed on record its appreciation for Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for successfully accomplishing the gigantic task of wheat procurement in nearly 4,000 mandis across the state while strictly adhering to the health and social distancing protocols for the safety and of all stakeholders.As of May 26, a total of 126.80 lakh tonnes of wheat had been procured by various agencies, of which 123.64 lakh tonnes had been lifted and payment to the tune of Rs 21,004.68 crore made so far to the farmers.IANS
27-05-2020||---||‘Paatal Lok’: Delhi BJP Sikh cell lodges complaint against Anushka Sharma||New Delhi, May 27The Sikh Cell of the Delhi BJP has lodged a complaint against Bollywood actor Anushka Sharma for allegedly “hurting religious sentiments of Hindus and Sikhs” in the web series ‘Paatal Lok’ of which she is a producer. Also read: DSGMC objects to depiction of Sikhs in ‘Paatal Lok’ seriesAccording to co-convener of the Sikh Cell, Jaspreet Singh Matta, a complaint has also been lodged with the National Minorities Commission.“The matter is related to hurting religious sentiments of Hindus and Sikh Community. Very controversial scenes were shown in some episodes of ‘Paatal Lok’ recently aired on Amazon Prime. A Sikh man is shown raping a woman while an ‘amritdhari’ Sikh watched as a mute spectator and in another a ‘pandit’ is shown cooking meat (non-vegetarian) in a temple and a Hindu having it within its premises. Several Sikh brothers reached out to me saying the image of the community has been harmed by the makers of the series,” he said also requesting Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar to intervene and take action.Matta said he has filed a complaint against Sharma in the Mukherjee Nagar police station and also spoken to Manjit Singh Rai, deputy chairman of the National Minorities Commission, who has assured him of “appropriate action according to law”.
27-05-2020||---||33 fresh cases, Punjab Covid count rises to 2,139||Chandigarh, May 27After a lull of a few days, Punjab has again witnessed a spike in COVID-19 cases. With 33 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, the total has reached 2,139.As per the media bulletin released, 16 cases were reported from Amritsar, followed by Patiala with seven cases, two each Sangrur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran and one new case each from Gurdaspur Pathankot, Barnala and Ludhiana. In a single-day spike, the Amritsar has reported 16 new Covid 19 cases today with which the total count of positive cases in district has reached 353. Of the fresh cases reported today, two ILI (Influenza Like Illness) had reported at Flu corner. The two have no travel or contact history.Of the 14 remaining, eight are contacts; family and neighbours of a Vijay Nagar (Batala road) patient. The male patient himself had reported no contact or travel history. Three other patients are contacts of community spread case from Rani Ka bagh locality, while one patient is the contact of Vimal Mehra, who earlier died of Covid 19.The district health authorities have also reported two positive cases from among the passengers of a domestic flight from Delhi which had arrived here on Monday. With 46 active cases presently, the district has witnessed 301 recoveries and six deaths due to coronavirus.As per the health department, so far samples of 72,468 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 66,417 samples were found negative and reports of 3912 were still awaited.In the state so far with 1,918 positive cases have been discharged after the treatment. Now, there are 148 active cases.
27-05-2020||Lahore||176 Pakistanis return home from India via Wagah Border amidst travel ban||A group of 176 Pakistani nationals, including women and children, stranded in India due to the coronavirus-induced global travel restrictions returned home via the Wagah Border on Wednesday, officials said.With the arrival of 176 people, a total of 400 Pakistanis have so far been repatriated from India via the Attari-Wagah border since March 20, 2020.The Pakistani Rangers received them from the Border Security Force (BSF).They were stranded in different parts of India for about three months due to the lockdowns and travel restrictions put in place by the government to contain the raging coronavirus disease.“Upon their arrival, the Pakistani citizens including women and children were screened and transferred to quarantine centres in Lahore where they will stay for 72 hours," Mohammad Younis of Edhi Foundation told PTI.“If their corona test comes in negative, they will be allowed to go home after 72 hours otherwise they will be quarantined for 14 days,” he said.The relatives of those repatriated from India were not allowed to enter the Wagah Border to meet them.They were stuck in Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi due to the extended lockdown and the closure of the Attari-Wagah border following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.Mahesh Kumar, a stranded Pakistani national, said that had gone to India early in March on a religious pilgrimage.“Owing to the coronavirus lockdown, I was stuck there. I am happy to return to my country,” said Kumar, a resident of Sindh.Those who returned were reportedly quarantined in India as well.They were screened at Attari, the Indian side of the border, before crossing over to Pakistan.The purpose of their trip to India pertained to visiting family, seeking medical treatment and attending religious ceremonies.On Tuesday, Pakistan's Foreign Office said in a statement that for the safe and smooth repatriation of stranded Pakistanis, the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi remained in close contact with the Indian authorities.The Pakistani mission also facilitated and coordinated their transfer to Attari from more than 20 Indian cities.Over 200 Indian nationals are reportedly stranded in Pakistan. They are awaiting their repatriation. PTI
27-05-2020|| ||Punjab Cabinet approves fee hike for MBBS in govt, private colleges||Chandigarh, May 27To ensure better medical education and infrastructure facilities for students, the Punjab Cabinet has decided to increase the fee for the MBBS course in government and private medical colleges in the state.A spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said the fee for the MBBS course in government colleges was last notified in 2015 and for private colleges in 2014. With massive surge in the price index over the years, these colleges were facing fiscal problems and were unable to meet the norms of the Medical Council of India, thus necessitating a fee hike, the spokesperson said.These colleges had, in fact, been seeking fee hike for a long time as they were facing hardships to provide good infrastructure and impart quality education to the students at the current fee rates.Also read: MBBS fee in Punjab govt colleges highest among neighbouring statesMeanwhile, the Cabinet also approved the administrative reports of the Transport Department for the year 2016-17 and 2007-18.The Cabinet also cleared the amendment in the Punjab Agricultural Group-A Service Rules, 2013.
27-05-2020||Sangrur||Farmers in Punjab protest Electricity Amendment Bill, demand better income support||Farmers in Punjab held a protest against the central government against what they call “anti-farmer polices” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government on Wednesday.All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a pan-India umbrella body for farmers, called a protest that saw protesters hand over a memorandum of their demands to district collectors across Punjab to be handed over to the prime minister. “Union government has announced a package of  crores for assistance to farmers, but actually not a single penny   has been   allotted to farmers.” Darshan Paul, executive president of Punjab’s Krantikari Kissan Union said.They want the new Electricity Amendment Bill 2020, a proposed law that offers a “level playing field for consumers and a uniform tariff system”---a development critics fear would mean an increase in electricity charges for consumers.Farmers across the country, as well as some states like Telangana, have opposed the bill saying it would only serve corporate interests. Their demands
27-05-2020||---||Punjab Cabinet approves slew of reforms to avail additional borrowing||Chandigarh, May 27With Punjab staring at 30 per cent shortfall in revenue in the current fiscal, the Council of Ministers on Wednesday gave in-principle approval to a slew of reforms to make the state eligible to avail additional borrowing of 1.5 per cent of gross state domestic product (GSDP) amid Covid-19, as mandated by the Centre.A committee will be set up to ensure proper monitoring of the implementation of the reforms, of which the administrative departments will ensure completion within the time frame stipulated by the Centre since additional borrowing limit is available only for the 2020-21 financial year.The Cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, also accorded in-principle approval to amend the Punjab Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2003, accordingly. It authorised the Chief Minister to okay the final draft as approved by the legal remembrancer (LR).A spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office pointed out that the Government of India, vide letter dated May 17, had decided to permit additional borrowing limit of up to 2 per cent of GSDP by states in FY 2020-21. However, the relaxation in borrowing limits is partly unconditional to the extent of 0.5 per cent only, and partly conditional to the implementation of reforms such as 'One nation one ration card' system, ease of doing business as well as reforms in the urban local body/utility and power sectors.The weightage of each reform is 0.25 per cent of GSDP, thus totalling 1 per cent. The remaining borrowing limit of 1 per cent would be released in two installments of 0.50 per cent each--the first in untied form, immediately to all the states, and the second on undertaking at least three of the specified reforms.Elaborating on the reform measures to be undertaken by various administrative departments, the spokesperson said that the Food and Civil Supplies Department would ensure implementation of 'One nation one ration card' system, having weightage of 0.25 per cent, through Aaadhaar seeding of all the ration cards and beneficiaries in the state, in addition to automation of all the FPSs in the state by December 31, 2020.The Industries and Commerce Department would implement district level and licensing reforms for ease of doing business with weightage of 0.25 per cent. These reforms would include completion of the first assessment of 'District level business reform action plan' as intimated by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), in addition to implementation of computerised central random inspection system, under the Acts as listed by the Centre, by January 31, 2021.The Local Government Department would undertake reforms to strengthen the local bodies, having weightage of 0.25 per cent by notifying floor rates of property tax in ULBs, in consonance with the prevailing circle rates (i.e. guideline rates for property transactions), as well as floor rates of user charges in respect of the provision of water-supply, drainage and sewerage which reflect current costs/past inflation. It will also put in place a system of periodic increase in floor rates of property tax/user charges in line with price increases. The cut-off date of these reforms would be January 15, 2021.The reforms to be undertaken by Power Department include reduction in aggregate technical and commercial losses and reduction in the gap between average cost of supply and average revenue realisation (ACS-ARR gap) in the state as per targets, having weightage of each 0.05 per cent. The last date for recommendation to reach Department of Energy is January 31, 2021. It will also put in place a scheme for FY 2021-22 for ensuring cash transfer to farmers through DBT in lieu of free electricity (weightage of 0.15 per cent). To become eligible, the state should formulate the DBT scheme and implement it in at least one district by December 31, 2020.The spokesperson pointed out that the stringent and proactive approach taken by the state government to check the spread of Covid has meant a loss of revenue and GSDP to the state. As per the initial estimates presented by the Finance Minister to the CoM, the state was expected to have a revenue shortfall of Rs. 21,563 crore, i.e. about 25 per cent of its total revenue receipts (TRR) (BE) of Rs 88,004 crore, in FY 2020-21. However, with the lockdown extension till May 31, a higher shortfall of about Rs 26,400 crore, i.e. about 30% of the state’s total revenue receipts (BE), is expected during FY 2020-21. It is further estimated that there would be zero nominal growth of GSDP for the current year, and it is expected to remain at the same level of Rs 5,74,760 crore (2019-20 RE). This is expected to lead to shortfall of around Rs 25,578 crore or a 29.26 per cent dip in TRR.
27-05-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda sizzles at 47.5 degrees, highest temperature in city in 20 years||Bathinda hit a record high of 47.5 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, as Punjab and Haryana swelter under a heatwave sweeping the region.Agri-met Department of the PAU regional station, Bathinda, the city has not seen high temperatures in 20 years. Wednesday’s soaring mercury beat the city’s previous record of 47.3 degree Celsius, reported June 8, 2014.The city has been sizzling in the past few days, with mercury hovering around 45 degrees Celsius.Infants, children, people aged 65 years or older, people working outdoors, people who have a mental illness and those who are heart patients or those who suffer from high blood pressure, are most vulnerable to the ill-effects of the heat wave.Hospitals in the city have been seeing an increase in people with gastric problems, not uncommon in peak summer.  Tips for summerHere are some tips on how to cool in summer from health expert, Dr Vitul Gupta.Drink lots of water, even if you’re not thirsty.Wear loose, light-coloured and porous-cotton clothesAlways have sunglasses and umbrella and umbrella handy. Carry water and use a damp cloth on your head, neck and face.Lassi (butter milk), torani (rice water) and lemon water helps keep you cool in the summer.Keep curtains drawn in the house during the day, and keep windows and shutters open in the night.Avoid high-protein and stale food, alcohol, tea, coffee and carbonated soft drinks because they dehydrate the bodyAvoid switching on the air-conditioner immediately after you reach home or office. Let the body take its time to adjust to the change in temperature. Sit under a fan for at least 2-3 minutes before you switch on the fan.Eat lots of salads and fibre-rich food and fruits to keep the body’s digestive system healthy. Avoid oily food---not only does it make one lethargic, but it also tends to generate heat in the body.
27-05-2020||Sangrur||Moosewala case: Sangrur court grants interim bail to five accused||A local court on Wednesday granted interim bail to four cops and another man facing an FIR under Arms Act along with Punjabi Singer Sidhu Moosewala. The court fixed June 9 as the next date of hearing and directed all five to join police investigations.“Court has granted interim bail to Constables Harwinder Singh and Jasveer Singh, Head constable Gurjinder Singh, and ASI Balkar Singh and directed them to join investigations,” said Advocate Sumir Fatta, the counsel of all four cops.Jasveer Singh was working as Steno in the office of DSP (H) Sangrur,  Harwinder Singh as a driver while ASI Balkar Singh was posted as Reader and Gurjinder Singh had been working as a gunman in the same office.“We raised the points that the authenticity of the video is under the scanner. Police registered the FIR on May 5 while it claimed that firing took place on May 1. The addition of the Arms Act was done on May 17, almost 13 days after the registration of FIR,” said Fatta.Apart from four, the court has also granted interim bail to shooting player Jungsher Singh. All five have claimed in their applications that the use of Arms and Ammunition has been attributed only to accused Inderveer Singh Grewal, Subhdeep Singh Moosewala and Karam Singh Lehal while they have been facing allegations that they helped all three accused in firing the weapon.The Additional Public Prosecutor for the state argued that the allegations against the accused were grave and they did not deserve the grant of relief of anticipatory bail.On May 4, after a video showing the singer shooting at a firing range in Badbar of Barnala district, went viral on the social media, the Dhanauala police, on the directions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, had registered a case under sections 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against Moosewala and the five policemen. This included Assistant Sub-inspector (ASI) Balkar Singh, Head Constables Gagandeep Singh and Gurjinder Singh, Constables Jasvir Singh, Harwinder Singh and three others, Karam Singh Lehal, Inder Singh Grewal and Jang Sher Singh.But within 24 hours, another FIR was also registered against all under the same sections at Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5 after another video showing Moosewala firing from his private pistol at Laddai Kothi shooting range surfaced. On May 17 police added Sections 25 and 30 of the Arms Act 1959 to both FIRs registered against Moosewala and others.All cops were suspended after the registration of the FIR and since the addition of Arms act in both FIRs, cops of both districts have been conducting raids to arrest the accused.“Our teams have been conducting raids to arrest the accused,” said Gurmeet Singh, SP Punjab Bureau of Investigation Sangrur.
27-05-2020||---||19-day logjam between Punjab ministers and CS ends as latter attends cabinet meeting||Chandigarh, May 27The 19-day-long logjam between the Punjab Cabinet ministers and Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh ended here on Wednesday.The Chief Secretary attended the cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Recently, at a meeting on excise policy, certain comments by the Chief Secretary had not gone down well with the ministers, who had abruptly left the meeting.Later, the ministers took up the issue with the CM and there was speculation that action would be taken against the Chief Secretary and he might even be replaced.
27-05-2020||New Delhi||Heat wave likely to continue during the next 24 hours: IMD||The ongoing heatwave over several parts of north and central India is likely to continue during the next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday, even as the southwest monsoon made further advancement in parts of Bay of Bengal.North and central India have been reeling under a severe heat wave and temperatures have soared over 47 degrees Celsius at a few places."Due to the prevailing dry north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, central India and the adjoining interior parts of eastern India, the present heat wave conditions are very likely to continue during next 24 hours," the IMD said.Heat wave conditions at many places with a severe heatwave in isolated pockets are very likely over Vidarbha, west Rajasthan, the IMD said.Heat wave conditions are also likely in some pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan, and in isolated pockets over Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Saurashtra and Kutch, central Maharashtra and Marathwada, Telangana and north interior Karnataka during the next 24 hours, the IMD added.A western disturbance is likely to give some relief on May 29 and 30. During this period, parts of north India are likely to witness dust storms and thunderstorms.Western disturbance is a cyclonic circulation which originates in the Mediterranean Sea. Traversing Central Asia, it brings rains to the hills and plains when it comes in contact with the Himalayas.On the progress of the southwest monsoon, the national weather forecasting centre of the IMD said it has further advanced into some more parts of the South Bay of Bengal, most parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman and the Nicobar Islands."Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some parts of Maldives-Comorin area and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea, remaining parts of the Andaman Sea and some more parts of south and the central Bay of Bengal during next 48 hours," it added. PTI
27-05-2020||Abohar||Fire in Rajasthan gurdwara||
27-05-2020||Mohali||32-year-old man tests coronavirus positive in Mohali; district tally rises to 107||Mohali on Wednesday reported a new coronavirus case, taking the total cases in the district to 107.A 32-year-old man, a resident of Sector 71, who is a banker in Delhi, had arrived in the district on May 22. After he developed symptoms, he was admitted to the Civil Hospital in Mohali. His sample was taken on May 24 and in the report that came out today, he tested positive.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that the administration  would trace his contacts and a survey will be done in the area where the patient resides. He said even though the patient claimed that he had not met anyone after his return from Delhi, they would trace his contacts and also take their samples today. Singh said the patient has been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.At present, Mohali has two active cases. On May 23, a pregnant woman, a resident of Adarsh Nagar in Nayagaon, had tested positive for coronavirus, shortly before giving birth at the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16, Chandigarh on May 25.With 102 people recovering so far and three deaths, Mohali has a recovery rate of 96 per cent and a and fatality rate of 2.8 per cent.
27-05-2020||Legendary hockey player Balbir Singh passed away on May 25. The three-time Olympic gold medal winner’s demise was mourned by Akshay Kumar; he took to social media to pay heartfelt condolences to the family. Sharing a picture||Akshay Kumar mourns the death of hockey star Balbir Singh||
27-05-2020||---||Guru Arjan Dev's martyrdom day remains a low-key affair||Amritsar, May 26Amid the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev was observed on Tuesday.A few devotees paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and Gurdwara Ramsar. They took a dip in the holy sarovar of the Golden temple and listened to the Gurbani.Bhogs of akhand paths of Sri Guru Granth Sahib were performed at the historic Gurdwara Ramsar where the Sikh Guru had edited Guru Granth Sahib and wrote Sukhmani Sahib.Following the request of Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal to observe the day in their houses, a limited number of devotees turned up at gurdwaras.
27-05-2020||---||9 rescued Nagaland girls among 23 leave for homes||Amritsar, May 26Nine Nagaland girls, who were rescued by the police around a week ago, were sent back to their homes in a bus here on Tuesday. They were locked inside their rented accommodation by the owner of the house after they failed to pay the rent amid the curfew restrictions imposed due to the Covid-10 pandemic.The incident came to light when the girls approached the authorities of a local church along with a leader of the Jalandhar-based Naga Students’ Union and narrated their ordeal who later sought the intervention of the district administration. The matter was later sorted out after the hotel management where they were working released their salaries and the rent was paid to the owner.Dr Pardeep Kumar Samantaroy, Bishop of Church of North India, said a total of 21 Nagaland girls, a boy and a girl from Arunanchal Pradesh left for their homes. He said a total of 11 Naga girls were rescued in the recent past while many others were working in the hotels in the holy city that took the number to 23. He said a total of 90 girls and boys from Punjab, including from Jalandhar and Phagwara, would be leaving for Nagaland.He said the district administration helped us in getting e-passes instantly while Church of North India and the Naga Students’ Union contributed and arranged for buses to ferry them to their native state. It would take around two days and three nights for them to reach there.He said the medical examination of all the passengers were done, buses sanitised and social distancing would be maintained in the buses also.
27-05-2020||Patiala||Punjab power rates set to go up||Power is set to cost more in Punjab with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) levying a fine of Rs 18 lakh per month per unit on all 13 units of four thermal plants in the state and also three units of privately owned Talwandi Sabo Power Limited, Mansa, and two units of Nabha Power Ltd, Rajpura.The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) had urged the Centre to “extend the deadline” for installing pollution control devices at these plants. The ‘environmental compensation’ will remain in force till the units comply with the norms. The fine, which has been piling up since January, will have to be deposited by the fifth of the succeeding month. This means, Rs 11.7 crore for the first five months is to be paid by June 5. Experts say the burden will be passed on to consumers.PPCB member secretary Karunesh Garg said: “We will abide by the CPCB orders and write to them on the action taken.”In a report, The Tribune had highlighted how the state government and PPCB had been pitching for private thermal plants. Industry experts suggest installation of fuel gas desulphurisation (FGD) system — to cut down emission of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and mercury — would increase power rates, and the burden would be borne by the consumers.
27-05-2020||New Delhi||Haryana, Punjab to be fishery export hub||The Centre is planning to develop North India into a fishery export hub.Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Giriraj Singh today said prawns and other export varieties of fish would be promoted in saline waters of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and western UP.Will cover 2.25L hectaresHub will be spread across 2.25L hectares in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, UPFocus will be on prawns, other export varieties of fish in areas having saline water“We will promote prawns and other species that can be exported. After (positive) results from assessments, we took it up with state governments,” said Singh. The Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) aims at enhancing fish production to 220 lakh metric tonnes by 2024-25 from 137.58 lakh metric tonnes in 2018-19 at an average annual growth rate of about 9 per cent. It will be “economic revolution through blue revolution”, said Singh, adding the country exported fish valued at Rs 46,589 crore during 2018-19 fiscal.The PMMSY would result in doubling export earnings to Rs 1,00,000 crore and 55 lakh jobs in fisheries sector over the next five years, he added. The scheme envisages an estimated investment of Rs 20,050 crore.
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet meet today, Capt to take call on Chief Secretary||Setting the base for a rapprochement between Cabinet Ministers and Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh, CM Amarinder Singh has called a meeting of his Council of Ministers tomorrow. Though the issue of the stand-off between the top bureaucrat and the legislators is not on the agenda, it is expected to be taken up during informal discussions ahead of the meeting, sources say. —TNS
27-05-2020||Archit Watts---||Virus shrinks big fat weddings, many hit hard||Tribune News Service Muktsar, May 26 As marriage palaces have been shut for the past more than two months due to Covid, a number of people directly or indirectly linked with the wedding business have been hit hard.  For instance, people engaged in the light and sound business, wedding planners, tent house owners, florists, caterers and waiters are sitting idle. Some of them have started selling vegetables.  “A number of people have been affected as marriage palaces are shut. The state government should give some relaxation to us as well. Gatherings can be restricted, but functions should be allowed after obtaining permission from the local SDM. It will help a large number of people attached with the wedding business,” said Gulshan Kumar, owner of Punjab Palace, Malout. He added, “We also demand a bailout package from the government. I have 40 workers, but am unable to pay them salaries. The government should think about these workers and businessmen as well. A number of people such as cloth merchants, salon owners, jewellers, and those in the automobile sector are linked to our business.” Similarly, Ramesh Kumar, who instals lights at weddings, said, “We have been hit badly due to the Covid pandemic. Many of us have run out of money to makes ends meet. We have no option, but to sell vegetables. The government should think about us as well.” A DJ said, “We are not rich like marriage palace owners, who can manage the expenses even during the lockdown. But not people like me. Nobody is thinking about us. Wedding functions are being held in a simple manner with restricted gatherings. Who needs a DJ at such times? The governments should give some relaxations or we will suffer huge financial losses.”
27-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Rush at OOAT centres causes drug shortage||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 26Addicts in large numbers have been queuing up at Outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) clinics for treatment since the lockdown was imposed two months ago. This has caused a shortage of medicines.7,134 patients registered at clinics during lockdownPerturbed over not getting the daily dose, many addicts say they are left with no option, but to start consuming traditional drugs like poppy husk and opium.“Earlier I was getting the required dose on time, but for the past one month, doctors at OOAT clinics have been delaying it. I am left with no other option, but to restart taking poppy husk,” said an elderly man based at Bhawanigarh.Some other addicts, approached by The Tribune, alleged that initially after getting enrolled at OOAT clinics, they got medicine for a day, then for a week and later the authorities even started giving them medicine for 21 days. But as the lockdown continued and the number of addicts swelled, the health authorities have started giving medicine for a day or two.“It is very difficult for me to visit the clinic daily. I can’t stand in the queue for long. It’s better to have milder drugs than medicines as I do not want to die,” said a labourer on the condition of anonymity.Data from the district health authorities shows that since the start of lockdown, 7,134 new patients registered at OOAT clinics. At least 1,639 patients were enrolled at Malerkotla, 1,036 at Ghabdan and 835 at SDH, Sunam. The total number of patients under treatment is 12,169.“The sudden rush of addicts at OOAT clinics has caused a shortage of medicines. We have to manage with limited stock. We have taken up the matter with the higher authorities to ramp up the supply,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Sangrur Civil Surgeon.The district shares a 42-km-long border with Haryana and this small stretch is a big headache for cops, who are facing a tough time in containing drug smuggling.“With round-the-clock patrolling and strictness, we have broken the supply chain of drugs. As a result, addicts are thronging OOAT clinics,” said Dr Sandeep Garg, SSP, Sangrur.
27-05-2020||---||Worry as 57 RPF men contract virus||Ludhiana, May 26 In all, 57 personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) have tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana. Of these, 48 are posted in Delhi and belong to the 6th Battalion of the RPF, while nine are posted in Ludhiana.  The Delhi battalion had come to Ludhiana on May 7 for special duty to manage Shramik trains. It consisted of 79 men.  Ever since their arrival in Ludhiana, four of the RPF personnel were not feeling well. They went to the Railway hospital and were asked to take the swab test.  Two out of the four men tested positive on May 9. The entire unit was quarantined after this at the meritorious school here.  “We have been trying to locate their source. We came to know that one of the RPF personnel had gone to admit a Covid-positive patient to hospital in Delhi. This can be the probable source of the infection. The entire battalion was staying in barracks and then travelled to Ludhiana by train. There’s a possibility of contracting the virus in the train, but handling a positive patient is likely to be the reason,” said Dr Rajesh Bagga, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana.  The entire Ludhiana-based unit of the RPF was placed under home quarantine. Strangely, RPF personnel, posted in Ludhiana or Delhi, are not being counted in the state tally.  Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said they would not be counted in the Ludhiana tally as they came from Delhi and their source of infection was also from there.  “In addition to this, we are not counting the Ludhiana-based RPF men in the district tally as of now. I have written to the state headquarters to issue instructions in this regard,” he said. “We are requesting the government that they should be sent back home after 14 days of quarantine as they don’t have a home here,” he added.
27-05-2020||---||4 Jalandhar hospital staffers among 25 +ve||Chandigarh, May 26With 25 fresh cases of Covid-19 coming to the fore today, the total number of cases reached 2,106.As per the media bulletin, 10 cases were reported from Jalandhar, five Pathankot, four Hoshiarpur, two each from Ludhiana and Amritsar and one each from SBS Nagar and Faridkot.With 10 more testing positive in Jalandhar, the total number of cases has risen to 230 in the district. Four of the new patients are staff members of the local civil hospital. Two of them are Class IV(one male and one female) workers and two are nurses (both female).The patients belong to Lajpat Nagar (3), New Jawahar Nagar (2), Dhina village (2), Kanniawali village (1), Garha (1) and Aman Nagar (1).What is worrying the health authorities is the fact that the staffers were posted at three wards of the civil hospital. One of them was posted in the emergency ward, another in the isolation ward and the remaining two in the flu corner. A previously positive staff member was posted at the TB ward.This indicates the spread of infection among health workers with no specific source. Sources said all these staff members had flu-like symptoms, including fever.Besides, four Hoshairpur cases took the district count to 110, of which only about 17 are active. The Civil Surgeon said 89 patients had recovered. He said of the new patients, three were from Nangali Jalalpur village, who were in contact with the patient from Purika village who had died at Kidney Hospital in Jalandhar a few days ago.After the release of the media bulletin, two more cases were reported from Sangrur. They are residents of Moonak. The number of Covid-19 cases has risen to 94 in the district. Of them, 91 have already been treated.As per the Health Department, samples of 69,818 suspected cases have been sent for testing so far. Of these, 64,160 were found negative and reports of 3,552 were awaited.At least 1,918 patients have already been discharged after treatment. Now there are 148 active cases in the state.
27-05-2020||---||Crying ‘love jihad’, BJP leader attacks couple, arrested||Bathinda, May 26 Punjab BJP secretary Sukhpal Singh Sra was arrested on Tuesday after he allegedly pelted stones at an inter-faith couple’s house in Bathinda. A Muslim man and a Hindu girl had recently got married and were staying at a house in Jogi Nagar. Irked over the inter-faith wedding, the BJP leader and his supporters, along with the woman’s parents, termed the marriage “love jihad” and attacked the couple’s house. In a police complaint, Raveena (21) has stated she had married Deepak Khan of Jogi Nagar of her own volition, while her parents and other members of family were against it. Further, she stated that on Monday, when she reached her husband’s house after the marriage, accused Karamjit, Sunita Rani, Moti Ram, Rinku, Monu, Chinu, Sukhpal Singh Sra and Yadav entered their house by damaging the door and pelted them with stones. After the registration of the case, Sra was arrested on Tuesday. Later, BJP workers and Hindu outfits protested outside the Kotwali police station. They demanded a case be registered against the groom and his family members.
27-05-2020||Amritsar||UK gurdwara vandalised, Takht wants action||Akal Takht and the SGPC have condemned the vandalism of Guru Arjan Dev Jee Gurdwara in Derby, UK, on Monday a day before the martyrdom day of the Guru.The UK police have arrested a man believed to be a Pakistani. It has been learnt that the man had posted a message seeking support on the Kashmir issue and caused damage worth thousands of pounds.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Hapreet Singh demanded the UK Government to ensure the safety of gurdwaras and Sikh citizens. “Like other gurdwaras across the world, the one in Derby is providing the needy with langar and other relief material in times of the Covid pandemic. It is beyond my understanding why Sikhs are being targeted,” he said. — TNS
27-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||3 killed in mishap||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 26 Three youths were killed when the car, by which they were travelling, collided head on with an oil tanker on the Sirhind bypass road on Tuesday.  The deceased were identified as Ujwal Sood , who was from a jeweller’s family of Sirhind, Sukhchain Singh of the district’s Kharora village and Amitoj Singh of Nalina Majra village. They died on the spot. As they reached near a rice mill, the car driver lost control on a deep curve and had a head-on collision with the oil tanker coming from the opposite direction. Passersby took the three youths to the Civil Hospital here, but doctors declared them brought dead.
27-05-2020||Aman Sood||Air quality dips again, straw burning, industry to blame||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 26The air-quality level, which had improved considerably over the past two months because of the lockdown in the state, has started deteriorating again as restrictions have been eased. Stubble-burning and emissions from industrial units and brick-kilns are the reasons for the poor air quality.The air quality index (AQI) of the state has been hovering around 200, which is the “moderate” level on the AQI chart, this week. During the lockdown, the state recorded a low of 36 on some days.The 0-50 RSPM (Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter (RSPM) is considered good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe.On May 25, the state’s AQI was 110. The industrial town of Mandi Gobindgarh recorded an AQI of 213, while the industrial hub of Ludhiana recorded an AQI of 85, Amritsar 69, Patiala 101, Khanna 102 and Jalandhar 91.AQI in moderate categoryThe air quality index (AQI) of the state has been hovering around 200, which is the ‘moderate’ level on the AQI chart. During the lockdown, the state recorded a low of 36.On the same day last year, the AQI in the state was 84, with Amritsar at 57, Ludhiana 62, Mandi Gobindgarh 136, Patiala 65 and Jalandhar 101.The air quality during the lockdown was most of the time “good” and at times “satisfactory”. But this month, the air quality oscillated between “moderate” and “poor” zones.Environmentalists say the improvement in the air quality during the lockdown proved humans are to blame for pollution.“This time, farm fires have broken records of the past two years. This is one of main reasons for the poor air quality after the lockdown restrictions were eased. Another factor is that the industry has resumed operations,” said Karunesh Garg, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) member secretary.The PPCB data shows that 13,026 incidents of stubble burning were reported between April 15 and May 24 across the state. The number of such incidents during the corresponding period last year was 10,476. And a year before that, it was 11,236.
27-05-2020||---||Cabinet meet today, Capt Amarinder Singh to take call on Chief Secretary issue||Chandigarh, May 26Setting the base for a rapprochement between Cabinet Ministers and Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has called a meeting of the Council of Ministers on Wednesday at the Civil Secretariat here.A notice of the meeting has been issued by the Chief Secretary. Though the issue of the stand-off between the top bureaucrat and the lawmakers is not on the agenda, it is expected to be taken up during informal discussions prior to the meeting.Sources privy to the development said since the ministers have left it to the CMto take a call on the issue. Capt Amarinder is expected to take his colleagues on board while proposing the way forward. “Only after there is a consensus on the issue, the Chief Secretary will be asked to attend the meeting,” a source said.“It is for the CM to honour the dignity of his colleagues. But he has to run the government also, especially during the tough times,” said a minister. The meeting assumes significance as it is after a gap of several months that Cabinet ministers will meet in person instead of interacting online.
27-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Sacked, Ludhiana banker ends life; 2 officials booked||Ludhiana, May 26Depressed over his termination from the Sahnewal branch of a private bank, city youth Raveesh Kumar allegedly committed suicide by jumping into Sidhwan Canal at Doraha on Friday. His body was recovered from Gurthali Pul last evening.The victim had recorded a video on his mobile phone in which he reportedly accused bank officials of harassment.Records video before suicide Victim Raveesh Kumar had recorded a video on his phone in which he reportedly accused bank officials of harassment. In his message, Raveesh alleged that the managers had been taking bribes for sanctioning loans and he was often sent to collect “commission” on their behalf.On the basis of the video and statement given by his father Rameshwar Ram of New Subhash Nagar Colony, Basti Jodhewal, the Sahnewal police have registered a case against the bank’s branch manager, Rohit Deveshar, and manager of gold loan branch Narinder Singh under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 175 (refusal to provide document of any public servant) of the IPC.Inderjit Singh, SHO, said the body had been handed over to the family after a post-mortem examination and an investigation in the case was on. He said no arrest had been made so far.In his video message, Raveesh had alleged that both the managers had been taking bribes for sanctioning loans and he was often sent to collect “commission” on their behalf. He had alleged that after the bank reopened, he was not allowed to join duty and the manager told him that his services were terminated. He had also claimed that he was not given any termination letter and even salary was denied to him.
27-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||NRI brides queue up for passport as centres reopen||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 26As the Passport Sewa Kendras reopened today after a gap of nearly two months, newlywed women were among the first ones to turn up.Donning red bangles, as many as 50 newlywed women were among the 241 applicants to put up their applications for getting a new passport at the local office. Having got married just prior to the lockdown, these young women had come from various parts of Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Phagwara and Moga.Many say they have been waiting for the passport office to reopen so that they could at least get the passport before the embassies open and the flights resume. Most of these women are married to NRIs and are eager to join their husbands abroad.Kulwant Kaur of Moga, who got married on March 1, travelled 45 km to apply for her passport. “My husband is based in Toronto. He was here till about a few weeks ago and left on a special flight. The Moga passport office has not opened yet. So I got an appointment here. I just hope that all my paper work is done by the time flights resume as I want to be with him at the earliest.”Similarly, Navjot Kaur, who got married in February this year, travelled 20 km from Phagwara along with her sister-in-law, who too was sporting a “red churra”. Navjot said: “My husband Jasvir Singh and his brother are based in Portugal. They run a shop there. They were here ahead of the lockdown and both got married. They too are stuck here and are helping us get our paper work completed.”Regional Passport Officer Raj Kumar Bali said he noted that many applicants on the first day were newlywed women. He said, “We have opened only one of the two kendras in Jalandhar. We want to see how people are responding to the situation. In normal days, we have a slot for 700 applicants at one kendra. But as per the government instructions, we gave only 350 appointments and called only 50 per cent staff.”
27-05-2020||Minna Zutshi||Locust invasion looms large, Agri Dept, PAU on high alert||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 26To check the locust swarm invasion in the state, the Department of Agriculture and Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) are keeping a strict vigil and are carrying out surveillance with the information support flowing from the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO).Read aslo Dr Pardeep Chhuneja, head of etymology, PAU, told The Tribune that around 5 pm today, there was an alert from the LWO that one swam from Rajasthan had moved. The LWO is responsible for monitoring and controlling the locust situation in the scheduled desert area (SDA), mainly in the states of Rajasthan and Gujarat and partly in Punjab and Haryana, by way of intensive survey, surveillance, monitoring and control operations where required.“Since the beginning of 2020, the desert locust has been a great concern in many countries. For the last few months, the continuous breeding and activity of locust in African and middle-east countries and from Indian context, southern Iran and Pakistan, have been imminent threat to agriculture and vegetation of our country, particularly in states sharing border with Pakistan, mainly Rajasthan, Punjab and Gujarat,” said Dr Chhuneja.Aberrant phenomenonThough earlier the locust swarms were known to invade India during the monsoon, but its invasion as swarms during the last winter had been an aberrant phenomenon that is being attributed to changing climatic conditions, according to Dr Chhuneja.Devour vegetationThe magnitude of the damage and loss caused by the locusts is beyond imagination, say experts. Being polyphagous feeder, on an average small locust swarm eats as much food in one day as about 10 elephants, 25 camels or 2,500 people. Locust swarms cause damage by devouring leaves, flowers, fruits, seeds, bark and also by breaking down trees because of their weight when they settle down in masses.Past attacks and damage
27-05-2020||Sangrur||Moosewala case: Hearing  put off  for  a day||A local court adjourned the hearing of anticipatory bail applications of four policemen booked under the Arms Act along with Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala. “The court has adjourned the hearing of bail applications for tomorrow,” said Sumir Fatta, counsel of the four policemen. Constables Harwinder Singh and Jasveer Singh, Head Constable Gurjinder Singh and ASI Balkar Singh have filed applications for anticipatory bail. —TNS
27-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Officials, arhtiyas spar over delay in wheat lifting||Fazilka, May 26 Following the delay in lifting of wheat from Fazilka grain market, officials of procurement agencies and commission agents are at loggerheads.  Official sources said as the mercury was hovering around 43 degree Celsius, the lifting had come to a standstill. The bone of contention was that none was ready to bear the loss of weight of wheat lying in the scorching heat.  Arhtiya Association president Om Parkash Setia said over 4 lakh bags of wheat (each weighing 50 kg) had been lying at the grain market for the past about two weeks. The wheat had started drying up due to the scorching heat, resulting in loss of weight. The 50-kg bag has reduced to 48 to 49 kg and the procurement agencies had been demanding the difference of cost from the commission agents. He said that as per the government norms, agencies were bound to lift the auctioned produce within three days of procurement but they had failed to do so. The commission agents have refused to bear the cost of difference of weight.  On the other hand, Raj Rishi Mehra, District Food and Supplies Controller, Fazilka, alleged that wheat had been stolen from the bags lying in the grain market in the custody of the commission agents. He claimed that some bags had shown weight loss of 4 to 6 kg and the procurement agencies were not supposed to lift lesser weighing bags. He tried to persuade the commission agents to resolve the issue amicably but to no avail. Now, the Fazilka Deputy Commissioner shall hold a meeting of all stakeholders on Wednesday to resolve the issue. Earlier, there was shortage of space resulting in delay but now a new godown had come up to accommodate the excess stock, Mehra added.
27-05-2020||New Delhi||Partap Singh Bajwa is RS panel chief||Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa was today appointed chairman of the Committee on Subordinate Legislation. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu appointed Bajwa to succeed T Subbirami Reddy of the Congress, who retired from the House recently. The committee oversees the formulation of rules and regulations under delegated powers and their laying on the table of the House within stipulated time by the government, public sector and autonomous bodies and institutions financially supported by the Centre. —TNS
27-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Ahead of rains, 14K ponds to be cleaned in Punjab||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 26Under Mission Tandarust Punjab, the government is making all efforts to improve the hygiene level in villages by cleaning the village ponds before the onset of rains, so that these can be used as water recharging structures.The campaign launched to clean all 14,500 ponds in the state’s villages by de-watering and de-silting them is going on at full swing and will be completed before June 10, said KS Pannu, Director, Mission Tandrust- cum-Secretary (Agriculture), during a visit to Jhampur, Bhaini Kalan, Hindupur and Isserhel villages of the district to take stock of the ongoing work of pond cleaning.He said the cleaning of ponds would improve sanitation conditions in villages and mobilise the community for a common cause. The village labour, under MGNREGA, is also being gainfully employed to improve general hygiene. He said it is unfortunate that the village ponds, which used to be the centres of civilization, have turned into pits of filth.Pannu also appreciated the efforts of Rural Development Department and exhorted them to ensure cleaning of all ponds and educating villagers to utilise these ponds to recharge rain water.
27-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||527 Punjabis stuck in Kerala brought back||On Tuesday, Jaspreet Singh, Assistant Commissioner (G), received 527 Punjabis who reached Sirhind aboard a special train from Kerala.People from various districts of the state, including Chandigarh could not reach home due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.All of them were medically screened by the Health Department and were handed over to the Nodal Officers who sent them to their respective districts through special buses.Returnees thanked the state government for ensuring their safe journey. — OC
27-05-2020||Manav Mander||Air India staffer tests +ve||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 26A member of security staff of Air India has tested positive for Covid-19. A permanent resident of Delhi, he had come back here on Monday by a domestic flight at the Sahnewal Airport. The reports of the other 10 passengers who flew with him have come negative.A total of 6,143 samples have been collected in the district, of which the reports of 5,968 have been received. While 5,701 persons have tested negative, 175 reports are pending. Today, 35 patients were discharged from Mother and Child Hospital, Vardhman.Meanwhile, a team of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) today visited several areas in the district. Residents’ blood samples were taken at random to check the level of immunity against Covid.Giving information in this regard, the Civil Surgeon of Ludhiana, Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga, said a team of the ICMR from Delhi visited Baddowal village under Sudhar block, Majri village under Sidhwan Bet, Doraha under Payal, Ghungrali village under Manupur and the Sham Nagar area in the city. The team collected random blood samples of residents to check the level of immunity against Covid.Robotic food-distribution trolley donatedThe Khalsa Aid Organisation has donated a robotic food-distribution trolley to Civil Hospital. The SMO, Dr Geeta, said it would help in minimising contact with the patients in Covid Ward.
27-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Swan bridge to benefit HP, Punjab villages: Minister||Kangra, May 26An inter-state bridge on the Swan river being constructed at a cost Rs 61.29 crore will benefit many villages of Punjab, besides villages in Una and Kangra districts of Himachal Pradesh. Lakhs of pilgrims visiting the Chintpurni temple will also be benefited, said Industries Minister Bikram Thakur here today.He said that the bridge being constructed by the Public Works Department (PWD) was nearly half complete. He added that the 362-metre long bridge on the Kotla-Amroh road would link with the Punjab border. It would make Jaswan Paragpur and Chintpurni, besides more than 12 remote villages, easily accessible.The minister said that the people of Talwara, Pathankot, Mukerian, Batala, Bhogpur, Kadian, and Shri Hargovindpur in Punjab and pilgrims from areas such as Dasuha and Hajipur would benefit from it.Local people had been demanding the construction of the bridge for the last three decades. The 5-km stretch of the Kotla-Amroh road would also be widened and tarred.
