27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Vigilance Bureau arrests chemist selling sanitisers, masks at exorbitant rates in Mohali||To keep a check on the prices of essential commodities during the curfew imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19, Punjab’s Vigilance Bureau on Friday arrested a chemist who was found to be selling sanitisers and masks at exorbitant rates.On the basis of complaints that they had received, a Vigilance Bureau flying squad team led by Assistant IG Ashish Kapoor raided a pharmacy in Mohali and found that sanitisers and masks were being sold to the public at much higher rates than the MRP.The vigilance team immediately arrested the owner of the chemist shop Dinesh Kumar, a spokesperson of the Vigilance Bureau said here.In a statement here, he said an FIR was registered against the accused under relevant provisions of the law.Chief Director Vigilance Bureau BK Uppal has already directed all the officers to keep a strict vigil on the shops and suppliers in the state to check the prices and hoardings of essential goods during the curfew, he said.Apart from this, all officials have also been instructed to keep a close watch on the vendors and suppliers who are hoarding essential items meant for public and deliberately not following the orders of the government to prevent the spread of coronavirus, he added. PTI
27-03-2020||Moga||Farmers fear damage to Rabi crops as rains lash region||Rabi crops, particularly wheat, potatoes and mustard, have faced the brunt of intermittent rains that lashed in Moga and its adjoining districts of Ferozepur, Faridkot, Barnala and Ludhiana in the Malwa belt of the state during the past 24 hours.Farmers claim that the inclement weather has caused crop loss to wheat, mustard and potatoes. The harvesting of potatoes was also badly affected due to the rains. Harpreet Singh, a farmer of Mehron village in Moga district, said the ensuing rain was likely to damage the potatoes due to stagnation of water in the fields.“Humidity perishes potatoes, which are vulnerable to vagaries of weather conditions,” he said.Earlier, the lockdown in wake of coronavirus had delayed the harvesting of potatoes.Yesterday itself, District Magistrate Sandeep Hans had granted permission to hire labour for harvesting the potatoes and transporting it to the markets.Today, the farmers were about to begin harvesting of potatoes but the rains had further delayed it, he said.Bhupinder Singh, another potato grower, said, “After the demonetisation, this year, we were hoping to get good price for the potatoes but the ensuing rains had ruined all the hopes of potato growers in the state.”The farmers further feared that rains could also cause damage to wheat and mustard crops.There were also reports of winds flattening the wheat plants in some pockets of the Malwa belt.However, the agro-scientists claim that the rains may not damage the wheat crop.“In fact, it’s good for wheat at this stage. The wheat plants require low temperature for the next 10 days as the harvest is likely to begin by April 15,” said Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar a senior scientist of the agriculture department.Moreover, the aphids (tela) on wheat plants would wash away in the rains naturally with no need of pesticide spray, he added.
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Government suspends all toll plazas till lockdown||Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Friday announced that the state government has decided to suspend tolling operations at all state toll plazas of Punjab till the period of lockdown to control the spread of coronavirus.Singla said as many as 23 toll plazas were operational under state government in Punjab.The cabinet minister said the curfew has been announced in the state and only emergency vehicles are plying on the roads which are required to move rapidly.He added that it has been decided that the situation arising out of the said epidemic shall be construed as a non-political force majeure event in terms of the concession agreement.Singla also directed to put PWD rest houses across Punjab at the disposal of health department by allowing them to use these as isolation centres in any crucial situation.He added that education and public works department has extended its full support to the health department and even the school buildings could also be evacuated immediately after the requisition of administration.Singla said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has pressed all the required services to curb the contamination of Covid-19 in the state and problems of the residents are being addressed on priority basis.He added that for the timely distribution of essential items, the state government has directed the districts to use all possible options available including zomato, swiggy etc.He added that to bring back stranded residents from various locations, the district magistrates have also been asked to issue special passes for their safer movement to their homes.
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar district administration helps 3-month-old baby get critical medicines||With Punjab under curfew as part of a nationwide lockdown, the Jalandhar district administration lent a helping hand to a three-month-old infant, who was scheduled to undergo life-saving surgery at the end of the month, by arranging medicines for her.The infant is suffering from a critical gastrointestinal condition and her parents were advised to go for two life-saving intestine surgeries, one of which had been conducted earlier whereas the other surgery was scheduled at the end of this month.However, after the imposition of curfew in Jalandhar city and the rest of Punjab as a measure to check the spread of coronavirus infection, the girl's parents were facing problems in getting the medicines needed for the surgery.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma had recently released the list of helpline numbers which people could contact for the supply of groceries, milk, vegetables, and medicines besides the number on which one could dial in case of any emergency.The mother of the infant contacted the Drug Control Officer Kamal Kamboj.Realising the gravity of the situation, Kamboj immediately swung into action and ensured that the supply of the required medicine reached the family's doorsteps.A chemist was put on duty by the district administration who supplied the required medicines needed by the infant before the surgery, an official statement said on Friday.DC Sharma said the district administration was duty-bound to extend a helping hand to the people, particularly those facing any kind of emergency.Every effort was being made to further streamline the supply of essential goods amid the curfew, she added.The lockdown has been clamped across the state for the safety of people as the nation is fighting to prevent the spread of COVID-19. PTI
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Allow harvesting, marketing of horticulture products with restrictions: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday announced that wheat harvesting in the state will commence around mid-April on account of weather conditions but assured smooth procurement and timely payments.He has also ordered the concerned departments to allow harvesting and marketing of horticulture produce by farmers, with necessary restrictions relating to COVID-19 precautions.The wheat harvesting is delayed due to weather conditions and is likely to start only by April 12-15 in the state, the Chief Minister said after reviewing arrangements for harvesting of potato and wheat crop.Proper harvesting arrangements were being put in place for harvesting and storage of potato crop, said Captain Amarinder, adding that the government would also ensure smooth procurement and release of timely payment to wheat farmers.Detailed guidelines for wheat harvesting were expected to be issued by March 31, 2020, said an official spokesperson.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister has directed officials of Horticulture Department, Punjab Agro Industries Corporation and Punjab Mandi Board to work out the modalities, in coordination with the respective district officials, to allow farmers to harvest and transport their horticulture produce for seamless marketing without putting them to any more hardship.A spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said that a detailed list of District Mandi Officers, along with their contact numbers, has been issued by Punjab Mandi Board so that farmers can contact the concerned officer.
27-03-2020||Patiala||Daily-wagers in the countryside are hit the worst, says Lok Sangarsh Committee||Amid coronavirus curfew, Lok Sangarsh Committee—a social organisation—has presented a report to the Patiala Deputy Commissioner about the problems faced by the villages during the clampdown.The committee highlighted that people, in the countryside, were affected the worst from the ongoing lockdown.The committee pointed out that the situation for daily-wagers and marginalised was grim, because they neither had food nor had money.The committee, which has already submitted its report to the Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, and Deputy Commissioner, said that 15 -20 families each in Bolar Kalan, Harigarh, Dhanauri, Sarajpur, Kakrala villages in Nabha; Ramgarh, Chuhadhpur, and Marsiyan village in Patiala block; Malkana Pati, Toderpur, Mardanheri, Jodamajra in Samana and Brahammajra in Patran block were without food.The committee claimed that the daily-wage workers—owing to the curfew—had been without jobs, therefore, they had no money to purchase food items for more than two days.The committee suggested the administration should form a village level committee to address the issues. Besides, Youth Clubs, teachers and members of social organisations should also be involved for better relief work, suggested the committee.Davinder Punia, member of the Lok Sangarsh Committee, said: “The daily-wage workers are the worst hit by this lock-down. Most of them are away from their home, therefore, there is a humanitarian crisis besides their health. The administration should, immediately, put their focus on the daily-wage-workers to save their lives.”15 visitors of Holla Mohala in Anandpur Sahib roam freeMeanwhile, raising concerns over the community transmission, the committee informed that around 15 people of Paind village of the district—who had returned from Holla Mohala in Anandpur Sahib —were roaming free and not quarantined, yet.Notably, one of the attendees of Holla Mohala in Anandpur Sahib was tested positive and died after he infected 23 others.
27-03-2020||Mahesh SharmaMandi Ahmedgarh||Cops save youth's life after he suffers from seizure in Punjab||The prompt action of the Sadar Ahmedgarh police saved the life of a youth in Momnabad village who was found lying unconscious at his house following a stroke on Thursday night.The condition of the youth identified as Bittu Singh is stated to be out of danger.Gurpreet Singh, the youth's brother, said Singh had fallen unconscious due to sudden seizure that took place late night on Thursday but was relieved to learn that a patrolling party, supervised by SHO Sadar Sanjiv Kapoor, shifted him to a private hospital at the town after receiving information from a villager.“The news came a shock for us as the family was not in a position to get him expensive treatment as there was no money at home and no vehicle was available to shift him to a hospital,” said Gurpreet, appreciating that the police had deposited money at the hospital before the family could reach the hospital.SHO Sanjiv Kapoor said, “We were on routine patrolling to get the curfew implemented in the area that we received a request for an arrangement of an ambulance from a caller. Being explained about the condition of the patient we decided to shift him to the nearest hospital in our own vehicle because we could not afford to wait for the ambulance.”Claiming that the life of the patient could be saved due to the promptness of the rescuing party, Dr Sunit Hind said the tongue of the victim had been bitten after the seizure, which was the most dangerous part.“Had he not be brought timely bleeding from the tongue could have choked his respiratory tract,” said Dr Sunit Hind. Condition of the patient was out of danger, said the doctor maintaining that further management would be undertaken after receiving scan reports of the brain.
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 5 new cases, count reaches 38||Five more people tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 38.New cases were reported from Jalandhar, Mohali and SBS Nagar districts. All five were cases of local transmissions, having acquired the infection from already identified cases.The new cases include a 27-year-old man from Jalandhar. Reports said he was a relative of the 70-year-old man who died of coronavirus in Nawanshahr last week.The health department said they were all stable, and all their close contacts have been put under quarantine and are being monitored. Their swabs have been taken for testing.The state health department they had so far sent samples of 789 suspected cases for testing, of which 480 came back negative. They awaited reports for 271 cases.The 38 confirmed cases are so far from five districts in Punjab: 19 from SBS Nagar, six cases from Mohali, five from Jalandhar and six from Hoshiarpur and one each from Amritsar and from Ludhiana.  No confirmed case has been reported the other 16 districts.Meanwhile, the health department issued a notification on Friday saying that it was putting off retirement of all doctors and paramedical staff on its payroll to September 30.Several health-workers would have retired under the state government’s new police on March 31.   BoxDistrict wise casesSBS Nagar                                19SAS Nagar (Mohali)                    6Hoshiarpur                                  6Jalandhar                                    5Amritsar                                      1Ludhiana                                     1
27-03-2020||Mahesh Sharma||Coronavirus: Allow us to walk to our native places, plead migrants in Punjab||Mandi Ahmedgarh, March 27Just allow us to walk down to our native places in Jammu and Kashmir, Gujarat, Bihar and UP, plead those stranded at construction sites, madrasas, dharamsalas and slums in local towns and surrounding localities.However, the administration is all out to support their subsistence by providing them regular supply of essential commodities with the help of social organisations.Ahmedgarh SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey and DSP Karanveer Singh claimed to have roped in communal organisations, which are supplying free ration and cooked food to the needy.Having received information about their problems, authorities in intelligence agencies have drawn attention of the government towards the problems of these groups, who are not provided organised help, and might increase risk of spreading coronavirus by moving in an unsafe manner.Investigations revealed that at least 100 people, which include women and children, were feeling stranded due to the lockdown imposed owing to COVID-19 crisis.Besides supply of essential commodities, worry about other members and their scattered families was common concern for all these groups.A labourer, who was at an under-construction police station building, Ajay Giri, said at least 40 people, including women and children, were on the verge of starvation, due to the lockdown and none of them were ready to stay here as there was no certainty about restoration of work in the near future.“If government can not arrange transport for sending us to our families at our native place, we should be allowed to walk down so that all members of our families can face the crisis together,” said Ajay Giri regretting his wife was stranded in Nepal.He worries about his parents in Bihar too.Another group of Kashimiri labourers, led by Abdul Halik, who was stranded at Bhagat Ravidass dharamsala at Chhanna village, also wanted to return to their native state as there was no source of income now.“How long can we survive on food and ration donated by social organisations of the area.” argued Halik demanding the government should arrange a way to send them back to Jammu and kashmir.Condition of slum dwellers from Gujarat, led by Nikku and Sonu, was even worse as they could be asked to decamp from their present location at Jandali Bridge, and they have no source of communication with their families in their state.They do not have their mobile phones.Kari Furkaan of Madrasa Umar Farooq informed that at least 27 students from other states were feeling helpless by being isolated from their parents.
27-03-2020||Ludhiana||Hospital staff in Ludhiana forced to battle coronavirus without safety gear||In the absence of proper safety gear, the staff attending to patients at the civil hospital in Ludhiana is fighting a tough battle against coronavirus.The medical staff only received personal safety medical kits after they raised a huge hue and cry. But sweepers and staff in wards other than the isolation ward have not been given protective gear.A sweeper at the Civil Hospital said that nobody is thinking about people like him.“I am asking my contractor and also the hospital authorities but nobody is listening to our demands. We are regularly cleaning the hospital and also come in contact with the infection but nobody is paying heed to our demands.We just get one single-use mask in a day and sometimes staff on duty out of concern give me gloves,” he said.A ward attendant at the civil hospital further rued said the staff in the isolation ward has been provided with the protective gear but other staff like them have not been provided with N95 masks.“Since the outbreak, we have been given only one 100 ml sanitiser bottle, gloves and disposable masks. Now I am bringing my sanitizer. We have to go near the isolation ward to mark our attendance in the register.We have requested so many times that the register should be kept in our ward as one can come in contact with the infection as we need to touch so many things but nobody is listening to our this small and genuine demand,” she said.She further added that she brings an extra pair of clothes with her and changes her uniform before going home and later washes her clothes and disinfects them after reaching home, she said.A doctor, on the condition of anonymity, said that the safety equipment provided to them is not enough."Only the staff in the isolation ward has been provided with the necessary kits. The patient first comes to the flu corner and if those on duty are not provided with the safety gear then how can they save themselves from the infection. Only three-layered masks have been provided to those on duty in flu corner," said the doctor.The hospital is also facing staff shortage and now the doctors and nursing staff are doing overtime to handle the crisis.Senior Medical Officer at the Civil Hospital, Dr Ravi Datt, said that sweepers are being provided with a single-use mask and same goes for those in flu corner.“Only three-layer mask as recommended by the government is necessary for them and we are providing them the same while those in isolation are being given the proper safety kits,” he said.
27-03-2020||Saurabh Malik||Justice on doorstep via video-calling||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 26Amid the lockdown, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today delivered justice through video-calling. In a step towards justice on the doorstep, a Division Bench used the facility to hear arguments on a bunch of 17 appeals. The High Court is currently working in a restricted mode in view of the Covid threat. It had on March 24 declared that the hearing of “extremely urgent cases” would be carried out through video-conferencing or video-calling.The hearing this morning was analogous to regular courtroom proceedings, only the Bar and the Bench were face to face, even though at different places. At one end were Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Archana Puri — both in their own camp offices — and at the other was Haryana Additional Advocate-General Deepak Balyan in his office. Counsel PS Poonia and GS Gopera too “appeared” before the Bench for the appellants from their offices.The proceedings began with Justice Chauhan and Justice Puri greeting the counsel for the parties with folded hands and a slight bow. Justice Chauhan asked one of the counsels to elaborate upon the prayers made in the appeal filed by constables discharged from police service. After hearing preliminary arguments, the Bench issued notice of motion and ordered status quo. There was a momentary disruption in connectivity and the court switched over to WhatsApp.The Haryana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission also heard an urgent matter through video-conferencing.
27-03-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Govt must reset clock on crop care||Tribune News serviceChandigarh, March 26Even as there is no official word yet on harvesting of wheat crop, expected to begin in a couple of weeks, alarmed Punjab farmers have appealed to the state government to make arrangements to lift the potato crop as also vegetables. “One crop loss can have a spiralling impact,” warns a farmer. Capt seeks financial aid for workersThe sarpanch of Taloor village in Gurdaspur, Ajay Chaudhary, asks: “What can one expect to earn this year when there is no market for fresh produce?” A progressive farmer of Jhabewal in Ludhiana, Maninder Singh Gurm, points out that the deputy commissioner has yet to issue directions on commencement of harvesting. “Worse still, movement of labour is not being allowed. Overhaul of harvesters and repairs, that begins a fortnight ahead of harvesting, too has been stalled because of the curfew restrictions.”Chairman of the Punjab State Farmers Commission Ajay Vir Jakhar says they are aware of the crisis. “Necessary orders are being issued. The procurement process should be in place within a couple of days”. President of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) Balbir Singh Rajewal argues that “agriculture cannot be brought down under lockdown” because without harvesting at the right time the food supply chain will be impacted. “We cannot afford to wait till April 14. We have been requesting the police not to harass farmers.”General Secretary of the BKU (Ugrahan) Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan pointed out: “While the government says that cold stores are being used to preserve vegetables, the police are not allowing any kind of movement. The potato crop, if kept in the open, will start rotting within days. Likewise, vegetables too will perish. The situation is worse for labourers who are without work.”
27-03-2020||Chandigarh||50K tonnes of grain sent to other states||To ensure uninterrupted supply of food items across the country during the Covid lockdown, Punjab has dispatched 50,000 metric tonnes (MT) of wheat and rice to different states through 20 special trains.  This was disclosed here today by Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. The labour involved in loading rice and wheat were provided masks and their hands were sanitised, Ashu said, adding it was also ensured that they maintained distance with each other keeping in view health concerns.  A limited staff has been engaged by state government and the FCI to compete this task in a time-bound manner, he added.   The minister said Amardeep Singh Thind, general manager, FCI, and Anindita Mitra, director, Food Supplies, were monitoring the task.  The department was also working 24x7 to ensure the supply of essential commodities to its people and on the directions of CM, supply of goods had already commenced, he added. — TNS
27-03-2020||---||Sikh bodies flay attack on Kabul gurdwara||Sikh bodies flay attack on Kabul gurdwara  Amritsar:The Sikh Coordination Committee East Coast, and American Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee have condemned the attack on a gurdwara in Kabul that killed at least 25 worshippers. Himmat Singh, SCCEC coordinator, appealed to Afghanistan and US Presidents to deploy Afghan-American coalition forces for the protection of gurdwaras in Afghanistan. “Such incidents against Sikhs in Afghanistan have been ignored by the global community,” said Dr Pritpal Singh, AGPC coordinator. tns
27-03-2020||Abohar||Cops attacked in Abohar village, 5 held||About 24 persons reportedly attacked a police patrolling team when the latter questioned them on venturing outside their houses on the periphery of Khubban village, 28 km from here, on Wednesday.  In the video that went viral, some persons were seen chasing the policemen and pelting them with bricks. Some women alleged that some of the cops chased them inside their houses and thrashed. However, the police refuted the allegation. The video showed cops running to board the official vehicles to protect themselves.  As per the case registered at the Wahabwala police station under Sections 353, 186, 188, 148, 149 and 427 of the IPC, a patrolling team that was led by Sub-Inspector Iqbal Singh intercepted some villagers who were venturing despite restrictions and told them to go inside their houses, but the miscreants attacked the police and damaged glass panes also.  DSP Dr Sandeep Singh along with more enforcement reached Khubban village and five of the miscreants were arrested. — OC
27-03-2020|| ---||Mamata urges Capt to help WB workers||Kolkata, March 26 West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has urged her Punjab counterpart to provide Bengali workers stranded in Punjab with basic shelter, food and medical support in this hour of crisis. In a letter to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh today, the West Bengal CM wrote that many skilled and unskilled workers from Bengal were working in different parts of the country, including Punjab. As a result of the complete lockdown in force in the country to arrest the spread of Covid pandemic, the Bengali workers were unable to travel back to their homes and were stuck at their places of work. Mamata wrote that the West Bengal Government was getting frantic calls from the stranded workers. These workers were generally in groups of 50-100 and could be easily identified by the local administrations. She wrote that since it was not possible for her government to reach out to these workers, the Punjab Government could provide support to them.
27-03-2020||Ferozepur||5 kg heroin worth Rs 25 cr recovered||A huge quantity of heroin was seized for the third consecutive day today in this sector. In the latest seizure that took place today along the Zero Line, BSF sleuths of  the 29 Battalion seized 5 kg heroin worth Rs 25 crore in the international market. In addition, the BSF also seized an imported pistol along with the consignment.  In a similar seizure, the BSF had recovered 8,980 kg heroin along with arms and ammunition yesterday. Earlier on Tuesday during a joint operation conducted by the CIA, Moga, along with the BSF, 4.2 kg heroin was recovered from near border outpost Bareke. The consignment was stored in four plastic bottles. The same day, the BSF had seized three packets of heroin in the Abohar sector besides another 1.48 kg heroin from Behram Shersingh Wala village in Guruharsahai. — OC
27-03-2020||Karam Prakash||Scrap SC certificate of panch, sarpanch, dept tells Patiala DC||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 26The Department of Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities has written to the District Commissioner, Patiala, this week to cancel the Scheduled Caste (SC) certificate of the sarpanch and a panch of Alampur village of the district.Reason being that despite being the members of general category, Rajput, the sarpanch and panch had got fake SC certificates and won elections meant for reserved category.A whistleblower had complained to the Social Justice Department that the sarpanch and panch along with four other villagers were using fake SC certificates. Consequently, the department formed a committee and concluded that the certificates were fake and wrongly issued.The acused are said to have availed many other benefits as well sing these fake certificates. Sarpanch Harchand Singh won panchayat election in 2018 from Alampur village in the Kauli block of the district while Sukhbir Singh was elected panch using a fake certificate.Besides, Harchand Singh had taken promotional benefits using fake SC certificates while he was working in the PWD as a Junior Engineer. It was revealed in an RTI reply. The said issue was highlighted in these columns in November last year. The decision of cancelling the certificates was taken after the vigilance committee of the Department of Social Justice investigated the issue thoroughly. The committee had ordered the cancellation of their certificates.The six are Sarpanch Harchand Singh, Panch member Sukhbir Singh, Bhajan Singh, Hoshiar Singh, Sahib Singh and Peepal Singh.Kirpa Shankar Saroj, Chief Principal Secretary, Department of Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities, said, “We have ordered the cancellation of the certificates. We will write to the SSP and DC to take legal action against them.”Whistleblower Balbir Singh said it was a long battle against injustice. He said, “Despite misuse of power by the sarpanch, truth finally has prevailed. They misused the reservation policy and took away the rights of deserving people.”
27-03-2020||---||No new dates, uncertainty over entrance test schedule||Jalandhar, March 26Uncertainty prevailing over likely changes in the schedule of various competitive examinations owing to coronavirus spread has upset the plans of aspirants across the country.While JEE Main has been put off, there is no information yet about any postponement of NEET-2020 fixed for May 3. Students preparing for engineering or medical entrance tests said they had been daily logging on to various news portals to check on any update. They said amid reports that coronavirus was spreading in the country and curfews and lockdowns could prevail for a longer time, they were unable to concentrate on their studies.Saanvi Kapoor, a student of medical stream from the city, said, “There have been reports that the disease could continue to spread till June or July. So clearly, the examination may not be possible by then. I may not be able to retain whatever I am learning right now. With this in mind, I think I have gone a little slow with my preparations.”Shelly Sethi, whose daughter is preparing for JEE Main, said, “The enthusiasm and energy with which my daughter was earlier carrying on with her preparations has fallen. Since there is no set date yet, students in general do not have any target before them by which they have to keep themselves ready. Naturally, all plans have gone haywire.”Students like Simran Bawa of MGN Public School, Jalandhar, believe that any delay in conduct of examination would be a boon for them. “I think NEET could get postponed by three to four weeks. So I will get more time to study and prepare well. But I am not taking any chances and am regularly taking online mock tests at home,” she said.Police DAV School Principal Rashmi Vij is optimistic that the things could turn better for the students. “There is a possibility that the country achieves containment of the disease during the prevailing lockdowns. In such a scenario, the examination could get delayed by some weeks. This will give more time to students to prepare well and hence perform better”.Plan goes haywire
27-03-2020||---||Capt seeks aid to clear wages under rural job scheme||Chandigarh, March 26 Amid Covid threat, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has sought immediate financial assistance from the Centre to clear all pending liabilities under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. In a letter to Union Minister of Rural Development and Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar, the Chief Minister raised the issue of pending wage liabilities of MGNREGA workers in Punjab. Capt Amarinder apprised the Union Minister that as on March 24, wage liabilities of Rs 84 crore were pending for approximately 1.30 lakh workers in the state. The Chief Minister pointed out that without the daily wages, the MGNREGA workers would not be able to sustain their families in the prevailing emergency, with no fresh employment opportunities available. Expressing concern over the precarious situation, the Chief Minister urged the Union Minister to immediately release the pending wage liabilities without any delay to provide the much-needed relief to the beneficiaries for subsistence of their families. The release of funds would also help the state handle the present difficult situation to some extent, he said.
27-03-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||For relief, slum areas to be declared quarantine camps||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 26The state government has decided to declare all slums and close cluster habitations in the state as quarantine camps in wake of Covid pandemic.A decision to this effect was taken during the meeting of the state executive committee of the State Disaster Management Authority, chaired by Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh, here today. The decision has been taken to ensure that the poor in the state, who have been forced to stay indoors, get basic subsistence assistance from the government.So far, since the entire country went in lockdown and Punjab imposed a curfew till April 14, the poor, living on the edge, were left at the mercy of the local police, administration/political leaders or the NGOs. The police and administration were providing them ration and other basic facilities from their own pocket.Almost 14.2 per cent of the state’s population lives in slum areas. A majority of the slums are in Amritsar and Ludhiana. According to the Census, as many as 2,93,928 slum households were identified in 2011, where 14.60 lakh people are living. Besides, several clusters of slums have also come up in the rural areas of the state.“Once the deputy commissioners declare such areas as ‘quarantine camps’, free medicines, shelter and food can be provided to them by the state as it becomes a fit charge on the State Disaster Relief Fund, in accordance with the latest guidelines of Union Government,” Special Chief Secretary, Revenue Rehabilitation and Disaster Management, KBS Sidhu told The Tribune.10L packets of ration for daily wagers
27-03-2020|| ---||SAD: Exercise restraint in dealing with violators||Chandigarh, March 26  Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal today reiterated his party’s support to all “constructive measures” of the Union and the state governments to fight Covid pandemic, but expressed strong disapproval of the “insensitivity” being shown by the Punjab government in implementing these measures. In a statement, the Akali president said the people of Punjab were not prepared for the sudden curfew. “While I understand the urgency of the matter, the government needed to ensure its implementation through sensitive and persuasive means rather than ‘use of brute force’ against those violating curfew, especially against women. This is unacceptable,” said Sukhbir Badal. “There are many psychological, practical and legal means available to ensure effective enforcement of the regulations. There is no need to humiliate the self-respecting Punjabis who have by and large been cooperating with the government’s measures in fight against the virus,” he said.
27-03-2020||---||262 arrested for violations, Capt tells police to go soft||Chandigarh, March 26In the last 24 hours, 170 FIRs have been registered and 262 persons arrested for violating curfew and quarantine directions. As many as 40,153 cops in various ranks have been deployed on ground across the districts for enforcement of curfew, an official release by the state police said.Meanwhile, taking cognisance of reports of excesses against citizens for the enforcement of the curfew in the state, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed the police to be more humane and sensitive in dealing with violations.Urging the police personnel to exercise maximum restraint in the difficult situation, the Chief Minister asked them to find more compassionate ways of handling curfew violations, especially in cases of individuals found moving out for essentials.Use of corporal means to punish violators could not be allowed, said Capt Amarinder, directing DGP Dinkar Gupta to take all possible steps to sensitise the police personnel and warn them against taking the law into their hands in dealing with cases of curfew violation.The Chief Minister also appealed to the people to stay at home and reach out to police and civil administration through helpline numbers in case of emergency. All efforts were being made to provide doorstep delivery of essential goods and services, he said.Meanwhile, DGP Dinkar Gupta said while by and large the police personnel were seen to be caring and gentle, there had been a few cases of some of them using force against those found violating the restrictions. Gupta said he had directed the CPs and SSPs to make it clear to the force that there should be zero tolerance to physical beatings etc. No society can tolerate such visuals, he warned, adding that where needed, violators should be booked. Calling for patience, the DGP said, "We don't want to sully all the good work we are doing by a few aberrations here and there."
27-03-2020||---||SGPC suspends Budget meet||Amritsar, March 26  In the wake of restrictions amid concerns over Covid, the SGPC has suspended its annual Budget meeting scheduled for Saturday. The decision was taken during the executive body meeting held at Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College and Hospital on Thursday. Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC president, chaired the meeting.  The single-point agenda of Thursday’s meeting was to decide on the Budget meeting. The executive members unanimously approved the release of funds requisite for the next 90 days to run the administrative affairs of the SGPC, Dharam Parchar Committee and other educational institutions. Longowal said, “In view of the Covid threat, the SGPC decided to suspend the annual Budget session till the situation get normalised. Under the prevailing circumstances, it is impossible to hold the Budget meeting that was expected to be attended by a huge number of members and supporters. Medical aid and langar will continue to be served as per requirement.”
27-03-2020||---||To decongest jails, state to release 6,000 prisoners||Chandigarh, March 26With a view to decongesting state prisons in wake of Covid pandemic, the state is all set to release around 6,000 prisoners from all jails across the state.Disclosing this here today, Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the Supreme Court had constituted a high-powered committee under the chairmanship of Chairperson, Punjab Legal Services Authority, with Principal Secretary (Jails) and ADGP, Prisons as members. The committee has circulated detailed criteria and procedure to initiate the releasing of prisoners. Convict prisoners will be released on parole for six weeks and undertrial prisoners on interim bail for six weeks, said Randhawa.The minister said there were around 24,000 prisoners lodged in 24 jails across the state against the capacity of 23,488. As per committee report, the primary aim was to protect the prisoners and restrict transmission of coronavirus by decongesting prisons. The overall good of the society and maintenance of order in the society in these extraordinary times was also kept in mind while making the recommendations.The committee thus recommended the release of convicts on parole for a period of six weeks. Prisoners sentenced up to seven years with maximum two undertrial cases (both on bail); and further should have availed last parole peacefully, are to be considered for release. The minister further pointed out that the prisoners already out on parole shall be given six week extension in order to ensure quarantining of prisons. As a one-time measure, the superintendents of the jails concerned have been empowered to expedite the cases of parole.An undertrial shall be considered for a six-week interim bail, if he/she is facing one or two cases, in which the maximum punishment is seven years or less. Special cases under certain heads of crime such as Sections 498-A, 420, 406, 324, 325 and 379 of the IPC, Excise Act and those under Section 107/151 CrPC shall also be considered for bail. Camp courts shall be held on jail premises itself for grant of interim bail.However, those convicted or charged under POCSO Act, Sections 376, 379-B IPC, acid attack, UAPA, Explosives Act and foreign nationals shall not be considered for release. Also, conditions have been put on for those covered under the NDPS Act.The committee has relaxed the conditions further for the release of prisoners suffering from chronic diseases like diabetes, HIV, pregnant women and those above 65 years of age.To ensure order in the prisons, the DLSA chairperson has been asked to visit the jail every alternate day to interact with the prisoners after taking necessary precautions.The Department of Prisons and Correctional Services is also granting remission as per Punjab Jail Manual to eligible prisoners.
27-03-2020||Mohali||Unaided colleges’ outfit urges Sitharaman for bailout package||The Punjab Unaided Colleges Association (PUCA) has urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for a bailout package for the education sector in view of the Covid threat. In a letter to the Finance Minister, PUCA president Anshu Kataria said unaided colleges were already going through a tough phase because of pending post-matric scholarship dues. The Centre disburses funds to unaided colleges via state government. “The lockdown has exacerbated the situation. As of now, there is no source of revenue, but the expenditure stands,” Kataria said. Amit Sharma, senior vice-president, PUCA, said: “Many states, including Punjab, have not been disbursing the scholarship funds for the past three years. In Punjab, about Rs1,850 crore is due. Colleges are facing a financial crisis.” Gurpreet Singh, general secretary, PUCA, said the present situation had not only created trouble for college managements, but also for thousands of employees.  “Before Covid hit India, salary for four to five months was already pending in many colleges. Employees were expecting that the scholarship dues would be disbursed before March 31. But with Covid spread, their hopes have been dashed,” he added.
27-03-2020||---||NGOs step up relief operations||Amritsar, March 26 At a time when the world is fighting Covid, Sikh NGOs have come forward to help out the needy.  Take the example of Sarbat Da Bhalla Trust. Its president SPS Oberoi, who lives in Dubai, has offered Rs40 lakh to Punjab for arranging food, medicines, grocery and other essential items to the needy and daily-wagers, who have lost their source of income in the wake of curfew. Oberoi said, “DCs, Civil Surgeons and Police Commissioners of various districts can use the money when required. The monetary help will be extended to Majitha, Batala, Jagraon and Khanna in the first phase.”  “The district administrations will coordinate with local offices of my NGO to receive the monetary help. Members of the trust will credit funds into the bank accounts of service providers so that money is not misutilised,” he said. Besides, the trust will provide the state with ventilators, sanitised equipment and masks.  “On the demand of DCs of Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Nawanshahr, the trust has placed an order for two ventilators each for the three districts. In some districts, Civil Surgeons’ offices demanded infrared thermometers,” Oberoi said. There are other Sikh organisations which are doing their bit. On the lines of the SGPC, gurdwara management committees in the US have been providing Covid patients with aid and shelter.  “Apart from Khalsa Aid, another New York-based NGO named Karamjot Sikh Centre under the leadership of Bhai Lakhwinder Singh has been providing food to the needy,” said SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh.
27-03-2020||---||2 more cases in Nawanshahr, Jalandhar||Chandigarh, March 26With two more cases reported on Thursday, the number of Covid cases has reached 33 in the state. One case has been reported from Jalandhar and the other from Nawanshahr.The 72-year-old Jalandhar patient is admitted to a hospital in Ludhiana. The Nawanshahr patient, the mother of a village sarpanch, got infected from a Covid-positive patient.2 districts get Rs 25 crThe Health Department has given Rs 25 lakh each to DCs of Amritsar and Ludhiana to control the outbreak of Covid. Also, Rs 15 lakh each has been given to DCs of Mohali, Patiala, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Bathinda. DCs of the remaining districts have received Rs 10 lakh each. Besides, Rs 10 lakh each has been released for Civil Surgeons of Amritsar and Ludhiana districts to purchase equipment.The Health Department said the condition of all positive patients is stable.The 72-year-old woman from Jalandhar is the fourth patient from the district to test positive. The other three patients are relatives of a 70-year-old Nawanshahr man, who died of Covid last week.She was taken to the Civil Hospital here on March 20, but she was not tested there because doctors reportedly said the she did not have serious symptoms. Subsequently, her family took her to Christian Medical College (CMC), Ludhiana, where her samples were taken.At present, she is admitted to the CMC. She is facing respiratory trouble, sources say.Epidemiologist Dr Shobhna confirmed that the 72-year-old woman visited the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar on March 20. “She did not have serious symptoms then. Now that she has tested positive, we are tracing her contacts. We have taken samples of four to five persons living in the area where the 72-year-old woman resides. She doesn’t have a travel history. However, it is being said her daughter-in-law or some other relative returned from Italy recently.”Neighbours said she had attended a gathering and served langar during a Holi event from March 10 to 12.Meanwhile, 15 villages in Nawanshahr district with a population of 20,000 have been quarantined. About 250 sample shave been taken from the district with comprehensive sampling conducted at Pathlawa, Jhikka and Ladhana Uccha villages.On Thursday, more than 100 samples were taken to step up diagnosis.Two children from Balachaur with travel history of Italy were tested recently. They have tested negative for the virus.The department said that in the past one week, 205 samples were collected and, of them, 33 were tested positive. Besides, the department has identified 667 people who were in contact with the infected people and they have been quarantined.
27-03-2020||---||No feed for birds, allow culling: Poultry owners||Chandigarh, March 26The poultry industry in the region is staring at losses worth hundreds of crores, as its inventory of both eggs and chicken is unable to reach the markets.The problem has aggravated further with the government ordering a clampdown on commercial establishments and factories, including those making feed for poultry in Khanna. The feed stocks at most poultry farms are enough to last for just a day or two. Even the entry of soya and corn, from outside the state has stopped, because of restriction in interstate movement of goods.Farm owners say they fear large-scale death of birds because of starvation, if the situation does not improve.Jaswinder Singh Jassi, who owns a poultry farm in Khanna, says he and other poultry farmers in the area have appealed to the DC to allow scientific culling of birds at the farms, in case feed cannot be provided.GS Bedi, president, Amritsar Poultry Industry Association, says he has sent a representation to CM Capt Amarinder Singh. “Why would anyone diversify to poultry if the government does not support it? Clamping curfew is the last nail in the coffin for the poultry industry, which is already selling live birds at a loss of Rs60 per kg, and eggs at a loss of Rs2.65 per egg,” he says, adding that the combined loss of the industry in Punjab alone is to the tune of Rs2,000 crore. He says farmers in Amritsar approached the animal husbandry department seeking nod to cull the birds, which anyway are dying of starvation. But they were turned away on the pretext that culling could be done or allowed only when there was an outbreak of disease in birds.
27-03-2020||Aparna Banerji||Lack of testing, quarantine violations cause for concern||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 26A 60-year-old woman who had been under quarantine for 12 days at Urban Estate in Phagwara died late last evening. The woman’s son had come from abroad 12 days ago. The patient was taken to Phagwara civil hospital a few days ago, but she was not tested and was only placed under home quarantine for having a travel history. In other cases, many have been hiding their travel history or contacts with people coming from abroad, making detection an uphill task.At least two Jalandhar activists have taken up the cases of surveillance/action on NRIs with travel history with various authorities. Sanjay Sehgal, a Jalandhar-based activist, has been sending lists daily to the district administration and Ashok Sareen, a BJP activist, has written to the Union Government on the issue.Sehgal said, “People are calling us and reporting patients who have not been tested for Covid despite having a travel history. I have received calls from people reporting at least two cases with UK and Australia travel history from Purian Mohalla, one from Ramneek Nagar and another from Lajpat Nagar. I have been sending such lists daily to the district administration. Some under quarantine might have met many people. They should be tested for Covid.”Sareen, president, Yuva Shakti Sangh, has written to External Affairs Minister Jai Shankar seeking suspension of passports of those not reporting their travel history to the administration.He wrote, “As we know in the past one month a large number of foreign and Indian nationals arrived in India from different parts of world. These people are not cooperating with the local administration and police are not able to trace them as they are hiding and are not coming out of their places. This puts other citizens in danger of getting infected by coronavirus.”
