27-07-2020||Amritsar||Two lovers found hanging from tree in Amritsar||A young couple was found hanging from a tree in Chander village, nearly 25 kilometres from Amritsar, police said on Monday.The deceased were identified as Jagrup Singh (24) and Rajwinder Kaur (19), they said.During preliminary investigation, it was found that they were relatives and allegedly in a relationship for the last six months.The bodies will be handed over to their families after a post-mortem is conducted, said police. PTI
27-07-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht Jathedar urges Centre, Punjab govt to stop implicating Sikh youths in UAPA||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Monday urged the Centre and Punjab government to stop arresting “innocent” Sikh youths in Punjab under the anti-terror law UAPA.“There is a dire need to order an independent judicial inquiry in this regard as poor Dalit youths in Punjab were being targeted,” said Jathedar. The Jathedar made the statement after meeting a deputation led by Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who sought his intervention into the “rampant” arrest of Sikh youths after allegedly implicating them in terror cases.In a memorandum submitted to the Akal Takht Jathedar, Khaira alleged that Sikh youths, particularly Dalits, were being booked under the “draconian” Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act by the Centre and the Punjab government.“Through this memorandum, we would like to bring to your notice the atrocities and excesses being perpetrated by the central government and Punjab government against Sikh youths, particularly Dalits under the oppressive UAPA,” alleged Khaira.Under the UAPA law, more than 16 FIRs have been registered in recent weeks across Punjab while 47 FIRs have been registered in the last three-year tenure of Amarinder Singh government, in which “utterly poor, defenceless and innocent people have been arrested at a large scale”, he alleged.“We wish to bring to your notice the fact that we have personally conducted spot visits and examined some of the recent cases registered under the UAPA which prove that most of the people arrested under the said law are innocent and have been falsely implicated by the police after declaring them Khalistani modules and terrorists,” said Khaira.In the memorandum, he gave instances of four cases in which, he claimed innocent people were arrested under the UAPA.“Therefore, being the head of a glorious institution like Akal Takht Sahib, we urge you to come forward and raise your voice against the injustice and excesses being committed by both the governments,” he said.Khaira urged the Jathedar to intervene and take up the matter of “gross injustice” being perpetrated on innocents under the UAPA law.He also requested him to direct the SGPC to appoint a team of legal luminaries to defend the “innocent victims” arrested under the UAPA law.He also demanded a monthly pension of a minimum of Rs 5,000 for the victims’ families.Khaira was accompanied by former MP Dharamvir Gandhi, MLAs Jagdev Singh Kamalu, Pirmal Singh Khalsa, Jagtar Singh Jagga, and family members of four “victims”.Talking to the media later, Jathedar Akal Takht said that victim families met him. — PTI
27-07-2020||New Delhi||India protests plans for converting Pak gurdwara into mosque||India has lodged a strong protest with the Pakistan High Commission on the reported incident whereby Gurdwara ‘Shahidi Asthan’, site of martyrdom of Bhai Taru Singh ji at Naulakha Bazaar in Lahore, was claimed as the place of Masjid Shahid Ganj and attempts made to convert it to a mosque. In response to a media query regarding Gurdwara ‘Shahidi Asthan’, MEA official spokesperson Anurag Srivastava pointed out that Bhai Taru Ji made the supreme sacrifice in 1745 at this historical gurdwara.As the gurdwara is a place of reverence and considered sacred by the Sikh community, this incident has been viewed with grave concern in India.There have been calls for justice for the minority Sikh community in Pakistan, he added.“India expressed its concerns, in strongest terms, on this incident and called upon Pakistan to investigate the matter and take immediate remedial measures. Pakistan was also called upon to look after the safety, security, wellbeing of its minority communities including protection of their religious rights and cultural heritage,” said the spokesperson.
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||SAD seeks registration of case against Dera Sacha Sauda supporter||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday submitted a complaint to the Chandigarh Police, demanding registration of a case against a Dera Sacha Sauda supporter for allegedly hurting the sentiments of the Sikh community with remarks against Sikh Gurus.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and senior party leaders Balwinder Singh Bhundur, Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema met Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police Nilambari Jagadale here.They demanded registration of a case under relevant sections including 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli­gious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code against the Dera supporter, according to a party release here.In the complaint, they said the Dera supporter on July 14 had made some “derogatory and malicious allegations aimed at tarnishing Sukhbir Singh Badal’s personal, political, public and social reputation.”              After a legal notice was sent, the Dera supporter regretted making false allegations against Badal.It was shocking that even though the Dera supporter apologised for making comments but also simultaneously made alleged “blasphemous” remarks against Sikhism and Sikh Gurus, said the party release.“These remarks were widely circulated and even made viral with the preconceived conspiracy to outrage Sikh sentiments,” said the release. PTI
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers hold protest against Centre’s ordinances||Growers, representing 13 farmers’ outfits in Punjab, held a state-wide protest against three ordinances of the Centre on Monday.The agitating farmers took out protest marches at several places in the state, including Ludhiana, Moga, Muktsar, Phagwara and Hoshiarpur, to express their anger.They were protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance.The farmers moved towards the residences or offices of the leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal and the BJP in their tractors to protest against the ordinances.Adequate numbers of police personnel were deployed in view of the farmers’ state-wide protest, officials said.Thirteen farmers’ outfits, including All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugarhan), BKU (Krantikari) and BKU (Sidhuwal), joined hands to launch the protest.“The Centre is trying to destroy the farming sector with the implementation of these three ordinances,” said a protesting farmer in Muktsar.Farmers also slammed leaders of the SAD for supporting these ordinances.The main apprehension of the farming community against these ordinances was the dismantling of the minimum support price system for foodgrain procurement.In Phagwara, farmers in around 500 tractors moved from the grain market to the residence of Union minister of state for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash.They put up black flags and “anti-ordinances” banners on tractors.The protest threw road traffic out of gear on the Hoshiarpur-Phagwara road and later the protesters were stopped by police at some distance from Parkash’s residence.They held rallies at grain market and on the main road of Urban Estate, a few furlongs away from the residence of the minister.Manjit Singh Rai, President BKU (Doaba), alleged that these ordinances would pave way for the entry of corporates into agriculture activities, forcing small farmers out of their ancestral profession.They also alleged that the minimum support price (MSP) of crops would be withdrawn, leaving farmers at the mercy of private players.Satnam Singh Sahni, General Secretary Doaba Kisan Union urged Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to convene an emergency session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha for adopting a unanimous resolution against these ordinances.Farmers said a countrywide protest will be held against these ordinances on August 9.                  In Amritsar, farmers also took out a protest from the Company Bagh area to the residence of BJP MP Shwait Malik.In Ludhiana, farmers warned of intensifying their agitation if the ordinances were not rolled back.In Hoshiarpur, activists of farmers’ outfits took out a protest march from Tanda Chowk to Rahimpur grain market.They also gave memorandum to the Naib Tehsildar at Rahimpur, demanding withdrawal of the ordinances.At some places, including Moga, farmers reportedly flouted social distancing norms during the protest.They also rued that rising diesel prices have raised their input cost.The protests were held despite Chief Minister Amarinder Singh appealing to the farmers to postpone the agitation against the “anti-farmer” ordinances in view of the restrictions in place to check the spread of coronavirus.On July 20, BKU (Lakhowal) and BKU (Rajewal) and some other outfits had staged protests on similar issues. PTI
27-07-2020||---||Punjab reports 557 new Covid cases, 12 deaths||Chandigarh, July 27Punjab has recorded 557 new cases and 12 deaths during the past 24 hours.The total number of Covid cases stands at 13,769.Of these 4,387 are active cases. There have been 318 deaths due to the virus.Meanwhile, SAD leader Bibi Jagir Kaur’s daughter has tested positive for Covid.
27-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Malerkotla sub jail converted into isolation centre for Covid positive prisoners||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 27Sangrur administration has converted Malerkotla sub jail into an isolation centre for Covid positive prisoners and shifted 26 to Malerkotla from Sangrur Jail. It has shifted Malerkotla jail inmates to Nabha jail.On Monday, local Sub Divisional Magistrate Vikramjit Panthey along with police officers visited the jail and inspected all facilities put up by Covid positive prisoners. The SDM also interacted with health department officers and took feedback.“On the directions of Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Ramvir, we have converted the local Sub Jail into L-1 isolation centre and have also shifted 26 Covid positive prisoners from Sangrur Jail to here. We have deputed a team of health department officers to provide all facilities to prisoners,” said the SDM.Presently, Sangrur district has 227 Covid active cases and 23 have died till date. Today 14 more tested positive and include 7 from Sangrur, 4 from Dhuri and one each from Sunam, Kauhrian and Longowal.Out of total deaths, 15 deceased were from Malerkotla, one each from Sangrur, Longowal, Fatehgarh Panjgrayan and Ahemdgarh while two each from Amargarh and Sherpur.“Today, 13 more have defeated Covid and till date total 700 have recovered in district. Our special teams have been working round the clock to contain the spread of virus. But we need the support of residents and they should follow the directions of authorities,” the DC said.
27-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 32 new coronavirus cases; district tally now 747||Mohali reported 32 new cases of coronavirus on Monday, officials said---a development that takes the district's COVID-19 cases to 747.Some 14 positive patients were released from hospitals after recovery, officials said.Meanwhile, Punjab Director General of Police has been admitted to Grecian Hospital in Mohali he showed symptoms of coronavirus. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said Kharar City SHO Bhagwant Singh has also been quarantined at his house in Kharar’s Omega city."Kharar SHO was asymptomatic following which he is in home isolation. Punjab DIG showed symptoms of Covid-19 due to which he was admitted to Grecian Hospital here. The contacts of both the officials are being traced."In a separate development, a branch of State Bank of India in Kharar has been sealed after an employee tested positive. Employees of the branch, which is near the bus stand, have been asked to quarantine themselves at home since the development. Authorities said that their swabs have yet to be taken for testing.
27-07-2020||Patiala||After 84 new coronavirus cases in a day, Patiala declares 4 more containment zones||After Patiala reported 84 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, four new micro-containment zones have been declared in the district. The new micro-containment zones in the district are the areas around the Arya Samaj Mandir, Durga Mandir, Guru Nanak Nagar, near Ambedkar roundabout all in Rajpura, and Hargobind Colony in Bahadurgarh town of the district. Besides, one car dealership was sealed to stem the spread of the virus.Rajpura secretariat was sealed on Monday after two coronavirus cases were detected. Staff were asked to operate from home and get tested. A tea vendor tested positive in the SDM and tehsildar office following which the office was sealed till further orders.Hira automobile Workshop in Nabha has also been shut after 15 staff members were found infected with COVID-19. It has been learned that one staff member was found infected last week and later the entire staff tested positive.Of the 84 cases, 37 were reported from Patiala city, 16 from Rajpura, nine from Nabha, four from Samana and three from Patran. Meanwhile, 15 positive cases were reported from different villages of the district.Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra, said the situation in the district was not good. He said,” Cases are rising continuously. The situation is not good. People should take things seriously and stay at home.”With this development, the number of people infected with coronavirus stands at 1,397.
27-07-2020||Months after the CAA came into force||1st batch of Afghan Sikhs reaches Delhi||Among those who returned include Nidan Singh Sachdeva, who was earlier abducted by militia groups affiliated to Haqqani network, in Afghanistan.“We appreciate the efforts of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in extending necessary support for the safe return of these families,” a release by the MEA stated.
27-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Why no memorial built so far, ask angry Sangrur villagers||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 26Around 6,500 residents of Kargil martyr Naik Bahadur Singh’s native village Banbhaura today expressed resentment against government’s failure to construct a memorial to him. Residents have written several times to the authorities concerned, but to no avail.“We have written letters, met officials and requested for a memorial. We want a memorial so that the village remembers him forever,” said Balbir Singh, elder brother of the martyr. Bahadur Singh had joined the Army in 1988.Sarpanch Kamaljit Kaur said the village had demarcated a piece of land for a statue, but the authorities had done nothing in that regard.Block Development and Panchayat Officer, Malerkotla, Amandeep Kaur said an application had been received and that she would look into the matter.
27-07-2020||---||All-women gang of robbers busted, 3 held||Patiala, July 26For the past two decades, a gang of robbers comprising women had been creating terror across many states by robbing commuters of their belongings, mostly gold ornaments. They had also roped in many young girls in this racket.On Saturday, the Patiala police arrested three members of this gang and were shocked to know that they had over 100 cases registered against them in various states. The trio had reportedly trained around 25 girls to assist them.The accused have been identified as Lachmi alias Lachoo, a resident of Langroi in Patiala, Karamjit Kaur of Jolian village in Sangrur, and Roopo of Muradpura village in Patiala. The trio was wanted in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan.Patiala Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said, “Initial probe suggests that Lachmi has over 59 FIRs registered against her. She used to board a bus along with her gang members. While her aides indulged in a conversation with the victim, she robbed him/her of valuables.” Around 29 cases have been registered against Roopo and 33 against Satya.“We are trying to ascertain whether women trained by Lachmi are still in touch with her,” said Sidhu.“We firmly believe that the gang members have been involved in around 500 crimes. In many cases, people do not register complaints,” said the police.“On Saturday, cops signalled a car driver to stop. The driver while speeding away almost hit the policeman. The accused was intercepted, but two gang members — Satya and Manpreet Singh — managed to flee,” said the police.A case has been registered under Sections 307, 379-B, and 27 of the IPC against the accused at Civil Lines police station.
27-07-2020||---||Probe panel quizzes  former SGPC staffer||Amritsar, July 26 Kanwaljit Singh, a former superintendent of the Publication Department of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), was questioned regarding disappearance of 267 “saroops” by a probe panel at the Secretariat of the Akal Takht. According to information, Kanwaljit was questioned for more than five hours. He was called on July 24 as well to clear his stance as he was responsible for maintaining the record and issuing “saroops”.  After his retirement on May 31, Kanwaljit had revealed about the missing “saroops” and had stated that he had issued “saroops” at the behest of members of the SGPC on the assurance that they would fulfill formalities later on. Another staffer of the SGPC, who was responsible for sending “saroops” to different states, has also been questioned. The inquiry committee has a recording, which contains details of an interaction between the two employees. Earlier, the probe team had taken possession of the five-year record of the Publication Department. The investigating team has yet not summoned the Punjab Human Rights Organisation’s representatives for questioning. The organisation had demanded a high-level inquiry and had submitted a complaint in this regard to the Chief Secretary.   Akal Takht has handed over the probe to former Punjab and Haryana High Court Justice Navita Singh and Telangana High Court advocate Ishar Singh. The investigation would be completed within a month.
27-07-2020||---||Resumed ration distribution under meal scheme: Minister||Sangrur, July 26School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla today said the delivery of foodgrain to 15.79 lakh students of government schools under the Mid-day Meal Scheme had begun across the state.The minister said besides providing ration for school days, the state government had also allocated foodgrain and cooking amount for summer holidays for the first time.“Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, our government is ensuring delivery of foodgrain on the doorstep of students. And for the first time, we have allocated ration and cooking amount for summer holidays, which were declared from April 11 to May 10 this year,” he said at Bhawanigarh town of the district, where he had come to award silver and bronze certificates to Covid warriors.The minister claimed that 8,262.23 metric tonne (MT) foodgrain had been sent to schools to deliver rice and wheat in sealed packets to students for the first financial quarter of academic session 2020-21. He said for the second quarter (July 20-September 20), 11,974 MT ration would be delivered at the schools soon.
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Health insurance plan extended||To bring 9.5 lakh farmers and their families into the ambit of the health insurance cover under the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana for 2020-21, the state government has extended the last date to submit applications under this scheme till August 5. All eligible farmers having ‘J’ forms and ‘sugarcane weightment slips’ were earlier required to submit their self-declaration along with other documents at the market committee office or with commission agent concerned till July 24, which has now been extended to August 5. The Mandi Board will pay the premium for the insurance cover of all farmers, who will get cashless treatment facility up to Rs 5 lakh per annum. The beneficiaries can approach any of the 546 empanelled private hospitals and 208 government hospitals for treatment facility of up to Rs 5 lakh for 1,396 diseases under the scheme. — TNS
27-07-2020||Shivani Bhakoo---||Punjab releases funds for effluent treatment plant, dyers relieved||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, July 26 In a relief for the Punjab Dyers Association, the state government has released a subsidy for the installation of the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) on the Tajpur Road.  On the behalf of the state government, the member secretary of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) wrote to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF), asking it to release its share of Rs 12 crore at the earliest so that the CETP could be installed in a time-bound period. Bobby Jindal from the association told The Tribune that the members of the association had visited many offices to get the subsidy amount from both governments. They even had to knock on the doors of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for getting the subsidy share from it. The letter from the state government had come as a major relief, he added.  The letter read that the project was sanctioned by the MoEF with a grant-in-aid of Rs 15 crore. Of which, the first installment of Rs 3 crore was released to the board in December 2019 and February 2020. It also mentioned that the state government had sanctioned Rs 7.50 crore for the plant which was to come up on the Tajpur Road, of which Rs 1.50 crore was released in June 2018. Till date, the amount released by the Centre and the state government had been utilised, and 85 per cent of the work had been completed, read the letter. The letter mentions that the state government had released and transferred Rs 6 crore in the bank account of the PPCB.
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Former minister seeks law on custodial deaths||After yet another death in police custody, former law minister Ashwani Kumar requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to initiate steps for a comprehensive stand-alone law against custodial torture. “There is a compelling case for such a law, based on the Recommendation of the Select Committee of Parliament, the Human Rights Commission of India and also of the Law Commission of our country,” Kumar said in a press release issued on Sunday. He was referring to the death of Navdeep Singh (32), who was arrested on July 16 for allegedly making illicit liquor. He died under mysterious circumstances in the custody of Batala police last week. — TNS
27-07-2020||Ruchika M Khanna---||After scare, farmers hope to reap benefits of direct seeding||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, July 26  Direct seeding of paddy has proven to be a milestone in the agrarian economy of Punjab during these times of the Covid-19. Promoted to beat the severe shortage of farm labour, 20 per cent of land under paddy (both basmati and non-basmati variety) has been sown through the direct seeding method this year.  Amid initial hiccups, when some farmers had ploughed back the direct seeded rice apprehending a fall in yield, almost 5.50 lakh hectares of land across the state has been sown using this novel method. The total area under paddy this year is 27 lakh hectares, which includes 7 lakh hectares under basmati varieties.  The Covid-induced change in paddy cultivation, caused by the scarce migrant labourers, is here to stay. Its benefits are two-fold, as per farmers in the state: It has brought down the cost of cultivation drastically and is a much less water consuming way to grow paddy, as fields have to be just moistened before direct seeding, against flooding as required in normal paddy transplantation.  Kahan Singh Pannu, Punjab’s Agriculture Secretary, said farmers who opted for this technique had saved almost 70 per cent cost of cultivation, while also ensuring that they save water. “Various studies have shown that 4,500 litres of water is required to grow 1 kg of rice in the traditional method of transplanting and flooding fields,” he said. Harwinder Singh, a farmer of Rajgarh village in Barnala, has used direct seeding of rice technique on his 23 acres. “I was apprehensive initially as many said this technique led to rat infestation and termites in fields. But I was in touch with Agriculture Department officials and used the required insecticides in the recommended proportion. The shoots per bunch of paddy are more by 30 per cent,” he said. Barnala is among the districts which saw maximum use of direct seeding technique. Baldev Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Barnala, told The Tribune that direct seeding had been done on 20,050 hectares in the district. “The area could have been much more, but some farmers who initially went in for direct seeding later developed cold feet because of pest infestation and ploughed back their fields. They then hired expensive labour and re-planted the fields. Now, when they see the fields of farmers who opted for direct seeding, they regret their decision,” he said.
27-07-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab to rework scholarship scheme as Centre pulls out||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26With the Centre discontinuing funds under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme, the Punjab Government is working on a plan to fund the education of SC students in the state.Issues like finances and criteria are being looked into, it is learnt. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has already hinted at finding an early solution to the issue.It was earlier a Central scheme, but from April 2017 onwards, the entire financial liability of the scheme was transferred to the states. The demand raised under the scholarship scheme for 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 was nearly Rs 1,550 crore. Prior to 2017, over three lakh students would avail the scholarship. The number has now gone down to two lakh.This could be due to various reasons, like linking of beneficiaries with Aadhaar and removal of discrepancies related to the enrolment of beneficiaries and the institutions enrolling them. Official sources said the issue was likely to be discussed in the next Cabinet meeting. At present, around Rs 430 crore is required to fund the scheme.A senior functionary says since imparting free education to the poor and SC students is a priority for the government, it is working towards extending the ambit of the social welfare schemes to provide benefits to such students.Following the Chief Minister’s assurance, the unaided colleges are hopeful of an early solution. Nearly 2.50 lakh students enrolled with 1,600 unaided institutes of Punjab are getting the benefit under the SC/ST scholarship scheme, said Dr Anshu Kataria, president, Punjab Unaided College Association.Centre-state tussle2.5L beneficiariesFollowing the Chief Minister’s assurance, the unaided colleges are hopeful of an early solution. Nearly 2.50 lakh students enrolled with 1,600 unaided institutes of Punjab are getting benefits under the SC/ST scholarship scheme, said Dr Anshu Kataria, president, Punjab Unaided College Association.
27-07-2020||Balwant Garg||School board collects fee for exams that weren’t held||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 26A demand by the Government School Teachers Union in the state seeking refund of Rs 80 crore which the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has collected from about 6 lakh students of Classes X and XII as examination fee has triggered a debate.Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the PSEB exams were cancelled in March. The exams were scheduled to be held between March 20 and March 31. The results of all students of Classes X and XII were declared on the basis of pre-board evaluation.As there were no examinations this time, the PSEB should refund the fee which it had collected from students, the teachers’ union demanded.According to the union, 3,19,111 students of Class X and 2,86,378 students of Class XII paid Rs 1,200 and Rs 1,500 each, respectively, as theory and practical examination fee to the school board.Most of the students in the PSEB-affiliated schools belong to economically weaker section, so the board should refund the fee as no exams were held, said Prem Chalwa, senior vice-president of the union.Krishan Kumar, Chairman, PSEB, said the board would reimburse the examination fee paid by SC/ST students once the Department for the Welfare of SC/ST deposited the amount with the school board. The SC/ST Welfare Department is providing reimbursement of tuition and other compulsory fees to underprivileged students.The union claimed that the PSEB had not spent much on the preparations for the examinations. So the board should refund at least a part of the fee, if not full, it said.“If the benefit of lesser cost on the exercise is not passed on to the students, it will lead to undue earning for the school board, which should not be its aim,” said Surinder Kumar Puari, president of the union.Krishan Kumar said the change in cost was temporary and would not change the cost of running the overall affairs of the school board. “Like teachers, who are being paid by the government without any pay cut during the pandemic, the PSEB also has a large number of employees and their salary is partially collected from various funds the board charges from the students,” he said.Krishan Kumar said the PSEB did not provide services for profit as defined under the commercial laws. The fee was charged only to some extent for running the board, he said.‘Will reimburse SC/ST students’Krishan Kumar, Chairman, PSEB, said the board would reimburse the examination fee paid by SC/ST students once the SC/ST Welfare Department deposited it with the PSEB. The department was providing reimbursement of tuition and other compulsory fee to financially weak students, he said.
27-07-2020||---||Congress leaders who violated norms booked||Muktsar, July 26 After a report titled ‘Congress leaders ‘violate’ safety norms in Muktsar’ appeared in these columns on Saturday, the Muktsar (Sadar) police booked zila parishad member Simarjit Singh Bhina Brar and panchayat samiti member Maninder Singh Mani Charewan along with over 20 persons. A case has been registered under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC on the complaint lodged by Naib Tehsildar Surinderpal Singla. On Thursday, Bhina Brar and Mani Charewan had addressed a gathering at Chauntra village while inaugurating some development works. Further, some of them had even uploaded the photos on social media, where a number of people were seen present and most of them were not even wearing masks. On this alleged violation of Covid safety norms, Charewan had said they had gone to Chauntra village to start development works and followed state government’s Covid safety guidelines, but a few persons who were present there had come on their own.
27-07-2020||---||Private hospitals to be provided plasma||Chandigarh, July 26The Punjab Government today decided to provide plasma to private hospitals from the government’s “plasma bank” at Rs 20,000 per unit.A spokesperson for the Department of Medical Education and Research said private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients were demanding plasma from the day of establisment of the plasma bank. After deliberation with experts, the state government has decided to provide plasma to these hospitals.Plasma would be made available free of cost to patients undergoing treatment in the government hospitals.On July 21, the first plasma bank was inaugurated online by Minister for Medical Education and Research OP Soni.
27-07-2020||Sameer Singh||Punjab banks on counselling for fast recovery of patients||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 26Counselling has been playing a major role in treating Covid-19 patients as more than the virus, fighting the stigma attached to it proves out to be a bigger challenge.The Health Department has counselled scores of patients in isolation centres and quarantine facilities established. A team of doctors comprising psychiatrists has been conducting therapy sessions through video-conferencing, mobile phones (tele-counselling), one-to-one and group counselling.More than 7,741 Covid patients of the total have recovered so far and the doctors have managed to counsel more than 70 per cent patients.A few patients with severe symptoms (Level 1) who have been kept in high-dependence units in government medical colleges and those with mild symptoms (Level 3) rarely need counselling. Mainly Level 2 patients, who have been moved to isolation facilities, require counselling.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, Covid-19 Nodal Officer, said, “The idea is to keep the spirits of patients high. We engage patients in various activities to ensure that stress does not hamper their recovery. Yoga, meditation, indoor games, motivational lectures, recreational activities and even videos of success stories of recovered patients are showcased.” Dr Arun Bansal, head of psychiatry unit, Bathinda Civil Hospital, said, “To alleviate fear among patients, we tell them the facts. Recovery from virus is not the only thing that stresses a patient, but getting accepted in the society after treatment is the biggest issue. Patients in isolation facilities can suffer from insomnia and panic attacks.”
27-07-2020||Karam Prakash||Clad in PPE, docs battle foggy vision, dehydration||tribune News ServicePatiala, July 26Everyone has been limiting their outdoor visits, and stepping out only when it’s important in the wake of Covid-19. However, for doctors, having to head out to their workplaces is inevitable. Battling the odds, doctors at the gynecology department of Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, are carrying out deliveries of Covid positive women successfully.In all, 14 women who had tested positive have delivered their babies at the hospital, with no reports of maternal and infant death so far. Given that doctors have to wear their PPE suits at all times, it has become difficult for them to carry out the deliveries because of low visibility and communication problems.Dr Parneet Kaur, incharge, gynaecology department, said the delivery of Covid patients continued to throw practical challenges that were hard to tackle. She said: “We have developed a sign language to communicate with our patients. Also, wearing the PPE suit for long hours fogs our vision. Therefore, I ask my staff to drink adequate water to avoid dehydration before carrying out a delivery.”Besides, taking care of both newborn and Covid positive mother is another challenge faced by the doctors, as they have to ensure that the infection in not contracted by the infant.
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||12 more deaths in Punjab, toll reaches 306||For the second consecutive day, Punjab reported 12 Covid-related deaths and 534 cases. The total number of cases has now reached 13,218 while 105 patients are on oxygen and 20 on ventilator support.With 12 casualties in the past 24 hours, the death toll has reached 306. Two deaths each were reported from Ludhiana, Ropar, Gurdaspur and Amritsar, and one each from Jalandhar, SAS Nagar, Bathinda and SBS Nagar.Ludhiana continues to be the worst-affected district as it reported 95 cases in the past 24 hours, followed by Patiala with 83 cases, Jalandhar 70, Amritsar 45, Hoshiarpur 42, SAS Nagar 28 and Sangrur 17 cases.In Ludhiana, a 51-year-old victim from Chhoti Dhandari was admitted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. A 48-year-old from Bishan Nagar, who was admitted to the PGI,Chandigarh, succumbed to the virus. Also, a former BJP president of Ludhiana tested positive. Earlier, two leaders from the saffron party had tested positive. A 44-year-old man from Husianpura tested positive and a 52-year-old person with a travel history of Bihar tested positive.Read also: Punjab banks on counselling for fast recovery of patientsOn Sunday, five police personnel deployed at Mundian Khurd, Landra, Samrala and Doraha tested positive.Similarly, 17 persons tested Covid positive in Sangrur district. In Barnala, 11 persons tested positive, which includes two prisoners and two cops from Mehal Kalan police station. — TNS
27-07-2020||---||BJP behind turmoil in Rajasthan : Jakhar||Chandigarh, July 26Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar has alleged that the BJP was killing democracy by destabilising state governments of opposition parties in a bid to seize power.He claimed that after eroding democracy in Goa and Madhya Pradesh, the BJP was now following the same in Rajasthan. Describing it a threat to the federal structure of the country, he warned that the Congress would not remain silent on this.Jakhar claimed that the BJP did not care about the Constitution nor did it care about the high democratic values of the country.He alleged that the manner in which the Governor was not convening the Assembly session at the request of the Chief Minister in violation of the constitutional norms made it clear that he was ignoring democracy with the concurrence of the Central Government.
27-07-2020||GS Paul---||Becoming self-reliant, conjoined twins learn to repair electronics||Tribune News Service Amritsar, July 26 The endearing 17-year-old conjoined twins, Sohna and Mohna, have achieved another feat. Residing at a ‘pingalwara’ in Amritsar, they have honed their skills in repairing electric appliances under the supervision of electrician Malkiat Singh.   Growing up as individuals with distinct features, they keep egging each other. Sohna is quick to respond. “Saanu avaajan paindiyan ne jado kise ward vich light chali jaye. Asi trained han hun bijli de kam ch (We are called up whenever there is a disruption in the power supply in any ward. We are trained now),” he said.  Mohna said, “Asi ik duje nal salah karke bijli theek karde han (We consult with each other while repairing the snag).”  Born on June 14, 2003, at Sucheta Kriplani Hospital in New Delhi, Sohna and Mohna share all vital organs. They have two hearts, two pairs of arms, kidneys and spinal cords, but only one liver and gall bladder. They are conjoined below the torso and have one pair of legs. They were shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences where doctors decided not to separate them as it could entail the death of one.  Their parents abandoned them, but they were welcomed in a new family at the pingalwara on August 13 the same year. They were named Sohna and Mohna by Dr Inderjeet Kaur, president of the Pingalwara Society.  “Sohna and Mohna are curious and bright, but naughty and chirpy. It is good that they have developed a technical mindset and have learnt repairing electric appliances. Another advantage is that they carry many tools in one go with multiple arms,” she said. They have passed Class X this year. “Later, they can pursue a diploma or degree from an ITI. We are committed to make them self-reliant and lead a dignified life,” she said.
27-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Work restarts on Udham Singh memorial, museum in offing too||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 26Though the outbreak of Covid-19 delayed the construction of a memorial of martyr Udham Singh in Sunam town of the district, the work has restarted now. The state government has also decided to construct a museum to showcase the articles of the martyr. A team of senior officials visited the under-construction memorial on Friday.“Earlier, there was a plan to construct an open-air theatre at the backside of the memorial, but due to the presence of an industrial unit, it’s not feasible. We have decided to construct a museum in place of the theatre to showcase the articles of Udham Singh,” said Husan Lal, Principal Secretary, Department of Cultural Affairs, Archives, Archeology and Museums.“We have released Rs 1 crore for the construction. The remaining Rs 1.62 crore will be released after the completion of the work in the coming three months. I have directed the chief architect to prepare a blueprint of the museum,” Lal said.Residents have been demanding the construction of the memorial for the past 10 years. They sent requests to the state authorities and protested many times too. On December 25, 2016, Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal laid the foundation stone of the memorial, while on July 31, 2018, the government announced that it had sanctioned Rs 2.62 crore for the purpose.
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Petrol pumps strike work||Farmers’ tractor rally todayChandigarh: Farmers across Punjab are gearing up for a massive tractor rally on Monday to lodge their protest against three farm ordinances announced by the BJP-led NDA government. As many as 13 farm organisations in the state will be holding a tractor rally. They will drive to the houses of SAD and BJP leaders to lodge their protest. For the past couple of days, the organisations have been mobilising villagers for the protest. TNS
27-07-2020||Abohar||Their message: Don’t spit||In record bookMalout: Dr RK Uppal, head of the department of economics, DAV College, Malout, has brought laurels to this small town as his name has been included in the World Book of Records (United Kingdom) for writing maximum number of books on the subject of banking and finance from 2005 to 2019. Being a profound scholar, Dr Uppal has been working in this field for over two decades and his work has been recognised globally.Pedalling for a causeFatehgarh Sahib: Under “Mission Fateh”, head constable Gursewak Singh and constable Samandeep Kumar, both posted at Muktsar, have been spreading awareness on Covid-19. They started the drive from Muktsar on bicycles a few days ago and have since visited several towns and villages. They recently reached Gurdwara Jyoti Swarup Sahib and addressed devotees, urging them to wear masks in public and maintain social distancing. They also distributed masks and sanitisers among the residents.
