27-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records 292 new COVID-19 cases, 18 more deaths||Punjab on Sunday reported 18 more COVID-19 deaths, pushing the toll to 5,299 while 292 fresh cases took the infection count in the state to 1,65,405, according to a medical bulletin.There are 4,214 active coronavirus cases in the state, as of now.Mohali reported 56 new cases, Ludhiana 53 and Jalandhar 29, among fresh cases witnessed in the state, the bulletin said.It said a total of 483 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,55,892.Fifteen critical patients are on ventilator support while 73 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 38,21,222 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI
27-12-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||‘Shaheedi Sabha’ concludes with religious ceremonies in Punjab||The three-day annual ‘Shaheedi Sabha’ held to commemorate the martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s two younger sons concluded here on Sunday with religious ceremonies.The event marks the martyrdom of the two younger sons of the 10th Sikh Guru, Gobind Singh, who were “bricked alive” here during the regime of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb.Thousands of devotees braved the cold to pay homage to Guru Gobind Singh’s sons on the concluding day of Shaheedi Sabha, popularly known as Jor Mela. They also paid homage to Mata Gujri, mother of the 10th Sikh Guru.The devotees paid obeisance at the historic Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib and Gurdwara Jyoti Swarup in Punjab on the occasion.To mark the concluding ceremony, a ‘Nagar Kirtan’ (religious procession) was taken out from Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib to Gurdwara Jyoti Swarup Sahib after performing the ‘Ardas’ (prayers).Gatka parties, Nihangs, Kirtani Jathas and various religious leaders accompanied the Nagar Kirtan.           The main attraction of the procession was the display of martial arts by Nihangs and Gatka parties.         Many devotees accompanied the Nagar Kirtan. The palanquin carrying Guru Granth Sahib (holy book) was placed on a well-decorated four wheeler.Akal Takht Jathedar Harpreet Singh performed the concluding Ardas at Gurdwara Jyoti Swarup. He and SGPC president Jagir Kaur called upon the Sikhs to follow the teachings of Gurus and wage a war against drug abuse and female foeticide.                 Earlier, AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann and Leader of the Opposition in Punjab Legislative Assembly, Harpal Singh Cheema also paid obeisance on the concluding day of Shaheedi Sabha. — PTI
27-12-2020||New Delhi||Mercury below 5 degree C at many places in north India||Several places in north India, including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, recorded their minimum temperature below the five-degree Celsius mark on Sunday, with the India Meteorological Department forecasting severe cold wave in parts of the region later this week and warning of dense fog.Though the mercury rose slightly in Delhi due to a Western Disturbance, the department said the relief would be short-lived as cold and dry northerly and northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas are likely to bring the minimum temperature in north India down by three to five degrees Celsius.“Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan from December 28-29. Ground frost and dense fog are likely in isolated pockets in the region,” the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Gurdaspur in Punjab and Churk in east Uttar Pradesh recorded lows of 2 degrees Celsius and 2.6 degrees Celsius respectively, while cold wave intensified in Kashmir with minimum temperatures dropping across the region to stay several notches below the freezing point.Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded a low of minus 7.2 degrees Celsius, Qazigund minus five degrees Celsius, Kupwara minus 4.8 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, in the south, recorded minus 4.9 degrees Celsius, according to the meteorological (MeT) department in Srinagar.“Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh; scattered rainfall/snowfall over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and isolated rain/thundershowers over northern parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on 27-28 December,” the IMD said in its all-India weather bulletin.The minimum temperature in Delhi rose slightly under the influence of the Western Disturbance (WD) affecting the upper Himalayas, according to the IMD.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 6 degrees Celsius as against 4.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday.However, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said the relief would be short-lived.The WD will lead to “scattered to fairly widespread” snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“Once the wind system withdraws, cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely to occur in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan from December 28-29,” it said.For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal.Biting cold conditions continued to prevail in Haryana and Punjab, with Gurdaspur recording a minimum temperature of 2 degrees Celsius.While Gurdaspur was the coldest place in Punjab, Narnaul was the coldest at 3.3 degrees Celsius in Haryana, the MeT department in Chandigarh said.In Haryana, Karnal, Rohtak, Ambala and Hisar recorded respective minimums of 3.8 degrees Celsius, 5.4 degrees Celsius, 4.6 degrees Celsius and 5.8 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, registered a low of 4.1 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded respective minimums of 4.8 degrees Celsius, 4.2 degrees Celsius and 3.9 degrees Celsius.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’, the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies, including the famous Dal Lake, as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.“The weather has remained dry and cold across Kashmir since the snowfall on December 12, with the night temperature staying several degrees below the freezing point,” the MeT Department said.It has forecast light rain or snow in the Kashmir Valley over the next three days.The officials said Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — recorded a low of minus 5.2 degrees Celsius – down from the previous night’s minus 3.7 degrees Celsius.They said the mercury in Pahalgam tourist destination in south Kashmir settled at minus 5.9 degrees Celsius, up more than a notch compared to the previous night’s low of minus 4.5 degrees Celsius.The chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during the 40-day period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall, the officials said.While ‘Chillai-Kalan’, which began on December 21, will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day-long ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).Himachal Pradesh’s Keylong, Kalpa, Manali, Mandi, Solan, Sundernagar and Bhuntar shivered at sub-zero temperatures.Keylong was the coldest place in the state at minus 11.6 degrees Celsius, MeT Centre, Shimla, Director Manmohan Singh said.Kalpa in Kinnaur district and Manali in Kullu district recorded lows of minus 3.4 and minus 0.6 degree Celsius, he added.Besides Mandi, Bhuntar, Sundernagar and Solan recorded lows of minus 2, minus 1.6, minus 1.2 and minus 0.5 degrees Celsius respectively. Dalhousie and Kufri recorded lows of 2.9 and 3.6 degrees Celsius, respectively.In Uttar Pradesh, cold wave conditions prevailed at isolated places, while some places witnessed dense to very dense fog, the MeT department in Lucknow said.The weather in the state was dry, it said.State capital Lucknow recorded a minimum temperature of 5.9 degrees Celsius, Allahabad 7.2 degrees Celsius, Kanpur 5.8 degrees Celsius, Bareilly 4.3 degrees Celsius and Fursatganj 3.1 degrees Celsius.Mount Abu, the only hill station of Rajasthan, was recorded the coldest place in the state at 2 degrees Celsius even as several places saw an increase of two-three notches in night temperatures.In the plains, Sriganganagar, Alwar and Sawai Madhopur recorded 6.2, 7.2 and 7.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday night.“Madhya Pradesh, especially its western region, is likely to experience cold wave conditions for the second time this month from December 29,” an IMD official said.Large parts of the state had witnessed biting cold conditions last week. However, the chill had subsided slightly and the minimum temperature had increased to some extent over the last few days.“Cold wave conditions are likely to prevail in Madhya Pradesh, especially its western part, for the second time this month from Tuesday. These conditions may continue for the next three to four days after that,” PK Saha, a senior meteorologist with IMD’s Bhopal office, said.“The westerly disturbance has caused snowfall in northern India. This is going to bring chilly winds to Madhya Pradesh by Tuesday. But the cold wave conditions are not expected to last long in the state,” he said.Extreme cold wave conditions are unlikely next week, he said. PTI
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||Stop maligning farmers by calling them ‘urban naxals’: Capt Amarinder to BJP||Lambasting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the malicious and derogatory terms used by its senior leaders against protesting farmers, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday asked the party to stop maligning the farmers and their genuine fight for justice by calling them offensive names like ‘urban naxals’, ‘Khalistanis’, ‘hooligans’ etc.“If the BJP cannot distinguish between anguished citizens fighting for their survival and terrorists/militants/hooligans, it should give up all pretense of being a people’s party,” said the chief minister.A party which treats citizens exercising their democratic right of protest as naxals and terrorists has lost all right to rule over those citizens, he added.Hitting out at BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh over his petty description of farmers in Punjab as ‘urban naxals’, Capt Amarinder said with these remarks, the BJP leadership had hit a new low in its desperation to promote its political agenda.He pointed out that such protests by angry farmers were taking place not just in Punjab but also in BJP-ruled states such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.“Do the farmers protesting in all these places look like Naxals to you? And does that mean law and order has collapsed everywhere?” he asked Chugh.“What is being seen in all these states, as well as the Delhi borders, is the sorry fall-out of the BJP-led Central government’s failed policy on agriculture, and its mishandling of the situation triggered by the farmers protest,” said the chief minister.Instead of heeding the plea of the ‘Annadatas’ and responding to their concerns, the BJP was busy trying to demean them and stifle their voice, he lamented.Pointing out that various farmer leaders had themselves appealed to agitating farmers not to disconnect power to mobile towers, the chief minister said this clearly showed that what was being witnessed on the ground in some places was a spontaneous manifestation of the wrath of farmers who see a dark future ahead as a result of the new farm laws.He pointed out that kisan unions had clearly stated that they did not want farmers to indulge in such acts. In fact, the unions had advised all protesters, and those standing with the farmers, to port their numbers out of the network of the telecom provider whom they had decided to boycott, he added.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) also condemned the Punjab BJP for terming the farmers of Punjab as “urban naxals” only because they were protesting against the anti-farmer policies of the Central government led by it.“It is reprehensible that the Punjab BJP unit has fallen so low that it is calling the farmers of the State urban naxals. This insult is intolerable and I advise the Punjab unit to take back this slur inflicted on the ‘annadaata’ immediately and apologise for the same”, SAD Kisan Wing president Sikandar Singh Maluka said in a statement here.The SAD Kisan Wing president said the Punjab BJP should not try to label hard working farmers of the state simply because they had protested against the anti-farmer statements of its leaders.
27-12-2020||Lucknow||Role of Sikh Gurus to be part of UP school curriculum: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the supreme sacrifices made by the Sikh Gurus should be made a part of the state curriculum so that the students could take inspiration from it and contribute to nation building.The Chief Minister, who was speaking on the occasion of ‘Sahibzada Diwas’ at his official residence on Sunday, said, “The ‘Khalsa Panth’ has played a stellar role in protecting the Hindu religion and the country and our present and coming generations must be told that our religion and the country is safe because of the ‘Khalsa Panth’.”Adityanath said the sacrifices of the four sons of Guru Gobind Singh would be an inspiration for the coming generations, as they sacrificed themselves to protect Hindus and the country.The sacrifices of Baba Ajit Singh, Baba Jujhar Singh, Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh needed to be known to all, the CM added.“I suggest to the state Education Minister to include the role of Sikh Gurus into the curriculum. We celebrate ‘Sahibzada Diwas’ on December 27 but I feel that this day is actually ‘Children’s Day’, as the Sahibzadas made the supreme sacrifice at such a tender age,” he said.“The day should be celebrated at schools as a festival and debates and various programmes must be held as a mark of respect to the Sahibzadas which, in turn, will inspire children. December was known for Christmas, now it will be known for ‘Sahibzada Diwas’,” he said.The Chief Minister said, “The state government is identifying all the places related to Guru Nanak Dev and the beautification work is being carried out on priority.”Speaking at the occasion, Parvinder Singh, the member of State Minority Commission, said, “It is for the first time that ‘Sahibzada Diwas’ is being celebrated at the residence of the Chief Minister which used to host only Iftar parties in the past.” Adityanath wore traditional Sikh attire, including a saffron turban, on the occasion. IANS
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers clang ‘thalis’, ask PM Modi to listen to their ‘Mann ki Baat’ too||Farmers on Sunday beat “thalis” at a few places in Punjab and Haryana during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme as part of their protest against the Centre’s new agri laws.While addressing a press conference on December 20 at Delhi’s Singhu border, farmer leaders had asked people protesting against the laws to beat utensils during the programme, the same way the prime minister had asked them in March to beat ‘thalis’ (steel plates).Modi had asked people to express gratitude towards those at the forefront of combating the coronavirus and extending essential services by giving a five-minute standing ovation by clapping, beating plates or ringing bells.Farmers beat “thalis” during protests at Amritsar, Ferozepur, Sangrur, Talwandi Sabo, Bathinda, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts in Punjab and Rohtak and Jind districts in Haryana, among other places in the two states.“The common people too are with farmers in their agitation against the farm laws,” said a protester in Amritsar as he beat a “thali” with a spoon and raised “Jai Kisan” slogan.At many places, farmers, who were joined by people from other sections of society, raised slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre.Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni went to the Makrauli toll plaza in Rohtak district along with a group of farmers to protest against the legislations.They beat ‘thalis’ with shoes during the prime minister’s monthly radio broadcast.“We are here to oppose Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’. We are registering this protest because the prime minister only says what he has to without listening to the voice of the people,” Chaduni said during the protest.He said feedback has been received from protesting farmers that toll collection on highways in Haryana should be halted till the Centre accepts the demands of the agitating farmers.Read also: Remember sacrifices of Sikh Gurus, says Modi as farmer protests show no signs of waningPM, ministers should sleep on floor till farmers out in cold: BittuThousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the laws since the last week of November at various border points of Delhi and demanding that the legislations be repealed.“We went to many toll barriers and farmers who are protesting there said no toll should be charged from people till the government accepts our demands,” the BKU leader said.Intensifying their agitation against the Centre’s new agri laws, farmers on December 20 had also announced that they will halt toll collection on highways in Haryana from December 25 to 27.“From December 25 to 27 all toll booths in Haryana will not be allowed by us to collect toll, we will halt them from doing so. On December 27, our prime minister will say his ‘Mann ki baat’ and we want to appeal to the people to beat ‘thalis’ during his address, the same way the PM had asked the country to bang utensils for coronavirus,” BKU leader Jagjeet Singh Dalewala had said at the press conference.When the prime minister will speak, “we appeal to the people of the entire country to bang utensils in your houses throughout the duration of his programme to drown out his Mann Ki Baat”, he had said.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The three farm laws, enacted in September, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain. — PTI
27-12-2020||New Delhi||PM, ministers should sleep on floor till farmers out in cold: Bittu||Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu on Sunday launched a scathing attack on the Centre for its “stubbornness” over the farm laws and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his entire cabinet should sleep on the floor till the time farmers are out protesting in the cold.Addressing reporters at a press conference arranged by the Congress for the party's Punjab leaders who have been sitting on a dharna at Jantar Mantar since 20 days, Bittu said the farmers would consider trusting the PM if he repealed at least two of the three controversial laws before the December 29 meeting with the farmers' unions.“The government should stop being so obstinate and should repeal the laws on electricity dues and stubble burning penalty,” Bittu said flanked by Khadoor Saheb MP JS Gill and Punjab Congress MLAs Kulbir Jira and Ravinder Amla, who have been staging a dharna at Jantar Mantar for days in support of farmers.Bittu said the farmers were very unhappy and their sons, who are guarding the borders, are “asking daily when the PM will send their parents home.”“What do you want? The sons of these farmers are guarding our borders.They are asking when will PM send our parents home. Else they will take leave and come home. Punjab and Haryana giving soldiers to defend the borders and food to fill the granaries and what age you doing? You are killing Punjabis at the border also and here also,” said Bittu.He accused the government of leaving farmers in the lurch — “you don’t want to let him live or die,” he said asking the PM and all cabinet ministers to sleep on floors while farmers agitate on Delhi borders.JS Gill said actor Sushant Rajput's suicide caused so much furore nationally while the suicide of Baba Ram Singh killed didn’t cause any flutter.“Value of every life should be the same,” Gill said adding that the PM will not become small by retracting the laws.Admission of fault is a courageous thing to do, he said.“You won’t lose if you retract. Acknowledgement of wrongdoing is courageous. You will become bigger with conceding. They must realise that the farmers of Punjab and Haryana who were divided previously stand united due to farm laws,” Gill said.Gill also attacked the BJP governments registering cases against protesting farmers in Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“The farmers are not afraid of these cases. PM must repeal laws,” he said with Bittu and Jira asking why the PM did not speak of farmers in his Mann ki Baat, the last edition this year.Bittu also said there was no dearth of money for farmers as NRIs from Punjab have a lot of money to support them.How many accounts will you freeze, Bittu asked the Government.He said MSP is being granted only in Punjab, Haryana, UP.“Rest of the farmers in other states haven’t tasted MSP. The government should be stubborn. No political party can’t mobilise people for so many days. This is a genuine farmer protest and PM must listen,” Bittu said.
27-12-2020||Kochi||Truckload of pineapples free of cost from Kerala for agitating farmers||Expressing solidarity with farmers agitating at the borders of Delhi against the new farm laws, a farmers association in Kerala has sent 16 tonnes of pineapples by truck to the national capital for free distribution.The cost of the fruit, as well as the expenditure on transport, will be borne by the Pineapple Farmers Association, its leader James Thottumaryil said here on Sunday.The consignment from Vazhakulam, known as "pineapple city," was flagged off by Agriculture Minister V S Sunil Kumar on Thursday night.It is expected to reach Delhi on Monday evening, Thottumariyil said.MPs from Kerala, Dean Kuriakose and K K Ragesh, along with Harbajan Singh of Delhi Gurudwara, will coordinate with the protest leaders for the distribution, Thottumariyil said."The agitation by farmers against these laws is the largest of its kind in the nation's history.... it is our duty to express our solidarity with them as they are fighting for our cause," he saidThe Minister alleged that retail trade in the country was already under the control of corporates and if something similar were to happen to the farming sector, consumer states like Kerala would suffer.Thousands of farmers have been camping at three Delhi border points—Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur—for nearly a month, demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws, enacted in September, and a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price.While the government has presented these laws as major reforms aimed at helping farmers, protesting farmer unions have maintained these acts will leave them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the mandi and MSP systems. — PTI
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM’s appeal fails to stop damages to telecom towers; 176 more damaged||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s appeal to protesting farmers to not damage telecom infrastructure seems to have failed to deter new attacks, with more than 176 signal transmitting sites being vandalised in the last 24 hours, sources said on Sunday.While firms belonging to billionaires Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani do not procure foodgrain from farmers, the narrative that new farm laws are to benefit them has made them easy targets, with protesting farmers in different places in Punjab having vandalised and damaged Reliance Jio towers, snapping connectivity.As many as 176 towers have been damaged since Saturday, two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said.This had taken the total number of telecom tower sites damaged to 1,411, they said.Incidents of snapping of power lines to attempts to axe the towers have been reported from different parts of Punjab, one of the sources said.“Site managers are slapped and abused for trying to persuade protestors from damaging sites,” he said.The second source said the telecom towers damaged belonged to Jio and common access infrastructure of the telecom industry.“The attacks have impacted telecom services and operators are struggling to maintain services in absence of action by law enforcement agencies,” the source said.The Punjab Chief Minister had on Friday appealed to the protesting farmers to not cause inconvenience to the general public with such actions and continue to exercise the same restraint as they had shown over the past several months of their agitation.“Pointing out that telecom connectivity had become even more critical for people amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the Chief Minister urged the farmers to show the same discipline and sense of responsibility which they had been exercising during their protest at the Delhi border, which has completed one month, and also earlier during their agitation in the state,” a statement issued by the chief minister’s office had said.Urging the farmers to not take the law in their hands by forcibly shutting down telecom connectivity or manhandling employees/technicians of telecom service providers, the Chief Minister had said such actions were not in the interest of Punjab and its future.“Forceful disruption of telecom services due to snapping of power supply to mobile towers by farmers in several parts of the state was not only adversely affecting the studies and future prospects of students, who are dependent entirely on online education, but also hampering the daily life of people working from home due to the pandemic,” the statement had quoted the chief minister as saying.The Chief Minister’s appeal came in the wake of a request from the Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association (TAIPA), a registered body of telecom infrastructure providers, asking the state government to persuade the farmers to not resort to any unlawful activity in their fight for justice. PTI
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab 2020: State's farmers lay siege to Delhi's borders||Towards the close of 2020, the farmers' protest appeared to push everything else that happened in Punjab to the background.The fight against COVID-19, for instance. Also, a hooch tragedy that claimed over 100 lives.The state's top bureaucrat was shunted out after two ministers went into a sulk over him. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and former cricketer-now politician Navjot Singh Sidhu patched up over lunch.But the spotlight was on Punjab's farmers, with thousands of them setting off to the national capital to protest against three agri-marketing laws. For a month now, they have blockaded key entry points to Delhi, with their unions asking the Narendra Modi government to repeal the new laws.There is hardly any social distancing or face masks seen at the protest sites at Delhi's borders. But the state itself has paid a heavy price during the pandemic so far: over 1.6 lakh people caught the virus and 5,200 died.The couldn't-care-less attitude by Punjab farmers at Delhi contrasts sharply with the harsh steps announced by their state government to fight the contagion. Night curfew still remains clamped on all towns and cities.A police officer had his hand chopped off when he and his colleagues tried to stop a group of men from the Nihang sect from violating the lockdown orders in Patiala district.The attackers were arrested after an exchange of fire at a gurdwara where they had fled after attacking the police team. Assistant Sub Inspector Harjeet Singh's hand was reattached at PGI Chandigarh.In July-August, a hooch tragedy struck Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala districts. Over 100 people died after consuming illicit liquor, as the police scrambled to make arrests and the Congress government fended off opposition attacks over the deaths.Two Rajya Sabha MPs, Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, targeted their own government in the state over the tragedy, seeking a probe by a central agency.The state Congress complained about them to party president Sonia Gandhi, seeking stern action for their “brazen indiscipline”.At another time, Capt Amarinder Singh was embarrassed by two of his ministers. Manpreet Singh Badal and Charanjit Singh Channi took offence over some “curt remarks” by Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh at a meeting on the state's excise policy.They refused to attend any more meetings where the CS was present, virtually serving it's-him-or-us ultimatum to the CM.Two weeks into the standoff, the chief secretary expressed regret. A month after the controversy began, he was shunted out, replaced by 1987-batch IAS officer Vini Mahajan who became the first woman to head the Punjab bureaucracy.She is now part of a power couple—her husband Dinkar Gupta is the state's police boss.But it has been a bad year for a former Director General of Police, Sumedh Singh Saini. He was charged with murder over the disappearance of a junior engineer three decades back. The missing man was allegedly picked up by police in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Saini.Saini was also named an accused in a case related to a police firing in 2015 at Faridkot's Behbal Kalan, where two people protesting over the alleged desecration of Guru Granth Sahib were shot dead.The row over the three new farm ordinances, which turned into Acts in September, ignited politics in Punjab with its farmers fearing that over time these would lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system. Most of the wheat and paddy grown in the state is bought by government agencies under this assured price system.Sensing the farmers' mood, the Shiromani Akali Dal walked out of the NDA government at the Centre, ending a two-decade-old alliance with the BJP.In a rare show of unity, over 30 Punjab farm bodies joined hands, organising first a series of sit-ins and then a “rail roko” that lasted for weeks.With the railways deciding not to run even freight trains unless the blockade was completely lifted, stocks of coal for power plants and fertilisers for farms began running low. Industry suffered a big blow.This was before the massive “Delhi Chalo” agitation in which Punjab farmers – as well as a sizeable number from Haryana – descended on Delhi's borders.Punjab's Congress government has been quick to make it clear that it is with the farmers. In the Vidhan Sabha, it brought a resolution urging the BJP-led Centre to repeal the laws. The House also passed Bills meant to “negate” the central laws in the state.Amritsar East MLA and former cricket Navjot Singh Sidhu took part in a tractor rally led by party leader Rahul Gandhi in October, attracting attention after months of keeping himself largely aloof from party activities.Amarinder Singh invited Sidhu for a lunch at his home last month, over a year since the MLA resigned as a minister after being stripped of his local government portfolio. In 2021, he might be back in Captain's team. — PTI
27-12-2020||Mandi||House of former Punjab DGP gutted in fire in Mandi district||The house of a former Punjab DGP was gutted in a fire on Saturday night at Karsog in Mandi district.According to Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri, the daughter and wife of the DGP were in the house at the time. The six-bedroom house, made of forest wood, was gutted due to a bonfire lit outside the house, and turned to ashes within hours.Agnihotri said that the entire house was engulfed and nothing could be saved.The SP stated that the name of the owner of the house was not confirmed by the police. The investigation is underway.She said that no loss of life was reported in that incident, while the loss of property is being assessed.
27-12-2020||New Delhi||Protesting farmers stay put at Delhi borders amid harsh winter||Thousands of farmers agitating against the three new Central agriculture laws stayed put at their agitations venues near Delhi, which is going through a harsh spell of winter, unrelenting in their demand of withdrawal of the legislations.The farmers had reached Singhu border over a month ago.The protesting farmer unions had on Saturday decided to resume their dialogue with the Centre, and proposed December 29 for the next round of talks.They had also decided that a tractor march will be held on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal highway on December 30.Security remained tight at the Delhi borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri where the farmers have been camping.The protests have also led to traffic congestion forcing police to divert vehicular movement.Taking to Twitter on Sunday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed owing to the agitation and suggested them to take alternative roads.“The Chilla & Gazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Gaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni borders.“Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Rd, GTK road & NH 44,” it tweeted.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers. — PTI
27-12-2020||Jhajjar||Farmers’ protests: Fazilka lawyer dies after drinking 'poison' at Tikri border||A lawyer from Fazilka died after allegedly consuming some poisonous substance at the Tikri border, a site of the ongoing farmers’ protests, sources said on Sunday---at least the third such incident to be reported in the last two weeks.Sources said the victim, Amarjit Singh from Jalalabad, was immediately taken to Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, where he died.A purported suicide note found in his pocket was addressed to  "Modi, The Dictator". The note said he was offering himself as "sacrifice" in support of the protests. The typewritten letter is dated December 18 and reportedly bears the advocate’s signature.“The General Public of India has given you absolute majority, power and faith for saving and prospering their life,” the letter read. “But with great sorrow and pains, I have to write that you have become the Prime Minister of special groups like Ambani and Adani etc. The common people like farmers and labourers are feeling defrauded by your three agriculture black bills and the worst life is inevitable. The public is on tracks (sic) and roads not for votes but for the livelihood of their families and generations. In order to feed some capitalists you have destroyed the common people and agriculture which is the backbone of India.”“Kindly do not snatch the bread and butter (Roti) of farmers, labourers and common people for a few capitalists and do not compel them to eat sulphos (read: celphos, a fumigant). Socially you have betrayed the public and politically you have betrayed your associate parties like SAD.""Listen, the voice of the people is the voice of God," the letter said. "It is said that you wish for sacrifices like Godhra and I also offer my sacrifice in sport (support) of this wordwide agigation for the shaking of your deaf and dumb conscious (conscience)," the letter said.  Jaspreet Singh, a protesting farmer from Jalalabad, said Amarjit Singh had been staying at a camp in his neighbourhood near Pakoda Chowk in Bahadurgarh for a fortnight before he allegedly took the extreme step. “In the morning, a farmer informed me over the phone that Amarjit had consumed some poisonous substance. We rushed him to Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh from where Amarjit was referred to PGIMS Rohtak following his critical condition where he succumbed,” said Singh.Jhajjar’s Civil Surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said Amarjeet Singh was brought to the civil hospital in Bahadurgarh in the morning, and was then taken to PGMIS in critical condition.At least two other such incidents reported in the past two weeks.A 65-year-old farmer tried to kill himself at the Singhu border---another prominent site of the ongoing protests---on December 21. A prominent head priest of a gurdwara in Karnal shot himself dead at the protests last week. His suicide note attributed his action to the ongoing farmer protests. The letter said he could not bear to see the plight of protesting farmers.A 22-year-old farmer who was part of the protests killed himself in Bathinda’s Dayalpura Mirza village a few days after the incident. In this case, the reason for the act remains unknown.Farmers mainly Punjab and Haryana have been protesting three controversial farm laws Parliament passed in September. Farmers primarily fear that the laws would render the APMC, or the mandi system, weakened and would leave them open to exploitation. Another objection is the clause that allows contract farming, which they say could lead to losing their lands to big corporations. Centre disputes both claims. Farmers laid siege to Delhi in November---they blocked national highways leading into Delhi and have since refused to budge. Their numbers have continued to swell since, as farmers from across the country began joining the protests. Talks with the central government have so far yielded no results, with both parties sticking to their guns---farmers want a complete repeal of the laws and another legislation to promise a minimum support price, while the central government has offered several “concessions” short of rescinding the laws.Farmers' unions meanwhile claim that the central government has been trying to malign the movement by calling them variously as "Khalistanis" and "urban naxals". The central government meanwhile accuses opposition and what they claim are vested political interests of misleading protesters.
27-12-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda Police book 30-40 unidentified people for vandalising BJP event||Bathinda Police have booked 30-40 unidentified people in a recent incident of vandalism at an event held by the Bharatiya Janata Party to mark the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihar Vajpayee, sources said.A group of people, allegedly protesting farmers, ransacked the event at Amrik Road in Bathinda on Friday.  Police registered a case on the basis of a complaint by BJP’s Bathinda president Vinod Kumar Binta.In his complaint, Binta said farmer unions and some other organisations ransacked the event held on December 25 just before Prime Minister Narendra Modi was to address the gathering of 20-25 BJP workers. The rampaging mob that came from Mann petrol pump broke through police barricades, upturned chairs and disrupted the event. The complaint said one BJP worker it identified as Ravinder was also wounded in the incident.The development comes as farmers’ protests against the central government’s controversial agriculture reforms escalate with no breakthrough yet despite several rounds of talks.  Farmers have agreed to another round of talks that will be held on Tuesday.Farmers primarily fear that the laws would render the APMC, or the mandi system, weakened and would leave them open to exploitation. Another objection is the clause that allows contract farming, which they say could lead to losing their lands to big corporations. Centre disputes both claims.Farmers and central government have each so far stuck to their guns---farmers want a complete repeal of the laws and another legislation to promise a minimum support price, while the central government has offered several “concessions” short of rescinding the laws.
27-12-2020||---||Tributes paid to Shaheed Udham Singh in Fatehgarh Sahib||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib. Dec 26The district police paid tributes to Shaheed Udham Singh on his birth anniversary at the Rauza Sharif memorial here today.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Amneet Kondal, along with other officials, was present on the occasion.Addressing the gathering, Kondal said all those who sacrificed their lives for the cause of the nation became immortal and a source of inspiration for the coming generations. She said the communities that forget their martyrs could not make any progress.She said: “We should take a pledge to wage a war against social evils such as drug abuse, female foeticide, dowry, corruption, adulteration and pollution and construct a healthy society”.She said Udham Singh sacrificed his life not for a religion or caste but to take revenge on the British for the Jallianwala massacre. She said it was our moral responsibility that every Indian should work to strengthen the unity and integrity of the country. She urged the youths to take inspiration from the great martyrs and dedicate themselves selflessly for the cause of society.
27-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Couldn’t wait for tractors, so cousins decide to reach Singhu border by Activa||Tribune News ServiceSinghu, December 26Tejinder Singh stands beneath an Airtel umbrella at the Singhu border to get his SIM ported out. A while later, his cousin Manpreet, all drenched in sweat as he was helping out at a langar nearby, also joins him. Jalandhar cousins Tejinder Singh and Manpreet Singh drove 348 km from Jalandhar to Singhu border on their Activa to join farmers’ protests.Hailing from Kandola village at Nurmahal, a spur of the moment plan led the duo to undertake a day-long journey to Singhu to express solidarity to farm protests.While tractor-trailers have been leaving for Singhu from their village, the duo said they made an instinctive decision to head out to the protest site as they wanted to join farmers in their struggle.Tejinder said: “We felt an emotional connect with protests. We are from farming families and hearing the elderly men slug it out in the winter chill on the Delhi border stirred us from within. We wanted to put in our bit in the movement. Although tractor-trailers have been going out from our village, we didn’t want to wait that long. So, we picked our Activa and headed for Singhu.”While Tejinder heads to an Airtel stall to get his number ported out, Manpreet, too, joins him. Tejinder adds: “We are with farmers. It is hard for them already, they are doing this to secure the future of coming generations. Since there are many Airtel stalls here, I decided to get my number ported out too!”While the duo headed to Delhi with little belongings, they camped with farmers and did sewa on langars at the border. Manpreet said: “We have fields back home. Our families are into farming. We know how high the stakes are. We feel it is important for young people like us to do our bit and be a part of protests. We are glad we made the decision to come here. It is a happy occasion for us. The energy of the elderly farmers and the congregation of men here is infectious.”
27-12-2020||Jalandhar||Farmers gherao residence of MP Hans Raj Hans||As part of their ongoing plan to gherao leader of the BJP, members of the BKU (Rajewal) gheraod the residences of BJP leader and singer Hans Raj Hans and party leader KD Bhandari here on Saturday.While the protest on Friday led to a standoff between the police and protesters due to barricades put outside the house of Manoranjan Kalia – no barricades were put to obstruct farmers today who held a peaceful protest outside the BJP leaders’ residences. The farmers forced closure a Reliance godown at the Pathankot Chowk on Saturday. While goods were being brought to the godown, which was officially declared closed, famers stopped all activity at the godown. Carrying flags and posters, farmers went across in files outside the leaders’ residences raising slogans against the Central government. — TNS
27-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court grants bail to Jassi’s mother in honour killing case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26It was around 9.30 pm on June 8, 2000. Sukhwinder Singh and his Indo-Canadian wife Jaswinder Kaur, aka Jassi, were coming on scooter when a car accosted them near a bridge. Four armed persons attacked the two after alighting from the vehicle. Jaswinder Kaur became the alleged victim of “honour killing” while Sukhwinder Singh was hospitalised. Among other, allegations were levelled against Jassi’s mother.Two decades and several flicks later, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted bail to Jassi’s mother Malkiat Kaur Sidhu. The order by Justice Fateh Deep Singh came after the petitioner-mother underwent incarceration for more than seven years and eight months.The foreign media has already covered the issue of “honour killing” with focus on Jassi’s case. After being the subject of no less than three documentary flicks, film ‘Murder Unveiled’ was also directed on the love-tragedy.The mother had moved the High Court seeking regular bail in the FIR registered on June 9, 2000, for murder, abduction and other offences under Sections 302, 307, 364, 148, 149 and 120B of the IPC and the provisions of the Arms Act at the Amargarh police station in Sangrur district.The complainant-husband, Sukhwinder Singh, had claimed that he entered into love marriage with Jassi on April 15, 1999, against her parents’ wishes. Residents of Canada, they had come to India on a vacation. He alleged the mother, perturbed over the solemnisation of marriage, hatched a conspiracy to eliminate the couple and paid Rs 5,00,000 to contract killers.Her counsel PS Brar contended the petitioner had remained behind bars for more than seven years and eight months from the date of her extradition proceedings. The trial may be prolonged following the Covid outbreak. Opposing the bail plea, state counsel JS Ghuman submitted the petitioner was a Canadian resident. If allowed bail, she might abscond and also influence the witness. Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted: “The only allegations against the petitioner are that she had been instrumental in the attack leading to death of one of the persons and injuries of others. The court was impelled to allow the petition subject to the furnishing of bail and surety bonds of Rs 20,00,000 with two local sureties. The order was passed after taking into consideration the substantial detention already undergone by her, along with her age and the fact that she was a woman.”
27-12-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||SAD, BSP ‘close’ to forging alliance||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) are in the process of forging a pre-poll alliance in the state for the next Assembly elections.Senior leaders of both parties have held a series of meetings in Punjab and New Delhi to ink a pact. Leaders said both parties agree their alliance will be ‘natural’ in the state owing to the fluid situation over the farmers’ protest and the prospect of a multi-party contest as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had made statements on contesting all 117 seats on its own in the state.“We think we are close to reaching an understanding with the BSP over a poll alliance. Both parties have a number of common public welfare agendas,” said an Akali leader privy to the discussions. He said the election year had almost begun and going by the fluid political situation over the farmers’ protest, political parties were in the battle mode already.BSP state president Jasvir Singh Garhi said discussions were on with the SAD and national president Mayawati would take the final call. “The Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have double standards. These have been exposed on their stand over the farm laws,” he said.The talks come in the backdrop of increased political activity of the BSP in recent months. The party has held 14 rallies in the past two months. It is organising protests in favour of farmers. “We dedicate 2021 to farmers. We are standing by them in the protests,” said Garhi.The SAD was earlier an ally of the BJP. In protest over the farm laws, the party broke ties. It aims to fill the vacuum being felt in some seats after the end of the ties. Also, the BSP has a considerable hold over the 31 per cent Dalit votes in the state. The concentration of these votes in 23 seats of the Doaba region is more significant.The BSP was a part of a third front in the last Assembly elections. It had contested the Lok Sabha elections jointly with the Left parties, Lok Insaaf Party and Punjab Ekta Party. The party is focusing on key Dalit seats where with support of the Akalis, it hopes to have a major impact on the elections.Both the SAD and BSP are looking for an early alliance also because the role of Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu in the elections is still not certain.Though Sidhu represents the Congress, there are reports he may lead a new political front in the state providing an alternative to undecided voters.Increased political activity
27-12-2020||Abohar||Akali Dal list for MC polls likely by January 5||SAD observer for municipal corporation elections and former minister Janmeja Singh Sekhon said party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal was likely to announce  the candidates for the polls by January 5. The names would be finalised during meetings of local officials on January 2 in a democratic way, he said. Addressing workers and media at the residence of SAD (Urban) president Suresh Satija today, he said a 12-member committee had been constituted to contact voters in all 50 wards. Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi, in charge, municipal elections, and Karamdeep Kaur Dhillon, district head of the women wing, were also present. “The aim is not only to win the elections, but also to strengthen the party base to get an overwhelming majority in the next Vidhan Sabha elections and ensure Sukhbir becomes the next Chief Minister,” he said. Speaking about the farmers’ protest in Delhi, Sekhon said the Centre passed three new laws and implemented these without taking the farmers into confidence. The “black laws” would prove to be fatal for the farmers, he said. — OC
27-12-2020||---||Inmates’ kin toss mobiles inside jail, 7 booked||Patiala, December 26A bag containing mobile phones and tobacco products was tossed inside the Patiala Central Jail premises here today by three persons, purportedly relatives of three inmates.The incident came to light when an inmate was caught picking up the bag by a patrol team along the jail boundary. The bag contained nine mobile phones, four chargers, nine data cables, four earphones, a pen drive, 19 tobacco packets and two cigarette packets.Shivraj Singh, jail superintendent, said the inmate claimed the bag was thrown by his and two other inmates’ relatives. The suspected inmates have been identified as Gurdeep Singh, Vikramjeet Singh and Sikander Singh.He added the inmates took advantage of the foggy conditions to smuggle in goods, but alert officials thwarted their attempt.Following the incident, officials raided barrack No. 1 (quarantine) and recovered three more mobile phones from the possession of another inmate.Harry Boparai, SHO, Tripuri, said a case had been registered against seven persons, including four inmates and three of their relatives. The inmate from whose barrack seizure was made had also been booked. The police would seek remand of the inmates for further investigation, he added.
27-12-2020||Our Correspondent ---||At Jor mela, Congress, Akalis slam Centre over farm laws||Fatehgarh Sahib, December 26 Though the Covid threat failed to dampen the enthusiasm of lakhs of devotees on the second day of the Shaheedi Jor Mela, it cast a shadow over top politicians’ visit as neither Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh nor SAD chief Sukhbir Badal came to pay obeisance here.  However, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Cabinet Minister, and Prem Singh Chandumajra from the SAD, paid obeisance on behalf of their respective parties. Addressing the media at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib, Dharamsot said it was unfortunate that farmers were sitting on a dharna in Delhi for the past month demanding repeal of the three contentious farm laws, but the arrogant Modi government was not heeding to their demands. He alleged the Prime Minister was working as a ‘chowkidar’ of corporate houses and protecting their interests instead of farmers’. Chandumajra also lashed out at the Centre for ignoring the farmers’ demands and said the SAD had called a meeting of all regional and like-minded parties in the first week of January in Delhi to forge an alliance to give a tough fight to the BJP over its anti-federal and dictatorial attitude. Meanwhile, setting a unique example, the Muslim community from Malerkotla set up a community kitchen in front of Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib for devotees to express solidarity with the Sikhs.
27-12-2020||Chandigarh||After two decades, Kargil martyr’s 80-year-old mother gets pension||Over two decades after a soldier from Mansa was killed during the Kargil war in June 1999, the Army has awarded a part of his liberalised family pension to his 80-year-old mother.Jagir Kaur was in a bad condition, living in a dilapidated house. Her case was taken up by the Mohali-based Ex-servicemen Grievance Cell (ESGC) after a video highlighting her condition surfaced on social media.After NK Nirmal Singh of the Sikh Light Infantry died, the family was given all due benefits by the Central and state governments, but his widow Paramjit Kaur took away everything and remarried.According to the ESGC, Nirmal had been married for four years, but Paramjit never lived at her in-laws’ place. Even no ‘Part-II order’ recording the marriage, as is required for administrative purposes, was published by the Army. However, after Nirmal’s death, Paramjit had managed to get the Part-II order published.Jagir Kaur, being illiterate and from a remote place, never knew her entitlements. She had six sons, out of whom two died, and four daughters, who are married. Her sons work as labourers or do odd jobs.After the ESGC took up the case with the Army in August this year and presented various documents and court records, the Army issued a new pension order granting Jagir Kaur one-third of the liberalised family pension that was being paid to Paramjit. — TNS
27-12-2020||Bathinda||Experts dwell on history of mass movements||Literary personalities and historians dwelt on different aspects of mass movements and traced their history through speeches and discussions on the second day of the ongoing People’s Literary Festival in Bathinda today.Renowned historian Sukhdev Singh Sohal talked about the Gurdwara Reform Movement, the Akali movement and the farmers’ movement during British rule in India. In the second session, Baldev Singh Shergill, an econimist, said, “The government is implementing foreign models, which have already failed in other countries.” — TNS
27-12-2020||---||Seats vacant after 2nd round, dental colleges offer ‘fee discount’||Faridkot, December 26Wary of seats going vacant this time, some dental colleges in the state are offering discount in tuition fee to students.As many as 970 applicants are eligible at the start of the third round of counselling (mop-up round) to fill 88 MBBS and 479 BDS seats. However, many dental colleges fear all seats may not be filled as a majority of these applicants are aspiring for MBBS seats.Nine medical and 15 dental colleges offer 1,375 MBBS and 1,140 BDS seats, respectively, in Punjab and the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, is conducting the centralised counselling to fill these seats on the basis of NEET-2020.In the first two rounds of counselling, some dental colleges could not get sufficient number of students for their BDS seats. Genesis Dental College, Ferozepur, has 58 vacant BDS seats out of 100, followed by Adesh Dental College, Bathinda, which has 39 of its 100 seats vacant.Not only this, 54 of Adesh College’s total 150 MBBS seats are lying vacant after the first two rounds of counselling. Let alone management quota MBBS seats, the college is yet to fill its 38 government quota seats due to a legal dispute over the fee structure. A writ petition over the fee structure for government and management quota seats in the college is pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.While the state government is insisting the college collects Rs 3.50 lakh per year tuition fee (with 10 per cent increase every year) for government quota seats, the college is demanding Rs 9 lakh per year in tuition fee (with 10 per cent increase every year) on all its 150 seats, which include 75 government quota and 75 management quota seats.Before the start of the mop-up round of the counselling to fill the vacant seats, some dental colleges are offering lowered fee. These colleges are asking students to pay government quota fee against vacant management quota seats. Under the management quota, colleges charge Rs 2.20 lakh per year as tuition fee for the BDS course. However, for a government quota seat, the fee is Rs 1.65 lakh, with 10 per cent increase every year. However, private dental colleges in the state have 237 vacant government quota seats at this stage apart from 227 management quota seats.Govt quota fee for management seats
27-12-2020||---||Punjab Government gives security cover to leaders facing farmers’ wrath||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26Sensing trouble for BJP leaders in Punjab, the state government has beefed up their personal security.Farmers have been continuously protesting outside the houses of some BJP leaders for the past three months. On Friday, when the state unit of the BJP tried to celebratethe birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the farmer unions across the state sabotaged the functions.Looking at gravity of the situation, the state police have deployed security personnel for even small-time leaders. A district president of the party, who wished not to be identified, said the protest had been continuously going on outside his house for the past three months. “But I was surprised to see that two policemen came to my house yesterday and said they were for my protection. I did not ask for any security,” he said.Sources said the security was mainly being provided to those leaders whose houses have been gheraoed by the farmer unions.The BJP was expecting that the number of protesters would reduce once the farmers went to Delhi for the protest. But the number of protesters has swelled up at 84 places, including toll plazas, malls, thermals and houses of BJP leaders.The farmer unions are demanding the repeal of the new farm acts. They are mounting pressure on local BJP leaders to convince their central leadership to farmers’ demands.Sit-in at Patiala BJP chief house continuesPatiala farmers on Saturday continued their indefinite protest outside the residence of BJP district president Harinder Kohli, demanding his resignation over the farm laws. As Kohli's son was unwell, farmers allowed him to visit a doctor with a warning that they wouldn't let him move out further until their demands were accepted.
27-12-2020||---||Month on, 50 lives lost and counting||Chandigarh, December 26Though in the past one month the farmers’ agitation in the national capital has brought the issue of agriculture on the centre stage, the prolonged struggle is taking its toll. Around 50 persons have died in the past one month either in accidents or at camps on the Delhi border.The 32 farmer organisations had given the ‘Delhi Chalo’ call for November 26 and 27. Following a massive response from Punjab, a large number of farmers from other parts of the country also reached the capital borders.In the first 15 days the protest at Delhi, 15 farmers died either due to cold weather conditions or due to accidents. Since then, the number of casualties is continuously increasing. As per a list released 10 days ago by the Sanjyutka Kisan Morcha, 30 farmers died while opposing the three farm laws. Since then around 20 more have succumbed to either accidents or health issues.The farmer unions had earlier paid homage to the departed activists.On way back, Farmer dies of heart attackHoshiarpur: Bhupinder Singh, a farmer of Rada village, who was on his way back to Tanda after participating in the protest at the Delhi border, died of heart attack. Bhupinder had gone to Delhi on December 22 with a team of farmers from his village. On Friday, his health deteriorated on his way back to Tanda. He was referred to a hospital at Jalandhar where he died of heart attack. OC
27-12-2020||---||Laws will deprive farmers of assets, says Cheema||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26The new farm laws introduced by the Centre were not only ‘anti-farmer’,but also against the poor, middle class and small traders of the country, who would be the most hit, said Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema.He said the new agricultural laws would grab the land of farmers by giving it to the capitalists, depriving them of their assets.Cheema said, “With an end on the limit of stocking essential commodities, the capitalists will hoard the food items on a large scale and sell it to the poor at an expensive price. The Centre should have come out with new laws for the public welfare to remove poverty, but it is working to eliminate the poor by crushing them.” Cheema said it would endanger the future of the poor, middle class and small traders. “Inflation will be out of control and black marketing will increase,” he said.
27-12-2020||Sangrur||Farmers' protest: Thousands more head to Delhi||Thousands of more farmers today left for the Delhi border in tractor-trailers and other vehicles through the Khanauri border with Haryana in support of the protesting farmers against the farm laws.“Farmers from Sangrur, Patiala, Barnala and Ludhiana have left for Delhi through the Khanauri border. They will stay there until the black laws are rolled back. Scores of vehicles carrying thousands of farmers are heading to the national capital,” said Jagtar Kalajhar, a BKU (Ugrahan) leader from Sangrur.As per the union’s December 20 decision, homage was paid to farmers who had lost their lives during the protest. On December 21, 22 and 23, memorial processions were organised in villages. After village-level tributes, block level homage was paid on December 24.To drum up support, union leaders had organised meetings and made announcements from the public address system in village gurdwaras. In some villages, dhol marches were organised this morning before the departure of residents for Delhi.“Our protest has completed one month today, but the Union Government is still blind to our plight. We are mobilising more residents to show unity against farm laws,” said Satwinder Singh Gharachon, a BKU leader. — TNS
27-12-2020||---||Lecturer opts for cleanup job at Tikri||Mahesh SharmaMandi Ahmedgarh, Dec 26Bhupinder Singh Uppal of Jhuner village is a chemistry lecturer and had gone to Tikri border to extend support to farmers. He was so moved by the plight of the protesters, forced to camp unprotected under the open sky that he decided to perform sewa at a langar there and not return home till the laws are withdrawn.The story did not end there, as the nature of service he was performing changed abruptly after he observed the need to improve sanitation levels in the areas surrounding the border.“Having realised that owners and organisers of a sports club at Naya Gaon were finding it difficult to maintain cleanliness due to the increase in the number of protesters camping there and using the facilities, I decided to call my friends and start sanitation sewa,” Uppal said, maintaining that volunteers from Jhuner, Chuhanke and Ahmedgarh had come forward to take up the job.Jasdeep Singh and Amrit Pal Singh said performing sanitation sewa was more satisfying for them than any other work. “Though we had been helping in preparation and service of langar earlier, we feel blessed to be chosen for maintaining cleanliness, which had remained ignored till now. Moreover, we want to leave an impression on the local people that Punjabis don’t wish to be a burden on others,” said Jasdeep Singh.
27-12-2020||---||BJP holds workers’ meeting amid protest||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 26Facing a backlash from farmers over the three agriculture laws, state BJP president Ashwani Sharma today addressed a meeting of the party workers in a private hotel in the city amid tight security.Sharma first went to the residence of BJP leaders Kanchan Jindal and Ravinder, who sustained injuries in the clash between farmers and party workers on Friday, and inquired about their wellbeing.After yesterday’s widespread protest against the BJP, the Bathinda police today made an elaborate arrangement with the heavy deployment of personnel on all the ways leading to the hotel, which was cordoned off with barricades. SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk and civil administration officials, including ADC and tehsildar, were present at the spot. Farmers under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) protested at some distance from the hotel and raised slogans against the BJP.“We have already announced that the protest against BJP leaders in the state will continue till the Centre rolls back the famr laws,” said Sukhjiwan Singh, a farmer leader. Mediapersons and police personnel were not allowed in the BJP meeting.Later, talking to mediapersons, Sharma condemned the ransacking of the venue for a BJP event yesterday. He said in democracy everyone has a right to expression.On Friday, farmers ransacked the venue where BJP workers had gathered to celebrate former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee birth anniversary on Amrik Singh road in the city and they disrupted the event. Even a clash between farmers and BJP workers was also reported.
27-12-2020||Archit Watts||Short on gunny bags, millers say difficult to meet deadline||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, December 26Rice millers in Punjab are facing acute shortage of gunny bags this season. They claim that if the state does not supply them gunny bags before January 15, they will not be able to deliver custom-milled rice to the government by March 31.The rice millers said the state had to give 50 per cent gunny bags to them this year, but they had got only 20 per cent till date, which was affecting their work.Bharat Bhushan Binta, president, Punjab Rice Industry Association, said, “There are 4,370 rice mills in the state that are facing acute shortage of gunny bags this season. As per the new policy, the state government had to provide 50 per cent gunny bags to the mills and the rest 50 per cent were to be used for the paddy crop procured. We have bags that will last for a couple of days. We are raising the issue timely, so that the work is not affected. Our labourers will have to sit idle if the bags are not supplied on time. Further, we will be unable to deliver the rice timely to the Food Corporation of India (FCI).”He said, “A few daysago, we got a letter from the Food and Civil Supplies Department to use old gunny bags, but there was no clarity in it.”Meanwhile, Ashish Kathuria, a rice mill owner, said, “The shortage of gunny bags is a headache for us. The state should take up the matter with the Centre. A new gunny bag costs around Rs 50-60.”Anindita Mitra, Director, Food and Civil Supplies Department, Punjab, said, “We have written to the Centre, seeking permission to use old gunny bags that are in good condition, weighing not less than 500 gm each. There is a shortage of gunny bags in all states, as the jute mills in West Bengal remained shut for a long time due to Covid-19, and some portion of jute crop was damaged by the Cyclone Amphan.”Some rice millers said paddy milling had officially started from October 1, but came into force from December 1.
27-12-2020||---||Abohar growers to send kinnow for protesters||Our CorrespondentAbohar, December 26With the support for farmers growing manifolds with each passing day, there is no dearth of food and other essential items for the protesters at the Delhi borders. Now Abohar residents too want to play their role in extending the support.Truckloads of kinnow fruit will be transported to the Delhi border where farmers have been camping for the past many days to get the agricultural laws repealed.Fruit growers have decided to stack crates full of kinnow at the historic gurdwara in Haripura village that was visited by Guru Nanak with his two associates.Forest range officer Balwinder Singh Jhurarkhera said the area of Abohar was famous for kinnow crop and on the call of Baba Harbans Singh of Gurdwara Bangla Sahib in Delhi, a truck of kinnow was sent to the Singhu border by Baba Sucha Singh Dhillon of Gurdwara Haripura.As the gesture won appreciation, farmers in the Abohar area will now stack hundreds of kinnow crates at the gurdwara on Monday and Tuesday and these will be uploaded on December 30. The distribution at the Delhi border has been planned on January 1. Kinnow carries high nutrient value which will be beneficial to farmers in braving the inclement weather.
27-12-2020||---||6 Akali DSGMC members join Dhindsa group||New Delhi, December 26In the run-up to the elections of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), six elected members of the executive committee of the DSGMC led by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have joined the SS Dhinda-led faction.The six, who were part of the Sukhbir Singh Badal-led SAD, joined the Dhindsa-led splinter group at a press conference in the national capital on Saturday.Dhindsa, a Rajya Sabha MP and former Union Minister, broke away from the Akali Dal and had promised to restore the “marayada” ( honour) of the party and religious heads like the Akal Takht.The six members who joined Dhindsa on Saturday include Haramjit Singh, a SAD worker and office-bearer for decades.Within the group of six, five of the rebels have formed the “Gurdwara Sudhar Parabandh Front”, which now aims to contest the DSGMC poll under the guidance of Dhindsa.Harinder Pal Singh, one of the five members of the front, said the front was only for contesting the DSGMC elections. It had nothing to do with politics. “We are only seeking the guidance of Dhindsa and have joined him for that,” added Pal, who has also been a member of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC).The other four members of the front are Kulwant Singh Batth, Jatinder Singh Sahney, Paramjit Singh Rana and Malkinder Singh. All of them are also part of the executive committee of the DSGMC.The DSGMC has 46 elected members and 15 of these comprise the executive board.“The maintenance of gurdwara is not the priority of the ruling combine. It’s more about personal politics of the party, Sukhbir Singh Badal and Manjinder Singh Sirsa,” Pal said justifying his decision to leave.
27-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Destination Singhu: In 7 days, 12 from Anandpur Sahib walk 200 km||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 26A group of 12 persons, including farmers and members of their families, reached Karnal on Saturday after walking more than 200 km from Anandpur Sahib. They had started their journey seven days ago.Their destination is the Singhu border, about 100 km from here. They said they wanted to be part of the massive agitation launched by farmers against the new farm laws. “We had started on December 20 from Anandpur Sahib. The single-point agenda is to get the three laws repealed. These laws will ruin small and marginal farmers,” said Dilbag Singh, a farmer who is leading the group.Sunita, who is part of the group, said: “Thousands of our brothers, sisters, elders and children are protesting across the country. We will protest in support of our brethren.”Ajit Pal Singh, another farmer, criticised the Centre for ignoring the demand of farmers. He added it would take them seven more days to reach Singhu. In high spirits, they march on.
27-12-2020||Parveen Arora||‘Gulab jamun’, ice-cream langar at Karnal toll plaza for farmers and commuters||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 26Residents of Kalsora and Phoosgarh villages in the district organised langar of “gulab jamun” and ice-cream at the Bastara toll plaza on the National Highway-44 on Saturday for protesting farmers and commuters.For the second consecutive day, farmers did not allow the collection of toll in protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. The protest at the toll plaza will continue on Sunday as well and so will be the langar of ‘gulab jamun’ and ice-cream. Subsequently, the same langar will be organised at the Delhi border.Anil, a resident of Phoosgarh village, said: “Farmers and commuters enjoyed the combination of hot ‘gulab jamuns’ and ice-cream. We will continue the ice-cream langar at the Delhi border till the time protest continues.”Residents of the district’s Dabri village organised langar of ‘bread pakoras’ at the toll plaza.Farmer leader Laddi meanwhile said they were hopeful that the deadlock would end soon. “The Union Government is working at the behest of capitalists,” he alleged.
