28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: 46 more deaths, 1,271 new cases in Punjab||Forty-six more fatalities due to COVID-19 pushed the death toll to 3,284 in Punjab while 1,271 fresh cases took the infection tally to 1,11,375 on Monday, according to a medical bulletin.Among the new deaths, eight were reported from Jalandhar, seven from Mohali, six each from Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur, five from Gurdaspur and four from Amritsar.Two deaths each were reported from Kapurthala, Pathankot and Tarn Taran and one each from Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Mansa and Sangrur, the bulletin said.Among places which recorded new COVID-19 cases include Amritsar (180), Ludhiana (138), Mohali (127), Jalandhar (101) and Gurdaspur (88).There are 17,746 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 2,033 novel coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of recoveries to 90,345 in the state.Sixty-eight critical patients are on ventilator support while 331 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 17,86,627 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing in the state, it said. — PTI
28-09-2020||Amritsar/Ferozepur||Farmers to continue ‘rail roko’ agitation in Punjab till Oct 2||Farmers in Punjab continued their ‘rail roko’ agitation for the fifth consecutive day on Monday and announced that the protest against the three farm bills passed by parliament recently will be extended till October 2.Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have been squatting on rail tracks since September 24.The committee’s president Satnam Singh Pannu said they have decided to intensify their protest against the Centre and the farmers will continue to block rail tracks at Tanda, Mukerian, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Ferozepur till October 2.The protesters raised slogans against the Union government and demanded rollback of the “anti-farmer” laws.Meanwhile, trains continued to remain suspended in Punjab in the wake of the farmers’ stir. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to the three contentious bills—the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. — PTI
28-09-2020||Amritsar||Amid uproar, SGPC passes Rs 981-crore budget||Amid upheaval by some members over the SGPC’s leniency over handling misappropriation of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’ , the SGPC passed its annual budget of Rs 981 crore for 2020-2021 on Monday.Nonetheless, the reduction in income in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic showed its impact on the proposed budget that was squeezed by 18.5 per cent. During 2019-2010, it was Rs 1,205 crore.There has been a reduction of at least 30 per cent revenue due to Covid lockdown restricting the footfall of devotees. It was also being observed that there were bleak chances of revenue getting increased in near future if the prevailing situation due to pandemic is any indication.So, the budget has been drafted with curtailed expenses and judicious use of resources and funds. There is decline in allocation of funds for the management of gurdwaras.Against Rs 714 crore last year, only Rs 577 crore has been allocated for the management of gurdwaras in 2020-2021.The budget, presented by SGPC general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami, was bifurcated in to three parts-General Board Fund, Trust Funds and Education Funds.For 2020-2021, the General Board funds have been curtailed from 75 crore to Rs 57 crore, a reduction of 28 per cent; the Trust Funds from Rs 55.33 crore to Rs 37.61 crore, a decrease of 32 per cent and the Education fund from Rs 37.70 crore to Rs 28.44 crore.However, no constraint was witnessed when it comes to printing presses where saroops and Sikh religious literature was printed and published. A total of Rs 8.20 crore was spared to be spent on four printing presses-Golden Offset press, Gurdwara printing press, Shirnomani printing press and Sri Guru Granth Sahib Mission, Shahpur (Ambala).Despite limitations, SGPC prioritised to utlise its funds mainly to prosper ‘Dharam Parchar’ and education among the Gursikh youth.For Dharam Parchar, funds to the tune of Rs 58 crore have been allocated for 2020-2021 whereas last year it was Rs 84 crore. Similarly, Rs 215 crore was proposed for education institutions against Rs 238 crore last year.  Sparing a thought for the Gursikh girls, SGPC has endeavoured to provide free education to at least 200 students. Under the plan, they would be taught religious studies, besides the mainstream curriculum.A dedicated college, Mata Sahib Kaur Girls College at Takht Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo, and funds to the tune of Rs 3.5 crore has been spared for the purpose.A 10 per cent quota would be reserved for the daughters of Raagis, Dhadis, Preachers and Granthis. An additional, 5 per cent quota would be for the BPL (below poverty line) Gursikh family girls.Similarly, for Gursikh sportspersons, Rs 90 lakh, natural calamities Rs 96 lakh and Siklighar Sikhs Rs 5.30 crore have been allocated. Another Rs 1.5 crore has been kept reserved for education of children belonging to economically weaker section.For Miri Piri Medical College, Markanda and Sri Guru Granth Sahib Mission, Ambala, Rs 14.20 core have been proposed.For commemorating SGPC’s centenarian foundation, 400th centenary of Guru Teg Bahadur and 300th centenary of Bhai Taru Singh, Rs 3.45 crore have been allocated. For Sikh research and literature Rs 5.7 lakh has been spared.Commotion created:In the presence of Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and Takht Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, some members including Sewa Singh Sekhwan, Bibi Kiranjot Kaur strongly criticised SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and his team’s failure to deal with the crisis arisen due to saroops’ embezzlement and bringing defame to the community.  They insisted to make the entire 1000-page investigation report of Akal Takht constituted panel public and take exemplary action against the guilty ones.Kiranjot raised finger over the integrity of the SGPC management while fearing that some “influential” officials who played dubious role enjoyed immunity. The members also lodged their protest that the copies of budget were despatched to them just a day prior, giving them negligible time to study.Major allocationsEducational institutions Rs 215 cr Gurdwaras Rs 577 cr Dharam parchar  Rs 58 cr Printing press Rs 8.2 crGursikh girl education Rs 3.5 cr
28-09-2020||Patiala||First time in two months, Patiala district reports no COVID-19 death||For the first time—in about two months—Patiala district reported no COVID-19 death on Monday.In what may be termed as a positive sign, the district health department, here today, revealed no COVID-19 death, and only 75 cases were reported as corona positive in the district. The respite comes at a time when the district witnessed an average of four COVID-19 deaths a day in August while six in the month of September. Notably, Patiala has already reported 318 COVID-19 deaths so far.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “It is a positive sign as no COVID-19 death was reported, today.  Once again, I urge the people to get themselves tested for corona because early detection helps to save lives due to COVID.”Malhotra added that the district had 2.7 per cent death rate and 85 per cent recovery rate. Besides casualty, the district had also been witnessing a drop in the number of positive cases, he informed.In the wake of this development, experts believe that the district has already surpassed the peak of the coronavirus cases.Of 75 positive cases, 30 were reported from Patiala city, 15 Rajpura, 10 Dudhan Sadhan, five Shutrana, four from Harpalpur and Kallon Majra. Besides, two cases each were reported from Nabha and Kauli Block.Dr Mahotra informed that the district count of positive cases was 11,398 while 9,672 patients have already recovered from the virus.
28-09-2020||Vibha Sharma||5,637 MT paddy at MSP of Rs 1,868 procured from Haryana, Punjab farmers: Centre||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 28Amid intensifying farmers’ agitation, the Centre, which on Monday allowed all states to commence rice/paddy procurement operations in Kharif Marketing Season (KMS), said 5,637 MT grain worth Rs 10.53 crore at MSP of Rs 1,868 per quintal was procured from 390 farmers of Haryana and Punjab where purchase started Saturday.“The procurement of paddy during Kharif Marketing Season 2020-21  started from September 26 and up to September 27, 5637 MT having MSP value of Rs 10.53 crore at MSP of Rs 1,868 per quintal has been procured from 390 farmers of Haryana and Punjab,” a statement issued by the Agriculture Ministry today said.The procurement of paddy for the remaining states also commenced today.Meanwhile, based on the proposal from states, approval has been accorded for procurement of 13.77 LMT of pulses and oilseeds for the season from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and Haryana. For other states/UTs, approval will be accorded on receipt of proposals and procurement made as per Price Support Scheme (PSS) if the market rates go below its MSP, the Ministry said.The procurement of cotton for the season 2020-21 will commence from October 1 and Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) will start purchase of FAQ grade cotton from the day.State governments have been asked to ensure wide publicity of uniform specifications among farmers to ensure they get due price for their produce and any rejection of the stocks is completely avoided.All states/Union Territories and Food Corporation of India have been advised that the procurement during KMS 2020-21 may be strictly in accordance with the uniform specifications. The Food Corporation of India and state procurement agencies have also been directed to “ensure hassle free procurement and Minimum Support Price (MSP) payments to farmers,” according to the statement.Till September 24, the government through its Nodal Agencies has procured 34.20 MT of Moong having MSP value of Rs 25 lakh benefitting 40 farmers in Tamil Nadu. Similarly, 5,089 MT of copra (the perennial crop) having MSP value of Rs 52.40 crore has been procured benefitting 3,961 farmers in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu against the sanctioned quantity of 95.75 LMT for the Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, it said.Meanwhile after early Kharif rice procurement, sources say the government is planning to make procurement in the Rabi season, for which MSP has already been announced, a "seamless/ smooth procedure" to prove wrong adversaries/rivals leading the "misinformation campaign" against the new agriculture laws.
28-09-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Navjot Sidhu reaches his ancestral village; asks farmers to elect MLAs from themselves||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, September 28Former Punjab minister Navjot Sidhu on Monday visited his ancestral village, Manwala, in Sangrur district and asked farmers to join politics and elect their own MLAs to raise their voice effectively.Sidhu alleged that MSP had not been increased by various government as per the hike in the salaries of the government and private company employees.“The MSP of crops has not seen the required hike during the last many years but the salaries of government employees have increased manifold. When the country was dying of starvation, our farmers produced crops and when the country has sufficient food, the Central Government has passed black acts to end MSP and its unacceptable. We will oppose black laws at all costs,” said Sidhu addressing area residents.Sidhu also gave a call to farmers and other residents to get united and raise the slogan “Punjab Ekta, Kisan Ekta” and asked all to come on a single stage to oppose the Central Government.“Farmers should elect their own 10 to 12 MLAs for Punjab Assembly to raise their voice effectively. I would share this idea in each village to make farmers aware of their power,” said Sidhu.He added that residents elected governments to solve their problems and governments must take the required steps to solve the problems of residents.“True leaders always stand with residents,” said Sidhu.
28-09-2020||Barnala||Covid positive prisoner escapes from isolation centre in Barnala||A COVID-19 positive prisoner escaped from the isolation ward in Barnala on Monday morning. Police have registered a case and started investigations.As per information shared by police, accused Gurpreet Singh, who was arrested in a theft case, had tested Covid positive on September 22.After his report came as positive, he was lodged in the isolation ward, but he escaped today morning through a back widow of the centre.After health department found him missing from isolation ward, they informed local police and cops reached the spot immediately.“We have registered another FIR against Gurpreet, who was arrested in a theft case and ordered departmental inquiry also against five cops, including one ASI and four constables for negligence,” said DSP Barnala Lakhvir Singh Tiwana.About any clue of the absconding prisoner, Tiwana said that their teams have been conducting raids to arrest Gurpreet at the earliest.
28-09-2020||---||Agitation, recourse will be undertaken to fight ‘draconian’ farm laws: Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh/Khatkar Kalan, September 28Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday vowed to fight the Centre’s malicious new agriculture Acts constitutionally and legally, asserting that he would do whatever it took to protect farmers from the “nefarious” designs of the Government of India, a press release by the state government read.Addressing the media in Chandigarh and earlier at Khatkar Kalan, where he sat on dharna in protest against the new legislations, the Chief Minister said he would be consulting with lawyers to work out the legal course of action for challenging the unconstitutional laws in the Supreme Court. “Agitation and legal recourse will have to be undertaken simultaneously to fight these new laws and force the Union Government to rethink its decision,” he said.Asserting that he does not want Punjab’s youth and farmers to take to arms to fight for their right to live, the Chief Minister warned that these new Bills would endanger the security of the border state of Punjab, as Pakistan’s ISI was always on the lookout for opportunities to foment trouble, the press release further read.I along with my colleagues from @INCPunjab held a protest against Centre's Anti-Farmer Laws at Khatkar Kalan in SBS Nagar. Most of our farmers are small & marginal who will be severely impacted by these legislations. We stand by Punjab’s farmers & will do everything to oppose it. pic.twitter.com/OEbKx7qxgf“Punjab has lost 35,000 lives to terrorism in senseless violence in the past and with the unrest among the farmers spreading to other states, the entire nation would be exposed to the ISI threat,” Captain Amarinder said, adding that Pak-backed forces would try to feed on the angst in India.Pointing out that 150 terrorists had been nabbed in Punjab in recent months with huge caches of arms and ammunition, the Chief Minister said he would not let anyone disturb the state’s peaceful atmosphere, which the new legislations had the potential to do.Harish Rawat, AICC general secretary in charge of Punjab affairs, who was accompanying the Chief Minister, announced a signature campaign beginning October 2 to collect two crore signatures of farmers against the new farm laws. “These will be submitted to the President of India on November 14 to coincide with Jawaharlal Nehru’s birth anniversary,” he said, adding that Kisan Sammelans would also be organised to take the fight to its logical conclusion.Slamming the treatment meted out on Punjabis and Punjab’s farmers to make big corporates like the Adanis happy, Captain Amarinder asked: “Will the Adanis subsidise food for poor Indians? These laws will spell the death-knell for the PDS system, apart from ruining Punjab and its farmers.”Terming the new legislations as a total violation of the nation’s federal structure, the Chief Minister described the enactment of the Farm Bills as a black day for Punjab. The manner in which the laws were brought in through the Ordinances route and then pushed through Parliament without discussion was deplorable, he said, asserting that contrary to the lies being spread by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the Punjab government was never once apprised of the move to bring in such Ordinances.Slamming the Akalis for defending the Bills for months, the Chief Minister again questioned what Harsimrat Badal was doing all this time and why she did not quit the Cabinet when the Ordinances were first brought in.“Why did the Akalis oppose us in the all-party meeting? Why did they run away from the assembly?” he asked, dismissing their hollow claims now on standing with the farmers. These claims are only meant to grab political power in Punjab, but nobody trusts them now, he said, adding that SAD’s decision to quit NDA was also the result of revolt from their own party members.Captain Amarinder made it clear that the verbal assurances of the Centre on MSP could not be trusted. “When they can break Constitutional guarantees, who can trust their verbal assurance,” he remarked, questioning why MSP had not been made a constitutional right of the farmers in these Acts.The Chief Minister said those sitting at the Centre clearly knew nothing about agriculture, which explained their bid to destroy the time-tested farmer-Arhtiya relations. The small farmers, whom his government had been trying to help over the past 3.5 years and who constitute more than 70 per cent of the farming community, would be the worst affected, he added.The Chief Minister also stressed the need for all to rise above politics to fight the Centre’s dangerous laws unitedly to protect Punjab and its people, especially the farmers.“The fight at present was between the farmers and the central government, but the fact was that all powers of the states were being usurped by the Centre. We have nothing left except excise from liquor sales, and all that Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has to say is that it’s an act of God,” he quipped.Pointing out that the Centre was asking why farmers in Punjab were protesting, he remarked: “What else should farmers do? Distribute ladoos?”Punjab’s farmers had not only fed the nation through the years, including during the pandemic, but had also made India self-sufficient in foodgrain, said the Chief Minister, adding that with the funds flow to the Mandi Board also getting affected by these laws, the development work in villages would also come to a standstill.PPCC President Sunil Jakhar said the battle would be a long-drawn one but Captain Amarinder Singh would protect the interests of the farmers in the same way as he had done earlier to save the state’s river waters.
28-09-2020||---||Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini nominated as accused in Behbal Kalan firing case||Faridkot, September 28The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Behbal Kalan police firing incident of October 14, 2015, on Monday nominated then Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and then IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal as accused in the case of murder and attempt to murder.As per the report received at Bajakhana police station in Faridkot on Monday, the SIT has asked the police to nominate both police officers as accused in the FIR.The SIT claimed that both police officers had been found prima facie guilty in this case on the basis of documentary evidence and the statement of witnesses.Also read: Multani murder case: Former DGP Saini joins probe at Mohali police stationFormer SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, two SP rank police officers and many other police officials were already nominated as accused in this case.A week after the killing of two Sikh protestors in a police firing at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, an FIR was registered on October 21 at Bajakhana police station under Section 302, 307, 34 of the IPC and Section 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. The complainant in this FIR was Iqbal Singh Sahota, director, bureau of investigation-cum-chairman, Special Investigation Team (SIT), which was constituted on the directions of Punjab DGP.Earlier, no police officer was nominated as an accused in this FIR but later, the SIT nominated Charanjit Sharma and others as accused. Now the SIT has also nominated former DGP and former IGP as accused in this case.Earlier this month, the SIT had approached the district and sessions court Faridkot with a petition, seeking pardon for prime accused inspector Pardeep Singh, the then reader to former SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, as he wanted to turn an approver in the case. Last week, the court had granted its permission to accept Pardeep as an approver in this case.In his statement before the court, Pardeep Singh had claimed that Sumesh Singh Saini and IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal had issued instructions to former SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma to end the protesters' dharna at Behbal Kalan at any cost, and to end this protest, Charanjit Singh Sharma and his team members allegedly used brutal force in which two protesters were killed and many other were injured.The SIT believes that the then DGP and the IGP were the main conspirators in this case.
28-09-2020||New Delhi||Plea in HC to prevent stubble burning by Punjab, Haryana amid COVID-19 problems in Delhi||The Delhi High Court Monday sought the Centre's response on a plea seeking immediate steps to prevent stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana on the grounds it would aggravate COVID-19 related problems.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Centre on an application which contended that stubble burning would increase the air pollution drastically in the national capital and could further aggravate the health problems in the city in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The application was moved by Sudhir Mishra, an advocate, who urged the court that the central government be directed to coordinate a meeting between chief secretaries of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to address the issue.During the hearing, Mishra told the court that stubble burning has already started in Punjab and Haryana.The Centre told the bench that despite directions of the respective state governments not to engage in stubble burning or face penalties for violation, the farmers were doing it.The court listed the matter for hearing on October 22 and asked the central government to find out if any similar matter was pending before the Supreme Court.The application was filed by Mishra in his main PIL moved in 2015 seeking directions to the Centre to take immediate steps to control increasing air pollution in the national capital.He has claimed that there is a direct connection between the increase in air pollution and the rise in COVID-19 cases in Delhi. —PTI
28-09-2020||Jalandhar||Will consult lawyers and move SC over farm Bills, Amarinder says at Khatkar Kalan||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday said he would consult a team of lawyers on the contentious farm legislations that have lead to widespread protests in Punjab.The chief minister also said that the government would be moving the Supreme Court on the issue.Punjab Congress leaders, led by Singh, on Monday launched a sit-in agitation against the laws at Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr, the birthplace of Bhagat Singh.Besides legal recourse, the Punjab government was looking at other options to scuttle the Centre's new agriculture laws "that are designed to ruin Punjab's farmers and economy", said the Chief Minister.The Chief Minister sat on 'dharna' against the "draconian" laws after paying tributes to Bhagat Singh at his 'Samadhi Sthal' on his 113 birth anniversary.The CM was accompanied by his wife and ex-minister Preneet Kaur, new Congress in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP, Cabinet ministers, around 45 MLAs and six MPs. They all sat in the memorial complex right in front of the statue and sat on dharna for over an hour.The CM said he will consult a team of lawyers on the farmers' legislation and would move the matter in the Supreme Court. He also said that he will invite Rahul Gandhi to Punjab to take the lead of the forthcoming campaign.Among those conspicuously absent in the event were ex-minister Navjot Sidhu and area MP of Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari.Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari has tweeted that he could not attend the sit-in protest in his constituency as one of his legal juniors had tested positive and he decided to recuse himself while informing his party seniors.SAD leader and ex-MP PS Chandumajra also visited the site and paid obeisance at the memorial. He said that if the government would knock the doors of the Supreme Court, his party would support the state against the Centre. He also sought CM's intervention to make the entire campaign an all-party event.Ex-minister Navjot Sidhu remained absent from the event.Terming President Ram Nath Kovind's assent to the Farm Bills as "unfortunate and distressing", Amarinder Singh said his government is exploring all options, including possible amendments to the state laws, to protect the interests of the farmers. The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 on Sunday received presidential assent. — with IANS
28-09-2020||Mumbai||What is left of NDA after Akali Dal, Shiv Sena exit, asks Sena mouthpiece Saamana||With the Shiromani Akali Dal walking out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over farm bills, the Shiv Sena on Monday wondered if the BJP-led alliance really existed and asked who were in the coalition now.An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said it was surprising that the NDA's "last pillar" Shiromani Akali Dal was not stopped from severing ties with the alliance.The editorial said, "When the Badals left, no effort was made to stop them. Earlier, the Shiv Sena also left the NDA. With these two parties out, what is left of the NDA? Those who are still there, do they have anything to do with Hindutva?""Punjab and Maharashtra represent manliness and Akali Dal and Shiv Sena are the faces of that manliness," it said."Now some have said 'ram-ram' (adieu) to this venture and so there is no Ram left in NDA, which has lost two lions (Akali Dal and Sena)," the editorial said.The Akali Dal quit the NDA on Saturday over the issue of farm bills passed in Parliament. It is the third major party to walk out of the NDA in the recent period after the Shiv Sena and the TDP.The Shiv Sena quit the NDA last year following differences with the BJP over sharing the chief ministerial post in Maharashtra on a rotational basis."First, the Shiv Sena had to quit the NDA. Now the Akali Dal has left it. Does the NDA really exist after its two key pillars have walked out?" it said."The NDA was formed to give a strong alliance against the Congress at the national level. The alliance saw many ups and downs over the years and several other parties quit it as per their convenience," it said.The country’s politics is being pushed towards a one-party system, but the BJP has to face elections in several states by forging alliances with other parties, the Sena said.The Shiv Sena said its government with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra is doing a good job, and added it would complete its five-year term. PTI
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Multani murder case: Former DGP Saini appears before SIT; interrogated for about 5 hours||Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini on Monday finally appeared before the SIT to join the investigation in the 29-year-old abduction and murder of CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani, in Mohali on Monday.According to information, Saini had arrived at the Mataur police station at 11 am and remained there till 4.45 pm.Saini did not reply to the questions posed by the media waiting outside the police station and entered after waving to them.The SIT headed by SP Harmandeep Singh Hans and DSP Bikramjit Singh Brar and Mataur police station SHO Rajiv Kumar interrogated former DGP Saini.Saini was accompanied by two counsels however they were not allowed to sit with Saini during the questioning and kept waiting in another room till the interrogation ended at 4.45 pm.According to police sources, the SIT had asked around 200 to 250 questions from Saini and asked where he lived after his bail application was rejected besides revealing the names of places and persons he lived with.He was also questioned about as to how and where the body of junior engineer Balwant Singh Multani was disposed of.The team had also told him to say about the two former UT cops who had become approvers in the case.Also read: Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini nominated as accused in Behbal Kalan firing caseIt is pertinent to mention here that earlier former Inspector Jagir Singh and ASI Kuldep Singh also co-accused with Saini became approvers and were granted pardon in the case.Then, another person who was in the lockup along with Multani had also become approver.Saini was facing arrest in the case after the SIT added Section 302 of the IPC to the FIR registered against him when two co-accused turned approvers and deposed against Saini of being eyewitness to the inhumane torture on Multani at Sector 17 police station.Saini and six other police officers were booked in a 29-year-old case of alleged abduction, torture and stage-managed elimination of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani.Balwant, the victim, was accused of carrying out an attack on Saini when he was the Chandigarh SSP on December 11, 1991. He, along with Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar, convict in a Delhi bomb blast case, and two others, was booked but the police later claimed Balwant escaped from the custody of Qadian (Gurdaspur) police.
28-09-2020||Chandigarh/Bathinda||Gherao corporate businesses is new plan of protesting farmers in Punjab||'Gherao Corporate Businesses' is the new plan of the protesting farmers in Punjab, after the three controversial Farm Bills got the Presidential nod on Sunday.From the silo plants for grain storage built by Adanis to Walmart and Metro stores, from Toll Plazas on highways operated by some big corporate houses to the three private power plants in the state-a list of all businesses run by big corporate houses has been drawn and distributed among the ranks and file of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan). Beginning Monday, they will lay siege to these businesses, even as their three day Rail Roko campaign ends on Tuesday.Aam Aadmi Party, too, joined the Gherao Corporate Houses campaign.The silo run by Adani Agri Logistics Group at Village Dagru in Moga was gheraoed by Barnala MLA Gurmeet Hayer.Farmers owing allegiance to Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) called an emergency meeting on Sunday night, after the President of India gave assent to the Bills, allowing enactment of Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, and Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill-the latter being the most unacceptable to farmers in Punjab.Other than BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), 30 other farm unions in the state have announced their plans to stop all trains from October 1, and gherao the offices and residences of BJP leaders in all districts of the state.Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, general Secretary of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said that since the Modi government was enacting the laws to favour corporate houses, they had decided to gherao all businesses run by these corporate houses.“We will stall their operations. While a formal announcement will be made later today, we have given directions to our district units to start the protests,” he said. In Talwandi Sabo, Farmers, headed Resham Singh Tungwali, staged a protest outside the Reliance Petrol Pump.Tungwali said, “The bills which have been passed by the union government in the name of 'One Nation, One Mandi' is a bid to give everything in hands of the private players.”He alleged that these anti-farmer bills would benefit Ambani and Adani.He also announced that if bills are not revoked by the union government, then they would gherao the Guru Gobind Singh Refinery at Rama Mandi in protest in coming days.Farmers also claimed that the government has left them at the mercy of big corporations. It is preposterous to believe that farmers who have small land-holdings will have any bargaining power over private players.Shingara Singh Mann of BKU Ekta Ugrahan said: “In coming days, our target would be Modi, BJP and big corporate houses like Ambani and Adani. We would do gherao of Reliance Petrol Pumps and Malls, we have our union meeting tomorrow, in which an announcement about this would be made and it would be discussed that on which malls, pumps and toll plaza we will stage protest, but Multinational Companies (MNC) would face the heat in Punjab”.Apart from this, even messages in which farmers are appealing people to boycott using reliance fuel and JIO sim in protest against these anti-farmer bills are making rounds on social media. They are claiming that these Reliance, Jio, Adani and Ambani are anti farmers, so people should boycott their products.
28-09-2020||Punjabi singer and actress Himanshi Khurana tests positive for Covid-19||Punjabi singer and actress Himanshi Khurana tests positive for Covid-19||Punjabi singer and actress Himanshi Khurana has tested positive for Covid-19. She informed her fans through an Instagram post on Sunday. Himanshi apparently contracted the virus after she participated in farmers’ protest against the latest Farm Bill. The actress’ Instagram post read, “I want to inform you all that I have tested positive for Covid-19 even after taking proper precautions...”
28-09-2020||Gurdaspur||Biggies groom sons for political battle||Farmers hit roads, leaders draw mileageFatehgarh Sahib: All political parties were vying to get political mileage out of the farmers’ stir by organising protests in their support on September 25. The leaders appeared to be in a competition with their opponents in the show of strength. Kuljit Singh Nagra, MLA, Fatehgarh Sahib, succeeded in drawing a large gathering during a dharna organised by him in Sirhind town. Surinder Bhardwaj
28-09-2020||Abohar||Harsimrat's resignation political stunt: BJP leader||Jyani said she resigned to garner the votes of farmers even when all NDA constituents knew well that the Acts passed in Parliament were in the interest of farmers. “The farmers will also understand this gradually. The decision taken by the Modi government is absolutely correctand we will go to each village to create awareness among people,” he said. The BJP leader said said former CM Parkash Singh Badal and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had praised the Acts many times but when they felt that more votes could be grabbed by playing politics on this, they started provoking the farmers. TNS
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||SAD snapped ties to woo farmers: AAP||
28-09-2020||Patiala||Rajindra Hospital staff get clean chit over Covid patient’s death||A report submitted by a three-member committee has not found any negligence on part of the staff in the death of a 65-year-old woman, who was found unattended on the stairs of the Covid-19 ward of Government Rajindra Hospital.The death of the patient had raised a question mark on the quality of patient care in the Covid ward, prompting Medical Superintendent Dr HS Rekhi to order an inquiry.Dr HS Rekhi, Medical SuperintendentNo injury markThe woman might have panicked and come out of the ICU. The staff was busy attending to other patients. The body did not bear any injury mark, indicating she did not fall down the stairs.The woman reportedly remained unattended on the stairs for 45 minutes before a staff nurse raised the alarm. She died within a few hours after being shifted to the ICU. The report, submitted to the Medical Superintendent, said the woman had come out of the ICU and sat on the stairs, before passing away. She did not suffer a fall as there was no injury mark on the body, said the Medical Superintendent.However, a post-mortem was not conducted to ascertain any internal injury. Hospital authorities said the post-mortem of a Covid patient was not allowed by the government due to the risk of exposure. The committee had sought an explanation from a staff nurse and a Class IV employee. However, Dr Rekhi said they did not find any negligence as both employees were busy attending to other patients. Dr Rekhi said they had installed CCTV cameras in the Covid ward now. — TNS
28-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can sacrilege probe officer be replaced, High Court  asks Punjab state||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Punjab Government to specify whether it is willing to substitute IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh with some other officer as a member of the special investigation team (SIT) constituted to probe the 2015 sacrilege and police firing cases following allegations of bias against him.The HC also directed that a supplementary report under the provisions of Section 173(8) of the CrPC would not be submitted by the “presently constituted” SIT “till the next date of hearing only and specifically at this stage”. The Bench, at the same time, made it clear that the investigation may go on. The direction was subject to further orders.The query and the direction by Justice Amol Rattan Singh came during the hearing of a petition filed against the State of Punjab and other respondents by Sub-Inspector Gurdeep Singh through senior advocate RS Cheema and Arshdeep Singh Cheema.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, the senior advocate among other things contended that Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh was biased against the petitioner. Elaborating, he contended that the petitioner was threatened at his instance to withdraw another petition filed by him last year for quashing an FIR registered on August 7, 2018, at the Kotkapura city police station. Directions for a proper investigation in another FIR registered on October 14, 2015, at the same police station were also sought by him. Both cases relate to the sacrilege incidents.Taking a note of the allegations, Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted: “Without making any comment on the correctness, or otherwise, on the contentions, a query has been put by this court to Harin P Rawal, senior counsel appearing for the respondent State as also for the DGP, Punjab, as to whether, in view of the serious allegations being made, the State would be willing to substitute the respondent officer with some other officer to be part of /head of the SIT constituted to investigate into FIR number 130 dated October 21, 2015, registered at police station Bajakhana, District Faridkot, or not.” He said the query was being put even though a notice was yet to be issued on the petition; and the State and the DGP were not on caveat. Formally issuing notice of motion to them, the Bench also fixed the case for October first week.
28-09-2020||Anirudh Gupta||Despite ‘protected’ tag, Bhagat Singh’s hideout in disarray||Ferozepur, September 27Five years down the line since its protected-monument notification, the state government has failed to make any concerted effort for the development and preservation of the historical double-storey building which Bhagat Singh-led Krantikari Party used as a secret hideout.Owned by trustAt present, the building is under the control of the Krishna Bhakti Satsang Trust. Trustee Nand Kishore Sharma said his grandfather Pt Lahori Ram Shastri had met Bhagat Singh several times here. “I am ready to do anything for the construction of a museum in this building,” he said.On December 17, 2015, the Department of Tourism and Cultural Affairs had declared the building a protected one under the Punjab Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1964, after advocate HC Arora filed a petition in the High Court amid residents’ clamour for the tag.Since then, no step has been taken to take care of it. At present, the building is under the control of the Krishna Bhakti Satsang Trust. Trustee Nand Kishore Sharma said his grandfather Pt Lahori Ram Shastri had met Bhagat Singh several times here. “I am ready to do anything for the construction of a museum in this building,” he says.Rakesh Kumar, AuthorStrategic importanceWhile a pharmacy shop ran on the ground floor, the first floor was used by revolutionaries to make bombs and evolve strategies against the oppressive British rule.Earlier, the district administration had even served the occupants a notice not to alter the structure or sell the premises. Thereafter, the then Deputy Commissioner DPS Kharbanda had mooted a proposal in 2016 to relocate the ground floor shop and the family here to another location for which an agreement was also drafted. However, the matter hasn’t moved beyond files. Politicians often made promises, but these turn out to be hollow.Former minister Navjot Sidhu came here two years ago and promised Rs 15 lakh for renovation, but funds never came.“For me, this building is no less than a pilgrimage site as I have grown up on stories around this hideout which was taken on rent by my father Dr Gaya Prashad under the fake name of Dr BS Nigam to run a pharmacy shop in 1928-29,” says Kranti Kumar Katiyar, demanding a museum here.“While the pharmacy shop ran on the ground floor, the first floor was used by the revolutionaries to make bombs and evolve strategies against the oppressive British rule,” says Rakesh Kumar, who has authored several books on this monument. “The government should release a special grant to develop this historical building,” he says.The pistol that Bhagat Singh used to kill British officer John Saunders in 1928 is kept in the BSF Museum at the Indo-Pakistan Joint Check Post (JCP) in Hussainiwala. “That pistol, along with several books and historical notes on the freedom fighter, should be brought here,” Rakesh adds.
28-09-2020||---||50 more fatalities in 24 hours in Punjab||Chandigarh, September 27With 1,458 fresh cases and 50 deaths reported in the past 24 hours, the state count of Covid cases has reached 1,10,106. The number of casualties has risen to 3,238.Besides, 88,312 patients have recovered from the virus and at present, 18,556 cases are active in the state.Apart from that, 451 patients are on oxygen support and 63 on ventilator support.In the district-wise break-up of fresh cases, Amritsar topped the list with 167 cases, followed by SAS Nagar (165), Ludhiana (151), Patiala (131), Pathankot (115) and Jalandhar (108).Ludhiana topped the list with nine deaths, followed by Jalandhar (eight), Patiala (six), Amritsar and Pathankot (five each), Hoshiarpur and Ropar (three each), Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur, SBS Nagar and Tarn Taran (two each), Mansa, Moga and Sangrur (one each).
28-09-2020||---||SIT asks Sumedh Saini to join probe today||Mohali, September 27 A special investigation team (SIT) has issued summons to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini to appear before it at Mataur police station at 11 am on Monday in connection with the alleged kidnapping and murder of Balwant Singh Multani. The summons were pasted outside Saini’s houses in Chandigarh and Delhi after he wasn’t fount there. Sources in the SIT said copies of the summons were also sent to his counsels Himmat Singh Deol and HS Dhanoa over WhatsApp. Accompanied by his counsel, Saini had appeared before the SIT on September 25 to join the investigations. However, the sources said he was told the SIT would issue summons and ask him to join the investigations. The Supreme Court had granted anticipatory bail to Saini in the case on September 15 and directed him to join investigations with the SIT. The SIT had added Section 302 (murder) of the IPC to the FIR registered against him after two co-accused turned approvers and deposed against Saini. They claimed to have witnessed Multani’s torture at the Sector 17 police station. Earlier, former Inspector Jagir Singh and ASI Kuldep Singh, co-accused, turned approvers and were granted pardon in the case. Another person who was in the lockup along with Multani also turned an approver.
28-09-2020||---||Amid protests, SGPC to present its budget today||Amritsar, September 27Amid the Covid-19 threat, the SGPC is all set to present its annual budget for 2020-21 at Teja Singh Samundri Hall tomorrow.The budget session, which was supposed to be held on March 28, was suspended due to restrictions in the wake of the Covid pandemic. The SGPC mainly gets its income through donations that it receives from shrines. With a drastic footfall of devotees, the SGPC’s income has also reduced by around 30 per cent and it is likely to have an impact on the proposed budget too. The last year’s budget was Rs 1,205 crore.Iincome down by 30% during pandemicThe SGPC mainly gets its income through donations that it receives from shrines. With a drastic footfall of devotees during the Covid pandemic, the SGPC’s income has also reduced by around 30 per cent and it is likely to have an impact on the proposed budget too. The last year’s budget was Rs1,205 crore.The SGPC has to commemorate two major occasions: The centenary of the apex body that falls on November 21, 2020, and the 400th centenary of Guru Teg Bahadur on April 18, 2021.It is estimated that total 215 establishments are running under the SGPC, including 120 schools and colleges. The salary bills of the employees, the maintenance of the buildings and expenses of administrative affairs stood still as compulsory. On the other hand, the revenue generated from around 79 gurdwaras was decreased since April.The total collection of donations from all gurdwaras, including the Golden Temple, Takht Kesgarh Sahib and Damdama Sahib, was around Rs 690 crore during 2019-20. The annual expenditure of the Golden Temple community kitchen was Rs 44 crore during the last financial year.On the other hand, activists of radical Sikh organisations have announced intercepting the SGPC members prior to the budget session. Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh said the purpose was to awaken their conscience so that they could also question the management about the misappropriation of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’.
28-09-2020||Ludhiana||Gurdwara body opposes road widening project||A proposal for acquisition of land by the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) for widening the approach road from Sidhwan Canal to Sun View Enclave as per a notified master plan has hit a roadblock with the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) throwing a spanner in the works.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal has taken up the matter with the Chief Minister. In a letter to Capt Amarinder Singh, the SGPC chief said the proposed acquisition of 18,728 sq yd of SGPC land was tantamount to encroachment upon the gurdwara land, which was a part of Gurdwara Tharra Sahib in Ayali Kalan. He also alleged the GLADA officials were conniving with a private developer to take over the SGPC land at cheaper rates and planned to sell it at a premium later.GLADA Additional Chief Administrator Bhupinder Singh, however, said the process for acquisition of land for widening the road to 100 feet was on. He said taking a decision in this regard was the prerogative of the government. — OC
28-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Use and throw? Frontline workers laid off after five months of hectic work, no pay||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 27The sudden reduction in Covid tally in the district has cost the livelihoods of 106 frontline health workers employed for Covid duties at the Meritorious School.A day after protests by Volunteer Medical Staff for not being paid their salaries for the past five months, as many as 106 of the staff members were “rationalised’ (asked not to continue their duties until further orders). Those rationalised also include some of those who showed up for the protest on Tuesday, blocking the Kapurthala Chowk in Jalandhar, demanding their salaries. These volunteers still haven’t been paid their salaries and now, they were jobless, too, at least for the time being.While a total of 164 people, including doctors, ward attendants, staff nurses and lab technicians, were hired for medical services amid rising cases in the month of May, 142 of them were included in the list of those laid off. While some of these 142 have already quit jobs, the remaining 106 have been asked not to continue with their duties.The 54 staff members who have been retained include eight doctors, 20 ward attendants, 16 staff nurses and the number of lab technicians and pharmacists retained is eight (each). Meanwhile, the list of those asked to discontinue Covid duties includes 16 doctors (MBBS, BDS and BAMS), 18 lab technicians, 50 ward attendants, 18 pharmacists and 40 staff nurses.Even though they were temporarily hired in view of the Covid scenario, some doctors allege a peeved department has laid them off a day after they sought their well-deserved salaries.What the letters says...The load at the Covid Care Centre has substantially decreased due to the new home-isolation instructions by the state government. In the past some time, those admitted have been reduced to less than 50 people. As per a letter by the DC office dated 23/9/2020, it is hence being instructed that staff employed at the Covid Care Centre be retained for only 100 patients, while the rest be rationalised...A letter released by the Civil Surgeon’s office on September 24 states that the rationalised volunteers shall be called again if need be in keeping with government instructions. A doctor, who was the earliest to join Covid duties, said, “I am among the first doctors who set up the Covid facility at the Meritorious School. While we had been asked to work only at the Meritorious School, we were later deputed at the Civil Hospital, too, amid the scorching heat and very busy days at the flu corner. Now, a day after the protests, we get the instructions to discontinue duties. Clearly, it’s the department’s reply to our protest. This, too, while we are yet unpaid. The government seems to have adopted the use and throw policy with us. Amid the Covid crisis, we have been rendered jobless after five months of hectic work and no pay.”
28-09-2020||---||The options before Punjab||Everyone in the country feels proud of Punjabi farmers for the critical role they played during the Green Revolution, from the mid-1960s to mid-1980s. The country was hugely deficit in grain as well as foreign exchange to buy from global markets. It was against this backdrop that in 1965, the Centre set up the Agricultural Prices Commission to recommend MSP for basic staples and the FCI to procure, if the market prices fell below MSP.It is important to keep this backdrop in mind to understand the opposition to the new farm legislations. There is a fear that these would end the MSP and concomitant procurement system, leading to the demise of APMC mandis, arhtiyas and of state revenue from these mandis. The PM and the Agriculture Minister have repeatedly said all this is a myth. The MSP, the procurement system, and APMC mandis, all are going to stay, except that the farmer will have the choice to sell his produce to anyone outside the APMC mandi. Then why the controversy over the new laws?A priori, one must recognise that when the backdrop changes, policies and people have to change to adjust to the new reality. Those who refuse to change with changing times, stagnate and are left behind. This is so loud and clear since the beginning of economic reforms in 1991. In that context, it may be noted that by September-end, the FCI would be saddled with grain stocks of about 75 million metric tonnes (MT), against a buffer stock norm of 30.8 million MT, as on October 1. In June, these stocks had touched unprecedented levels of 97 million MT, way beyond the storage capacity of the FCI. Besides this overflowing granary, the country also has bulging foreign exchange reserves touching $540 billion, up from meagre $1.1 billion in June 1991. Therefore, wisdom lies in rethinking our policies and inviting a greater role for private trade. These three laws — the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 (FPTC); Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 (FAPAFS); and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 (ECA) — attempt to do precisely that. Their objective is to invite private participants and create competition with the existing system of APMC markets, without demolishing the latter. It would bring down the costs of intermediation, give better choices to farmers, and thus improve their price realisation. Those who don’t want to avail of the alternative system being conceived may keep going to APMC mandis and selling their produce (wheat and rice) at MSP.But both the ruling and Opposition parties in Punjab don’t believe this. First, they fear that Punjab will gradually lose its revenue from mandi fee and cess, which is 6 per cent of the value of farm produce procured by state agencies on behalf of the FCI (amounting to roughly Rs 3,500 cr). Second, arhtiyas fear that their commission of 2.5 per cent will be under pressure from competition outside the market yard. It is worth remembering that this commission plus mandi fee plus cess, which in total is about 8.5 per cent, used to be 14.5 per cent before the GST reforms came. Punjab had the highest levies in the country and was simply garnering resources by fleecing the FCI. And much of these fees and cess are not audited by CAG as it is not a part of the regular budget, and therefore gives a lot of discretion to political masters to use it the way they like. No doubt, quite a sizeable part of this went to build rural roads connecting villages to mandis, but today, Punjab has achieved all the infrastructure needed to link farmers to markets.The need of the hour is to be competitive and attract investments in food processing and building efficient supply chains for exports. But if the private trade, say processors or exporters, have to pay MSP plus 8.5 per cent, say on wheat, the very first day they will be out of business. So, investors would go to other states that create an investment climate in line with these laws, say to Uttar Pradesh or Haryana or Madhya Pradesh. Punjab would then lose on employment in food processing industry, and the concomitant GST on that. Punjab needs to weigh its options carefully, whether to remain stuck with wheat and rice and the MSP system, or move forward towards diversification to more high-value crops and food processing.That reminds me of Prof SS Johl, who raised the voice in the late 1980s that it was time for Punjab to move towards high-value crops. But Punjab did not heed that wise advice. This system of wheat and rice is now playing havoc with the fast-depleting water table, which is accentuated by free power and open-ended procurement, especially of paddy. Stubble burning has emerged as another cause for concern.In the country as a whole, only 6 per cent farmers benefited from the MSP regime, as per an NSSO report. Obviously, the majority was from Punjab. That dissuaded Punjab to diversify towards high-value crops. Punjab farmers’ income may be high compared to the all India average, but that is primarily because the holding size in Punjab is 3.62 hectares vis-à-vis 1.08 hectares at the all-India level.Interestingly, on the basis of agri-GDP per hectare of the gross cropped area, Punjab’s ranking is way below. States such as Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and even Jharkhand are better off in terms of value creation in agriculture. Time for Punjab to wake up!
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||8,000 nodal officers to check stubble burning||In a series of measures to check stubble burning in the ongoing kharif season, the state government has appointed 8,000 nodal officers in paddy growing villages of the state with 23,500 more machines being given to farmers for in situ management of paddy straw. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said he had been following up with the Prime Minister for compensation to farmers for defraying the cost on the management of paddy straw, adding that the state was also taking various steps to educate farmers about the issue. The state government has been seeking from the Centre Rs 100 per quintal as compensation to enable farmers to manage paddy straw without burning it. The nodal officers, who will be working in villages till November 15, will work in close coordination with the staff of cooperation, revenue, rural development and panchayats, agriculture, horticulture and soil conservation departments, as well as the Punjab Pollution Control Board and the Guardians of Governance. A dedicated team has been stationed at the call centre on toll free number 1800-180-1551 for quick resolution of the queries of farmers about farm machinery for paddy straw management. — TNS
28-09-2020||---||Women join farmers’ protest, block railway line in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 27The farmers’ blockade of the Amritsar-Delhi railway line from Devidyal Pura village today received a shot in the arm after women from nearby places joined their protest.Showing solidarity with them, the SGPC today directed all gurdwara managements under it to provide non-stop langar to the agitating farmers and their families.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “Participation of women in any protest gives fillip to its intensity. So we had sought their support and are obliged that hundreds of women from nearby villages turned up to boost our morale.”Taking a jibe at breaking up of the SAD-BJP alliance, he said it became a political compulsion for the SAD to snap ties with the NDA. “Basically, the NDA had created such a situation that SAD had no choice but to call quits in an attempt to save its political ground. Followed by Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation, the SAD’s move to break alliance can be considered as a big win for farmers,” he said.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the Sikh apex body supported the farmers’ interest at the first place.BKU Sidhupur protest enters Day 25Bathinda: The protest by farmers under the banner of the BKU Ekta Sidhupur entered 25th day in Bathinda on Sunday. Union leaders said the administration had assured them their demands would be met, but nothing had been done so far. The union has now given a call for a protest on September 29. BKU Sidhupur leader Kaka Singh Kotra said, “We are protesting the decision to create Mandikalan Nagar Panchayat a gram panchayat and demanding cancelling of cases registered against farmers for stubble-burning.” tns
28-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jalandhar farmer shows the way with stubble cardboard||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 27With the state government reiterating and urging farmers not to burn stubble, a farmer from Mehatpur village has set an example by using paddy stubble for making cardboard since 2010. The use of paddy straw as a raw material in the making of cardboard not only gives it a better quality, but production cost is also low.Gurtej Singh, along with his two cousins Biranmol Singh and Paramvir Singh, started a small cardboard business in 2007. The unit is running at Kakran Kalan in the Shahkot block. For three years, they used only sack bags and sludge as raw materials in the production. It was in 2010 when he started using paddy straw and found that his input cost was reduced. “Sludge and sack bags are costly. Now, 70 per cent of paddy straw is used, resulting in a low expenditure for a decade,” he says.Gurtej says he came in contact with Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Nurmahal, before 2010, and it was after getting training there and under the guidance of experts he started working on using stubble in cardboard manufacturing.According to him, almost every farmer in Kakran Kalan gives paddy straw to them. “The farmers in Kakran Kalan don’t burn their paddy straw anymore,” he says.He gathers paddy stubble from 300 acres in Kakran Kalan and surrounding villages. Kakran Kalan Sarpanch Paramjit Kaur claims that no one in the village burns stubble. Corroborating Gurtej’s statement, she says almost every farmer in the village provides paddy straw to the unit.While explaining the procedure, Gurtej informs that with the help of a Baler machine, several bundles of paddy stubble are made. Then the stubble, sack and waste products’ sludge is put in a Beeter machine that mixes up the three raw materials, and a paste is formed, which gets transformed into cardboard.“It gives me satisfaction that I am not contributing to the pollution. I am using paddy stubble in a right way,” he adds.
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Paddy purchase begins, 4,035 centres set up across Punjb||Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu kick-started paddy procurement at the Rajpura grain market today. He said the state government had made elaborate arrangements for the procurement of expected arrival of 170 lakh metric tonnes of paddy across the mandis of the state, adding the government was committed to procuring every grain of the produce. The minister said due to the early arrival of paddy crop, the state government had started the procurement of paddy from today and would ensure early payment of the crop to the farmers. This time, the Punjab Mandi Board had set up 4,035 procurement centres across the state, including 1,872 official centres, where 30x30 feet space had been earmarked in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, mask, soap and sanitiser were being provided to farmers and arrangements for labour, gunny bags and transport for lifting of crops had been completed. He said similar to the wheat season, farmers would be able to bring their produce in the mandis by obtaining the passes given to them through commission agents and these would be of different colour for various days. — TNS
28-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Day after exiting NDA, Harsimrat lashes out at Centre over agri laws||Fazilka, September 27A day after SAD’s withdrawal from the BJP-led NDA over the contentious farm laws, former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal held a massive rally in the Fazilka grain market today. A large number of farmers and party workers gathered over a short notice of a few hours, claimed SAD district president Ashok Aneja.Harsimrat held the BJP-led Centre and Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in the state responsible for the passage of the farm Bills in Parliament.She claimed she had opposed the Bill draft several times in Cabinet meetings. According to her, she also met the minister concerned regarding farmers’ doubts and the demand to include MSP clause in the Bill, but these were brushed aside. She said she had put up descending notes on the files presented before her as the food processing minister in this regard.Lashing out at Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the SAD leader alleged he was aware of the draft of the Bill as the Central Government had taken the state government into confidence and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had endorsed the proposal in the NITI Aayog meeting.She hurled the Punjab Congress election manifesto on the stage and said it had also promised e-trading of crops and privatisation of mandis in Punjab and now the CM was “shedding crocodile tears”.“The SAD and the Badal family are ready to make every sacrifice for the welfare of the farmers. A Cabinet berth and the NDA alliance are small issues. We will use every weapon to fight against it,” she said.She urged all political parties to join hands to fight the new agriculture laws.
28-09-2020||Amid the ongoing protests||Sukhbir Badal: Willing to follow anyone for welfare of farmers||Being the oldest ally in the NDA, how do you view the breakup?The alliance was based on a common minimum programme in which the welfare of farmer, labour, trader and other economically weaker sections was the fundamental principle. Another key driving force was to ensure peace and communal harmony in the state. I am sad the BJP has become insensitive to both these principles. We tried to persuade them to listen to the farmers. But when they refused to budge, we had to come out and stand by the beleaguered farmers.Questions are being raised on the SAD staying mute even after the Cabinet cleared the ordinances?Harsimrat (Kaur Badal) had put it on record in Parliament that she had raised objection to the ordinances before these were promulgated. But she was told it was a temporary measure and the farmers’ concerns would be addressed when these would be converted into Bills and Acts. But when the Bills were drafted, this promise was not kept.The BJP says it’s Akalis’ loss to walk out of the alliance. The BJP has been posturing for increased representation in Assembly and a bigger seat share in parliamentary polls. What do you have to say?BJP leaders are entitled to hold their views. People know who stands where. For the BJP, it may be about bigger seat share and greater representation in power. For us, the issue is how to save farmers and their interests alone.Farmers have been asking parties to stay away because they don’t trust them. Do you think the SAD needs to have a relook at its strategy to bridge the gap?It is the choice of these organisations. A farmer wants unity in this fight. On our part, we offer support to any organisation seeking justice for farmers. Divisions in the ranks of pro-farmer forces can only help the enemies of farmers. I am in favour of a united fight. We are ready to follow anyone who supports the cause.Former CM Parkash Singh Badal and Home Minister Amit Shah have spoken publically about the need for unity between the two parties in the border state to ensure peace. Do you think the break-up will impact security?The alliance achieved a lot, including starting the process of justice for 1984 riot victims and peace in Punjab. Even yesterday, when I announced the breakup, I reiterated SAD’s commitment to peace and communal harmony. We wanted the BJP to realise the importance of the tie-up for this goal. But they seem to have become insensitive to these crucial national interests. The SAD will continue to uphold these ideals.
28-09-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Man who arrested Bhindranwale||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27Iqbal Singh Lalpura, the BJP’s newly appointed national spokesperson and a Sikh face from Punjab, has a unique life profile where he was among the three-member team of ‘Amritdhari’ (baptised) officers, specially chosen to formally arrest Sikh separatist leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale in April 1981.An ex-IPS officer and author of 14 books on interpretation and explanation of Guru Granth Sahib, Lalpura was the investigating officer of the Sikh-Nirankari clash of 1978, also known as the incident leading to terrorism and the rise of Bhindranwale.His books on Gurbani focus on particular facets, like references to Islam, Hinduism and other religions in Guru Granth Sahib. His next book on his experience in terrorism days, especially interaction with Bhindranwale, is being published shortly. He has remained a principal negotiator with terrorists on behalf of the government and had retrieved the body of slain DIG AS Atwal from Golden Temple.He had joined the BJP in 2012. Despite being in the thick of action against terrorists, and arresting Bhindranwale, Lalpura has another unique achievement of receiving honour from the SGPC of Shiromani Sikh Sahitkar award. Akal Takht Jathedar Joginder Singh Vedanta wrote a foreword for his book Gurbani Katha Vichar.Recounting his negotiation with Bhindranwale, Lalpura said, “He agreed for courting arrest on September 20, 1981, in the Nirankari killing case but laid a condition that only ‘Amritdhari’ officers can arrest him. A three-member team of SSP Jarnail Singh Chahal, SDM Baaj Singh Bhullar and I took Bhindranwale formally into custody.”On choosing the BJP, he says, “The BJP is not anti-minority. It is this party which stands by its commitment for a united India.”
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM: Exploring all options to skirt  three  Acts||Terming President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent to the farm Bills “unfortunate and distressing”, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh today said his government was exploring all options, including possible amendments to the state laws, to protect the interests of farmers. All farmer organisations and other stakeholders would be taken into confidence before taking a decision on the way forward, the CM said, adding the state government was committed to procuring every single grain of farmers without compromising on the pricing. The government was in consultation with legal and agriculture experts, and all those impacted by the Union Government’s legislations to decide on the future course of action, he said. Besides, the government was looking at other options to scuttle the Centre’s new laws, he said. The CM expressed anguish over the President’s assent to the three Bills. — TNS
28-09-2020||---||Blessing in disguise, says BJP||Chandigarh, September 27The BJP core committee that met here today resolved that the breaking of alliance with the Akalis was sad, but a blessing in disguise for the party to finally expand independently in the state.State party president Ashwani Sharma said the core committee took stock of the political situation in the state and the country over the farm legislations and the end of alliance with the Akalis.“We agreed it was sad that Akalis had parted ways with us. They seem to have been caught in the propaganda started by the Congress, Left and AAP over farm legislations,” said the state BJP president.He said the committee found the development an opportunity to strengthen its base as well as expand it in new areas. The BJP had remained more focused on 23 out of 117 Assembly seats in the state as per the ratio of seat understanding with the Akalis. Sharma said the party cadre was raring to develop the party.He said the committee noted that the BJP had always respected the interests of the alliance partners and never snapped ties with anyone. “We were never the first to walk out of any alliance. We have always believed in taking everyone together,” he said.Sharma said with the beginning of procurement of paddy and later of wheat next year would clear all misgivings of the farmers and confirm that the new legislations were beneficial. Senior BJP leader and former Union Minister Vijay Sampla, too, in his tweet said it was unfortunate that the SAD came out of the alliance with the party.“But every challenge also brings a new opportunity. I believe that this move of the SAD, which is already facing internal strife, will never be fruitful in the future,” tweeted Sampla. Senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia said initially, the Akalis had been supporting the farm Acts and had also said they were favourable to the farming community.Tracing alliance’s historyUnanswered questions‘Times have changed, BJP doesn’t listen now’We came together to fight against the atrocities of the Congress. The Shiromani Akali Dal was always consulted on issues of farmers. But this time, the BJP didn’t listen to our concerns on farm issues. Balwinder Singh Bhunder, SAD senior leader‘We have always respected our allies’The BJP has always given respect to every party associated with the NDA. The SAD is a political party and they chose another line. We have never been the first to walk out of any alliance anywhere in the country. Ashwani Sharma, State BJP President‘The breakup is just political theatrics’This breakup is just political theatrics. The Akalis were signatories to the ordinances. They did not quit the NDA when these were proposed or presented in Parliament. They have done so now only to save their vote bank. Harpal Singh Cheema, Leader of Opposition
28-09-2020||Vibha Sharma||In Akalis’ departure, BJP sees opportunity||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 27A story doing the rounds is that when SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal sent her resignation to the PM in protest against the agriculture legislations, “he just took and signed it”. Without getting into debate over its authenticity, what the BJP wants to convey is that if Harsimrat was hoping that she will be asked to stay back or that the PM will relent with an assurance on re-think on the laws, it did not happen.“These reforms are not about one state, but the entire nation. We stood by them (Akalis) even when it meant sacrificing aspirations of our cadres (in Punjab). The local leadership had been demanding it (separation) for long, but the BJP never walks out on allies with whom we have long associations,” said a leader who did not wish to be named.Several BJP leaders see it as an opportunity. Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik says, “Sky is the limit now. You will see how fast the BJP grows in Punjab. Because we were limited to 23 seats, our political space also remained limited. We will reach out to everyone and spread the right message on the agriculture reforms.”Regarding new laws, he says, “They resigned because of political compulsions. The Congress was misleading farmers and they got caught in its misinformation campaign.”The feelings that Akalis let the BJP down is evident from what senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said, “She (Harsimrat) was a part of the Cabinet where the decision was taken. She only asked if it was legally possible and as the Law Minister I clarified. She has been a distinguished minister in the Cabinet and I would like to remember her like that.”However, a section has some reservations. “The alliance was a symbol of Hindu-Sikh unity. Now, it will be free-for-all in the sensitive border state.”The next Assembly elections are a few months away (2022). The BJP has the time to build state leadership. Punjab leader Tarun Chugh’s elevation as the national general secretary and appointment of former IPS officer Iqbal Singh Lalpura as the national spokesperson are being seen as steps towards building the state leadership.
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Let’s unite to save farmers: SAD to parties||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today called upon all political parties and organisations to close ranks for a united fight to protect the interests of the farmers, farm labourers and farm produce traders in the country, especially Punjab.“We are ready to join or follow any struggle in the overall interests of the farmers, farm labourers, arhtiyas and other farm produce traders,” said Sukhbir Singh Badal.The SAD president, who addressed party workers in Ropar, Hoshiarpur and Phagwara after the party broke alliance with the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) last night, said the country needed to understand and empathise with the farmers and farm labourers in view of the pathetic conditions in which they were living. — TNS
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||SAD reinventing its regional politics||
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Badals owe apology to Manmohan: Minister||Senior Congress leader and Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today said the Badal clan owed a public apology for casting aspersions on former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh at the instigation of the saffron party.  The Congress leader alleged the Badals were equal partners in the NDA government which brought the economy to its lowest ebb which was earlier put on upward trajectory by the UPA government under the leadership of Dr Manmohan Singh with great efforts.  He said the Akalis continued personal criticism of Dr Manmohan Singh, who never got a word of gratitude from the SAD despite granting various financial sops to the state. “Owing to political compulsions, the Akalis have suddenly woken up to the reality of the BJP being anti-Punjab,” he said.  He also challenged the SAD to come clean on statements by the BJP regarding Akalis in loop over the farm Acts as well as duty assigned by the saffron party to bring the farmers on board. — TNS
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh to launch stir at Khatkar Kalan today||State Congress leaders, led by Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, will launch an agitation against the contentious farm laws at Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr on Monday.Mulling changes in state lawsMy government is exploring all options, including possible amendments to state laws, to protect farmers’ interests. Punjab CMSAD ChiefSAD, It’s A Dark day for countryIt is sad and extremely unfortunate that the assent has been granted to the Bills. It is really a dark day for the country.Amritsar (East) MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu is expected to attend the function, party sources said.The Chief Minister, along with Rawat and Jakhar, will fly to Khatkar Kalan prior to attending a Congress Legislature Party meeting in Chandigarh. — TNS
28-09-2020||---||8K nodal officers to check farm fires in Punjab||Patiala, September 27The Punjab Government has appointed 8,000 nodal officers in paddy-growing villages to check burning of straw in the fields. These officers will remain deployed in these villages till November 15.They will work in close coordination with the staff of various departments and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB). Besides preparing lists of persons who have given their land on rent, they will also ring them up to warn that red entries will be made in their land records, if they failed to ensure that there was no burning of straw in their fields.Moreover, 23,500 more machines will also be made available to farmers for straw management. Reports of farm fires have already started pouring in from the Majha area in the state.Till date, the PPCB has noticed 129 hotspots in the state on the basis of thermal images shared by the Remote Sensing Authority.Farmers in Amritsar and Tarn Taran areas have started burning stubble in their fields. Out of 129 hotspots, 56 were confirmed as farm fires.“In 15 cases, we have levied environmental compensation of Rs 55,000 on the farmers concerned, while the farm owners in the remaining 41 cases are yet to be identified,” said PPCB Member Secretary Karunesh Garg.In 2019, the SC had asked Punjab to act against those burning stubble. Environment compensation of over Rs 6 crore was levied in respect of 52,000 cases of farm fire. While 1,750 FIRs were registered and 250 cases filed in the court, a sum of only Rs 2 lakh could be collected from erring farmers. Over 23,000 red entries were also made in the land records of such farmers.
28-09-2020||Vibha Sharma||SAD third major ally to quit NDA in three years||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 27The Shiromani Akali Dal became the third major ally of the BJP-led NDA to quit the alliance after the Shiv Sena in 2019 and TDP in 2018.While the separation may have made no difference to the NDA, the fact is that the saffron party’s relationship with two of its oldest supporters – the Shiv Sena and SAD — has ended. The two allies decided to part ways to save their “individual political identity” and “core voters”.Alliance politics2017: JD(U), which had walked out of alliance in 2013, rejoins2018: TDP pulls out over special status for Andhra Pradesh; BJP abandons PDP over concerns related to J&K; RLSP president Upendra Kushwaha resigns from the Cabinet2019: TN-based AIADMK joins NDA; Shiv Sena parts ways over Maharashtra CM’s post; Haryana’s JJP joins hands with BJP2020: SAD quits alliance over contentious farm lawsThe current NDA allies include the JD(U), LJP and HAM(S) in Bihar, JJP in Haryana, AIADMK in Tamil Nadu, Apna Dal in UP and some other minor parties like the Ram Das Athawale-led RPI in Maharashtra.Party leaders claim the BJP never initiated move to sever ties with any party and those who left have either joined back or regretted the move.TDP leader N Chandrababu Naidu, after faring poorly in the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, “openly admitted regret” over his decision to quit the NDA, they claim.Both JD(U) and the AIADMK have joined the alliance, while the Shiv Sena may have parted ways in Maharashtra, it stood with the NDA in the Lok Sabha. Similarly, the HAM(S) is back. In all, the NDA is an alliance of around 25 parties, they say.So far as the PDP is concerned, the BJP pulled out because of “genuine concerns” related to Jammu and Kashmir, they claim.The leaders claim that there is no state, including Punjab, where the BJP’s organisational structure is not as strong as that of regional parties. Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik says: “They (Akali Dal) quit the alliance. There was no such move from our side. Why did they not leave earlier? Why were they giving favourable statements regarding farm ordinances? The BJP has always taken them along on issues concerning Punjab.”
