28-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Good work Sonu’, says Punjab CM on actor’s charity||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday praised Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who was born and brought up in the state, for his charity amid the coronavirus pandemic."It fills me with immense pride whenever I read about my fellow Punjabis going beyond their call of duty to help those in need and this time it is our Moga boy Sonu Sood who has been actively helping migrant workers by arranging for their food and transportation," the Chief Minister said in a tweet."Good work Sonu!" he added.Last week, Chef Vikas Khanna prepared a special dish and named it ‘Moga’ after the town in Punjab where actor Sonu Sood was born.This is because Khanna is impressed with Sonu's charity work amid the COVID-19 lockdown.Khanna shared a photo of the special dish with a tweet message: "Dear @SonuSood everyday you are inspiring us. Can't cook for you right now in appreciation of your work. So sending you a dish. Im going to name “MOGA” after your birthplace. #Respect #RealHero." Sonu was overjoyed naturally, and he called Khanna the "world's best chef". — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/good-work-sonu-says-punjab-cm-on-actors-charity-91173
28-05-2020||Our Correspondent||65-year-old man dies of heat in Hoshiarpur||Garhshankar (Hoshiarpur), May 28The body of a 65-year-old man was found in the bushes on the banks of the canal at Fatehpur Khurd village of Garhshankar subdivision on Thursday afternoon.A passerby informed sarpanch Bhag Singh about the body lying in the bushes.On the sarpanch’s intimation, SHO Inspector Iqbal Singh and SI Chatwinder Singh along with the police party reached the spot. The body was taken to the mortuary of the local civil hospital.Later in the evening, the deceased was identified as Mahinder Singh, son Sarwan Singh, a resident of Kajla village, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district.According to police, his bicycle was standing near the body. According to police, the person seemed to have stayed under the shade to take rest and died of heat several hours ago.Based on the statement of the deceased’s wife Tarsem Kaur, the police have recorded the proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/65-year-old-man-dies-of-heat-in-hoshiarpur-91159
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sees COVID-19 recovery rate at 90 per cent||Besides posting the highest Covid-19 recovery rate of 90 per cent in the country, Punjab has also done exceedingly well in keeping all critical mortality rate amongst the lowest at 1.3 per cent, with majority of those fatalities resulting from co-morbidity.Out of 40 deaths occurring mostly in patients aged over 50, 31 persons (77 per cent) were afflicted with serious underlying illness like end-stage kidney disease and cancer and HIV, besides uncontrolled diabetes and high blood pressure, said Principal Secretary Health and Family Welfare Anurag Agarwal.Chronic illnesses like heart disease, hypertension, diabetes and obesity were major associated illnesses as contributing factors in the remaining 23 per cent of cases, he said in a statement, pointing out there were a few cases, which had no underlying chronic illness.Deaths in most cases have occurred in patients who were already suffering from serious illness which might have led to mortality in natural course of events, he said.As many as 1,918 patients have already fully recovered out of total 2,106 positive cases reported so far.Underlining scientific, systematic and aggressive contact tracing coupled with the effective enforcement of lockdown, Agarwal said doubling rate of Covid-19 in Punjab has been about 100 days for last few days, which is encouraging.In all cases, where patients are found to be Covid positive irrespective of the underlying disease, as per ICMR guidelines the death is counted as a Covid death, Agarwal pointed out underlining state's mortality rate is significantly lower than the national average of three per cent.Further, in many cases samples of dead have been taken some of which have turned out to be positive and all these deaths have been taken as Covid-19 deaths.This was done so as not to miss out on contact tracing of possible positive cases, Agarwal added.Expert committee headed by KK Talwar, a former director of the PGI Hospital in Chandigarh, also guided the state to analyse and review the cases of deaths and take corrective action accordingly.The review of the death cases were also taken up by the expert committee in details and update the doctors working in the state.Eight patients presented with end-stage kidney disease and were on dialysis, which in itself is life-threatening, besides nine patients had uncontrolled diabetes, again a serious condition, Director Health Services Avneet Kaur said.A few cases were severely immune-compromised as they were HIV positive.Such patients are very prone to acquire infections and have little capacity to fight with these infections, she added.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-covid-19-recovery-rate-at-90-per-cent-91150
28-05-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Two prisoners escape from Sangrur jail||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, May 28Two prisoners escaped from Sangrur Jail on Thursday. The police have begun raids and registered a case in this regard.The convicts were identified as Gurdarshan Singh and Sandeep Singh.Sharing details, DSP Satpal Sharma informed that both were facing imprisonment in murder and attempt to murder cases.“Gurdarshan Singh was convicted in a murder case while Sandeep Singh was convicted in an attempt to murder,” said the DSP.The DSP said the jail authorities had taken both for farming in an open side of jail when they both escaped.“We have formed special teams and raids are on” the DSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-prisoners-escape-from-sangrur-jail-91147
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM seeks cash transfers to migrant workers, poor||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday appealed to the Prime Minister for cash transfers to all migrant workers and poor, and providing greater employment to rural poor under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS)."My appeal to PM Narendra Modi, seeking government of India's immediate intervention for cash transfer to all migrant workers and poor, providing greater employment to rural poor under MGNREGS and financial assistance for MSMEs, other than loans," he said in a tweet.Amid mounting economic woes, the Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday decided to seek a fiscal stimulus of Rs 51,102 crore from the Centre to help the state tide over the financial crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic and the prolonged lockdown that ensued.To contain the contagion in the rural areas, assistance of Rs 5,068 crore has been sought by the state in a draft memorandum for liquid and solid waste management in the villages, in addition to the upward revision of capital outlay and targets under MGNREGA.For urban development, the state has proposed a National Urban Employment Guarantee Act (NUEGA) to guarantee employment in urban areas, along with an additional capital outlay of Rs 2,302 crore under schemes like AMRUT, Smart City, PMAY etc, with certain relaxations.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-seeks-cash-transfers-to-migrant-workers-poor-91142
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two more deaths; 19 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Two more persons died of COVID-19 in Punjab while 19 more contracted the infection in the state on Thursday, officials said.A 60-year-old woman of Bunala village of Baba Bakala town in Amritsar had tested positive for COVID-19 on May 27 and was admitted to Amritsar hospital, health officials said.She was suffering from hypertension and was in critical condition, officials said in Amritsar, adding she was put on oxygen.“Her condition deteriorated on Thursday and she was immediately intubated and put on ventilator support. But she was declared dead at 1.40 pm today,” the official said.In Ludhiana, a 49-year-old railway protection force jawan died of coronavirus on Thursday afternoon, said Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal in an official release, adding the deceased was a resident of Karol Bagh in Jalandhar.The medical bulletin which was released on Thursday by the health authorities in Chandigarh, however, did not mention about the COVID-19 deaths in Amritsar and Ludhiana.According to the medical bulletin, the death toll in the state stood at 40.  Meanwhile, seven new cases were reported in Amritsar, four in Hoshiarpur, three each in Jalandhar and Sangrur and one each in Rupnagar and Mohali, as per the medical bulletin.Among the fresh cases, one was a foreign returnee and one had a travel history to Kerala, the bulletin said.Twenty eight coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals in Jalandhar (13), Amritsar (9), Gurdaspur (3) and Sangrur (3), as per the bulletin.With the recovery of these patients, the figure of cured persons rose to 1,946, the bulletin added.There are 172 total active cases in the state as of now, it said.Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 354 coronavirus cases, followed by 233 in Jalandhar, 176 in Ludhiana, 156 in Tarn Taran, 133 in Gurdaspur, 114 in Hoshiarpur, 115 in Patiala, 106 in SBS Nagar, 104 in Mohali, 94 in Sangrur, 66 in Muktsar, 62 in Faridkot, 61 in Rupnagar, 59 in Moga, 57 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 47 in Pathankot, 46 in Ferozepur, 42 each in Fazilka and Bathinda, 36 in Kapurthala, 32 in Mansa and 23 in Barnala, the bulletin said.One patient is critical and is on ventilator support, as per bulletin.  A total of 78,014 samples have been taken so far in the state, of which 70,871 samples tested negative and reports of 4,985 samples are awaited, the bulletin added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-more-deaths-19-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-91133
28-05-2020||---||RPF head constable succumbs to COVID-19 in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 28A Railway Protection Force (RPF) head constable, posted at Ludhiana, succumbed to COVID-19 on Thursday. He was 49-years-old and hailed from the Karol Bagh area of Jalandhar.He, along with another RPF personnel from Ludhiana, was the first one to test positive on May 18 from the Ludhiana unit. They were tested for COVID-19 after the Ludhiana unit personnel came in contact with the RPF Delhi battalion, who had come to Ludhiana on special duty.He was under treatment at the Civil Hospital but was later shifted to the Christian Medical College and Hospital after his condition deteriorated on May 20.He has been on ventilator since May 26 and was suffering from bilateral pneumonia and lung sepsis and was a borderline patient of hypertension. On Thursday, he suffered a cardiac arrest and breathed his last, said Dr Rajesh Bagga, Civil Surgeon.To date, a total of 57 RPF personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 in Ludhiana. Of these 57, 48 are posted at Delhi and belong to the 6th battalion of the RPF while nine are posted at Ludhiana.The Delhi battalion had come to Ludhiana on May 7 for the special duty to manage Shramik Special trains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rpf-head-constable-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-ludhiana-91111
28-05-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab Health Systems Corporation Vice-Chairperson tests coronavirus positive||The Vice-Chairperson of Punjab Health Systems Corporation, Bobby (Manik) Sehgal, tested positive for coronavirus late on Wednesday and moved to a private facility for treatment.Sehgal's brother, too, tested positive for the contagion. Bobby got admitted at a private facility set up on the city’s periphery at Malian in Shahkot. The newly-setup hospital, with top-end facilities, including ventilators and monitors, was set up by Indian Medical Association Punjab. It was inaugurated here by Finance Minister Manpreet Badal about a month ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-health-systems-corporation-vice-chairperson-tests-coronavirus-positive-91059
28-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||NRI cries negligence, DC orders probe into boy’s death||Tribune News ServiceSujanpur (Pathankot), May 27A Germany-based NRI doctor working in the UK was put under “forced quarantine” after he accused doctors of six hospitals — four private and two government — of negligence, leading to the death of a seven-year-old child in his locality. Quarantine posters pasted outside his residence were removed after a legal notice was served on health officials.Role of 6 hospitals under the scannerThe child’s family is on an indefinite dharna at Sujanpur demanding justice.The doctor, Dr Dheeraj Singh Manhas, Surgical Registrar at a London hospital, came to India on January 18 and was to return in early March. However, he put his departure plans on hold after Covid-19 started spreading in London. On April 28, Krishna, son of Dr Manhas’ neighbours Opinder Kumar Jha and Kalpana, had a bout of ‘stridor’, a medical condition in which airflow is disrupted due to a blockage in larynx (voice box) or trachea (windpipe). Dr Dheeraj gave mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and took him to a private hospital and later to five other facilities after his condition worsened.Dr Bhupinder Singh, SMO, Pathankot Civil Hospital said the patient never stayed at one hospital for a “fairly long period”. A doctor at a private hospital said: “Dr Manhas came at 3 am. It took me 15-20 minutes to dress up and by the time I entered the clinic, he had left.”Following the charge, DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira asked SDM Arshdeep Singh to hold a probe. “Investigations are on and I will submit the report in seven days,” the SDM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nri-cries-negligence-dc-orders-probe-into-boys-death-90976
28-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Chief Secretary apologises, Punjab logjam ends||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27The face-off between Punjab ministers and Chief Secretary (CS) Karan Avtar Singh has ended with the officer apologising at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh at the Civil Secretariat here today. Senior Congress leaders, including PPCC Chief Sunil Jakhar, had flayed the bureaucracy’s “complete control over governance” in the state.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal called it a win for democracy. “In a democratic set-up, elected representatives have more say and importance than the bureaucracy”, he underlined. The CM is learnt to have spoken of the officer’s unblemished career and his retirement in August. Earlier in the day, the Chief Secretary visited the residence of Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra.Manpreet told his colleagues it was the third time that the Chief Secretary had apologised.“Everyone makes mistakes. Let bygones be bygones”. Technical Education Minister Charanjit Channi said the Chief Secretary had approached him twice to apologise. Manpreet also said the Chief Secretary had given it in writing that his son had no stake in the liquor business.Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa is learnt to have raised the issue of the Transport Department issuing notices over “illegal extension” of bus routes to companies run by Congress leaders, sparing those run by SAD leaders, including the Badal family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chief-secretary-apologises-punjab-logjam-ends-90957
28-05-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Firms not getting PPE kit orders||Hoshiarpur, May 27While there is a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits in the country, a number of manufacturing units approved for producing the kits in Punjab are not getting orders.Around 35 per cent of PPE kit production capacity in the state is yet to be utilised. Also, the number of manufacturing units getting approval for production of PPE kits is rising and in the past seven days, 35 manufacturing units were approved and certified by the South India Textile Research Association and Defence Research and Development Organisation to manufacture PPE kits. The producers in Punjab are not getting orders. Against the production capacity of 4,38,700 kits per day, the demand is for only 2,81,400 units.To deal with the problem, Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora has written to Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal to allow export of PPE kits so that the industry may operate to the fullest. He has also written letters to CMs of all states urging them to order PPE kits from Punjab. Interestingly, while letters of the minister are yet to draw a response from states and the Centre, the number of manufacturing units in Punjab approved for producing PPE kits has increased.“If the Centre allows us to export PPE kits, it will not only be beneficial for units, but will also help the economy grow. We are hopeful of positive results,” Arora said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/firms-not-getting-ppe-kit-orders-90819
28-05-2020||Karam Prakash||Health Department nod must for Covid test of dead||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 27Following the “botched-up” testing of bodies, the government has decided that henceforth, the Covid test of a dead person would be conducted only after the permission of a senior health officer.Now, approval from either the Director, Health Department, or Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, will be required to conduct the Covid test of bodies. Consequently, if a doctor is found taking the sample of a body without permission from senior health officers, he or she will attract disciplinary action.The directions are said to have come after The Tribune highlighted a case of 39-year-old Patiala resident who was tested for Covid after he was declared brought dead. The patient had been declared brought dead by Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital. The body was sent for the postmortem to Government Rajindra Hospital.Ironically, despite having developed rigor mortis, the man was tested for Covid by doctors at the Rajindra hospital merely on the request of the police.Moreover, the doctors had declared that the patient was suffering from severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) without any stipulated examination and medical history of respiratory issues.The patient had later tested positive for Covid which had raised questions over the rationale of ignoring the protocol. Notably, the sample was said to have been taken in haste without informing the Health Department.Similar incidents were also reported from Ludhiana where two bodies were tested for Covid, disregarding the protocol.A health officer said, “It was a complete mess where anyone used to come and ask the doctors to test a body for Covid. Every institutional death or brought dead person cannot be tested for Covid.”Dr Avneet Kaur, Director, Health and Family Welfare, said, “After having seen the incidents of the protocol being ignored, we have issued directions for testing of bodies. Moreover, test results can have a different outcome if the body is tested after more than 48 hours of death.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-department-nod-must-for-covid-test-of-dead-90820
28-05-2020||Sangrur||Financial package for farmers a hoax: Unions||Farmer organisations observed the “Save Farmers and Save Country Day” on Wednesday and submitted memorandums of their demands at the district level across Punjab. The day was observed on the call given by the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. “The Centre has announced a package for farmers, but actually not a single rupee has been allotted to farmers,” said Dr Darshan Paul, executive president, Krantikari Kisan Union. Farmer leaders alleged that under the garb of financial package, the Centre had abolished the Agricultural Produce and Marketing Committee Act and Essential Commodities Act, introduced Contract Farming Act, centralised agricultural e-marketing (eNAM), abolished subsidies and paved the way for corporatisation of land acquisition by following the dictates of the WTO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/financial-package-for-farmers-a-hoax-unions-90821
28-05-2020||---||Punjab to take call on curbs on May 30||Chandigarh, May 27The state government will decide on the future course of action with respect to the lockdown on May 30.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will chair a review meeting with departments on the Covid situation on May 30, and announce the government’s decision on lifting or extending the lockdown.A government spokesperson on Wednesday said the Cabinet decided that the decision should be taken after the on-ground assessment of the situation a couple of days before the lockdown was due to end. Any decision on extension, with or without relaxations, will be taken after the review meeting.Meanwhile, the Cabinet complimented the Food and Civil Supplies Department for ensuring seamless procurement of wheat during rabi season 2020-21 especially during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-take-call-on-curbs-on-may-30-90823
28-05-2020||---||179 Pak nationals return home||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/179-pak-nationals-return-home-90824
28-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court sets up 7-judge panel to streamline hearing of cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27More than three months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court went into restricted functioning mode, it today constituted a high-level committee of its senior judges for further streamlining the process of hearing cases before it and the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.Available information suggests Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha ordered the setting up of a seven-judge committee to work out the modalities for hearing matters and adoption of preventative measures, making clear the High Court’s intent to prevent the period from turning itself into denial of justice phase.The committee, headed by Justice Rajiv Sharma, would comprise Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain, Justice Jaswant Singh, Justice Daya Chaudhary, Justice Rajan Gupta, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill.Among other things, the committee would look into the procedure of filing and hearing cases, besides regulating entry into the court complexes. It would also study the sanitisation of courtrooms, record, offices, common areas and the retiring rooms.It would further deliberate on the norms regarding social distancing, air-conditioning and common facilities such as public toilets, canteens, barrooms, litigant sheds and parking. Available information suggests the issues sought to be deliberated upon indicate High Court’s willingness to travel beyond the mode of virtual hearing.An order issued on behalf of Registrar General Sanjiv Berry stated: “Keeping in view the prevalent conditions and in order to deliberate and suggest the modalities and preventive measures to be taken up for the High Court as well as in district courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the Chief Justice has been pleased to constitute a special committee for the purpose.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-sets-up-7-judge-panel-to-streamline-hearing-of-cases-90825
28-05-2020||---||Bathinda sizzles at 47.5 °C||Bathinda, May 27 Amid the warning of heat wave in parts of Punjab and Haryana, Bathinda sizzled at 47.5 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. It was the hottest city in the state followed by Faridkot (45 deg Celsius), Amritsar (45 deg C), Patiala (44 deg C), Ludhiana (43.2 deg C), Gurdaspur (42.1 deg C), Chandigarh (40 deg C) and Jalandhar (40 deg C). As per Agri-met Department of the PAU Metrological Regional Station here, Wednesday’s temperature in Bathinda was the highest in the past six years. The previous highest was 47.3 deg Celsius on June 8, 2014.  Meteorological centre, Chandigarh, director Surender Paul said: “Heat wave conditions are prevailing in parts of Punjab for the past 48 hours with districts in western part of the state — Bathinda, Muktsar, Faridkot and Fazilka — recording the maximum temperature. The intense heat wave conditions are likely to continue for 24 to 36 hours.” He further said there would be respite from the heat wave conditions as western disturbances supported by moisture flow from the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea would lead to light to moderate rainfall in a few days. Besides the spell of rain, thunderstorm, strong wind and hailstorm are also expected. The intensive heat in the area has worried cotton farmers. They say high temperature can damage the crop. They have kept their finger crossed and pray for rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-sizzles-at-47-5-%C2%B0c-90826
28-05-2020||Ferozepur||Wife booked for man’s murder||The police booked three persons, including a woman and her paramour, for allegedly killing the former’s husband, Ramesh Kumar Mustafa (36) of cantonment area.Kirpal Singh, SHO, said Kirandeep had allegedly developed illicit relations with Japan Singh, a resident of Rukna Begu village. On May 21, Ramesh went out with Japan and did not return. Kirandeep, her paramour Japan and his friend Akash were booked following a complaint by Bunty, victim’s cousin. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wife-booked-for-mans-murder-90827
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Verify officer’s presence at woman’s house amid curbs||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today ordered Patiala SSP to verify how a Mandi Board officer was present at a distance of about 30 km from his residence during night curfew on the pretext of fetching meal from a woman’s house while returning from duty.The order by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has its genesis in a petition filed by Paramjit Singh and other petitioners for grant of anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on April 25 for wrongful restraint and other offences.Their counsel told Justice Sangwan’s Bench that a petitioner lodged a complaint with a sarpanch that two women were residing in front of his house. The inspector used to visit them late night along with three-four persons.Since there were visitors to the house of the two women, the sarpanch called the police. But the complainant-inspector got the FIR registered.It was alleged that one of the women used to prepare food in the village. The complainant while going back from duty used to take meal from her house. After attending his duty at Maadu Mandi and Ghanaur Mandi, he and two others parked the car in front of the woman’s house to take the meal. But the petitioners and others abused him and took away his purse containing Rs 3,500. Justice Sangwan ordered: “The SSP is directed to verify the allegations in the FIR as to how the complainant was present outside the house of the petitioners.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-verify-officers-presence-at-womans-house-amid-curbs-90828
28-05-2020||Archit Watts||Locust threat goes up, farmers a worried lot||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, May 27The threat of locust attack is looming large over the region as the crop eaters have now reached the Punjab-Rajasthan area and may enter the state just with the flow of wind. Notably, the locusts can fly 150-200 km in a day.“We have made preparations to deal with the situation, but can’t do much to stop locusts at the day time. These can even fly up to Ludhiana in a single day. We can only kill locusts when these sit at night by spraying some insecticides,” said Jalour Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, Muktsar.He added, “The officials in Rajasthan are more trained in tackling locusts and we are in regular touch with them. The insects have now reached Goluwala Pilibanga area of Hanumangarh district in Rajasthan. We had controlled such a situation in some villages of Fazilka district in January this year.”The Agriculture Department has issued an alert in eight districts of the state, advising farmers to immediately contact officials if they notice locusts. “We have made lists of boom sprayers, availability of insecticides, fire tenders, etc. Besides, we are working beyond duty hours. However, we can’t do much during the day. The locusts are very harmful for vegetation, but not for humans as these don’t bite. These insects first eat small plants and then go for trees,” said a senior functionary of the Agriculture Department.Meanwhile, some farmers have appealed to the state government to make arrangements of helicopters and planes for aerial insecticide spray.“There should be better coordination between the Centre and state government about the locusts attack. Besides, the Centre should coordinate with Pakistan to get timely information about the movement of locusts. This information should be conveyed to the farmers as well through the sarpanches,” said Mohit Setia, an orchardist from Abohar in Fazilka district.Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary (Agriculture), Punjab, said, “I held a video conference with the chief agriculture officers today and asked them to stay alert and keep all agriculture officers ready to deal with any kind of situation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/locust-threat-goes-up-farmers-a-worried-lot-90829
28-05-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||No free power to farmers, direct benefit transfer from next fiscal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27Farmers in Punjab may not get free power, but a direct transfer of cash as subsidy from the next financial year. This is one of the conditions put forward by the Centre to enable the state to raise an additional loan of Rs12,000 crore this fiscal.The Cabinet, which met here today under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, gave in-principle approval to a slew of reforms so as to avail a 2 per cent additional borrowing limit of the state gross domestic product (SGDP). This will increase the state’s total borrowing this year from Rs18,000 crore to Rs30,000 crore and the state’s outstanding debt to Rs2.60 lakh crore.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal told The Tribune that the Constitution clearly stated that the Centre must come to the aid of any state that was under stress. “But here, the solution being offered is to borrow more. This will further push Punjab into debt,” he said.For additional borrowing, the state has been asked, among other things, to put in place a scheme for cash transfer to farmers through DBT for 2020-21. It has been asked to implement it in at least one district by December 31 this year. Though this may be a politically-sensitive proposition, it will benefit many more farmers than those under the free power scheme.“Of 26 lakh farmers in Punjab, nearly10 lakh get the benefit of free power as they have tubewells. But DBT will ensure a more equitable distribution of subsidy among all farmers, who otherwise pay between Rs5,000 and Rs10,000 per acre per cropping season to farmers having tubewells and thus access to free power,” a top official, requesting anonymity, said. Punjab had earlier started a pilot scheme for DBT of power subsidy ‘Pani Bachao, Paisa Kamao’, which has been operational on 250 agriculture power feeders.The other three conditions for availing additional borrowing are: One nation, one ration card scheme (to be implemented by December 31); district level and licencing reforms for ease of doing business (to be implemented by January 31); and notifying floor rates of property tax in urban local bodies in consonance with prevailing circle rates and floor rates for user charges for water supply, drainage and sewerage (to be implemented by January 15).Why more borrowing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-free-power-to-farmers-direct-benefit-transfer-from-next-fiscal-90831
28-05-2020||---||Cabinet nod to fee hike for MBBS course||Chandigarh, May 27The Cabinet on Monday approved 77 per cent fee hike for MBBS courses in government medical colleges and 33 per cent hike in private medical colleges of the state. The hike has been calculated on the basis of five per cent annually for five years in subsequent batches.The increase in the fee would be applicable to only new students joining during the next academic session. The existing students will continue to pay at old rates for their full course. The fee would be reviewed again after five years. The fee for BDS/MDS/MS courses will not be increased this year. The revision in the fee has been approved on the basis of recommendations of a committee headed by Dr KK Talwar, Adviser to the Punjab Government.Swachh Bharat Mission-IIThe Cabinet approved implementation of the Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin)-Phase II across the state in convergence with 15th Finance Commission grants, MGNREGA and other Central/state sponsored schemes. It also gave in-principle approval for arrangement of matching the state share for sanctioned projects from rural development fund, rural infrastructure development fund or any other state government schemes/sources in case of any shortage of funds for achieving the target of universal coverage of 100 per cent rural households with functional household tap connections by March 2022.Rs5,665 crore for rural growthTo alleviate the sufferings of people in rural areas and to secure their lives in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government decided to converge funds under its various flagship programmes to pursue its 2020-22 strategy for rural transformation. The rural transformation strategy, to be implemented at a cost of Rs 5,655 crore, will ensure availability of funds for the development of rural infrastructure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cabinet-nod-to-fee-hike-for-mbbs-course-90832
28-05-2020||---||Minister to Chief Minister: Order probe into ‘seed scam’||Chandigarh, May 27Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was today urged by Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa to mark an inquiry into the allegation levelled against him in the ‘seed scam’ by the Akalis.He pointed out that as the Akalis were making baseless allegations against him, no one from the government issued a statement in this regard. Randhawa said a probe would clear the facts.Reacting to the allegations levelled by SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, Randhawa said the Akalis were dragging his name into the alleged scam to gain political mileage.Randhawa said he had met Lucky Dhillon, the proprietor of Karnal Agri Seeds, at Veroke village in Dera Baba Nanak, who had got the licence in 2015 during the tenure of the Akali government. His firm was said to have supplied seeds of paddy PR 128 and PR 129 to Brar Seed Farm of Ludhiana, against which an FIR had been lodged.Hand over matter to CBI, says SADThe SAD on Wednesday demanded custodial interrogation of all those involved in the “multi-crore seed scam”. It flayed Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa for acting as a “spokesperson” for the prime accused, Karnal Agri Seeds, and maintained that only an independent probe by the CBI into the entire issue could nail the culprits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-to-chief-minister-order-probe-into-seed-scam-90833
28-05-2020||---||Interim bail to five in Moosewala case||Sangrur, May 27A local court today granted interim bail to four policemen and another youngster, who along with singer Sidhu Moosewala, were booked under the Arms Act. The court fixed June 9 as the next date of hearing and directed all five to join the police investigation.“The court has granted interim bail to ASI Balkar Singh, head constable Gurjinder Singh, constables Harwinder Singh and Jasveer Singh and shooting player Jungsher Singh,” said Sumir Fatta, counsel for the cops. “We raised questions about the authenticity of the video. The police registered an FIR on May 5, while they claimed that the firing took place on May 1. The sections of the Arms Act were added on May 17, almost 13 days after the registration of the FIR,” said Fatta.All five have claimed that arms and ammunition were attributed only to accused Inderveer Singh Grewal, Shubhdeep Singh (Sidhu) Moosewala and Karam Singh Lehal, while they were facing allegations of helping the three accused.The additional public prosecutor argued that the allegations against the accused were grave in nature and they did not deserve anticipatory bail.June 9 next hearing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/interim-bail-to-five-in-moosewala-case-90834
28-05-2020||---||Complaint against Anushka Sharma for ‘hurting’ sentiments||New Delhi, May 27The Sikh cell of the Delhi BJP has filed a complaint against Bollywood actor Anushka Sharma for allegedly “hurting religious sentiments of Hindus and Sikhs” in the web series “Paatal Lok”, of which she is a producer. Co-convener of the cell, Jaspreet Singh Matta, said a complaint had also been filed with the National Commission for Minorities.“Controversial scenes were shown in some episodes of ‘Paatal Lok’. A Sikh man is shown raping a woman while an ‘amritdhari’ Sikh stays as a mute spectator and in another scene, a ‘Pandit’ is shown cooking meat in a temple and a Hindu consuming it. Several Sikhs reached out to me saying the image of the community had been tarnished by the makers of the series,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/complaint-against-anushka-sharma-for-hurting-sentiments-90835
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab  to seek Rs51K cr package from Centre||Amid mounting economic woes, the state government has decided to seek a fiscal stimulus of Rs 51,102 crore from the Centre. A draft memorandum to this effect was approved on Wednesday by the Cabinet. In addition to direct fiscal stimulus of Rs 21,500 crore, the state government plans to seek waiver of the long-term CCL debt. Additionally, all central schemes should be 100 per cent funded by the Centre in FY 2020-21, reads the draft. According to an official, listing health infrastructure as a key priority in the post-Covid scenario, the state proposes to ask for Rs6,603 crore for improvement of the public health infrastructure from a long-term perspective. This also included sanction for setting up an advanced centre of virology at a cost of Rs650 crore, for which the Punjab Government has already offered land free of charge. To contain the Covid-19 contagion in the rural areas, an assistance of Rs5,068 crore has been sought in the draft memorandum for liquid and solid waste management in the villages. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-seek-rs51k-cr-package-from-centre-90836
28-05-2020||---||33 more test +ve, 16 from Amritsar alone||Chandigarh, May 27After witnessing a dip in the number of new Covid-19 patients, the state again witnessed a spike on Wednesday. At least 33 fresh cases were reported, taking the total number of cases in the state to 2,139.As per the media bulletin, 16 cases were reported from Amritsar, seven from Patiala, two each from Sangrur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran and one each from Gurdaspur Pathankot, Barnala and Ludhiana.Amritsar’s count of positive cases has reached 347. Of the 16 fresh cases reported today, two with ILI (influenza-like illness) were reported at the flu corner. They have no travel or contact history.Of the remaining 14, eight are contacts of a Vijay Nagar patient. Three other patients are contacts of a community spread case from Rani Ka Bagh locality, while one is the contact of Vimal Mehra, who had earlier died of Covid-19.The district health authorities have also reported two positive cases from among the passengers of a domestic flight from Delhi, which had arrived here on Monday.Of seven cases in Patiala, five are close contacts of the already positive patient of Rajpura town. Besides, a pregnant woman was tested positive for Covid-19. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the 30-year-old woman had visited a private hospital where her sample was taken.He said the seventh patient was a 58-year-old woman from Nabha, who had recently returned from Delhi. All seven patients have been shifted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital.Apart from the bulletin, three more persons, an RPF staffer and two patients from Pathankot, were tested positive in Jalandhar.As per the Health Department, samples of 72,468 suspected cases have been sent for testing so far. Of these, 66,417 samples were found negative and reports of 3,912 were awaited.So far, 1,918 patients have been discharged after treatment. Now, there are 148 active cases in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/33-more-test-ve-16-from-amritsar-alone-90837
28-05-2020||Fazilka||Man tries to rape daughter, held||Don’t burden people with power hike: AAPChandigarh: The state unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has said fines imposed on private and government thermal plants in the state for certain violations should not be collected from consumers. State party president Bhagwant Mann said the state government was all set to divert the financial burden on to power consumers in Punjab, which would not be tolerated. It was a double trouble for Punjab and its people, who were already facing the heat of exorbitant power tariff. TNSBail out media industry: PHDCCIChandigarh: The Punjab chapter of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) has submitted a memorandum to CM Capt Amarinder Singh, demanding a special relief package for the media industry. Karan Gilhotra, chairman, Punjab chapter, said radio, TV, print and outdoor media had seen a significant decline in advertising revenue, suffering a setback. He urged the state as well as the Centre to make efforts towards ensuring full utilisation of their annual advertising budget. TNSLarge gathering at wedding, 1 bookedMuktsar: The police have booked a man for allegedly violating the lockdown guidelines for inviting a large gathering to the wedding of his daughter recently. The accused, identified as Roshan Lal of Maur road, oraganised the wedding function at his house. He was booked under Sections 269, 270 and 188 of the IPC. TNS‘Chhabeel’ organised without nodMuktsar: The police have booked two residents of the district’s Khunde Halal village for allegedly organising a “chhabeel” at a gurdwara on the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev without obtaining permission from the authorities. The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh and Sukhdev Singh. They have been booked. TNSVillagers block roadMuktsar: Residents of Rupana village blocked the Muktsar-Malout road, alleging that Civil Supplies Department officials deleted their names from the atta-dal scheme beneficiaries’ list. “We have met the officials several times, but to no avail,” a protester said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-tries-to-rape-daughter-held-90843
