28-06-2020||Patiala||Patiala reports 29 new coronavirus cases; rising cases worry district health authorities||Patiala reported 29 new cases of coronavirus on Sunday---the highest single-day spike reported by the district yet.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said on Sunday that 13 of the new cases were from a huge family of 30 living in Lohand village in Rajpura. Two members of this family were truck drivers who had came from Uttar Pradesh.He said: “We are trying our best to trace the contacts of the positive patients and isolate them---at the earliest---to contain the spread”.Patiala has been steadily reporting a rise in coronavirus cases in June: the district has reported 175 new coronavirus cases---58 per cent of the district’s total count of 300 COVID-19 infections---in this past fortnight alone.Punjab’s official tally, however, puts Patiala’s COVID-19 count at 281.  The district’s spurt in cases in June has been worrying---Patiala had reported only 19 cases in the first week of June, and 20 in the second week. The spike came the week after--- 73 in the third week to 102 cases in the fourth.District authorities said most of the cases reported in these past two weeks were contacts of already diagnosed cases. Another reason for the rise in cases, authorities said was inter-district travel---mainly from Ludhiana and Sangrur. Ludhiana currently has 781 cases---accounting for 14 per cent of Punjab’s total 5,216 cases. Sangrur, meanwhile, has been seeing a spurt in cases of late---the district’s cases have almost doubled in just over a week---from 206 on June 21 to 408 on Sunday, June 28.    A health official who did not want to be named said: “Those who have been found positive are working in districts where there is already a coronavirus outbreak. We need to lock down our district to stem the spread”. The district has five deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-reports-29-new-coronavirus-cases-rising-cases-worry-district-health-authorities-105768
28-06-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Punjab CM recalls Army training days; shares photo from NDA||Chandigarh, June 28Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh recalled his Army training days and shared a photo on his Twitter handle.In the tweet, he said: “Discipline, commitment and utmost dedication are the hallmarks of training at the NDA, Khadakvasla. Defending our country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity at any cost is ingrained in us.”Discipline, commitment & utmost dedication are the hallmarks of training at the NDA, Khadakvasla. Defending our country’s sovereignty & territorial integrity at any cost is ingrained in us. “Service before Self” is our Motto. Sharing a pic as a cadet from my 4th term at the NDA🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/Q4sOdN9JMFChief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said “Service before Self” was the motto of the Army.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-recalls-army-training-days-shares-photo-from-nda-105765
28-06-2020||---||Punjab reports 160 fresh COVID-19 cases, five deaths; total tally 5,216||Chandigarh, June 28Punjab reported 160 new COVID-19 cases and five deaths on Sunday, taking the state caseload to 5,216.With five more deaths, the death toll in the state climbed to 133.Of the 160 cases reported, Sangrur recorded 45 followed by Ludhiana (39), Jalandhar (19), Amritsar (12), eight each in SAS Nagar and Gurdaspur, Patiala (6), four each in Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib, three each in Ferozepur, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur, two each in SBS Nagar and Faridkot, one each in Tarn Taran, Muktsar and Fazilka.The five deaths have been reported from Amritsar, Pathankot, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur.To date, Amritsar has reported the maximum cases at 883 followed by Ludhiana (781), Jalandhar (704), Sangrur (408), Patiala (281), SAS Nagar (250), Gurdaspur (216), Pathankot (209), Tarn Taran (188), Hoshiarpur (174), SBS Nagar (130), Muktsar (127), Fatehgarh Sahib (110), Faridkot (103), Ropar (102), Moga (94), Ferozepur (93), Fazilka (91), Bathinda (89), Kapurthala (89), Barnala (50), Mansa (44).The total number of patients discharged in the state stands at 3,526. So far, samples of 2,89,923 people have been taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-160-fresh-covid-19-cases-five-deaths-total-tally-5-216-105753
28-06-2020||Sangrur||11-year-old girl booked for sacrilege in Sangrur village after some pages in Guru Granth Sahib found damaged||An 11-year-old girl Rampura village in Sangrur has been booked for sacrilege after some pages of the Guru Granth Sahib were found slightly torn at their local gurdwara, police said.Seven pages were found torn on Saturday evening, prompting the gurdwara’s management committee to review footage from the gurdwara’s cameras, leading them to the child.The girl had been visiting the gurdwara for a month, and would clean the gurdwara premises after paying obeisance.Police said footage shows that the child damaged some pages as she was trying to place the rumala, the cloth used to cover the Guru Granth Sahib, over the holy book.Police also said that it could have been an accident.“From the CCTV footage, it seems that she tried to settle Rumala Sahib over Guru Granth Sahib, but unintentionally damaged seven pages,” Sangrur Superintendent of Police Sharnjit Singh saidSenior Superintendent of Police Sandeep Garg said they were still investigating the case.  “We have registered a case under sections 295-A against minor girl,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-year-old-girl-booked-for-sacrilege-in-sangrur-village-after-some-pages-in-guru-granth-sahib-found-damaged-105741
28-06-2020||---||Punjab CM postpones university, college exit exams till July 15||Chandigarh, June 28Responding to the concerns expressed by students and parents on the conduct of examinations in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced the postponement of exams for the final semester students in all universities of the state till July 15, a press release by the state government read.The final decision on the subject will, however, be subject to the new directions/guidelines expected to be released by the University Grants Commission (UGC) any time.Seeking to allay all confusion and uncertainty on this count, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said the postponement till July 15 would also give all stakeholders, especially the universities, time to adapt and align to the new guidelines that will come from the UGC.An official spokesperson said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh felt there was a need to remove confusion from the minds of students, teachers and parents regarding safe conduct of examinations.It may be recalled that universities in the state had taken a decision to conduct exams of the exit classes in the month of July 2020 in accordance with the guidelines issued by the UGC on April 29. The UGC had then announced that it would review the situation again. However, the decision regarding academic activities, especially conduct of examinations, is still awaited from the UGC.The Chief Minister has been repeatedly pointing out that since all universities and colleges in Punjab were accredited/affiliated to the UGC, any decision on the exams could only be taken by the statutory body under the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-postpones-university-college-exit-exams-till-july-15-105728
28-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Capt Amarinder speaks to family of Sepoy killed in Galwan clash; assures job, support||Punjab Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh on Sunday spoke to the brother of Sepoy Gurtej Singh, who was killed in the violent clash with the Chinese Army at Galwan Valley in Ladakh earlier this month.Gurtej is survived by his father, mother and two elder brothers, who live in Birewala Dogra village in Budladha tehsil of Mansa district.Also read: Pall of gloom descends on Mansa village after death of sepoy Gurtej Singh in LadakhSingh expressed his condolences and spoke about the Sepoy’s bravery in the video call, a clip from which he posted on Twitter.“He fought with them all by himself, we have lost a warrior, but you should be proud of him,” said Singh.Spoke to the family of late Sepoy Gurtej Singh of 3 Punjab who displayed remarkable courage & bravery in the Galwan Valley clash with the Chinese. Just 23 years old, Gurtej has immortalized himself by his fearless valour & patriotism. Salute his bravery, Jai Hind! 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/qfBaZFB733The chief minister asked the family if they needed something from the government. After the brother said he wanted a job for himself and his younger brother, Singh responded by taking details of their age and qualifications. Singh assured the family of support and encouraged the brother to contact him if he needed anything.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-speaks-to-family-of-sepoy-killed-in-galwan-clash-assures-job-support-105675
28-06-2020||Washington||US senators seek emergency refugee protection for Afghan Sikhs, Hindus||As many as 20 US senators have urged the Trump administration to grant emergency refugee protection to Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan facing persecution as religious minorities.In a bipartisan letter addressed to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, the senators called on the State Department to prioritise resettlement opportunities under the US Refugee Admissions Program allocation ceilings for Afghan Sikh and Hindu communities.The population of Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan has plummeted markedly due to years of persecution by the Taliban and more recent terrorist actions perpetrated by ISIS Khorasan (ISIS-K), they said.“This administration has repeatedly highlighted protecting religious freedom as a top foreign policy priority,” the senators wrote.“Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan face an existential threat from the ISIS-K because of their religion. To protect religious freedom, we urgently ask that you take these essential steps to defend these threatened religious minorities,” they said in the letter.The letter also calls on Pompeo to offer additional support to members of the Sikh and Hindu communities that choose to remain in Afghanistan, and to ensure that Afghan religious minorities benefit from the US $20.6 million in American aid already provided to address Covid-19. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-senators-seek-emergency-refugee-protection-for-afghan-sikhs-hindus-105632
28-06-2020||Amritsar||Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi to host series of online talks||The Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi is organising a series of creative experiences and talks on theater, music and folk dances online. The series has been curated and conceived by Kewal Dhaliwal, president, Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi, and aims to keep focus on the creative activities that came to a screeching halt due to the lockdown.The series began on June 21 and will run till June 30. It has already featured stalwarts like Bansi Kaul and Surjit Patar addressing the revival of art and cultural activities, while the world tries to adapt to post covid-19 life. “We will now be hosting a session on the Lok Dhadi and other folk traditions of Punjab. This session will feature Navjot Singh Mandair, a researcher and a Dhadi performer, who will give insights into how things have been shaping up for the art form and artists over the years,” informed Dhaliwal.Another session revolves around the discussion of the relevance of Nachar, a folk genre of giddha. “We have been inviting prominent artists and experts to discuss the revival of these folk arts forms. There are many folk art communities who have been severely hit by the lockdown. They need audience, live performances and a stage to earn money and keep their art alive,”said Dhaliwal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sangeet-natak-akademi-to-host-series-of-online-talks-105386
28-06-2020||Jalandhar||Teen ends life over ‘shattered’ foreign dreams||Being unable to fulfill her dreams to settle abroad, a 19-year-old girl hanged herself to death. She was a resident of Lamma Pind and was staying here with her family. The incident was reported on Friday.The police said the girl was in depression due to her studies. She was studying at a private school in Class XII. Her kin said she was quite willing to study abroad.SHO Sullakhan Singh said she committed suicide on Thursday midnight, according to the postmortem report. “Her father Prem Masih said like any normal day, she went to her room after having dinner around 9.30 pm and they had no idea what would happen. However, his daughter was upset for the past several days. She didn’t open the door in the morning when she went to wake her up. They broke open the door only to find her hanging from the ceiling fan. She was then rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared her brought dead,” the SHO said.A case was registered at Rama Mandi police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teen-ends-life-over-shattered-foreign-dreams-105550
28-06-2020||---||Treatment charges to be fixed soon in Punjab: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, June 27Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the decision on extending the lockdown in the state beyond June 30 would depend on the situation, but he was prepared to take whatever steps needed to control the Covid spread.“If we are able to control the spread, there will be no need for a lockdown, but if it goes out of control, we have no choice. The lockdown has been imposed forthe safety of people.”At today’s #AskCaptain edition on Facebook Live, the Chief Minister, while replying to a question on overcharging of Covid patients by private hospitals, said the state government was in the process of fixing the rates. Members of the medical association wanted to meet him to discuss the issue, he said, adding that while he would be meeting them, he would definitely not allow profiteering in the state at the cost of the people’s lives and health in these testing times. He further pointed out that all treatment and medicines for Covid were being provided free of cost in government hospitals. On the cancellation of examinations in universities and colleges, as has already been announced by some states, the Chief Minister said the final decision would be taken within two to three days. The Chief Minister also announced lifting of restrictions of 50 per cent passenger capacity in all buses, but made it clear that masks would have to be worn by all those using public transport.He made the announcement in response to a question by a Haryaoo Khurd resident regarding problems faced in commuting to Patra due to unavailability of buses.On the issue of petrol and diesel price hike, he said the Congress Working Committee had already passed a resolution and it hoped the Central Government would roll back the increase.Date for minibus permits extendedChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced extension of the deadline for applying for minibus permits till July 15. The last date for submitting the applications under the scheme, aimed at breaking the monopoly of the existing bus operators, was June 30. Applications have been invited by the state government for permits covering more than 1,400 rural routes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/treatment-charges-to-be-fixed-soon-in-punjab-capt-amarinder-singh-105439
28-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Drugs, illicit ties led to Tarn Taran killings: Cops||Tarn Taran, June 27TWO OF FAMILY TO BLAMEand family driverHe also killed his two sisters-in-law, suspecting illicit ties with the driverDaljit’s sibling Gurjant, also an addict, then killed the former in a fit of rageHigh on drugs, a 22-year-old youth allegedly killed his father, two sisters-in-law and family driver Gursahib at Kairon village under Patti subdivision on the intervening night of June 24/25, the police said today, unravelling the mystery shrouding the gruesome killings that shook the region.The youth, Daljit Singh, was then killed by his brother, Gurjant Singh, who has been arrested, the police claimed. Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruv Dahiya said a special investigation team constituted to probe the murders had found that the family allegedly was into drug trade and its members would often quarrel over trivial issues. Several criminal cases, including under the NDPS Act, are pending against the family.The SSP said Daljit, under the influence of drugs, started quarrelling with his father, who called Gursahib for his defence. “Daljit killed his father with a sword. Suspicious of his sisters-in-law having illicit ties with the driver, he murdered the trio too,” said the SSP.The police said Daljit went to sleep after committing the crime. Gurjant, who was also high on drugs, allegedly killed Daljit with another sword in a fit of rage.The swords used in the crime have been seized.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drugs-illicit-ties-led-to-tarn-taran-killings-cops-105226
28-06-2020||New Delhi||India rejects Pak offer to reopen corridor||India has turned down on health and technical grounds Pakistan’s offer to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib corridor on June 29 to mark the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. New Delhi rejected the offer within hours on Saturday after Islamabad conveyed its readiness to reopen the corridor.DELHI'S CONTENTIONPak hasn’t built bridge over Ravi for safe journey in monsoonSources here said any such decision would have to be taken in consultation with the health authorities and other stakeholders as cross-border travel had been suspended to contain the virus.India accused Pakistan of being less than sincere in making the offer as Islamabad aired the proposal at a short notice of two days. On the other hand, the bilateral agreement provides for information to be shared by India with the Pakistan side at least seven days before the date of travel. This would need India to open up the registration process well in advance, the sources pointed out. Besides, Pakistan has not built the bridge on their side across the flood plains of Ravi river despite having committed to it in the agreement. With the advent of monsoon, it would need to be evaluated whether safe pilgrim movement was possible through the corridor. The corridor was inaugurated in November last year by Pakistan PM Imran Khan on the eve of Guru Nanak’s 550th birth anniversary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/india-rejects-pak-offer-to-reopen-corridor-105298
28-06-2020||Jalandhar||Assistant tests +ve, Kapurthala MLA ‘safe’||As many as 26 staff members of Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh have been placed under quarantine after his office secretary tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.The MLA was tested and his report turned negative today. Within hours of his testing negative, the MLA was seen attending the launch a de-addiction programme. The health authorities said since he had tested negative, the MLA did not need to be placed under quarantine.Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Dr Jasmeet Bawa said: “The MLA’s 46-year-old assistant has tested positive and the samples of 26 of his office staff (including contacts of the PA) have been taken. The MLA has tested negative, but his staff members have been placed under quarantine as their results are awaited. More tests of staff members shall also be done tomorrow.” Dr Sandeep Bhola, incharge, Drug De-addiction Centre, Kapurthala, said: “The MLA attended the DOVE (Drug Overdose Education and Management) project launch today. The programme, slated to be held yesterday, was delayed by a day to facilitate the MLA’s visit. It was postponed since his test report was awaited.”Rana Gurjit said: “My office secretary has tested positive as he was doing ‘sewa’. I attended an event today after my report came negative. I want to motivate frontline warriors.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/assistant-tests-ve-kapurthala-mla-safe-105445
28-06-2020||---||Seven more succumb; count crosses 5,000||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 27The state crossed the 5,000 mark of Covid positive cases, with 100 fresh cases being reported on Saturday. Health officials said the source of 14 positive cases was from outside the state.Topping the list of total seven casualties in the state, Sangrur reported three deaths, followed by two deaths in Amritsar and one each in Jalandhar and Bathinda. This takes the total deaths due to the pandemic in the state to 128 so far.In the medical bulletin released on Saturday, the Health Department said the total patients tested positive stood at 5,056. One patient was put on ventilator support.Till date, the total of patients on oxygen support are 22 and those in a critical condition are seven. Sangrur and Amritsar continue to top the list with 19 new cases being reported from each district. Jalandhar and Ludhiana followed with 17 cases and 13 cases, respectively.With three more deaths in Malerkotla, the death toll has increased to 10 there, while in Sangrur district, 12 Covid-19 patients have lost their lives till date. As per information, the three deceased, who lost lives during the past 24 hours, include a 55-year-old woman from Malerkotla. She was also suffering from diabetes mellitus, hypertension, LVF, hypothyroidism and morbid obesity. She had been admitted at a private hospital in Ludhiana since June 24. The woman was put on a ventilator on June 25 and died of cardiac arrest on June 26. The second patient was also from Malerkotla city and had been under treatment at a Ludhiana hospital, but died last night. The third patient was admitted to a Ludhiana hospital on June 22, but he died last night due to Covid-related complications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seven-more-succumb-count-crosses-5-000-105446
28-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Doctor who complained of poor hygiene booked||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, June 27Exposing the “wrongdoings” at the Covid care centre, Ghabdan, has cost dearly to a patient as the Health Department authorities have got registered an FIR against him. The registration of the FIR has invited the ire of Opposition parties.On Friday morning, a homoeopathy doctor had refused to take breakfast after he allegedly spotted a dead fly in the food. He shot a video of the incident and uploaded it on the social media. Apart from it, he had also highlighted the lack of hygiene at the centre and non-functional AC of his room. “I am a doctor and there is a dead fly in my breakfast. I had immediately informed the staff concerned, but have not received any fresh breakfast as yet. I request the Chief Minister to look into the matter,” he had stated in his video. In the FIR registered under Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act at the Sangrur Sadar police station, the care centre authorities have alleged that the doctor was spreading misinformation and harassing the staff.“It’s a violation of fundamental rights. The doctor laid bare the shortcomings of the centre with evidence. It is unacceptable,” said Winnerjit Singh Goldy, spokesperson of the Shiromani Akali Dal. “It’s an open secret that Covid patients are staying without basic amenities. The administration must withdraw the FIR,” said Harpal Cheema, Leader of the Opposition. ASI Balwinder Singh confirmed the registration of the FIR and said they would conduct further investigations after the patient was treated at the centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctor-who-complained-of-poor-hygiene-booked-105448
28-06-2020||Bathinda||AIIMS-Bathinda gets new director||Prof Dinesh Kumar Singh has joined as the Executive Director and CEO of AIIMS, Bathinda. Earlier, he was heading the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi.Prof Dinesh is an alumnus of Magadh University and he did MD in anaesthesiology from Allahabad University in 1985. He has acted in the capacity of Officer on Special Duty for establishing India’s biggest trauma centre under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aiims-bathinda-gets-new-director-105449
28-06-2020||Muktsar||Three-day lockdown in Gidderbaha||After 11 persons, including eight of a family, tested positive for Covid in Gidderbaha town, the District Magistrate has imposed a lockdown for three days in the town.A local businessman tested positive on Tuesday. Later, seven of his family members, two employees and a friend also tested positive. However, none of them has reported any travel history to the administration.Thus, it created panic among locals and district administration of community spread in the town. So a decision was taken to impose a lockdown, said a source in the district administration.Meanwhile, the lockdown, scheduled to begin from Saturday morning, was imposed from Friday afternoon. All shops, except medical stores, hospitals and liquor vends, remained shut today.MK Aravind Kumar, District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner, Muktsar, has directed the Health Department to further increase the pace of sampling and spread awareness among people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-day-lockdown-in-gidderbaha-105450
28-06-2020||---||Support govt in farmers’ interest, Capt Amarinder Singh tells Akalis||Chandigarh, June 27Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday asked the SAD to put aside its political compulsions and follow its heart in the interest of the state and its farmers on the issue of farm sector ordinances of the Central Government. Capt Amarinder Singh, CM‘Back resolution’Instead of backtracking on his party’s support to two of the three points, Sukhbir should come out in full and categorical support of the entire resolution.Recalling that he had made the same plea to the Akalis during the all-party meeting, the Chief Minister lamented that the SAD was not realising the grave implication of these ordinances and was putting its political interests before that of the state.Instead of backtracking on his party’s support to two of the three points of the resolution adopted at the all-party meeting, Sukhbir should, in fact, come out in full and categorical support of the entire resolution, he said.He said during his first tenure as the Chief Minister, he had abrogated the water agreements with neighbouring states to save Punjab’s water from being taken out via the proposed SYL canal. Not only had he gone against his own party on the issue, he had also put his entire career at stake with this move, he recalled, adding that “Punjab’s interests are paramount for him, as they should be for the Akalis too.”Pointing out that the three ordinances in question were based on the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee, which had advocated ending the MSP regime and dismantling the FCI, the Chief Minister said if the ordinances were allowed to be enacted, the Centre would get the green signal to interfere in the state subject of agriculture for all times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/support-govt-in-farmers-interest-capt-amarinder-singh-tells-akalis-105451
28-06-2020||---||MSP regime to stay, says Union Minister||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 27The Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar today said the Central Government aimed to ensure doubling of farmers’ income.He said the three ordinances, which were recently brought by the government, did not have any provision of ending the minimum support price (MSP) system of crops.Tomar was speaking at a virtual rally organised by the BJP’s state unit to highlight the policies of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government among the masses. The minister said grain markets would work as usual and the government was committed to procure every grain from farmers.Accusing the Congress of misleading farmers, he said these ordinances had given the right to agriculturists to sell their produce on their desired rates. He said farmers were not able to do international trade and traders were minting money by selling the produce in global markets. Terming the ordinances as the “biggest reform”, he said no tax would be levied on selling the produce outside the markets, which would enhance the income of farmers. He said a businessman could also sign a contract with farmers regarding the crop MSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/msp-regime-to-stay-says-union-minister-105453
28-06-2020||Chandigarh||AAP in cahoots with Congress: SAD||The SAD today accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and its convener Bhagwant Mann of betraying the interests of Punjabis by “colluding” with the Congress.In a statement here, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said even at a time when the state was going through a crisis, AAP was playing to the tune of the Congress. “It seems Bhagwant Mann has forgotten that it is the Congress, and not the SAD, which is in power in the state,” he said. Dr Cheema said this open collusion was visible at the recent all-party meeting in which Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh asserted that AAP was in agreement with the government viewpoint on the Centre’s ordinances even before Mann gave his views on the subject. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-in-cahoots-with-congress-sad-105454
28-06-2020||---||Locked inside car, 3 children die in Ropar||Tribune News ServiceRopar, June 27Three girls reportedly suffocated to death while they bolted themselves in a car parked in their locality at Chamkaur Sahib, near here.The bodies of the victims, identified as Gudia and Asha both five years old and Sweety (3), were found lying in the car this evening. Their parents, who work as labourers, were not at home when the girls went missing around 2.30 pm yesterday.Suffocated to deathAjinder Singh, SP, said the victims’ parents initially tried to search the girls with the help of neighbours and informed the police around 8 pm. The police gathered the CCTV footage from nearby areas, but found nothing, he said.“We launched the search again in the morning and finally found the bodies in the car around 5.30 pm,” he said.He said the car owner told them that a door of the vehicle was faulty. He said preliminary probe suggested that the children entered the car while playing and later could not get out and suffocated to death due to scorching heat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/locked-inside-car-3-children-die-in-ropar-105456
28-06-2020||Balwant Garg||SIT seeks transfer of police firing cases from CJM court||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 27The special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police, probing the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing cases of October 2015, on Friday sought from the District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, to not entrust any part of the cases to the district Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) court, citing the close family links of the judicial officer with the family of former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal.The Badals have already been arraigned in the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents, so as per the guiding principles of natural justice, no one should be a judge in his own cause to maintain the independence and impartiality of judicial institutions, wrote Kunwar Vijay Pratap, IGP and a member of the SIT, in a letter to the Sessions Judge.Taking cognisance of the letter, the District and Sessions Judge wrote to the judicial officer to send his comments on the SIT’s application on June 29. The IGP further wrote both cases were neither mutually exclusive nor completely similar, but were inter-related in nature and scope.Arraigning political persons in any case didn’t mean that the investigation was politically motivated. As it is the settled law that the investigation of a case was carried out as per the principles and provisions of the CrPC, the IGP wrote.‘No one should be judge in his own cause’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-seeks-transfer-of-police-firing-cases-from-cjm-court-105457
28-06-2020||Faridkot||Promised double returns,  former DSP loses Rs 16 lakh||A Kotkapura-based retired DSP of the Punjab Police has lost Rs 16 lakh to an age-old con trick called ‘doubling’. DSP (retd) Darshan Singh fell prey to the trap days after he got his retirement benefits.As per a complaint filed with the police, after his retirement from service in 2018, he got an offer that promised doubling return in three months.Darshan Singh, DSP (retd)Fraud firmI had invested the money on the suggestion of a family friend. He had convinced me that the company was earning huge profitsAfter investing Rs 16 lakh of his retirement benefits, the DSP also made his two aides invest Rs 7.50 lakh in the company, named Hum Tum India Ltd, a multi-trade company based in Ludhiana.A case under Sections 409 and 420 of the IPC has been registered against Jaswinder Singh, MD of the company. He is yet to be arrested.The former DSP said he had invested the money on the suggestion of a family friend, Bohar Singh. “He had convinced me that the company was earning huge profits by selling domestic items on loan to middle-class families,” he said. He claimed that he had invested the amount through four cheques and Rs 2 lakh in cash. He said many residents of Faridkot had invested over Rs 1.5 crore in the company. “We will probe the case thoroughly,” said a senior police officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/promised-double-returns-former-dsp-loses-rs-16-lakh-105458
28-06-2020||---||College teachers threaten to boycott exams, write to CM||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 27Even as Guru Nanak Dev University is geared up to hold written examination for students of the final year UG and PG courses in its colleges from July 1, the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union today announced to boycott examination duties.The teachers said they had been requesting the GNDU authorities to review the decision since the declaration of date sheet on May 14 in view of the stance of the UGC/MHRD to issue fresh guidelines on the matter in July, the university authorities have not conceded to their demand. The teachers led by Prof Sukhdev S Randhawa, general secretary, PCCTU, in an open letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh have told him that his decision to wait for UGC/MHRD guidelines on examination matters too had been violated by the university officials. In preparation for the examination, the GNDU had this week issued roll numbers of students to the colleges.Prof Randhawa said, “While all the universities of the state, including private ones, are waiting for fresh UGC/MHRD guidelines, why is the GNDU going ahead with exams?”Prof P Vinay Sofat, GNDU area secretary, PCCTU, alleged that the GNDU officials were creating panic and confusion among students and teachers.Controller of examination, GNDU, Dr Manoj Kumar said, “I have no information regarding teachers’ decision to boycott the examination. The UGC had earlier issued guidelines of starting examination from July 1 and we are awaiting further orders. We are in touch with the UGC.” He clarified that till the time inter-state travel was not eased, there was no need for them to travel to colleges and appear for examination. “We will hold their exams later,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/college-teachers-threaten-to-boycott-exams-write-to-cm-105459
28-06-2020||---||Three arrested with 6.5K litres alcohol||Our CorrespondentPhagwara, June 27The police have arrested three persons and confiscated 6,445 liters of alcohol from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Nishan Singh of Bharowal, Sarwan Singh and Uttam Singh, both residents of Goindwal Sahib in Tarn Taran.Tip-off led to seizureSenior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said the police had received a tip-off that Nishan was ferrying a huge quantity of alcohol in a canter.He said a police team intercepted the canter near Hanumant School and seized 17 drums and 72 cans of alcohol (5,920 litres).A case under Sections 61/78-1-14 of the Excise Act and 177/181/192 of the Motor Vehicle Act has been registered against Nishan.In another incident, the police had laid a naka on Chachrari highway and stopped an SUV. During the inspection of the vehicle, cops seized 15 cans of alcohol (525 litres).The police arrested both occupants of the car. A case has been registered against Sarwan and Uttam under Sections 61/78-1-14 of the Excise Act, 177/181/192 and the Motor Vehicle Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-arrested-with-6-5k-litres-alcohol-105460
28-06-2020||---||Soldier who died in Ladakh buried||Patiala, June 27A pall of gloom descended on Mardaheri, the native village of Lance Naik Saleem Khan, when his body reached here on Saturday evening.Friends and relatives rushed to his house and consoled the bereaved family. Slogans like ‘shaheed amar rahe’ and ‘Bharat mata ki jai’ were raised as the body of Lance Naik Saleem Khan, wrapped in a Tricolour, reached his house. Villagers, especially children, showered petals on the military vehicle in which the mortal remains of the soldier were brought. Khan, 24, who belonged to the 58 Engineer Regiment, died in Ladakh on Friday in a military exercise.He was about to come home this week. The family was planning his marriage. They had got a phone call from him a few days ago where the soldier told them that he would come home next week. Unfortunately, that was not to be. His mother Naseema Begum was inconsolable.Khan was the sole breadwinner of the family after his father, who also served the Army, died many years ago. The 24-year-old had joined the Army in 2014. He was buried with full military honours at his village. He is survived by his mother, elder brother and a sister.Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and SAD MLA Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra paid tributes to the Army man along with officials of the Army, police and district administration.Chandigarh: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh along with a government job to a family member of Lance Naik Saleem Khan, who laid down his life in the line of duty in Ladakh. Extending his sympathies, the Chief Minister said the state government would provide all help and support to the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soldier-who-died-in-ladakh-buried-105461
28-06-2020||New Delhi||3 Khalistani sympathisers arrested||The Delhi Police have arrested three suspected sympathisers of the Khalistan movement. They were allegedly planning targeted killings in various northern states, officials said today.The accused have been identified as Mohinder Pal Singh (29) of Delhi, Gurtej Singh (41) of Punjab, and Lovepreet (21) of Haryana.Three pistols and seven live cartridges were recovered from their possession. Three phones with many “incriminating” videos and photographs related to the Khalistan movement were also recovered from them, a senior police officer said.The arrested persons have disclosed their links with Khalistan Liberation Force leaders settled abroad and revealed their plans to commit targeted killings on instructions from a Khalistani militant sponsored by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence, the police said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-khalistani-sympathisers-arrested-105462
28-06-2020||Moga||Two held with intoxicants||The police have arrested two drug smugglers and recovered 22,500 intoxicating pills from them.Sooraj Singh and Jaswinder Singh, both residents of Moga city, were going on their motorcycle when the police intercepted them late last night. During search, 22,500 intoxicating pills were recovered from them. They were likely to supply these pills to local customers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-held-with-intoxicants-105463
28-06-2020||Allotment of regiments on commissioning is a factor of mainly chance. Only those in the top 20 get their choices or some with parental claim (father either CO or Subedar Major). The rest opt for a regiment someone close is serving in||My Sikh Regiment ways||Each regiment has its ethos and way of functioning. Since the troops are of a specific class composition or from a specific area, their habits are also similar. Let me take you through my (Sikh) regiment. I will start with a tall claim. All Army officers have a secret desire — to have Sikh troops under their command. This is because of their special ability to achieve whatever task is allotted. No means, fair or foul, are a hindrance. There is a challenge too: they require firm handling.Sikhs are large-hearted, earthy, fond of all good things in life and have both anger and humour in large measure. Deeply religious, he will recite the path daily. He is definitely not meticulous, nor cautious, but is brave to the point of being foolhardy. In Sri Lanka, once a regimental unit patrol found Prabhakaran’s parked car. Fearing it was booby-trapped, while the officer was radioing for a bomb disposal team, the NCO smashed the windshield and searched the car!Cuss words are part of the vocabulary. The jawans are tremendously fit, lean and wiry when they join the unit. As they grow in service, there is a tendency to add girth; the present generation is much more health conscious though. But don’t let that flab fool you, he can still complete the mandatory runs in excellent time, climb the rope like a monkey and with a pack on his back, move up mountains with surprising agility.In my regiment, there is a dangerous phrase — ‘mada jaya’ or ‘madi jayi’ (a little bit). Nothing is more ominous than hearing this phrase while taking the day’s report from your subordinate! It could be used to describe anything from a twisted ankle, to a fistfight, a soldier running away with a weapon, to a truck going down the gorge!‘Saab, mada jaya eh ho gaya’ (sir, a little incident has happened)! Another word which deserves caution is ‘appan’ — we both! ‘Appan eddan kar lende han’ — let’s do it this way! Having involved you and thus assumed your approval, the subordinate may just drop a bomb across the LoC. And since he has taken you into confidence, the blame of the result rests with you!Tadka is another regimental custom. No matter how well the langar dal is cooked, it has to be given a special tadka. Some of the troops’ habits can frustrate any CO. My best efforts to provide them with thaalis (with separate segments) came to naught as they would prefer eating out of a steel bowl, into which would go all (dal, subzi, dahi).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/my-sikh-regiment-ways-105428
28-06-2020||Since everybody is talking about racism after the recent killing of an African-American by the police in the US||Lord Willingdon, Maharaja Bhupinder & iconic Bombay club||Freeman Thomas came from an upper-class English family, went to the famous Eton College (actually a school) and captained its cricket team. He got admission to Trinity College, Cambridge University (where India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru also went), and played cricket for the university as well as for Sussex county. He then joined the army and reached the rank of Major. He married the daughter of a Baron and served as his ADC when he was the Governor of Victoria, Australia. On his return from Australia, he left the army and joined the Liberal Party, won two elections to the House of Commons and was appointed as a Junior Lord of the Treasury in the British Cabinet.In 1910, he was elevated to the peerage as Baron Willingdon of Hatton, and in February 1913, he was appointed “Crown Governor of Bombay”. Bombay province then included present-day Maharashtra, much of Gujarat and Karnataka, and part of Sindh (now in Pakistan) as well. On the ship that took him to Bombay, he met and became friends with the Maharaja of Patiala, Bhupinder Singh (grandfather of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh).Bhupinder had became the Maharaja at the tender age of nine and remained on the throne till he died in 1938, still relatively young, not from any malady, but according to one account, “from boredom”. He had led a life of unbelievable opulence. His motorcade consisted of 20 Rolls Royce cars and he was the first Indian to own an aircraft, which he bought from the UK (he even built an airfield in Patiala for it). But he was extremely loyal to the British Empire (he was conferred a knighthood) and was the Indian representative at the Imperial War Council during World War I. He also represented the Sikhs at the Round Table Conference.How much Lord Willingdon knew of the Maharaja’s colourful background is not known but both men clearly got on well. On embarking, he invited the Maharaja as his guest to the Royal Bombay Yacht Club, which faces the Gateway of India. Lord Willingdon was the club’s patron. They were both formally dressed, as per the club’s requirement, and the Maharaja may have adorned his turban with a jewel or two.At the entrance to the club, the doorman discreetly took Lord Willingdon aside and said to him, “No natives allowed, sir.” An astonished Lord Willingdon responded, “Do you know who I am?” “I do sir,” was the reply, “but those are our rules.” Infuriated, Lord Willingdon ordered him to summon the club secretary, who duly came to the entrance. “I am the new Governor of Bombay, and the Maharaja of Patiala is my guest, and we would like to dine here,” he informed the very visibly embarrassed secretary, who could only say weakly, “Sir, I am afraid there is nothing I can do but the club rules do not allow any natives to enter.”I am paraphrasing the incident, but that is essentially what happened. Lord Willingdon decided to do something about it. A large plot of land, near the iconic Haji Ali Dargah and alongside the present-day Racing Club, was acquired to build a club, with a swimming pool, tennis, badminton and squash courts, large enough additional space for several restaurants, bars, cards-room — and an 18-hole golf course! Britons and Indians could be members, the first club in the country to give membership to Indians. It became the premier club of Bombay, and remains so.Incidentally, a few years later, the Maharaja of Patiala, a sports aficionado, perhaps smarting from the denial of entry to the snooty Yacht Club, founded the Cricket Club of India (CCI), not too far away, with a stadium that could hold international matches. I should add here that Lord Willingdon was the first important Britisher to formally invite Mahatma Gandhi to a meeting at Bombay’s Government House, on his arrival from South Africa. In 1919, Lord Willingdon became Governor of Madras and in 1924, he was elevated to the title of Viscount Willingdon. In 1926, he was appointed Governor-General of Canada and in 1932, he reached the apogee of his splendid career when he became Viceroy and Governor-General of India, the virtual ruler of the Indian subcontinent.Shashi Tharoor has been denigrating the record of British rule in India. Yes, imperialism was certainly exploitative and racist, yet of all the main colonial powers — Spain, Portugal, France and Holland — the British were the least bad, if I can put it that way. They, at least, had men like Lord Willingdon, an aristocrat but a liberal at heart who had no animosity against Indians.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lord-willingdon-maharaja-bhupinder-iconic-bombay-club-105429
