28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab makes 21-day isolation must for returnees||Even as he hinted at certain curfew relaxations, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, on Tuesday, announced a compulsory 21-day quarantine for all those returning to the state to check the spread of Covid-19.Pilgrims returning from Nanded, students and labourers coming from Rajasthan, would be stopped at the border and sent to government quarantine centres to ensure that they didn’t physically come in contact with others for 21 days, said the Chief Minister.Radha Soami Satsang centres would also be used to quarantine people whose return was being facilitated by his government for the past three days, he added.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also indicated that the government could go for certain relaxations, while taking all precautions, based on the report of an expert committee set up to formulate Punjab’s Covid-19 curfew-exit strategy.The Chief Minister also discussed the Covid-19 crisis, lockdown and wheat procurement proces with Congress legislators through video-conferencing. He urged legislators to set an example by taking all precautions while executing their public responsibilities.State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar also attended the meeting along with representatives from various Assembly constituencies.On a request from Uttar Pradesh to send back migrant labourers after quarantining them in Punjab, the Chief Minister said he would convey to his counterpart that this had to be done by the government.Singh said his government would make all efforts to retain and take care of migrant labourers, whose return was now being facilitated by various states. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-makes-21-day-isolation-must-for-returnees-77574
28-04-2020||Patiala||In coronavirus lockdown, Punjab health department starts online OPD services||Amid the coronavirus lockdown, the state health department has already started free online medical consultation and extend specialised healthcare services for the people.This service — E-Sanjeevani–Online OPD (Doctor to Patient), integrated telemedicine solution — will be available to everyone, including in rural areas and any isolated community pockets.The said online service is said to have been developed by C-DAC Mohali.Significantly, patients will be able to connect onto the online OPD through video conferencing.Therein a network of specialist doctors will give you medical treatment and advice for common health-related concerns while patients sit at home. Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said there was a degree of unease among the citizens owing to the difficulty in reaching to doctors, in non-emergency cases, amid the lockdown.He said that this E-Sanjeevani OPD will help all sections of the society to ensure access to the quality medical advice and treatment amidst the COVID-19 pandemic curfew.To provide the free online medical consultations, initially a team of three-four doctors of the state health department will be available from Monday to Saturday (10:00 am to 1:00 pm). This facility will be a great help to the sick who are feeling uncomfortable about visiting hospitals in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.He said, “The government has undertaken a citizen-centric initiative to ensure uninterrupted health services to the public in the wake of this unprecedented time. E-Sanjeevani–Online OPD (Doctor to Patient), integrated telemedicine solution, is developed by C-DAC Mohali.”He added that to keep the operations smooth at the district level, Department of Governance Reforms and Public Grievances has already deputed District Technical Coordinators (DTCs) or District e-Governance Coordinators (DeGCs). The coordinators from each district would assist the teams of doctors at the district level, added the civil surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-coronavirus-lockdown-punjab-health-department-starts-online-opd-services-77559
28-04-2020||New Delhi||Despite Covid-19, Centre focuses on 400 LMT of wheat procurement for season; Punjab and Haryana top contributors||According to the Centre, the procurement of wheat is progressing at a very fast pace in all States and the country is expected to achieve the target of 400 Lakh Million Tonnes for the season despite the Covid-19 crisis.As much as 88.61 LMT wheat has already been procured for the Central pool till Sunday of which major contributors have been Punjab (48.27 LMT) followed by Haryana (19.07 LMT), says the government.Though according to experts the bigger question could be whether the farmers in the grain bowl States can reap the benefits of a bumper due to the prevailing situation and also the weather conditions.Agriculture expert Sudhir Panwar says the FCI is procuring but the private players are not taking the risk and quite a big number is missing from the markets.Besides, while yield per acre has also been less in some parts of Punjab, Haryana and Western UP due to unseasonal rains and hailstorms this year, the recent rains may have caused further damage by adding to the grain moisture content that may surpass the FCI limits.“Quality of grading may be affected. The effect of the latest rains will start showing in the next five/six days,” says Panwar.Though according to the Centre, every effort is being made to ensure farmers are not put to any kind of distress and going by the present pace, the target of 400 LMT for the season is likely to be achieved.Considering the looming threat of the spread of Covid-19, procurement is being undertaken with all precautions and ensuring social distancing in the mandis.Continuing the healthy pace of dispatch of food grains from surplus to consuming regions, Food Corporation of India (FCI) crossed the 2000 number in terms of trainloads dispatched during lockdown period, said officials.On Monday, as many as 2,087 of trainloads carrying about 58.44 Lakh MT were dispatched to meet requirements of food grains under various Central schemes.Unloading of 1,909 rakes carrying 53.47 LMT stocks was also done during this period, despite severe constraints posed due to declaration of hotspots and containment zones in many of the key unloading centres in consuming states, they added.It is expected that with a gradual easing of restrictions by central and state governments, the pace of unloading will be enhanced further in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-covid-19-centre-focuses-on-400-lmt-of-wheat-procurement-for-season-punjab-and-haryana-top-contributors-77515
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 14 new coronavirus cases, state tally stands at 344||Punjab on Tuesday reported 14 new coronavirus cases, taking the state's case tally to 344.Jalandhar reported seven new coronavirus cases, taking the district's tally to 85. All those who tested positive were contacts of already known cases, the state's health bulletin saidMohali district reported two more coronavirus cases, taking the case tally in the district to 65. Both cases came from Dera Bassi's Jawaharpur village---a place that authorities sealed off earlier this month for being a hotspot.  Tarn Taran reported two new cases, taking the district tally to 7.One case was reported from Garhshankar in Hoshiarpur, taking the district's tally to seven.Both Tarn Taran and Hoshiarpur cases are new cases---the Punjab government's health bulletin describes these as ones whose source of infection were likely from outside Punjab.SBS Nagar reported two new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 22.The district, which formerly went by the name Nawanshahr, was the first district in the state to report a coronavirus and was considered a hotspor, but went without reporting a new infection for almost a month. That spell however was broken three days ago when the district reported its first case in 28 days.Twenty of Punjab's 22 districts have reported Covid-19 cases so far. Bathinda and Fazilka are the only two districts in the state that have not reported any coronavirus cases so far.Jalandhar is the district with the highest number of cases in Punjab, followed by Mohali. Patiala has the third highest number of cases at 61. Punjab has so far recorded 19 deaths. Suspected COVID-19 patient dies in PatialaA 24-year-old woman from Barnala district, who was suspected of having coronavirus, died at the isolation ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala on Tuesday. She was referred to the hospital on Monday evening. Hospital authorities said that her sample was collected yesterday but her test results were awaited.Meanwhile, a policeman from Ferozepur who became the district’s first coronavirus case tested negative on Tuesday. A video of the policeman doing rigorous exercises while in the isolation ward of Ferozepur Civil Hospital went viral recently.This development means that Ferozepur has no Covid-19 cases currently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-14-new-coronavirus-cases-state-tally-stands-at-344-77495
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Toys, board games, cartoons keep children with Covid-19 busy in hospital isolation wards in Punjab, Chandigarh||With children infected by Covid-19 feeling anxious as they adjust to isolation wards and PPE-clad doctors, health authorities in Punjab and Chandigarh look to keep them occupied with board games, cartoons and regular counselling.At the Jalandhar civil hospital, two sisters who tested positive for Covid-19 have been given toys and a carom board to keep them busy, while at the PGI in Chandigarh, children infected with the virus are kept engaged with cartoons on TV and drawing sessions.Keeping these children busy in isolation wards is proving to be a challenge in itself for the health authorities."We have given them carom board and Ludo to play in order to make them comfortable," said Jalandhar Senior Medical Officer Kashmiri Lal.A television set has also been installed in the ward, he added.Lal said the two sisters, aged six and seven, tested positive after their grandfather contracted the disease."Our psychiatrists also counsel them regularly so they feel at ease," he added.Psychiatrists said convincing parents to being their children to the hospital is one of the biggest challenges."The biggest problem is to convince them to bring the kids here as they are not ready to come," said Assistant Professor, Department of Psychiatry, PGI, Swapanjit Sahu.Once they reach the hospital and are admitted to the isolation ward, they often get scared as they have never experienced an environment like that before, Sahu added.The children see doctors in PPE kits which they have never seen before and then start crying, he further said."We talk to them through video-conferencing to counsel them so their anxiety level goes down."We try to tell them that their parents are fine and they will be at the hospital for only some time," Sahu told PTI.Coronavirus positive children at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh have at least one of their family members also infected with the virus admitted for treatment, officials at the facility said.Children are also given digital copies of comics on WhatsApp, said Sahu."They even watch (cartoons) 'Motu patlu', 'Mowgli' on YouTube. Even crayons are given for drawing. We try to keep them busy," he said, adding that it helps them develop a bond with the children so they do not create any problem during sampling.The children also get to talk to their family members through video-conferencing to make them more comfortable."We play musical rhymes on Youtube and give them pen and paper to scribble," Sahu added.Currently, four COVID-19 positive children – a one-month-old, a six-month-old, a one-and-a-half-year old and an eight-year-old – are admitted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. All of them are asymptomatic.On Sunday, an 11-month-old baby girl, along with her mother, was discharged from the PGI after they were fully cured of the infection."Though both mother and daughter were stable physically but psychologically, it was a very stressful experience to stay isolated."The mother reported significant distress during her stay at the ward and was consistently counselled through video-conferencing to address her anxiety and anger. Despite testing negative, she had to stay for a long period of time as her baby had tested positive," said Sahu. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/toys-board-games-cartoons-keep-children-with-covid-19-busy-in-hospital-isolation-wards-in-punjab-chandigarh-77481
28-04-2020||Mohali||Two more coronavirus cases take Mohali’s count to 65||Two people tested positive for coronavirus in Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur, a development that breaks a two-week lull in the village that had until a few weeks ago been a place that set off alarm bells across the state.Two men aged 47 and 60 tested positive on Tuesday, officials said. One of the two was a relative of a sarpanch who tested positive a few days ago. Both had previously tested negative and had been asymptomatic.Officials said they have been moved to an isolation ward at Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said health authorities were tracing contacts and taking swab samples of people who may have met the two patients.“Containment protocol is being strictly followed in the village Jawaharpur and the adjoining villages. Sanitisation is also being done at regular intervals,” Dayalan said.The village reported its first coronavirus case on April 4, when a panch tested positive. Since then, some 38 people have followed suit, leading to the village becoming a major hotspot. Testing was ramped up in the village and authorities tightened restrictions as part of its cluster containment strategy.The authorities say the infection may have spread through some members of the Tablighi Jamaat sect who they say were suspected to have stayed in the village for a time. They left before anyone could find out more, officials say.The development takes Mohali’s cases to 65, with Jawaharpur alone accounting for a major chunk of these with 39 cases. The district now has 35 active cases.Twenty-seven people have so far been declared cured, and authorities are awaiting results for seven cases.Mohali has reported two deaths so far from the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-more-coronavirus-cases-take-mohalis-count-to-65-77471
28-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Fond of reading books, Vice-Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev varsity working from home||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 27At a time when educational institutes are closed down due to Covid-19, Vice-Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu has been working from home.“The GNDU is one of the prominent institutions of the region. Therefore, it is important to continue to look after its day-to-day affairs. There are several issues that need attention. Therefore, I have been working from home. Recently, we have released an admission notice for academic year 2020-21,” said Dr Sandhu. He added that the university was the first educational institute to issue the admission notice for the next academic year.I love reading and I have been spending considerable time with books. During my student days, I used to have hundreds of collection of books. But the hobby was left behind due to the busy life. In the lockdown, I have been clearing my backlog of books. At present, I have been reading DIwan based on the life of Sir Salar JungDr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University“After that, conducting examinations whenever the university starts functioning properly is the next target. On regular intervals, I hold meetings with the Register and the Dean (academic affairs) to discuss the issues of the university,” he said.Besides his academic achievements, Dr Sandhu is also known for his love for plants. He has a collection of cacti prominently Euphorbia milii plants. “This is what I like most apart from reading. I have around 30 different varieties of Euphorbia milii. Every day, I make a round of the university and enjoy the colours of nature. This does not only bring us closer to the nature but also gives us hope to move forward,” the Vice-Chancellor added."While taking a round of the sprawling green campus, I also click pictures on my mobile phone. It leaves me amazed when I see beautiful flowers. I have planted two rare varieties of passiflora also known as passion flowers or passion vine - one at my home and another outside my office on the campus. They have bloomed around two years after the plantation and these are so beautiful and eye catchy,” Dr Sandhu said.He said the curfew restrictions imposed to stop the spread of coronavirus have given them an opportunity to be with family members and live their moments.“I love reading and I have been spending considerable time with books. During my student days, I used to have hundreds of collection of books. But the hobby was left behind due to the busy life. In the lockdown, I have been clearing my backlog of books. At present, I have been reading DIwan based on the life of Sir Salar Jung I,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fond-of-reading-books-vice-chancellor-of-guru-nanak-dev-varsity-working-from-home-77452
28-04-2020||---||Punjab panel for graded opening of units||Chandigarh, April 27Key SuggestionsFree LPG may be provided to BPL families and labourers for three monthsA 20-member expert committee on formulating lockdown exit strategy for Punjab today recommended allowing operations of all industrial and commercial units situated outside containment zones, but in a graded manner.It said once easing of curbs started after May 3, industrial and commercial units situated outside containment zones should be able to start working from May 15. Containment zones being a dynamic issue, real-time monitoring of the situation was crucial, it added.In its final report, the committee headed by former Punjab Chief Secretary KR Lakhanpal has recommended graded lifting of restrictions for various sectors, including commerce, health care, industry, transportation, travel and tourism, while adopting measures to contain sudden spurt in cases.Flagging the issue of 14.5 lakh micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) that employed 24.8 lakh persons in the state, the committee advocated a push for labour-intensive MSMEs by opening up industries allowed by the MHA vide its April 15 guidelines.It said the order to allow construction activity should cover the entire supply line, including shops supplying hardware, paint, cement, iron and steel. In containment zones, the committee stressed the need to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-panel-for-graded-opening-of-units-77306
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Manmohan Singh to guide group for post-coronavirus revival strategy for Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said former prime minister Manmohan Singh has accepted his request for guiding a group of experts formed to come out with a post-COVID-19 revival strategy for the state.  “I had written to Dr Manmohan Singh Ji to guide us along with the group of experts headed by Montek Singh Ahluwalia & I am grateful to him for accepting. We have been working hard to steer Punjab to the path of economic growth & post Covid-19 we will again focus on same,” he tweeted.On April 25, the state government had constituted the group of experts, headed by noted economist and former deputy chairman of Planning Commission, Montek Singh Ahluwalia to revive the state’s economy.The group which includes leading economic and industry experts shall recommend to the Punjab government a short-term as well as medium-term action plan, including a fiscal management strategy along with other policy measures, to revive the state’s economy in the aftermath of the COVID-19 crisis.The 20-member group has been mandated to submit its initial set of recommendations by July 31 followed by two more reports by September 30 and December 31 this year. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/manmohan-singh-to-guide-group-for-post-coronavirus-revival-strategy-for-punjab-77068
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ambassadors of Hope: An online contest for students||60 Kashmiris stuck in BarnalaBarnala: Around 60 persons belonging to Kashmir have requested Deputy Commissioner TPS Phoolka to arrange for their transport back home as public transport services have been suspended in view of the Covid-19 lockdown. The DC has assured them help and written to the Punjab Government in this regard. “Around 60 Kashmiris have been stranded here for more than a month. They came to Barnala to sell clothes. As the lockdown was clamped, they could not return home,” he said, adding the district administration was providing them with ration. TNSExpedite testing, demands SADFazilka: Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has said the key to fight the Covid-19 pandemic was to ramp up the state’s testing capacity. “The government is not carrying out the tests properly. Rapid testing is necessary to prevent spreading of the virus,” he said here on Monday after meeting his supporters. He alleged discrimination in the distribution of ration. OCSukhbir distributes hand sanitiserMuktsar: Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday distributed 50,000 bottles of hand sanitiser to party leaders, who would hand over the goods to the needy. He toured Malout, Muktsar, Fazilka, Jalalabad and Guruharsahai Assembly constituencies falling in his Ferozepur Lok Sabha segment. Sukhbir also gave some bottles of hand sanitiser to policemen deployed at checkpoints. The other constituencies would be covered soon, he said. TNSAfter killing spouse, man hangs selfMuktsar: A labourer allegedly killed his wife with a weapon on Monday. Later, the accused, identified as Raj Singh, committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree at Kanianwali village near here. Sources said Raj Singh killed his wife Amarjeet Kaur in the fields where they were working. Thereafter, he dug a pit in the soil to hide the weapon with which he had hit his spouse and committed suicide. Probe is on. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ambassadors-of-hope-an-online-contest-for-students-77294
28-04-2020||---||Punjab losing Rs 3,360 cr per month, says Chief Minister||Chandigarh, April 27The state government on Monday took the initial steps towards formulating the state’s post-Covid revival strategy, with the Montek Singh Ahluwalia led group of experts setting up five sub-groups, even as former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh accepted Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s request to provide guidance to the government to restore the state’s economy.The group of experts, headed by Montek Singh, had its introductory meeting, through videoconferencing with the Chief Minister, who disclosed that he had written to Dr Manmohan Singh to guide the government along with the group of experts, and he had kindly accepted. “We have been working hard to steer Punjab to the path of economic growth and post Covid-19, we will again focus on the same,” he tweeted.Capt Amarinder told the group that the state’s financial situation was grim, with monthly revenue losses to the tune of Rs 3,360 crore.The state’s cash inflows had completely dried up, said the Chief Minister, adding that power consumption had declined by 30 per cent with a daily loss of Rs 30 crore in collection of electricity tariff to the PSPCL. Punjab’s industry has been shut down, with less than 1 per cent of them working. In addition, state’s GST arrears of Rs 4365.37 crore are yet to be paid by the Union Government, he added.‘Withdraw PSPCL'S PPA obligation’Terming the lockdown as a clear case of “force majeure”, the CM urged the Union Power Ministry to withdraw the obligation on the PSPCL to pay capacity charges. The PSPCL is unable to schedule the energy due to force majeure situation that has arisen due to low demand in view of Covid-19 crisis, said the CM in a letter to Union Minister of State for Power Raj Kumar Singh. He sought withdrawal of the April 6 directions of the ministry stating that “the obligation to pay for capacity charges as per PPA shall continue, as does the obligation to pay for the transmission charges”.Ex-PM for revival planFormer Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh accepted Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s request to provide guidance to the government to restore the state’s economy. The CM said he had written to Dr Manmohan Singh to guide the government along with the group of experts and he had kindly accepted. “We have been working hard to steer Punjab to the path of economic growth and post Covid-19, we will again focus on the same,” he tweeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-losing-rs-3-360-cr-per-month-says-chief-minister-77293
28-04-2020||---||Back from Hazur Sahib, 8 pilgrims test positive in Kapurthala, Tarn Taran||Chandigarh, April 27After eight pilgrims, who returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, were tested positive in Kapurthala and Tarn Taran, the government has sent all returnees in quarantine facilities.Tarn Taran district was in green zone so far, but it today reported five positive cases. All patients, aged between 45 and 62, are residents of Sursingh village along the Indo-Pak border, had gone to Hazur Sahib to pay obeisance. They returned today in the buses sent by the state government to Maharashtra to get back stranded pilgrims. The patients have been admitted at the isolation ward of the local civil hospital. The administration has sealed the village. According to another report, a woman who gave birth to a child at the civil hospital, has been tested Covid positive.Apart from that, three persons from Kapurthala, who too returned from Nanded on Sunday, have been tested positive for Covid-19. All three, an 11-year-old girl, her 38-year-old father and 58-year-old grandmother, are members of a family of six, who were kept at the isolation centre in Phagwara. They have now been shifted to the isolation unit at Kapurthala.As many as 11 pilgrims had arrived at Kapurthala yesterday. Another 14, who arrived today, have been placed under isolation at Bebe Nanki Sarai, adjoining Ber Sahib Gurdwara at Sultanpur Lodhi.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasmeet Bawa said, “All pilgrims are being placed under isolation immediately on their arrival.”The total positive cases in Kapurthala has now risen to three. The district had been declared Covid-free only yesterday after the discharge of the LPU student.Meanwhile, the state government has instructed all deputy commissioners to keep pilgrims returning from Hazur Sahib in quarantine facilities. The order was issued by Principal Secretary, Health, Anurag Aggarwal, after it was found that the five positive cases in Tarn Taran were asymptomatic.As per the department, so far samples of 15,516 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 12,333 samples were found negative and the reports of 2853 were awaited.Laboratories start clearing backlog Faridkot 3Barnala 2 1Fatehgarh Sahib 2Gurdaspur 1 1Muktsar 1Ferozepur 1Total 330 19BoxTotal tested samples 15516Negative 12333Reports Awaited 2853Positive cases: 330Cured: 98Deaths: 19||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/back-from-hazur-sahib-8-pilgrims-test-positive-in-kapurthala-tarn-taran-77284
28-04-2020||Hoshiarpur||Three nabbed for ‘honour killing’||In a case of ‘honour killing’, the police have arrested three persons for murdering a 19-year-old girl. Among the held include mother Balwinder, uncle Satdev and a cousin of  deceased Jaspreet Kaur. The arrested cousin is posted in the CM’s security wing.  Station house officer  Iqbal Singh said it was a case of honour killing and the accused had confessed to it. Earlier, the family, hailing from Souli village, had claimed that Jaspreet died of  a heart attack. On April 22, mother complained to the police that her daughter had gone missing. She had blamed Amanpreet Singh, alias Aman, for it. On April 23, Balwinder  informed the police that Jaspreet had reached home. Sources said Jaspreet went to Aman’s house and returned after intervention of the panchayat.  Sources said on the intervening night of April 25 and 26, Balwinder gave Jaspreet sleeping pills. When she fell asleep, Shivraj and his friend Lala strangled her. Around midnight, they along with Satdev and Gurdeep burnt Jaspreet’s body to erase the evidence of her murder. However, the police got to know about it.  —  TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-nabbed-for-honour-killing-77282
28-04-2020||---||Akal academies help rural kids study online||Chandigarh, April 27 Amid lockdown across the nation over Covid-19 pandemic, Kalgidhar Trust, Baru Sahib, has introduced online education for more than 70,000 students studying in Akal academies being run under its aegis. Most of the academies have been established in the rural areas. Students there had to struggle to get started as even their parents did not have much experience with social networking apps. The staff of Akal academies reached out to the parents and helped them in gaining access to online groups. They are now getting study material online.  The Akal academies have even provided the facility of online admissions and the new entrants have been included in the study apps and current social apps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-academies-help-rural-kids-study-online-77281
28-04-2020||Patiala||ASI among 2 sacked for helping peddlers||Two cops posted in the district were dismissed from service after the recovery of drugs and liquor from them, said SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu.The accused, ASI Manjeet Singh, posted as incharge, Rohti police post, and constable Gagandeep Singh, had reportedly been letting off peddlers after taking money and drugs from them.The SSP said 15 kg of poppy husk, 250 gm smack and 5 gm heroin and 30 bottles of country-made liquor were recovered.The SSP said the accused had been booked under relevant sections of IPC, NDPS Act and Excise Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-among-2-sacked-for-helping-peddlers-77280
28-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin---||Crisis deepens, hoteliers demand relief package||Tribune News Service Bathinda, April 27 In deep crisis, the hospitality sector has sought a special relief package from the Centre. The Punjab Hotel Association has written to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), seeking help. Punjab Hotel, Restaurant and Resort Association president Satish Arora said: “The state hospitality industry has been serving the nation since Independence, but there has never been such a hard time. We are struggling for its survival.” Arora claimed that around 5,000 small, medium and large hotels and restaurants, including national and international chains, had suffered monthly losses to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore in the state. “We have written to the PMO that with the declining revenue, the entire hospitality and tourism industry is in trouble. Staff salaries, power bills, EMI of loans, PF, ESI, GST, excise fee, water sanitation, cable fee, property tax and licence fee, all have to be paid. We request the government to take concrete steps at to help the hospitality sector at the earliest.” He demanded salary of staff for six months, deferment of electricity charge for six months, deferment of water sanitation, licence fee, property tax and cow cess, waiver of fee to be paid for renewals of excise and all other permits. Arora said: “We are extremely grateful to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which has announced liquidity infusion of Rs 50,000 crore and plans to raise another Rs 50,000 crore to meet the long-term credit needs of banks and resuscitate small medium and micro-institutions. We request an equally befitting response be given to the hospitality and tourism industry for its survival.  Even the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India has also approached the Chief Minister to provide a financial package to the hospitality industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crisis-deepens-hoteliers-demand-relief-package-77279
28-04-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||3,341 industrial units restart operations in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 27The state’s manufacturing sector has started chugging back to life. In all, 3,341 industrial units have resumed operations after the government eased the lockdown restrictions.The state’s industrial capital, Ludhiana, has taken the lead, with maximum number of units beginning production there. Of the 95,202 industrial units in Ludhiana district, 1,014 are back in operation.DL Sharma, Director, Vardhman Group, told The Tribune, “The industry is still apprehensive. This is mainly because of the fear at the customer-end. The entire vertical must work for any industry to resume production.”Vardhman Group has started production in Baddi and Madhya Pradesh. Its Punjab unit would follow soon, he said.As per the Industries Department, most of the 3,341 units deal in essential commodities. Others deal in the food processing sector, rice shelling and the textile sector.“The state government is keen on opening the units and reviving industrial production. As a result, the CM had assured industrialists two days ago that no punitive action would be taken against industrial units if a Covid case was reported from their premises,” C Sibin, Director, Industries, said.Ever since the curfew was imposed, only 2,008 industrial units have been operational. There are 2,52,741 industrial units in the state. After the relaxations were announced on April 21, 2,954 units started production.Over 392 units in Faridkot, 288 Ferozepur, 272 Barnala, 198 Fazilka, 172 Jalandhar, 145 Moga and 121 in Amritsar are up and running again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-341-industrial-units-restart-operations-in-punjab-77277
28-04-2020||---||Panel: Consider Class X pre-board results as final||Chandigarh, April 27The 20-member expert committee on formulating Punjab’s lockdown exit strategy, in its report submitted to the CM on Monday, recommended to the Punjab School Education Board to allow the schools to declare the results of the Class X students based on the pre-board examinations.With this, the students will be able to start preparing for the next class. At the same time, schools will also be able to enroll students in Class XI.For Class XII, the committee said that since 70 per cent of the papers have already been conducted, the board could consider to hold the remaining exams by creating more centres keeping in view the social distancing norms.The Education Department has been asked to get the syllabus books printed as early as possible, within 15 days at the most and then deliver these to schools. The relaxation in lockdown may be given by DCs with the limited purpose of handing over books to the students, while taking all precautions.It has also been recommended that all educational institutions must complete preparatory work to conduct the examinations on any date after May 15, although the exact schedule would depend on the situation as it unfolds.Says No to online examsStrictly saying no to online examinations, the committee has sought that the duration of examination be reduced to two hours by merging two papers and conduct of the exams in three to four shifts to reduce the risk of virus exposure to the students.29 Navodaya students leave for MPRopar: The district administration sent 29 students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Sandhuan village, to their hometowns in Madhya Pradesh on Monday. Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said all students were taken to Chhatarpur, MP, by road. Besides providing meals, snacks and beverages for the journey, the administration also gave the students sanitisers, gloves and masks, said the DC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-consider-class-x-pre-board-results-as-final-77276
28-04-2020||---||Netizens salute Patiala Sub-Inspector’s courage||Chandigarh, April 27In a touching gesture, people today came out in support of Sub-Inspector Harjeet Singh whose hand was chopped off in an attack by curfew violators in Patiala.Tweeting a video of Harjeet Singh, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said, “I am extremely happy to share that he is recovering well and that his hand has started to regain movement.”DGP Dinkar Gupta kicked off a Twitter campaign — #MainBhiHarjeetSingh — this morning. The campaign was launched as a solidarity initiative against any kind of attacks on policemen, doctors and healthcare workers who are engaged in the fight against Covid-19.The DGP also tweeted that for the entire day he would change his official name badge to ‘Harjeet Singh’.The campaign will run for the next few days.Celebrities such as Gurdas Maan and Harbhajan Singh also posted touching videos. Many messages were shared on Facebook and Instagram too.By 5 pm, more than 3 million lakh people had joined the campaign and over 79,000 policemen from Punjab had changed their name badges to ‘Harjeet Singh’ and posted messages and pictures on social media.The DGP said, “We are overwhelmed by the flood of love and respect for SI Harjeet Singh and the Punjab Police. I thank all our policemen, their families, friends and admirers, and public for wishing us well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/netizens-salute-patiala-sub-inspectors-courage-77275
28-04-2020||---||Sangrur cops register 570 FIRs, arrest 750  for violating curfew||Sangrur, April 27 The Sangrur police have registered 570 FIRs, arrested 750 residents and impounded 700 vehicles for curfew violations to date.  Sangrur district  shares 45 km  border with Haryana. The district authorities have sealed all borders. “Though many have understood the gravity of the Covid  pandemic, there are many who do not want to stay indoors despite getting essential commodities on their doorstep,” said an official. Residents have been coming out of their houses without valid reasons.  The police booked one Sanjeev Kumar, who was found roaming on roads without purpose. The Sunam police registered an FIR against Darshan Singh for violating the curfew curbs.  Violations are more in urban areas as compared to villages. It is learnt that 550 villages of the district have formed committees and sealed their villages. “We have sealed all entry and exit points and not allowing any outsider without any valid reason to enter the village,” said Kulwinder Singh , a resident of Kohriyan village. In congested urban  areas, the police have been using drones, but still facing problems in keeping the residents indoors.  “We have been taking strict action. Though a majority of residents have been cooperating, there are many who are violating the curfew. Our teams patrol the district round the clock,” said Sandeep Garg, SSP, Sangrur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-cops-register-570-firs-arrest-750-for-violating-curfew-77274
28-04-2020||Patiala||Cop to donate land for park in Sub-Inspector's honour||On a day when the police expressed solidarity with corona warrior Sub-Inspector Harjeet Singh, a head constable from his village today pledged to donate one-acre land to help develop a park in his honour.Gulab Singh, a gunman with an SP-rank officer, said what Harjeet Singh had done made not only their village, but the state proud.Harjeet Singh lost his hand while bravely fighting off an attack while enforcing curfew at the Patiala sabzi mandi recently.“The way he kept his composure even during difficult time, speaks volumes about his courage,” said Gulab, who hails from Dharaunki village in Nabha. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cop-to-donate-land-for-park-in-sub-inspectors-honour-77273
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-minister for panel on aid to needy||Former Union Minister Ashwani Kumar, in a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, today demanded that the state should set up a committee of prominent citizens and seek their response on the possible humanitarian measures required to bring succour to the poorest of the poor.He has also sought that larger resource for discretionary financial aid for the victims should be placed at the disposal of district collectors. He said the administration must act with compassion and consideration given that in extraordinary circumstances, the state has assumed the role of guardian of the people.He also sought immediate initiatives for creating an extensive healthcare infrastructure, which would require a review of financial allocations by the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-minister-for-panel-on-aid-to-needy-77272
28-04-2020||---||49.36 lakh tonnes of wheat procured in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 27Additional Chief Secretary Development Viswajeet Khanna on Monday said of 49.36 LMT of wheat that so far arrived in mandis, 47.33 LMT had already been procured, as compared with 41.92 LMT procured of the 46.7 LMT that had arrived in the same period last year.To manage staggered movement of wheat in view of the health advisory, 7.13 lakh passes have been issued to farmers so far in 4,100 purchase centres to avoid crowding.Meanwhile, CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday deputed six IAS officers to visit and review procurement at mandis and submit reports by April 30.They have been tasked with checking the implementation of the curfew pass system, village-wise arrival of wheat, inspecting the quality of wheat, and adherence to Covid-19 protocol.Punjab State Warehousing Corporation MD Nilkanth S Avhad has been deputed to oversee operations in Ropar and SBS Nagar, Markfed MD Varun Roojam (Amritsar and Taran Taran), Director Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Anindita Mitra (SAS Nagar), Mandi Board Secretary Ravi Bhagat (SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar), Punsup MD Rambir (Jalandhar and Kapurthala) and PAFC MD Manjit Brar (Gurdaspur and Pathankot).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/49-36-lakh-tonnes-of-wheat-procured-in-punjab-77271
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||152 students return from Kota||Even as stranded pilgrims from Nanded, as well as labourers and students from Rajasthan, continued to reach home, the state government on Monday contacted the Delhi government to facilitate safe evacuation of 250 Sikh pilgrims stuck at Sri Majnu Ka Tila gurdwara in the national capital due to the lockdown.A spokesperson said 152 students, stranded in Kota, were brought back to Punjab in specially hired buses up to Bathinda, from where they had been transported to their respective destinations through state government buses.Apart from these, 2,900 labourers belonging to Punjab are returning to the state in 60 state government buses from Jaisalmer, where they were stranded in five relief camps. They are expected to reach Punjab on Tuesday morning via the Ganganagar entry point to the state.Further, as many as 467 pilgrims reached Bathinda this evening in 13 public buses from Nanded and were on their way to their respective home towns or villages. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/152-students-return-from-kota-77268
28-04-2020||---||ASHA workers seek safety kits||BATHINDA, APRIL 27Members of the ASHA Worker and Facilitators’ Union on Monday held a protest at the Civil Hospital, demanding safety kits from the state government.The protesters, while maintaining social distance, raised slogans against the state government for not fulfilling their demands.They said the government did not do enough to ensure their safety. The workers added that in the absence of safety kits, they were at a greater risk of contracting the infection.Suranjna Rani, president of the union, said, “This is the most basic thing a government can do to ensure the safety of ASHA workers. Although Bathinda has not reported any positive case so far, ASHA workers in other districts of the state where positive cases have surfaced are at risk.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asha-workers-seek-safety-kits-77267
28-04-2020||---||Doing frontline duties, rural doctors protest against ‘bias’||Chandigarh, April 27 Minister for Rural Development and Panchayats Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa today said the alleged mistreatment of rural pharmacists and doctors by health officials was unacceptable and he had taken it up with the Health Minister. There are total 1,183 posts of doctors and pharmacists under the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats. These doctors are called Rural Medical Officers (RMOs). After the Covid-19 outbreak, the services of these doctors and pharmacists were placed at the disposal of the Health Department. However, the RMOs and pharmacists had been alleging that they were being mistreated by health officials. They claimed that they were being sent for quarantine centre duties, flu corners and sample collection of infected patients without any protective gear. Dr JP Narula, president,  Rural Medical Services Association, Punjab, alleged that the entire rural health cadre had been pushed into Covid-related work like conducting postmortems, quarantine ward duties, testing, etc.  Claiming he had received many complaints, Tript Bajwa said he had spoken to Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu about the matter. He said he had instructed the secretary of the department to write a letter to the Principal Secretary, Health also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doing-frontline-duties-rural-doctors-protest-against-bias-77266
28-04-2020||Moga||Youth dies in Moga, report awaited||A 20-year-old youth, who was suspected to have been infected by coronavirus, died while undergoing treatment in the district hospital on Sunday evening. Lakhwinder Singh, a resident of Mudki in Faridkot, was admitted to the district hospital on Sunday morning.  Confirming the death, Dr Naresh Amla, nodal officer for Covid-19, said the deceased was also a drug addict. He was addicted to “chitta”, a synthetic drug. Since he couldn’t procure drugs from anywhere, his condition aggravated. “As a precautionary measure, we have taken his swab and blood samples for the Covid test,” said the nodal officer. As per information, Lakhwinder was a labourer. Last week, he complained of fever and throat infection, following which his landlord asked him to stay home. His sister took him the district hospital, where he was referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot, but before he could leave for Faridkot, he died on the hospital premises. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-dies-in-moga-report-awaited-77265
28-04-2020||---||Health officials on toes as Budhlada declared hotspot||Mansa, April 27 Teams of the Health Department have been busy conducting door-to-door surveys after Budhlada town in Mansa was declared a hotspot. So far 7,949 houses have been covered.  Eleven positive cases reported in the town are linked with ward number 2 and 4, resulting in the administration declaring the wards as containment zones. It is conducting survey of 412 houses in ward number 2 and 438 houses in ward number 4 regularly, during which medical check-up of people who are suffering from cough, fever or short-breathlessness is done. Out of the 13 cases, three have been cured, while others are undergoing treatment at the civil hospital here. One person who tested positive on Friday has raised a concern, as on April 2, she had tested negative, but as her husband was tested positive, the district administration decided to take her sample again. She has tested positive after 21 days. Mansa DC Gurpal Singh Chahal said: “In Budhlada, 409 samples of suspected persons have been taken so far and the Health Department teams are working bravely to fight Covid-19.” The team of 19 doctors was treating 10 patients undergoing treatment at Covid-19 isolation ward at the civil hospital in Mansa, and reportedly all were recovering well, said the DC. Mansa SSP Narinder Bhargav said: “Entire Budhlada town has been sealed from the last 20 days. Nobody is allowed to roam around except medical teams or vehicles distributing essential items on the doorsteps of residents.” Out of the 13 positive cases, six are linked to Tablighi Jamaat event, which took place in New Delhi last month. Later, seven persons who had come in their contact have also been detected positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/health-officials-on-toes-as-budhlada-declared-hotspot-77264
28-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Schoolboy spills beans on illegal tuition classes||Tribune News ServiceBatala, April 27A six-year-old boy, apparently irked over his parents’ decision to force him to attend tuition classes, vented his anger by guiding the cops to houses where the lucrative business was being carried out even as all such activity has been banned during the ongoing curfew.DSP (Crime) Gurdeep Singh and his team were patrolling the area near the Thathiari gate when the officer started questioning a father-son duo as to why were they roaming the streets. The father was holding the arm of his son who started spilling the beans. He led the DSP to the houses where teachers were holding classes in violation of social distancing norms.SSP Opinderjit Singh Ghuman said the police had prepared a list of such places and teachers, and would book them under Section 188 IPC (disobeying government orders).“This is a serious offence,” he said.“I was patrolling the street when I saw a boy and his father. When I questioned the latter, he said they were going to buy groceries. However, I noticed the boy was feeling a bit uneasy. Suddenly, he yanked off his father’s arm, and told us that his father was bringing him back home from a tuition class. When I asked him where he went to attend tuition classes, he guided us there. Not only this, he also told us that he knew many other houses where such activity was taking place,” said the DSP.The SSP said the classes were being held in crowded rooms where nobody wore masks.“This, in itself, is an infringement of curfew rules,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/schoolboy-spills-beans-on-illegal-tuition-classes-77263
28-04-2020||Ropar||IIT-Ropar, DMCH develop aerosol containment box||To provide an additional layer of protection from infection to healthcare workers, Dr Ashish Sahani from the Indian Institute of Technology in Ropar, along with Dr Vivek Gupta and Dr GS Wander from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana, has developed an aerosol containment box.This box can be made of readily available material and need not depend on material supply chains which have been snapped due to the lockdown.Dr Sahani said coughing, sneezing or aerosol generating procedure in Covid patients led to the spread of heavy viral load among the workers and despite using PPE kits and taking appropriate precautions, they get infected due to which higher than normal infection rate has been noted among them.The newly developed aerosol containment box can be quickly made of wood, thick PVC sheet, Velcro, pasting and fixing materials. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iit-ropar-dmch-develop-aerosol-containment-box-77262
28-04-2020||---||Woman dies of Covid-19 in Rajpura, officials perform last rites||Patiala, April 27District administrative officials went beyond their call of duty when a caretaker of a cremation ground in Rajpura refused to perform the last rites of a 63-year-old woman, who died of Covid-19 on Monday.The officials performed the last rites while the woman’s nephew lit the pyre.The officials visited the caretaker’s house, located in the vicinity of the cremation ground, to call him for the last rites of a Covid patient. But he refused point blank.In a spot, the officials decided to take the matter in their hands. They, along with the woman’s nephew, collected the wood to build a pyre.All members of the woman’s family have tested positive for the deadly virus. They are admitted to the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital here.The nephew made a video call to the woman’s family members so that they could witness the last rites. All of them offered prayers from their isolation wards as the nephew lit the pyre.An official said he and his colleagues decided to stand with the victim’s families in the hour of grief. “What’s required has to be done no matter the situation,” he said.The officials, who helped in performing the last rites, included District Public Relations Officer (PRO) Ishwinder Grewal, Assistant PRO Hardeep Singh, patwaris Gurmukh Singh and Harpal Singh, hospital attendant Kulwinder Singh and ASI Balwinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-rajpura-officials-perform-last-rites-77261
