28-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Delhi Chalo: Farmers stage dharna at Singhu border for second consecutive day||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 28Thousands of farmers staged dharna at the Singhu border for a second consecutive day on Saturday. Farmer unions have decided to stay on the border till their demands were not met.The UP farmers also joined the protest at the Singhu border on Saturday.Around 12-km jam was witnessed on the NH-44 due to ongoing protest, putting commuters at inconvenience as they were forced to walk for 5 to 10 km.Sant Gopal Das also reached the Singhu border to extend support to the farmers.Meanwhile, the leaders of various farmer unions decided that they would continue their dharna at the border and would not move to Delhi.BKU spokesperson Rakesh Bains said during a meeting of the Kissan Sanyukt Morcha on Saturday Balbir Singh Rajowal announced to “stay at the borders”.The next move of the farmers would be decided after a meeting on Sunday, he said.Gurnam Singh Charuni said that the farmers had blocked the entry into Delhi at two borders, and if their demand was not met they would block all the borders with Delhi.Meanwhile, the farmers from Uttar Pradesh (UP) under the banner of BKU (Asli) also joined the protest at Singhu border. They were led by the state unit president Harpal Singh Balari.Chander Prakash Yadav, state vice-president of BKU (Asli) from UP, claimed that they had been detained and kept in a temporary jail at a college at Chandrawali in Bulandshahr by the UP Government for the past two days.He also alleged that the UP Police snatched the keys of their vehicles so that they couldn’t join the protest.“However, we reached the Singhu border and around 70 vehicles are with us,” he said.Anand Singh Dahiya, a farmer leader from Kharkhoda, also extended support to Punjab’s farmers and said they would supply milk and vegetables to the protesting farmers.He also said they would not send vegetables to Delhi for now.Jagtar Singh Kailey of Moga in Punjab said they had come to Singhu border with 4-5 months ration and would stay at the protest site till the Union Government did not revoke the “black” farm laws.Malkeet Singh of Patiala said that they would not return home till their demands were not met.“We have sufficient ration in our vehicles. Our farmer leaders have decided to stay at the border and we will not move from here,” he said.
28-11-2020||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Shah's offer to protesting farmers: Move to designated site, talks can be early||Amid intense protests against the newly passed farm bills, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said his government was willing to hold talks with the protesters on their objections to the recently passed farm laws. Home Minister Amit Shah asked protesting farmers to clear roads and national highways, instead offering them Burari ground to hold their protests.In an appeal he issued through news agency ANI, he said Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar had called a meeting on December 3 to discuss their objections to the Bill, and asked farmers to move their protests to the ground where he said they would be permission to continue their protests against the central government’s farm laws. “The central government is willing to hold talks with you (farmers),” he said on Saturday. “I ask my farmer brothers who have been holding protests at national and state highways in the cold that the Delhi Police will offer you a ground to hold your protests. Please move there. You will be given the permission to protest, you can build a stage there to protest, you will have toilet facilities, water and security. Additionally, ambulances will be on standby there”."The central government will hold talks with you the very next day after you move to Burari,” he said.Shah's statement came as thousands of farmers continued to hold protests at the Tikri and Singhu interstate borders on Saturday.Farmers choose Jantar MantarBharatiya Kishan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) however rejected the offer, saying they would instead go to to Jantar Mantar.In a statement issued soon after, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) said that the home minister met BKU (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan with the offer, which the latter turned down.“Joginder Singh Ugrahan announced to start indefinite protest at Jantar Mantar. He said that the protest will continue till our demands are met,” the statement said.“Ugrahan told that the caravan of protesters includes substantial number of women and youth. He added that despite the capacity to choke the national capital they plan to start indefinite protest at Jantar Mantar so that local residences suffer no inconvenience. He has given call to farmers and farm workers from all over India to join the protest,” it said.‘Talking is the only way’Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh urged the protesters to heed to Shah’s appeal.A press release from the chief minister’s office said that he thought it was in the “best interest of the farming community and the nation at large” and that it would pave way for talks.“Shah’s offer to advance talks with farmers from December 3, and his statement reflecting the Centre’s willingness to listen to the farmers was a welcome step,” the press statement quoted the chief minister as having said.‘Since the Home Minister had made it clear that the Government of India was ‘ready to deliberate on every problem and demand’ of the farmers, and would hold talks the day after the farmers shifted to the designated site in Delhi for their protest, the Kisan leaders should also move forward,” the chief minister said. “Only by sitting across the table can both sides come to a solution to the problem.” --- With agencies
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal at most places in Haryana, Punjab||The minimum temperatures on Saturday hovered slightly above normal limits in Haryana and Punjab, the Meteorological Department here said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 8.7 degrees Celsius, it said.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 9.5 degrees Celsius, up one notch against normal while Karnal recorded a low of 9.2 degrees Celsius.Amritsar in Punjab recorded a minimum temperature of 6.8 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal.Ludhiana recorded a low of 10.1 degrees Celsius, up three notches while Patiala's minimum settled at 10 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal, it said. PTI
28-11-2020||---||Defer all engagements to solve farmers’ problems: SAD to PM Modi||Chandigarh, November 28The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “put all other engagements on hold and personally address and resolve the genuine demands of the agitating annadata of the country as a top national priority”.“The agitators’ demands on the three anti-farmer Acts are perfectly legitimate, secular and constitutional,” said the party.  “The Prime Minister and his colleagues have repeatedly maintained that the assured marketing of farmers’ produce at minimum support price will be continued under all circumstances. That being so, there should be no objection to nor any problem in giving a legal shape to the government’s commitments through necessary legislation.”The core committee of the party which met here this afternoon, also came down heavily against the Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for his “highly provocative, dangerous and divisive statement” dubbing the farmers as “Khalistanis”.“Do these beleaguered elderly men and ladies from farmers’ families look like Khalistanis to Khattar and his party? It is not the farmers but the Haryana CM himself who is guilty of flouting the Constitution of the country on the anniversary of the Adoption Day of the Statute,” the party said in a statement.The party also accused the Haryana CM of trying to revive the old Congress tactics to paint its political opponents as separatists.“It is the same mindset that was responsible for the Congress repression against Akali agitators in 1982 and continued for a decade and a half, painting a fiercely patriotic community as separatist,” read the SAD resolution.The party further said: “The  fact is that the BJP and its governments at the Centre and in Haryana have got jittery by the success of the farmers’ secular and democratic  movement.”SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has also set up a three-member committee including S Balwinder Singh Bhundur, Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra and S Sikander Singh Maluka to coordinate with leaders of the like-minded national and regional parties across the country for all-round support to secure justice for the farmers and get the “black laws” against them repealed.
28-11-2020||Moga||'Delhi Chalo': Fractures from a fall force BKU leader Sukhdev Kokri to turn back||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta)’s general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri was forced to return to his village in Moga over a broken arm as a result of a fall, he said on Saturday.Kokri, who is among the several leaders currently leading waves and waves of farmers marching to Delhi, said he slipped from a still-under-construction road divider during the ongoing protest in Jind’s Julana, and had fractures in his arm and his hand.   He was heading towards Delhi to join hordes of farmers marching on the national capital to protest controversial farm laws passed in September.He has returned to his village, Kokri Kalan, in Moga for further treatment, he said, adding that he will return to Delhi to join the farmers protest once he gets medical attention.
28-11-2020||New Delhi||Traffic movement hit in key roads of Delhi as police keep Singhu, Tikri borders closed||Traffic was affected on key roads in Delhi on Saturday as police kept the Singhu and Tikri borders closed for vehicular movement in view of the ongoing farmers' agitation against the Centre's new farm laws.  The Delhi Traffic Police tweeted that traffic movement was not allowed from Azadpur and Outer Ring Road to the Singhu border."Tikri border is closed for traffic movement. Available open borders to Haryana are -- Jharoda, Dhansa, Daurala Jhatikara, Badusari, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam vihar and Dundahera border," it posted on Twitter.Traffic AlertTikri border is closed for any Traffic Movement. Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders Jharoda,Dhansa ,Daurala Jhatikera,Badusari,Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8,Bijwasan/Bajghera,Palam vihar and Dundahera borders.  The traffic police said the Singhu border was still closed from both the sides."Please take an alternate route. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road. Traffic is very very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from Signature Bridge to Rohini and vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu border," it tweeted."We appeal to commuters to avoid travelling towards the Singhu and Tikri borders, Mukarba Chowk, NH-44, GT-Karnal Road and Outer Ring Road," Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Chaudhary said.With Saturday being a holiday for most office goers, the traffic situation in other parts is better than Friday, she said.On Friday, the Delhi Police curtailed movement at several places, including Dhansa, Jharoda Kalan, Tikri, Gurgaon, Singhu and Chilla, to prevent the protesting farmers from entering Delhi.Sections of Outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GT Karnal Road, NH-44 were also closed.The restrictions led to chaos and confusion among commuters who remained on roads stuck for hours.But some of the chaos eased out later in the day after police allowed the farmers to enter the national capital.Farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, had called a 'Delhi Chalo' March through several routes—Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa.They have been demanding that the central government repeal the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. — PTI
28-11-2020||---||Punjab drops resistance, chooses option for GST dues||New Delhi, November 28The Punjab Government has communicated acceptance of Option-1 to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of GST implementation. The acceptance after months of resistance to the Centre’s proposal will give the cash-strapped Punjab access to over Rs 11,000 crore of funds.Punjab will get Rs 8,359 crore through the special borrowing window to meet the GST implementation shortfall with the Centre picking up the tab. By choosing Option-1, Punjab will be permitted to borrow Rs 3,033 crore but the onus of returning the money lies entirely with the state.The die was cast for Chief Minister Amarinder Singh after the resistance by two other Opposition-ruled states crumbled earlier this week. Kerala and West Bengal communicated their acceptance of Option-1, leaving Punjab no option but to follow suit.The number of states who have chosen the first option has now gone up to 26. All the three UTs with Legislative Assemblies (Delhi, J&K and Puducherry) have also decided in favour of Option-1, stated an official news release.The states and UTs who chose Option-1 are getting the amount of shortfall arising out of GST implementation through a special borrowing window put in place by the Centre.The window has been operational since October 23 and the Central Government has already borrowed Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of the states in four instalments and passed it on to the states and UTs, who chose Option-1.Now Punjab will also receive funds raised through this window starting from the next round of borrowing.Under the terms of Option-1, besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, states are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final installment of 0.50 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) out of the  additional borrowings permitted by the Government under Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan.This is over and above the special window of Rs 1.1 lakh crore for all the states the UTs which basically compensates states for the Centre not having paid their GST dues on time.“On receipt of the choice of Option-1 from Punjab, the Centre has granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 3,033 crore to the State Government of Punjab (0.5 per cent of the state’s GSDP).”
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Navdeep Singh, hailed as ‘hero’ for turning off water cannon during farmer protest, charged with ‘attempt to murder’||Twenty-six-year-old farmer Navdeep Singh, an 'icon of farmers agitation who managed to climb on a police cannon and turned off the high-velocity water stream direction from protesting farmer, has been charged with an attempt to murder by Haryana Police.A video depicting his 'daring' act has gone viral on the social media.ਖੱਟਰ ਸਰਕਾਰੇ ਜਿਹੜੇ ਪਾਣੀ ਦੀਆਂ ਬਛਾੜਾਂ ਅੱਜ ਤੁਸੀਂ ਮਾਰੀਆਂ ਇਹ ਪਾਣੀ ਸਾਡੇ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਚੋਂ ਹੀ ਆਉਂਦਾ ਜਿਸ ਦਿਨ ਭਾਖੜਾ ਨੂੰ ਠੱਲ ਪਾ ਤੀ ਫੇਰ ਪੀਣ ਨੂੰ ਵੀ ਤਰਸੇਂਗੀ।#ModiAgainstFarmers #ChaloDelhi #farmersdillichalo pic.twitter.com/Z2gyNE1nQbThe incident took place on November 25 when hundreds of thousands farmers, braving tear gas and water cannons after breaching the massive blockades comprising huge boulders, barbed fence and mounds, were on their onward march to Delhi for a planned protest against new farm laws.The farmer, Navdeep Singh, has been booked for an attempt to murder along with Bharatiya Kisan Union state President Gurnam Singh Chaduni.The police have charged them of breaking police barricade and attempting to run over policemen with a tractor-trailer at Parao police station in Ambala district.After completing graduation from Kurukshetra University in 2015, Navdeep joined the farming with his father, Jai Singh Jalbera, a local farmer activist. IANS
28-11-2020||Bathinda||Punjabi MPs in Canada, UK condemn use of force on farmers||Non-Indian Residents (NRIs) and foreign politicians have come out in support of Punjab farmers heading towards Delhi. Along with this, they have also condemned the use of force, teargas, water cannons, and restrictions, imposed by the Haryana and Delhi police.NDP MLA and parliament secretary of British Columbia, Canada, Rachna Singh shared a clip with The Tribune on the microblogging website.I’m really saddened by the way #PunjabFarmers are being treated . This is unacceptable. https://t.co/ajwnH6iZNv  “I am really saddened by the way #Punjab Farmers are being treated. This is unaccepted,” she wrote along with the video.Randeep Singh Sarai, MP in Canada, wrote: "The Treatment of Punjab farmers is deplorable. Farmers are the strength and backbone of the Punjab, and they des to be treated with respect. I stand in solidarity with the Punjab farmers”.Another Punjabi Canadian MP, Sukh Dhaliwal, said: “The right to peaceful protest is fundamental in any democracy, especially in the world’s largest. I am very disturbed by the treatment of Punjabi farmers in India- this blatant abuse by Indian authorities is unacceptable. I stand with the Punjab farmers”.The right to peaceful protest is fundamental in any democracy, especially in the world's largestI am very disturbed by the treatment of Punjabi farmers in India - this blatant abuse by Indian authorities is unacceptableI stand with the #PunjabFarmers #cdnpoli #SurreyBC pic.twitter.com/MQYQwL3AzS  Preet Kaur Gill, MP from UK, also shared a clip along with a post stating, “This is no way to treat citizens who are peacefully protesting over the controversial farmers’ bill in India”.This is no way to treat citizens who are peacefully protesting over the controversial Farmers Bill in India. #FarmerProtest https://t.co/mlQLscjcby  Canadian MP Maninder Sidhu wrote: “Many of my constituents and I are deeply concerned about the safety of our family and friends in India. The right to peaceful protest is a constitutional right. Farmers in India should be able to voice their opinions and protest peacefully without fear for their safety”.Many of my constituents and I are deeply concerned about the safety of our family and friends in India. The right to peaceful protest is a constitutional right. Farmers in India should be able to voice their opinions and protest peacefully without fear for their safety. pic.twitter.com/a7kHXKs5Nm  Another Canadian MP Tim Uppal took to Twitter, said: “India's farmers deserve to be heard and respected. This is horrific”.India's farmers deserve to be heard and respected. This is horrific. pic.twitter.com/6TsEM3tQ7E  MP from Brampton, Ruby Sahota, said: "The determination and resilience of the farmers is admirable. In a free and just society one should be able to advocate for their cause without the threat of force being used against them. The brutality being faced by Indian farmers in these images is deplorable”.Jack Harris, Canadian MP, wrote: “We are shocked to see the Indian government's suppression of farmers protesting new laws which will endanger their livelihood. Instead of using water cannons and tear gas, the Indian government needs to engage in open dialogue with farmers”.We are shocked to see the Indian government's suppression of farmers protesting new laws which will endanger their livelihood. Instead of using water cannons and tear gas, the Indian government needs to engage in open dialogue with farmers.  Gurratan Singh, an anti-racial activist in Canada, has said: “The Indian govt's use of water cannons and tear gas on farmers protesting mass privatization of the agricultural sector and unjust reform of farming laws is appalling. They deserve respect for feeding the nation instead of being subjected to state brutality”The Indian govt's use of water cannons and tear gas on farmers protesting mass privatization of the agricultural sector and unjust reform of farming laws is appalling. They deserve respect for feeding the nation instead of being subjected to state brutality. #ISTANDWITHFARMERS pic.twitter.com/XPi2uGjFrt
28-11-2020||New Delhi||Sikh Regiment takes over ceremonial duties at Rashtrapati Bhavan||The Sikh Regiment of the Army on Saturday took charge of the Ceremonial Army Guard duties at the Rashtrapati Bhavan here from the Gorkha Rifles.The 5th Battalion of the 1st Gorkha Rifles, on completion of its three-and-half years term as Ceremonial Army Guard Battalion, handed over the charge to the 6th Battalion of the Sikh Regiment.President Ram Nath Kovind witnessed the ceremonial change-over of the Army Guard Battalion stationed at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.Different Infantry units of the Army function as the Ceremonial Army Guard at the Rashtrapati Bhavan by rotation.The Army Guard Battalion performs ceremonial duties at important events such as Guard of Honours to visiting dignitaries, Republic Day and Independence Day parades, Beating the Retreat Ceremony, apart from performing ceremonial guard duties at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.The Commanding Officers of the 5th Battalion of the 1st Gorkha Rifles and the 6th Battalion of the Sikh Regiment will call on the President later in the day. The President will also interact with the outgoing Battalion's men. IANS
28-11-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dharmendra, Hema Malini become grandparents again; daughter Ahana gives birth to twin girls||Dharmendra and Hema Malini have become grandparents once again. Their younger daughter, Ahana Deol, has given birth to twin daughters. She broke the news on her Instagram story, saying: "We are blessed to announce the arrival of our twin girls, Astraia and Adea Vohra. Born on - 26 November 2020. Proud parents Ahana and Vaibhav Vohra. Excited Brother Darian Vohra. Overjoyed grandparents Pushpa and Vipin Vohra, Hema Malini and Dharmenrdra Deol.”Reacting to the new arrivals in their family, Hema told Spotboye in an interview, “Ever since Ahana got pregnant I have been shuttling between my home and hers. It is my only outing during the pandemic. Now that there are three children to be looked after at Ahana’s residence I will be spending as much time with them as possible. Ahana’s in-laws’ residence is close to mine.”Speaking about how Dharmendra, and she were delighted, she added: “Dharamji says, ‘Hamari phulwari badi ho rahi hai (our garden is growing). With Esha’s two daughters and Ahana’s three children, I couldn’t have asked for more.”The couple already has a son named Darian. Ahana’s older sister, actor Esha Deol has two daughters—Radhya and Miraya Taktani.
28-11-2020||---||Punjab farmers continue their march towards Delhi||Chandigarh, November 28Punjab farmers resumed their 'Delhi Chalo' march against the Centre's new farm laws on Saturday morning after halting for the night to join thousands who have already reached the national capital's borders.Nearly a thousand unidentified protesting farmers, riding on tractor-trailers, have been booked by Meham police in Rohtak on charges of rioting, obstructing the public servant from performing duty, assault or criminal force to the public servant and violations of COVID-19 guidelines during the ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest on Friday.Two separate FIRs have been registered on the complaints of duty magistrate and a police official in this respect.Also read: Singhu, Tikri borders in Delhi still shut; farmers reluctant to go to BurariDespite facing teargas, farmer helps cop drink water; netizens all praise for itUnion ministers urge farmers’ unions leaders to move to Burari; BKU declinesDelhi Chalo protest: 1,000 farmers booked in Rohtak for rioting, violation of Covid guidelinesPunjabi MPs in Canada, UK condemn use of force on farmers; come out in support‘Delhi Chalo’ explainer: What the farmers’ protest is all aboutNavdeep Singh, hailed as ‘hero’ for turning off water cannon during farmer protest, charged with ‘attempt to murder’Farmers from Punjab also staged a dharna at Delhi’s Tikri border, adjacent to Bahadurgarh town, and disrupt vehicular traffic by placing tractors on the road.Farmers continue to stage a dharna at Delhi's Tikri border, adjacent to Bahadurgarh town.Groups can be seen preparing food and serving it to protesters.The protesters say they want to go to Ram Leela ground but the Centre is not allowing them.“We will wait for the decision of their top leaders about next course of action while staying at the Tikri border,” farmers said.Delhi police personnel are deployed in a large number at the border.By Friday evening, all Haryana Police barricades at the border with Punjab and along the highway to Delhi had been lifted. Hundreds entered the national capital to hold a peaceful protest at a north Delhi ground after facing teargas and water cannons and clashing with security personnel, while thousands remained at border points, undecided whether to go to the demonstration site identified by police."We have again started heading towards Delhi in the morning after a night halt at Meham in Rohtak district of Haryana," Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh said on Saturday.Another group of farmers made a night halt at Julana in Haryana's Jind district, he said, adding, "They have also resumed their journey towards Delhi."Farmers with the outfit had on Friday broken through police barricades at Khanauri and Dabwali border points between Punjab and Haryana.More farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) will enter Haryana on Saturday for their march towards the national capital."Our group of farmers on tractor-trolleys will soon enter Haryana through the Shambhu inter-state border," said KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher. They had begun their march from Amritsar on Friday.Pandher lashed out at the Centre for bringing the "black laws" against the farming community.Punjab farmers in large numbers had on Friday crossed the state's border with Haryana. Some even faced water cannons and teargas.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has welcomed the Union government's decision allowing farmers to enter the national capital and hold peaceful agitation.Farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws have expressed apprehension that the laws would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.The Centre has invited several Punjab farmer organisations for another round of talks in Delhi on December 3. — With PTI
28-11-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Despite facing teargas, farmer helps cop drink water; netizens all praise for it as video goes viral||Farmers faced teargas and water cannons along the Delhi-Haryana border. They clashed with police on Friday as they marched towards the National Captial as part of their 'Delhi Chalo' protest.Despite such severe circumstances, a video clip filled with complete compassion has surfaced—proving that humanity is above all.Farmers stepped forward to extend a helping hand to others, including the cops.A clip showing a farmer offering, and helping a policeman drink water has gone viral.Twitter user, Gurpreet S. Sahota, shared the clip, saying: "So what if policemen released cold water on farmers on a chilly day, that was their duty. Our Guru taught us to be humble, serve and share, what we have. It’s our duty.”So what if policemen released cold water on farmers on a chilly day, that was their duty. Our Guru taught us to be humble, serve and share, what we have. It’s our duty. #FarmersDilliChalo #FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/SIc7f2wlf5  Netizens were touched by this thoughtful gesture, and appreciated farmers, and the Sikh spirit:#FarmerProtest Delhi 2020 https://t.co/lRkbU9YT66  Picture of the day ! #FarmersProtest #FarmersBill2020 pic.twitter.com/wvyfRfYWQG  Charity by sikh individuals and community is commendable, we can see this more in langar arrangement. Without ego, pride & belonging they serve every human with respect & regard.We must learn and cultivate that kind of attitude. Perhaps that is possible with vahe Guru the kripa  Such Humanity keep India live
28-11-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Dismantling barricades, more Punjab farmers enter Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh , November 27More Punjab farmers forced their way across the state’s border with Haryana on Friday, dismantling barricades and cement pillars raised by the Haryana Police at Dabwali. As a 6-km-long convoy of tractors and trucks entered Sirsa district, the cops chose not to block the farmers’ way. Also, hundreds of farmers joined the “Delhi Chalo” protest in their cars.5-km-long convoyChandigarh: A day after protesters broke barricades on the Punjab-Haryana border at Khanauri in Sangrur, the Haryana Police on Friday allowed passage to a 5-km-long cavalcade of trucks and tractor-trailers. BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) general secretary SS Kokrikalan claimed that over 50,000 farmers were headed towards Delhi from Khanauri. TNSThe farmers were to leave at 11 am. But a large group of youths, without waiting for instructions from their leaders, went ahead and pulled down barricades at 10.30 am. Some protesters damaged police vehicles and turned off water cannons on the Bathinda-Delhi highway. The framers entered Sirsa district, raising “BKU Ekta Ugrahan zindabad” and “Jo bole so nihal” slogans. A sizeable number of youngsters wore T-shirts with Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s picture. The farmers headed to Delhi from Dabwali faced restrictions at the Panjuana bridge and at Agroha after they crossed Fatehabad.But they succeeded in having their way.
28-11-2020||Tribune reportersSangrur/Jalandhar/Patiala/ Amritsar/Tarn Taran||Support grows, more march towards Delhi||Family members of indebted farmers, who have committed suicides, along with students and others have left for New Delhi from the Khanauri border under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) to protest the Central farm laws.“My husband and son committed suicide after they failed to repay a debt of Rs 9 lakh taken from a money lender and a bank. Despite submitting all required documents to officials, I have not got any waiver. However, many times, members of my union have prevented the auction of my half acre land,” says Balwinder Kaur, an elderly woman from Sunam.Another widow, Satwant Kaur, from Chhajli village says their union is the only ray of hope for them as successive governments had done little to help them till date.In this protest, a generational shift is visible in the BKU (Ugrahan) — youngsters, many of them first-time protesters, and women are in large numbers. The anti-Centre resentment among the youth can be gauged from the fact that many have left for New Delhi without bothering for their study.“Study can wait. If we fail to compel the Central Government to take back black laws, we will lose everything. My brother and I are prepared to go to jail in New Delhi. Our father is at home, looking after our land,” says Ravinderpal Singh, a youngster from the Sehna area of Barnala.Under the guidance of senior members of the union, youngsters are at the forefront in committees formed to collect ration and other essential items and cook and serve food. Carrying almost six-month ration on their trailers, farmers have left for Delhi. The entire system is well-coordinated to ensure protesters are provided food and other refreshments on time.Jathas leave on 70-80 tractorsFrom Jalandhar, more jathas set out for Delhi. Farmers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, in 70-80 tractor-trailers, headed out from here to be the backup for their counterparts struggling while trying to cross the state borders. Lakhwinder Singh, a committee leader, said, “We all are from different villages near Subhanpur in Kapurthala. We will move as jathas. The farmers who left earlier must be a bit exhausted. Now, we will give them time to rest and take charge from the front.We are moving with our beddings, woollen clothes,water and dry ration. Women too will follow us subsequently in separate jathas a day after.”Jagjit Singh from Sammipur village in Jalandhar said, “We will be leaving tomorrow in 8-10 cars. We do not intend to go by tractors as it will take us longer to catch up with our teams and provide them the needed support.”Meanwhile, Nakodar Akali MLA and a farmer, Gurpartap Wadala, said, “We have arranged some Innovas and Tempo Travellers for joining the farmers. Phillaur MLA Baldev Khera, too, will join us.”Local protests continueIn Patiala, the “Delhi Chalo” agitation has got an overwhelming response from women, and youth as a large number of them have come out to participate in the protests across the state. Farmers have also left with ration supply of over a month and will be camping in Delhi.Long traffic queues were witnessed on the National Highway connecting Rajpura to Delhi with farmers camping on the roadsides by parking tractors. “We are not returning without getting justice,” said Nabkiran singh from Rongla village.Farmers left Patiala on Wednesday through various interstate borders to reach Delhi without being arrested. “We will reach straight at the venue of the dharna as we are sure that our community members will reach Delhi. Stopping farmers forcibly is something that will only add to problems. The government should rather allow us to reach Delhi and protest peacefully”, said many elderly farmers.Rallies against Haryana GovtJathas of farmers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) went to Delhi from the holy city's golden gate and Tarn Taran's Harike Pattan on Friday. They also organised rallies at Harike and their leaders condemned the Manohar Lal Khattar government for its oppressive action on farmers heading to Delhi. The leaders stressed that the farmers should remain calm before the repression. “We have made all possible arrangements of meal and shelter,” said Satnam Singh Pannu, President, KMSC.
28-11-2020||Bathinda||Shaheed Bhagat Singh invoked to inspire protesters||
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder slams Haryana for using ‘brute force’ against farmers||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow the agitating farmers to enter Delhi, but slammed the ML Khattar government in Haryana for its continued use of “brute force” to stop farmers even after the Union Government’s conciliatory move.Though the Central Government had allowed the farmers to enter the national capital to exercise their democratic right to protest, the Haryana government was engaged in a confrontationist approach against the farmers moving towards Delhi, said the Chief Minister, condemning the Khattar government’s actions.“What’s the need for such harsh measures? This barbarism needs to stop right now @mlkhattar ji,” said the Chief Minister, flaying the vicious manner in which the Haryana Government was treating the innocent and peaceful farmers.He expressed shock at the methods used by Haryana in its desperate bid to stop the farmers, including destruction of public property by digging up the national highway. “The farmers did not inflict even an iota of damage to any public property over the past three months of their protest, and here is a state government that is brazenly and shamelessly digging up roads made of public money,” he quipped.Captain Amarinder also reiterated his appeal to the Central Government to initiate immediate talks to address farmers’ concerns on the farm laws and resolve the simmering issue. Having taken the first step towards finding a peaceful and amicable solution to the problem, the Centre should now move quickly towards holding further talks with the kisan unions to thrash out the problem triggered by the agricultural legislations which have threatened the lives and livelihoods of the farmers.
28-11-2020||Ludhiana||Railways yet to restore train services fully||The Railways have not been able to restore the train services fully, even though the farmers have suspended the ‘rail roko’ agitation, which threw the rail traffic in the region off track for over two months.Some Covid special and festival trains have commenced operations, but seven Amritsar-bound trains were still being short-terminated before the scheduled destination while some other trains were being diverted via alternate routes.Railway officials said Korba-Amritsar-Korba Chhattisgarh Express and Amritsar-Saharsa Festival Special trains would short-terminate at and short-originate from Ambala Cantt till November 29. These trains would remain partially cancelled between Ambala Cantt and Amritsar.Nanded-Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express will short-terminate at and short-originate from New Delhi up to November 29. The pair of trains would remain partially cancelled between New Delhi and Amritsar. — OC
28-11-2020||Bathinda||AAP MLAs detained outside PM’s house||AAP’s Punjab legislators and workers protested outside PM Narendra Modi’s residence in Delhi on Friday. In a video clip, police personnel can purportedly be seen dragging AAP members into vehicles while they raised slogans against the Centre.Talking to The Tribune over phone, AAP MLA from Talwandi Sabo, Prof Baljinder Kaur said, “We were protesting peacefully in front of the PM’s residence but the police dragged us around before putting us into their vehicles. This won’t dissuade us from supporting farmers.”“We are ready to give our lives for our farmers, you cannot suppress our voices,” tweeted Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema. — TNS
28-11-2020||Bathinda||Health Dept staff  announce support to stir||Extending their support to farmers’ stir, Health Department employees, including doctors, staff nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists and Class IV employees, staged a protest against the Union Government at the Civil Hospital in Bathinda on Friday. They also collected donations from staff members which contributed for the farmers’ stir.Dr Gurmail, president, PCMS Association, said, “We stand firmly with the farmers in their stir against the farm laws. If these anti-farmer laws are not revoked, we will intensify our stir in the coming days.” — TNS
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t fall into Centre’s trap: Congress||Punjab Congress leaders today expressed apprehensions that the Centre was trying to weaken farmers’ agitation by restricting them to Nirankari Ground in Burari, instead of allowing them to protest on roads leading to the national capital.Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu said since the farmers had surrounded Delhi from all sides, the BJP was trying to take them off roads so that their agitation was weakened.“I appeal to the farmers not to leave roads and continue with the peaceful agitation. At the moment, the agitation by farmers was bearing fruits and the Centre was under pressure to accept their demands,” said Bittu.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar said the Delhi Police had converted the grounds at Burari jail. Questioning Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar asking farmers to postpone their agitation till December 3, Jakhar asked: “What was stoapping it from starting the dialogue straight away?”It is going to be a long-drawn battle against the Central farm laws, he said, adding, “It would not be over by December 3 as I do not expect much from the meeting. Seeing the enormity of the protest, the Prime Minister should immediately suspend the laws.”
28-11-2020||Bathinda||Farmers staying back tend fields of protesters||Even as farmers in large numbers have left for Delhi to protest the contentious farm laws, many are holding the fort back home, irrigating fields, spreading fertilisers and guarding freshly sown fields not only theirs but others as well in the Malwa region.In Bathinda and Mansa districts, special announcements were made from village gurdwaras that while farmers on the frontline battled it out against the farm laws, those staying back would ensure fields weren’t neglected.Gurmeet Singh, a farmer from Mehma Serja village, said: “It is our responsibility to look after fields of our farmer-brothers while they participate in the nationwide protest against the farm laws. We will ensure that their fields are taken care of.”Interestingly, while neighbours and those in close circles of farmers have volunteered for the job, it’s the youngsters in villages in particular who have shown a keen interest in taking care of the crops.Didar Singh, another farmer from Bhaini Bagha village in Mansa, have been exhorting his friends and acquaintances to shun any personal differences and stand united in this phase of adversity. He is urging residents of around half a dozen villages from his block to take care of the fields of farmers who have gone to Delhi.Jagshir Singh Jhumba, general secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), who has gone to Delhi to take part in protest, said over the phone: “The unity and brotherhood exhibited by farmers staying back in villages has infused a new confidence among protesters. Marching towards Delhi, they are no longer worried about their fields.”
28-11-2020||Patiala||Punjab sees 25K more farm fires this year||Despite spending over Rs 1,500 crore on subsidised machinery and advertisement campaigns to curb the rising trend of air pollution, Punjab farmers defied all bans and continued to burn stubble. This post-harvest stubble-burning season, which ended on Thursday, Punjab recorded over 76,000 farm fires this season. This is roughly 25,000 cases more than the last year.The state government has imposed an environmental penalty of Rs 3.14 crore on defaulting farmers for burning stubble, but merely Rs 6.5 lakh has been recovered. This season, farmers burnt their paddy stubble with impunity in their fields openly and many a times causing smog-like conditions alongside the state and national highways without any fear of authorities.Officials claimed that Punjab had almost 75,000 machines worth over Rs 1,200 crore to manage the crop residue yet it witnessed over 76,000 incidents, highest in the past three years and more than the combined cases of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Banking on 75,000 machines, the Agriculture Department had expected to manage stubble on 20 lakh hectares and around 40 per cent less cases of farm fires.Punjab is also providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment and has spent lakhs of rupees on awareness campaigns against stubble burning.Senior officials said what was worrying that despite the fact that the area under paddy had decreased by 2.5 lakh hectares due to crop diversification, the farm fires had increased.A senior PPCB official said as compared to 51,703 farm fires in 2018 and 52,790 in 2019, this season the farmers in Punjab recorded a whopping 76,590 such incidents. “This season has taught us a number of things and there is a need to introspect as despite efforts, there is an increase in the incidents. Either our policies are wrong or farmers are adamant.”
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Delimitation process over, local body polls by February 13||After completing the delimitation exercise, the Local Government on Friday notified the conduct of elections to nine municipal corporations, 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats by February 13. Information in this regard has been sent to the State Election Commission for necessary action.BYELECTION IN FOUR WARDSByelections to one ward of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation and three wards of the Mahilpur and Mullanpur Dakha Municipal Councils have also been notifiedBesides, byelections to one ward of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation and three wards of the Mahilpur and Mullanpur Dakha Municipal Councils have also been notified.A senior government functionary said the matter to decide the dates of the elections would come up for discussion in the coming Cabinet meeting and it would be intimated to the Election Commission.The Capt Amarinder Singh led-Congress government has contemplated to hold the elections by January-mid next year, as urban areas are crucial in wake of the BJP announcing to flex its muscle in the coming Assembly polls.The Municipal Corporations that are going to the polls are Abohar, Batala, Kapurthala, SAS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Phagwara, Moga and Bathinda.In the last Cabinet meeting held on November 18, the CM had decided to call a special meeting to discuss the conduct of impending local body elections.Earlier, a Cabinet sub-committee of ministers comprising Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Badal, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Vijay Inder Singla and Sunder Sham Arora, who held a meeting with the CM, had unanimously agreed to recommend the State Election Commission to hold the elections tentatively on October 11. However, it could not be held due to Covid.
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Court refuses to quash FIR against former MLA, kin||Eight years after a relative of an ex-MLA was booked for forged MLA sticker, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has refused to quash the FIR against the former legislator and her kin. The Bench ruled that her statements on scanning MLA stickers and using these on other vehicles, prima facie, indicated “some misuse”.Parmod Arora and the ex-legislator had moved the court for quashing FIR registered on July 18, 2012, at airport police station in Amritsar for cheating, forgery and other offences under the IPC.Appearing before Justice Sanjay Kumar’s Bench, their counsel contended Amritsar Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) had refused to accept the cancellation report filed by the police, requiring the petitioners to face trial.Justice Kumar observed the then MLA’s daughter was married to Arora’s son. The FIR said a vehicle driven by Arora with MLA sticker affixed on the windshield was stopped at a barrier on the airport road by Inspector Kuldeep Singh, who took possession of the scanned sticker after asking him to remove it.He observed apparently the police filed a cancellation after inquiry, but the CJM sent the case back for further investigation. However, another cancellation report was submitted.Present before the trial court, inspector Kuldeep Singh stated he did not agree with the cancellation report. In a separate statement, the inspector said he had done his duty honestly and had caught the petitioner driving the vehicle while carrying the sticker’s scanned copy.The CJM also took note of the fact that the then MLA had made a statement during the inquiry that two car stickers were issued to her as she was a member of the Legislative Assembly. She kept the scanned copies with her and put them on other cars also. She had put the sticker’s scanned copy on Arora’s car. When the car was returned, her driver forgot to remove the sticker though he had taken it off the windshield.Justice Kumar observed the inspector’s categorical statement was that the vehicle was bearing the sticker on the windshield. The then MLA herself admitted during the inquiry that the sticker was not to be used for this car and was allotted for her car. “As to whether such misuse would amount to commission of offences alleged requires a full-fledged trial and adjudication by the trial court. At this stage, no grounds are made out to quash either the FIR or the summoning order passed therein,” he asserted.
28-11-2020||Jalandhar||11 teachers test positive in Jalandhar district||One teacher has died and 11 tested positive for Covid after the schools reopened in the district on October 19. A 57-year-old teacher of Government Senior Secondary School, Lambra, lost her life to Covid on Thursday night.812 fresh cases, 28 fatalities in a dayThe pandemic has impacted five schools in the district. While five teachers tested positive and one lost life at Government Senior Secondary School, Lambra, four schools in the Phillaur block have Covid-positive staff. A worker at Lambra school has also tested positive. Two teachers from Government Senior Secondary School, Moron; two at Government Senior Secondary School, Dayalpur; and one each at Government Senior Secondary School, Bharsinghpura and Phillaur, have tested positive.With the Covid scenario escalating in the district, the Government School Teachers’ Union has demanded that the three-hour limit for teachers to be present at the school be strictly implemented as many principals were calling teachers at their whims and making them stay long hours and attend meetings even when attendance at school was low.Despite two teachers and one worker having tested positive, the Lambra school resumed work after staying closed for three days.Sources in the village said, “Villagers have started referring to the school as ‘Covid spreader’. Teachers are constantly testing positive and one of them even died. Tests shall be conducted at the school tomorrow again. When recurring Covid cases are coming from the school, the entire staff should be sent to 14-day quarantine. But the teachers are still coming.”While teachers had initially been anticipating a three-hour work session after schools opened, many said principals were forcing them to stay put for five to six hours.Karnail Phillaur of the Government School Teachers’ Union said, “One of the teachers had died and 11tested positive. Parents are asked to write they shall be responsible if their children tested positive. What about teachers?”Harinder Pal, DEO (Secondary), said, “All schools are calling teachers as per the protocol. It is the principal’s prerogative to call teachers and it’s also necessary in view of the ongoing PTMs. All government offices are open. We are also conducting free testing of our teachers. Eleven teachers have tested positive, but all protocols and precautions are being taken. Some teachers also picked up Covid at home.”
28-11-2020||Ferozepur||BSF seizes heroin worth Rs 40 crore||In two incidents related to seizure of drugs, the 29th Battalion of the BSF recovered 13 packets of heroin weighing 8.020 kg along with one pistol. As per information available, the market price of the recovered consignment is around Rs 40 crore.BSF DIG, Ferozepur Sector, Surinder Mehta said the consignment was recovered following specific inputs after which a search operation was carried out.BSF officials said six packets of heroin weighing 1.270 kg were recovered last night near the Jagdish border outpost (BOP) while seven packets weighing 6.750 kg along with a pistol were recovered during the wee hours today near DT Mall BOP in the sectorEarlier on November 18, men of the 136th Battalion of the BSF had recovered seven packets of heroin (weighing 7.528 kg) worth Rs 38 crore in the international market.As per information available, 477.953 kg heroin has been recovered this year till now. Besides the drugs, 36 weapons along with 57 magazines and 650 rounds have also been recovered by the BSF. — OC
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 50L for martyred sepoy’s kin||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday announced an ex gratia ofRs 50 lakh, along with a government job to a family member of Sepoy Sukhbir Singh of 18 JAK Rifles who was martyred in the unprovoked firing by Pakistan army along the LoC in the Sunderbani sector of J&K on Friday.Paying homage to the martyr and extending his sympathy to the bereaved family, the CM said 22-year-old Sepoy Sukhbir Singh was a brave and highly motivated soldier. “The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty.” — TNS
28-11-2020||Bathinda||4 Punjabis in British Columbia Cabinet||Re-elected British Columbia Premier John Horgan on Thursday included four Punjabi Indo-Canadian MLAs out of total nine, who won the Assembly polls in Canada.Two MLAs Harry Bains and Ravi Kahlon have been made Ministers while Rachna Singh and Niki Sharma have been made Parliamentary Secretary.Harry Bains has been reappointed as the Minister of Labour in British Columbia. He has been the NDP MLA for Surrey-Newton since 2005. Bains tweeted: “I am so humbled and honoured to have the privilege to serve as your Minister of Labour once again-to continue the work of making British Columbia’s workplaces the safest in the country. I look forward to getting back to work! Thank you once again.”Delta North MLA Ravi Kahlon has been appointed as the Minister of Jobs, Economic Recovery and Innovation. Kahlon in his first term as an MLA served as the Parliamentary Secretary for Sports and Multiculturalism and then for Forests, Lands, Natural Resource Operations and Rural Development.Kahlon tweeted: “Today, Premier John Horgan named me the Minister for Jobs, Economic Recovery and Innovation. I’m honoured and look forward to working with our amazing team. Thank you to my family and friends..thinking of my dad today”.Another Punjabi who will feature in the government will be Rachna Singh, who has been named the Parliamentary Secretary for Anti-racism Initiatives.Talking to The Tribune over phone, Rachna said: “I am so honoured to be appointed as the Parliamentary Secretary for Anti-racism Initiatives, something which has always been close to my heart. Looking forward to work with Attorney General David Eby on this important profile”.She said: “She will continue her fight against racism in Canada and work for Surrey to make life better and more affordable here.”Meanwhile, Indian-origin NDP MLA Niki Sharma has been named the Parliamentary Secretary for Community Development and Non-profits. She is lawyer by profession and has been elected as MLA from Vancouver-Hastings. Niki tweeted: “Congratulations to the new Cabinet. Thanks John Horgan for the opportunity to be the first ever Parliamentary Secretary for Community Development and Non-profits. Such an important sector in BC that makes a difference to many. Looking forward to representing it in Victoria.”However, veteran Jinny Sims, who had been a Cabinet minister when the first Horgan government was formed, has been dropped.
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Can’t seek recall of judicial orders, if not a party: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that a person cannot seek recall or review of judicial orders, if he is not a party to the proceedings. The ruling came as Justice Rajan Gupta asserted it could not be ruled out that an application seeking review of an order passed in the sacrilege matter was filed with some “oblique motive”.The applicant, Sukhjinder Singh, was seeking review of Justice Gupta’s order dated January 25, 2019, upholding a Vidhan Sabha resolution to withdraw consent for a CBI probe. Punjab Advocate-General Atul Nanda had contended the applications were “hopelessly time-barred and not maintainable” as applicant was not a party to the petition.Justice Gupta asserted it was inexplicable why applicant, not a party to the proceedings, approached the court after huge delay for review. “Even hearing of the writ petition continued for a number of days, but neither he filed any petition nor any application for impleadment. Since the applicant was not a party, he cannot seek recall or review of the order passed by this court in view of Section 362, CrPC,” Justice Gupta said.In his order uploaded on the HC website today, Justice Gupta added the scope of review jurisdiction was limited. In case the applicant felt he had an independent cause of action, he could always avail appropriate remedy. “Present application is, thus, not only misconceived, but frivolous in nature,” Justice Gupta added.Justice Gupta added the court had dismissed the petition seeking quashing of notifications withdrawing the investigation from CBI after detailed hearing and analysis of the questions of law. The court held that the state was entitled to issue notification withdrawing the case from the CBI pursuant to resolution passed in the Vidhan Sabha, particularly when investigation by the CBI had not made any headway.“Keeping in view the facts of the case and the questions of law raised before the court, it dismissed the writ petition.... The plea for review of order dated January 25, 2019, is hereby rejected. The application is dismissed,” Justice Gupta said.
28-11-2020||Amritsar||Jagir Kaur elected SGPC president for fourth time||Senior SAD leader Bibi Jagir Kaur was elected president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for the fourth time at an annual general House meeting held here today. She succeeds Gobind Singh Longowal.Held post in 2005Jalandhar: Many years after Bibi Jagir Kaur got mired in a controversy relating to her daughter’s death, the SAD once again appointed her as the SGPC chief. A few days after she was inducted as a minister in the SAD-BJP government in 2012, she was convicted and jailed for the “forcible abortion” of her daughter. Even after she got bail, she remained sidelined by the party till she was appointed as the chief of the Istri Akali Dal about three years ago. On her appointment, Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira said, “The decision to appoint Bibi Jagir Kaur, a tainted and corrupt leader, as SGPC president exhibits total political bankruptcy of the SAD, besides the fact that she is a known rubber stamp of the Badals.” TNSA day earlier, members owing allegiance to the SAD had entrusted all rights to party president Sukhbir Singh Badal to take a final call on their behalf.As Jagir Kaur’s name was announced by Longowal and seconded by former SGPC acting president Alwinder Pal Singh Pakhoke, it was opposed by some members who proposed the name of rebel ‘Akali’ leader Mithu Singh Kahneke against her.Dhami appointed chief secyAmritsar: The SGPC’s general House on Friday appointed Harjinder Singh Dhami as honorary chief secretary. Dhami, a law graduate, has been SGPC member since 1996 and also served as general secretary during the last tenure. His appointment was confirmed by passing a resolution read by newly appointed SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur during the general House meeting. The post has been vacant after Dr Roop Singh resigned on August 24. While passing another resolution, the House urged the Centre to reopen the Kartarpur corridor. TNSConsequently, the voting process was adopted in which Jagir Kaur emerged as the winner with a convincing margin. She polled 122 of the total 143 votes.She was first elected as SGPC president in 1999. In 2000, she was re-elected but during this term she resigned following the controversy in which she was accused of allegedly killing her daughter.During her third tenure, she led the Sikh body from September 2004 to November 2005. She was acquitted by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in December 2018.Surjit Singh Bhittewad was elected as senior vice-president, Baba Buta Singh junior vice-president and Bhagwant Singh Sialka general secretary.Jagir Kaur has proposed the name of Kahneke to be included in the 11-member executive. The other executive members include Baldev Singh Chungha, Baba Charanjit Singh Jassowal, Navtej Singh Kaoni, Satwinder Singh Tohra, Ajmer Singh Khera, Darshan Singh, Bhupinder Singh Balwan, Harbhajan Singh Masana, Malkit Kaur Kamalpur and Amrik Singh Shahpur.
28-11-2020||Faridkot||Kotkapura case: Punjab approaches court for speedy trial||Seeking a fast-track trial in the Kotkapura police firing incident of October 2015, the state government on Friday moved an application, asking the court of District and Sessions Judge, Faridkot, to frame charges against the accused in the case.Many senior police officers, including former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, and former SAD MLA Mantar Singh Brar are accused in the attempt-to-murder case in the aftermath of sacrilege incidents at Bargari.In the application, the public prosecution on the behalf of the state government urged that though the chargesheet in this case was filed in May 2019, but the charges against the accused are yet to be framed.Expressing apprehension of the influential accused manipulating the witnesses, the office of public prosecution said there were over 100 witnesses and there are high chances of some of these might succumb to the pressure of influential accused in the case. In the police firing incident, many persons had sustained serious injuries.Though the Special Investigation Team (SIT) had filed the chargesheet in this case in May 2019, there has been no visible progress in this case in the past over 18 months. The court has issued notices to the counsels of the accused in this case for December 18.In October this year, the SIT had nominated the then DGP Sumedh Singh Saini as an accused in this case.
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||High Court notice on petition alleging police inaction||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice of motion to the State of Punjab and other respondents on a petition alleging police inaction filed by a woman, who had alleged rape against Lok Insaaf Party leader and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains.Taking up the petition filed through advocate Harpreet Singh Brar, Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill also fixed April 23, 2021, as the next date of hearing in the matter. The petition was filed days after the petitioner sent an email to the DGP to place before him the events in exactitude.Among other things, the petitioner has alleged that she, in her letter, also mentioned how she was pressured to be withdraw her complaint. Her brother and father were being constantly threatened on the phone and being approach personally by close aides of the respondent. — TNS
28-11-2020||---||BSF man held for espionage||The State Special Operation Cell has reportedly arrested a BSF man, Kale Parkash, on the charges of espionage. The police have confiscated his mobile phone and sent it for forensic examination to ascertain his links.According to information, he was posted at the International Border (IB) and came in contact with the Pakistan’s ISI. He allegedly shared some vital information with Pakistan-based handlers. He was produced in a court and remanded to police custody.
28-11-2020||Abohar||Now, Abohar firms to pay user charge for waste collection||The Abohar Municipal Corporation has modified its bylaws under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, under which the MC will now be able to collect user charges from sellers who go for plastic packaging. Abohar has, perhaps, become the first MC in the region to come up with such a unique initiative.MC Commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish said the MC had to spend Rs 50 lakh per month to get the polythene waste picked up. Besides, it also adversely impacted the environment.Major courier companies and online retailers like Amazon, Flipkart, Snapdeal etc and food delivery companies like Zomato, Swiggy, among others, will be charged Rs 5 per delivery. Companies which opt for multilayer plastic packaging, such as Coke, Pepsi, Hindustan Unilever, Britannia etc, will be charged Re 1 on items sold above Rs 5.Kaplish said Rs 50 would be levied on the sale of electronic goods worth more than Rs 2,000, Rs 100 on sale of motor vehicles and Rs 500 on sale of four wheeler. Besides, wine /liquor/ IMFL/beer sellers would have to pay Rs 2 per bottle for country-made liquor and Rs 10 per bottle for IMFL sold in the city. — OC
28-11-2020||Amritsar||Jatha leaves for Pak to celebrate Guru’s 551st birth anniversary||Since Covid-19 restrictions came into force in March this year, a first jatha crossed over the Attari-Wagah land route to celebrate the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev at Nankana Sahib in Pakistan.Of 1,500 pilgrims, only 960 could get five-day visa, exclusively for Nankana Sahib. The occasion falls on November 30. The pilgrims would return on December 1.The SGPC-sponsored jatha comprising 325 members was flagged off by former SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal from the Golden Temple premises. As many as 504 pilgrims had applied for Pakistan visa.Similarly, of the 172 devotees who had applied through Ferozepur-based Bhai Mardana Kirtan Darbar Society, only 154 were given visas. Other devotees who could procure visa through organisations, like Khalra Mission Committee, Nankana Sahib Committee, Delhi Committee, Sukhmani Sahib Committee, Haryana, crossed the border separately.Amid the pandemic, it was mandatory for every visitor to get a Covid-19 negative report, along with other requisite documents to gain entry to Pakistan. The SGPC had conducted a two-day free testing camp for the devotees going under its umbrella.
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Bribery case: CBI seeks IGP Dhillon’s voice sample||A CBI court issued a notice to Punjab Inspector General of Police (IGP) Gurinder Singh Dhillon on an application of the investigation agency, seeking direction to him to give his voice sample in a bribery case.Special Judge Sushil Kumar Garg directed Dhillon to file the reply on December 2 on the application of the Central Bureau of Investigation.Court asks IGP to file reply on Dec 2The CBI said the application had been filed after the accused refused the agency’s request to give his voice sample in a case registered on August 14, 2018, on the basis of a written complaint of Shiv Kumar Sharma.In the complaint, it was alleged that Gurinder Singh Dhillon, the then IGP, Ferozepur Range, had demanded a bribe of Rs 22 lakh. One Ashok Goyal had accepted Rs 5 lakh in Chandigarh on behalf of Dhillon on August 9, 2018. Further, Rs 17 lakh were demanded for giving a clean chit to the complainant, who was facing a criminal case in Ferozepur and for returning important seized documents. After the registration of the case, a trap was laid and Goyal was arrested amid the presence of independent witnesses.The CBI alleged that after acceptance of the bribe from Sharma, Goyal had called up Dhillon. The conversation between the two was recorded in the presence of independent witnesses and sealed on the spot. The agency said prior to laying of the trap by the CBI, the matter was discussed by the accused with Dhillon.For the purpose of investigation of case, the recorded voice was required to be compared with the Dhillon’s voice sample, it said.
