28-12-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 13 more deaths, 269 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Monday reported 13 more deaths due to COVID-19, pushing the toll to 5,312 while 269 fresh cases took the infection count to 1,65,668.The state has 4,014 active COVID-19 cases, according to a medical bulletin.Mohali reported 52 new cases, Jalandhar 47 and Amritsar 27 among other districts.A total of 450 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,56,342.Fifteen critical patients are on ventilator, while 77 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 38,32,411 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
28-12-2020||New Delhi||Several states in grip of cold wave; North to witness chilly New Year's eve||North India is bracing for a chilly New Year eve as the night temperatures in the region are expected to fall by up to five notches over the next three days, the IMD said on Monday, when a cold wave swept across several states.A cold wave is likely to grip parts of Delhi also over the next four days as frosty winds from the Himalayas have started blowing towards the plains, weather officials said.The minimum and maximum temperatures in the national capital settled at 5.6 degrees Celsius and 20.9 degrees Celsius, respectively.The IMD said cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are also likely in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh. Isolated cold wave conditions are likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha on December 30-31.“Fall in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees Celsius (likely) over northwest India during the next 3 days (29th-31st December),” the IMD said. There will be a slight rise in the temperature by 2-3 degrees Celsius thereafter.An orange colour-coded warning has also been issued to the states. The IMD said cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and north Rajasthan between December 28 and 30.“Dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and west Uttar Pradesh in the morning hours from December 31 to January 2,” the IMD added.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature dropped by 4 to 5 notches in most parts of Rajasthan due to rain and snowfall in the Himalayan region, a Meteorological department official said on Monday.Radheshyam Sharma, the Director of Meteorological Department, said the present effect of conditions during winter is likely to continue till December 31 in the state.Due to an active Western Disturbance in north India over the last two days along with rains and snowfall in many parts of north India, the minimum temperature dropped by four to five notches in most parts of the state, he said.The lowest minimum temperature in the plains on Monday was 0.6 degree Celsius in Churu in western Rajasthan followed by 1 degree Celsius in Bhilwara in eastern Rajasthan, Sharma said.The lowest minimum overall was minus 0.2 degrees Celsius in Mount Abu.The Met department has issued an alert for cold weather conditions in the districts of Jaipur, Ajmer, Kota and Bharatpur division during the next two days.In Uttar Pradesh, very light rain and thundershowerswere witnessed at isolated places over western parts, but there was no major fluctuation in day temperatures in the state on Monday, according to the weather department.The weather remained dry over eastern Uttar Pradesh and the mercury hovered around normal levels in all divisions of the state, it said.The lowest temperature in the state was recorded at 4.1 degrees Celsius at Churk, while Jhansi registered the highest temperature of 27.6 degrees Celsius.In Jammu and Kashmir, many areas in the higher reaches received fresh snowfall even as there was improvement in the minimum temperature across the Valley, providing some respite from the cold to the residents.Fresh snowfall was recorded in many areas in the higher reaches of the valley and the Jammu region during the night, the officials said.They said the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg, in north Kashmir, recorded two inches of snowfall, while Pahalgam resort, in the south, and Sonamarg resort, in central Kashmir, each received around an inch of snowfall.Many areas in the Jammu region also received fresh snowfall, they said.Meanwhile, piercing cold weather conditions prevailed in most parts of Punjab and Haryana which received overnight rains.Fog reduced visibility in the morning at various places in Punjab including Ludhiana, Patiala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Adampur and Halwara, they said. --- PTI
28-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farmers ‘porting’ mobile connections in large numbers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 28A large numbers of protesting farmers are reportedly porting their mobile phone connections from Jio to other companies in protest against the three farm laws.Even other mobile companies have started holdings camps at farmers protest and people are getting their connection changed.The farmers are alleging that the Narendra Modi government has enacted the new farm laws only to benefit big corporate houses. Irked over which, they have started porting their mobile network connection from Jio to other companies in protest.Speaking to The Tribune over phone, Baljit Singh, IT wing head of Kisan Ekta Morcha, said, “We have given a call to boycott Jio sims around 10 days ago. Since then more than seven lakh Jio connections have been ported to other networks.”He said, “This is the estimate we have made from our state-level, district-level and block-level farmer unions committees and for officials figure, we have written to Airtel to give us exact figures about the number of people ported from Jio to their network in four states and we will ask figures from Vodafone-Idea as well.”He added that they had started a campaign boycott Jio and were getting a good response. The mobile companies have also set up camps at the protest sites, where on daily basis large number of farmers are getting their connection ported from Jio.He claimed that Jio has faced huge loss due to this campaign and irked over which they had lodged a complaint against Airtel and Idea with TRAI.Jagsir Singh Jhumba, a BKU Ugrahan leader, said, “A large number of farmers have ported their Jio connections to other mobile network in protest as few days back. Another mobile service provider organised a camp at Jeeda toll plaza and around 150 protesters had ported theirconnections.”Further, he added, “31 farmers unions have now taken a decision that they would not damage mobile towers as it is affecting their protest.”Apart from this, farmers at many places had cut the power supply to Jio mobile towers. Few days back, villagers had disconnected the power supply to the mobile tower in Bhaini Bhaga village in Mansa and Behman Diwana village in Bathinda.Few days back, Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd has written a letter to the telecom regulator, alleging that rivals Bharti Airtel Ltd and VodafoneIdea Ltd (Vi) are carrying out unethical and anti-competitive mobile number porting to capitalise on the ongoing farmers’ protest. To counter Jio, Airtel and Vi have called the allegations “baseless”, urging the regulator to dismiss them.
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM warns of strict action against any vandalism of mobile towers in state||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday warned of strict action against vandalism of mobile towers and disruption of telecom services in the state.Making it clear that he will not tolerate destruction of any private or public property in Punjab, an official press note quoted the chief minister as saying that he was forced to toughen his stance as his repeated appeals to perpetrators of such acts had been ignored.Singh said he will not let Punjab by plunged into anarchy at any cost and nobody can be allowed to take law into their hands. Pointing out that his government had  not objected to, or stopped, peaceful protests in the state against the Centre’s black Farm Laws for the past several months, he said that damage to property and inconvenience to the citizens could not, however, be endured.The Chief Minister’s warning came as the total number of mobile towers impacted in the state went up to 1561, of which 25 had been physically damaged, allegedly by some farmers and their supporters in violation of the directions of the Kisan Unions to keep their protests against the Centre’s controversial agriculture reforms peaceful.“With examinations, especially board exams, nearing and students dependent on online education amid the Covid pandemic, such communication breakdown could seriously affect their future,” he said.Of the 1561 towers affected over the past few days, 146 were impacted since Monday morning due to disruption of power supply to 32 towers, which led to disconnection of services of the remaining 114. So far, 433 towers have been repaired, according to an official spokesperson. The state has a total of 21306 mobile towers spread across its 22 districts.
28-12-2020||Ludhiana/Nawanshahr||Punjab starts dry run of COVID-19 vaccination in two districts||The exercise to conduct a dry run of the distribution and administration of the COVID-19 vaccine over a two-day period in two selected Punjab districts began on Monday, health officials said.The districts of Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr) have been selected for the dry run, aimed at testing the laid out mechanisms for the vaccination roll-out in the health system, said Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.He said it would provide insights on any gaps or bottlenecks in vaccine distribution and its administration to the population so that those could be addressed before the commencement of the COVID-19 immunisation drive.The minister said immunisation partners United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) would support the dry run at the state level.The dry run has been planned by the Union Ministry of Health and Family welfare in Punjab and three other states, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, and Gujarat, he said.In Ludhiana, the drill for COVID-19 vaccination has started in full swing.Seven centres have been set up in the district, two of which are meant for the city and the remaining five for Jagraon, Rajkot, Machiwara, Payal and Khanna that fall in the district.While the centres set-up in Ludhiana for the dry run are housed in Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and the Civil Hospital, the centres at other places are at the respective government hospitals.All beneficiaries are to be compulsorily pre-registered on the CoWIN portal, which was formed by the Central government for monitoring the delivery of COVID-19 vaccines, and photo IDs will be required for the same.Health officials in Ludhiana and Nawanshahr said at each centre 25 people registered online would be selected for the dry run.They will be sent an SMS each on their respective mobile phones, and these SMSs would be treated as identity proofs for entry into their allotted centres on Tuesday.Each centre is equipped with a team of five doctors.Police personnel will also be deployed at each centre, said Dr Bagga.He said people in large numbers are getting themselves registered online.In Nawanshahr, during the dry run, stock was taken of the requisite infrastructure and uploading of data like the names of centres where the vaccination will be undertaken, assigning of duties to the medical staff and information about the persons who will administer the vaccine along with their supervisors.District Immunisation Officer, Nawanshahr, Dr Davinder Dhanda said the necessary infrastructure at each centre included a waiting area, an injection room, and an observation room where the person undergoing 'dummy vaccination' on Tuesday during the dry run would be kept for half an hour.As per Civil Surgeon, Nawanshahr, Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia, a special training workshop of personnel involved in the dry run exercise was held here on Sunday under the supervision of Dr Balwinder Kaur, State Immunisation Officer.Surveillance Medical Officer, WHO, Dr Vikram Gupta; Surveillance Medical Officer, Jalandhar, Dr Gagan Sharma; and Project Officer UNDP, Hoshiarpur, Dr Meet had given detailed instructions about the dry run exercise at the workshop.Dr Bhatia said the objective of the dry run of the COVID-19 vaccine was to introduce the prescribed methods for vaccination in the health system.“The exercise will provide information about any internal deficiencies or obstacles before the commencement of COVID-19 vaccination campaign so that these problems could be addressed in time. The main objective of this trial is to evaluate the functional feasibility of CoWIN portal,” he said.The dry-run exercise will be conducted at five locations in Nawanshahr district – District Hospital, Nawanshahr; IVY Hospital, Nawanshahr; Community Health Centre, Mukandpur; Primary Health Centre, Jadla; and Sub-Centre, Usmanpur.Meanwhile, Health Minister Sidhu said the vaccine was planned to be rolled out in a phased manner and the priority groups comprise healthcare workers, frontline workers, the elderly and people with co-morbidities.He said details of the 1.5 lakh healthcare workers from private and public facilities had already been uploaded on the CoWIN portal. PTI
28-12-2020||New Delhi||Over 1,500 telecom towers damaged in Punjab||More than 1,500 telecom towers in Punjab have been damaged by farmers protesting against the three farm laws, disrupting services in some pockets, sources said.Power supply to towers that relay telecom signals was snapped and cables cut in several parts of the state as farmers vented their anger on the infrastructure owned by billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s firm Jio as they saw him along with infrastructure tycoon Gautam Adani as major beneficiaries of the new laws.Neither Ambani’s Reliance group nor Adani’s companies are into the business of procuring foodgrains from farmers.“Till yesterday, 1,411 towers were damaged and today the count has gone well past 1,500,” a source with knowledge of the matter said.In Jalandhar, some bundles of Jio’s fibre cable were also burnt.Jio has 9,000 plus towers in the state.Another source said the most common way of damaging the telecom towers was to cut off the power supply.In at least one case, the generator at a tower site was physically taken away and allegedly donated to a local gurdwara.Videos of Jio employees being threatened and made to flee have gone viral.The attacks have impacted telecom services and operators are struggling to maintain services in absence of action by law enforcement agencies, the source said.The Punjab chief minister had on Friday appealed to protesting farmers to not cause inconvenience to the general public with such actions and continue to exercise the same restraint as they had shown over the past several months of their agitation.Sources said state police have so far not acted against those damaging telecom towers and even FIRs have not been registered in most cases.According to the Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association (TAIPA), a registered body of telecom infrastructure providers, at least 1,600 towers have been vandalised.These include common access infrastructure as well.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders for over a month now against the three farm laws which they see would user in end to minimum support price (MSP) based procurement of farm produce like wheat and paddy.The government has denied the apprehensions, saying MSP will continue and the new laws only provide farmers an alternative market to sell their produce. — PTI
28-12-2020||Vijay Mohan||Snow, showers bring in cold wave to Northwest; but December rain remains below normal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28 Widespread showers and snow over north-western India in the past 24 hours notwithstanding, rains during the month of December in the region so far remains significantly below normal, with some parts remaining completely dry.From December 1 to December 28, rain in Haryana has been 56 per cent below the long period average for this period, while in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh it is deficient by 20 per cent and 9 per cent, respectively, data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) reveals.Snow and rainfall over the region during the past 24 hours, which was well above normal for this particular day and brought in cold wave conditions and fog, has been attributed to western disturbances prevailing over the western Himalayas and adjoining plains of northwest India. Many areas in the upper reaches of Himachal experienced snow.The departure from normal in the minimum temperature was up to minus seven degrees Celsius in Himachal and up to minus 5 degrees in Haryana and up to minus 3 degrees in Punjab.According to IMD, the minimum as well as maximum temperatures over Northwest India will fall by 3-5 degrees Celsius till December 30 due to the prevailing climatic conditions, with cold to severe cold wave conditions, including ground frost, continuing in some parts of the region.Haryana recorded 2.1 mm rain during this period against the normal of 4.9 per cent, whereas Punjab received 8.4 mm against the normal of 10.5 mm and Himachal received 34.1 mm against the normal of 37.3 mm,In Haryana eight districts, including Fatehabad, Jind, Gurugram, Rewari, Mahendargarh, Mewat, Palwal and Faridabad, which normally receive 2.8 mm to 5.6 mm rain, remained completely dry this month. Barring three districts in the state, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra and Kaithal, which received surplus rain, the remaining districts remained severely deficient.In Punjab, Moga was the sole district not to receive any rain this month. Among the other worst affected districts were Mansa, Sangrur, Barnala and Ludhiana, where the shortfall ranged from 68 per cent to 89 per cent. Rain was above the long period average in the districts of Rupnagar, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur.Rain was above the long period average in six districts of Himachal Pradesh and below in the remaining six. Kinnaur, Shimla and Solan were the worst affected with the shortfall being between 18 per cent to 64 per cent, followed by Lahaul and Spiti, Kullu and Chamba.
28-12-2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana women go on hunger strike against farm laws||When their kin have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for over a month, women from different villages on Monday observed hunger strike here on Ferozepur Road.Notably, the male members of the Bharti Kisan Union (Ugrahan) have been on chain hunger strike for five days now.On sixth day today, a group of women, including Jaspal Kaur, Harjinder Kaur, Paramjeet Kaur, Harbhajan Kaur, Sarabjeet Kaur and Rajinder Kaur, sat on hunger strike here to mark protest against ‘draconian’ farm laws. The kin of three women, who sat on chain hunger strike today, are participating in the Kisan Andolan at Delhi borders. Harjinder Kaur’s husband and son have been participating in the Kisan Andolan at Delhi borders for over a month now.“These new farm laws are against the farmers. Actually, these laws have been enacted to benefit the corporates. Modi Government should meet the demands of farmers and repeal these laws at the earliest. We will continue our agitation till these laws are not revoked,” she said.Paramjeet Kaur and Sarabjit Kaur said that their family members will not come home until the Modi government agrees to repeal the laws.Bharpur Singh of BKU (Ugrahan), who is participating in the ongoing dharna on Ferozepur Roada, said that a large number of women are already protesting at Delhi borders against the new farm laws.“The women are also participating in the protests being held in Ludhiana too. A group of women sat on chain hunger strike here today. Besides, many more women from rural as well as urban areas are going to Delhi for intensifying the Kisan Andolan,” he said.
28-12-2020||Jalandhar||70-year-old Mansa woman dies in accident||A 70-year-old Mansa woman died in a road accident at Fatehabad on Monday morning.She met with the accident while she was crossing the road.Malkiat Kaur was associated with Mazdoor Mukti morcha in Punjab.
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Rains lash parts of Punjab, Haryana||Piercing cold weather conditions prevailed on Monday in most parts of Punjab and Haryana which received overnight rains, Meteorological Department officials said.Fog reduced visibility in the morning at various places in Punjab, including Ludhiana, Patiala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Adampur and Halwara, they said.As biting cold continued, minimum temperatures at most places settled below normal limits.Bathinda was the coldest place in Punjab while Ludhiana braved a cold night at 2.1 degrees Celsius.Patiala, Adampur, Halwara, Faridkot and Gurdaspur also recorded below normal minimums at 3.6 degrees Celsius, 3.4 degrees Celsius, 3.6 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees Celsius and 5.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.However, Amritsar’s minimum settled above normal limits at 7.2 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Narnaul was the coldest place recording a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius. Hisar also reeled under severe cold at 2.7 degrees Celsius.Biting cold also prevailed in Karnal, Rohtak, Sirsa, Bhiwani and Ambala which recorded respective minimums of 3.6 degrees Celsius, 3.2 degrees Celsius, 3.2 degrees Celsius, 4.5 degrees Celsius and 5 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 6.4 degrees Celsius.Some of the places that received rains overnight included Chandigarh (4.3 mm), Ambala (4.5 mm), Amritsar (4.2 mm), Ludhiana (1.6 mm), Patiala (2.2 mm), Pathankot (1.4 mm), Adampur (0.5 mm), Faridkot (1 mm) and Gurdaspur (4.5 mm). PTI
28-12-2020||Pune||Anna Hazare threatens to launch his ‘last protest’ for farmers||Social activist Anna Hazare has threatened to go on a hunger strike if his demands on issues concerning farmers are not met by the Union government by the end of January next year, and said it would be his “last protest”.Speaking to reporters in his Ralegaon Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra on Sunday, Hazare said he had been holding protests for cultivators since the past three years but the government had done nothing to resolve the issues.“The government is just giving empty promises due to which I do not have any trust left (in the government). Let’s see, what action the Centre takes on my demands. They have sought time for a month, so I have given them time till January-end. If my demands are not met, I will resume my hunger strike protest. This would be my last protest,” the 83-year-old said.On December 14, Hazare wrote a letter to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar warning of a hunger strike if his demands like the implementation of the MS Swaminathan Committee’s recommendations and granting autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), were not accepted.Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Haribhau Bagade recently met Hazare to explain him the details of the three farm laws introduced by the Centre.Hazare observed a fast on December 8 in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations demanding a repeal of the agri laws.Farmers have been protesting at borders of Delhi for over a month against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The three farm laws, enacted in September, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting tillers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain. PTI
28-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan: Classical maestros regale city audiences||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 27An evening of cozy renditions at the compact Shri Ram Hall of the Shri Devi Talab Mandir marked the 145th Shri Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan which was held on Sunday.While the world’s oldest Hindustani classical music festival’s 145th edition remained a comparatively small affair this year in the wake of the pandemic, a limited gathering coupled with choicest music from classical maestros made the evening a quaint outing for music lovers.Started with ‘Mangal Dhwani’ from Sanjeev Shankar and Ashwini Shankar, the evening saw ‘Dhrupad Gayan’ from Prashant Mallick and Nishant Mallick, followed by a recital by three Jalandhar stalwarts – a sitar recital by Pandit Manu Seen, who was accompanied by Ustad Kale Ram on tabla and Pandit Ramakant.Pandit Lachman Singh Seen’s son weaved sitar magic into chilly evening. Tabla from veteran Pandit Ramakant and Ustad Kale Ram provided a stirring rhythmic high to the soothing recital.The festival ended with mellifluous strains of ‘Raga Madhuwanti’ crooned by Mishra brothers—Ritesh and Rajnish—with their Benares Gharana magic. Regulars at the festival, the younger Benares Bandhu dressed in traditional blues provided a tinge of much-needed nostalgia to the well acquainted Harivallabh audience. As they joked, they chose ‘Raga Madhuwanti’ for their first recital.Their rousing voices and seasoned vocals brought the festival to a high as it came to a close. The evening regaled the audiences, which had been lookingforward to a concert of refined art for a long time amid the restrictions.The warmth of the music provided a balm to the souls starved of fine arts in winter season.Despite the small gathering and seating as per social distancing protocol – the disciplined audiences seated at equal distances proves a very successful experiment. This example could perhaps be repeated with larger crowd in the coming years. The cozy cushioned gathering in the midst of the winter brought a stirring close to the one-day festival.
28-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Meet the women feeding farmers at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceSinghu, December 27For the past over 11 days, several women are following a 7.30 am to 11 pm schedule. They cook, laugh and share stories at the Singhu border.Cooking langar for hundreds of people, a group of women from Chabbewal village busy themselves with a gruelling 16-17 hours’ schedule to feed the sangat at the Singhu border.The women said they came here to express solidarity with the farmers. Themselves from farming background, they said this was their way of pooling in for the struggle.Simranjit Kaur from Chabbewal says: “We came here about a fortnight ago. While a jatha from Hoshiarpur had originally come in, we have been joined by many more people now. More women keep chipping in, offering their services. Now, it’s not just us. Everyone is keen on helping and doing their bit for farmers. We ourselves are from farming families. This is our way of expressing solidarity with farmers.”With many people to cook for, these women are busy working throughout the day.Manjinder Kaur says: “We get up at 7 am and keep working throughout the day. We take breaks to rest or sleep, but since long hours of prep are needed for the langar, we are mostly cooking throughout the day. Hours go by in cooking, talking and we don’t even come to know how time flies.” Manjit Kaur from Chandigarh joined these women for the langar sewa soon after their arrival.While Manjit’s husband is an ASI, her entire family has come to Singhu border to express solidarity with farmers. Manjit sits with her daughter Sneh Lata Kaur and both mother and daughter prepare chapatis for the sangat.Manjit says: “My son is in Brampton, he couldn’t come. But the rest of us are here. My husband took special leave to come here. He also cooks in between and sometimes sweeps the langar spot. My daughter is also keen on helping. She pursues graduation. Our kids joined us as they were keen on helping farmers. They are all fighting for us. This is the least we can do.”
28-12-2020||---||Repeal agri laws before talks with farmers: Congress MP Ravneet Bittu||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 27Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu today launched a scathing attack on the Centre for “stubbornness” over the farm laws, saying Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his entire Cabinet should sleep on the floor till the time the protesting farmers were out in the cold.Addressing reporters at a press conference held after Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar accused the AICC of ignoring their own Punjab leaders sitting on a dharna at Jantar Mantar for 20 days over the farm laws, Bittu said the farmers would consider trusting the PM if he repealed at least two of the three controversial laws before the December 29 meet with the unions.“The government should stop being so obstinate and should repeal the electricity amendment Act and the one on penalising stubble burning,” Bittu said. He was accompanied by Khadoor Sahib MP JS Gill and Punjab Congress MLAs Kulbir Zira and Ravinder Amla, who have been staging a dharna at Jantar Mantar for days in support of farmers.Bittu said the farmers were very unhappy and their sons who were guarding the borders were “asking daily when the PM would send their parents home. He accused the government of leaving farmers in the lurch — “you don’t want to let him live or die,” he said, asking the PM to sleep on the floor while farmers agitated on Delhi.
28-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Meet the women feeding protesting farmers at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceSinghu, December 27For the past over 11 days, several women are following a 7.30 am to 11 pm schedule. They cook, laugh and share stories at the Singhu border.Cooking langar for hundreds of people, a group of women from Chabbewal village busy themselves with a gruelling 16-17 hours’ schedule to feed the sangat at the Singhu border. The women said they came here to express solidarity with the farmers. Themselves from farming background, they said this was their way of pooling in for the struggle.Simranjit Kaur from Chabbewal says: “We came here about a fortnight ago. While a jatha from Hoshiarpur had originally come in, we have been joined by many more people now. More women keep chipping in, offering their services. Now, it’s not just us. Everyone is keen on helping and doing their bit for farmers. We ourselves are from farming families. This is our way of expressing solidarity with farmers.”With many people to cook for, these women are busy working throughout the day.Manjinder Kaur says: “We get up at 7 am and keep working throughout the day. We take breaks to rest or sleep, but since long hours of prep are needed for the langar, we are mostly cooking throughout the day. Hours go by in cooking, talking and we don’t even come to know how time flies.”Manjit Kaur from Chandigarh joined these women for the langar sewa soon after their arrival. While Manjit’s husband is an ASI, her entire family has come to Singhu border to express solidarity with farmers.Manjit sits with her daughter Sneh Lata Kaur and both mother and daughter prepare chapatis for the sangat.Manjit says: “My son is in Brampton, he couldn’t come. But the rest of us are here. My husband took special leave to come here. He also cooks in between and sometimes sweeps the langar spot. My daughter is also keen on helping. Every day, we cook the langar together. She pursues graduation. Our kids joined us as they were keen on helping farmers. They are all fighting for us. This is the least we can do to help them out in the movement.”
28-12-2020||---||PM recalls sacrifices of Sikh Gurus||New Delhi, December 27Amid the farmers’ protest, Prime Minister Narendra Modi today paid tributes to the Sikh Gurus, including the sons of Guru Gobind Singh, saying their sacrifices helped keep the country’s culture safe.Read more:UP to observe dec 27 as Sahibzada DiwasNew Delhi: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh's sons would be included in the school curriculum in the state. He said December 27 would be observed as Sahibzada Diwas from next year. Speaking at an event to mark the martyrdom day of the Sahibzade and Mata Gujri, he said, “Every child must be taught about their sacrifice. The schools will organise activities, including debates on the martyrdom of the Sahibzade.” TNSOn his ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio programme, the PM said, “We pay tributes to the brave Char Sahibzade, we remember Mata Gujri, we recall the greatness of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur ji, Sri Guru Gobind Singh ji. We remain indebted to them for their sacrifices and spirit of compassion.”He paid tributes to Sahibzade Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh and Mata Gujri for unmatched courage and determination.The PM said he was blessed with the opportunity to visit Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib to pay obeisance to Guru Teg Bahadur on his martyrdom day.Farm leaders, meanwhile, urged the PM to listen to their “mann ki baat” too. There has been no breakthrough after five rounds of talks between the Centre and the protesting farm unions, which have rejected the government proposal to amend the laws and provide a written assurance on the MSP issue.Security remained tight at the Delhi borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri, where the farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of UP, have been camping since the last week of November. Protesters clanged plates and other utensils at the sit-in sites during PM Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ monthly radio address following a call by agitating unions.Haryana farmer leaders appealed to the Prime Minister to listen to the "Mann ki Baat" of farmers and voices of other people as well. Renewing his call for “vocal for local”, he said the hurdles created by the Covid pandemic had taught new lessons to the people and made them resilient. “The call for ‘vocal for local’ is reverberating in each and every household… In such a scenario, it is time to ensurethat our products meet global standards… This is the opportune moment to work with the ethos of ‘zero effect, zero defect’,” he said.The outgoing year saw the spirit of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ echo in society, he said. Urging people to prepare a list of items they used and find out those that were manufactured abroad, he said they should substitute them with 'made in India' products. "Let us find out their substitutes made in India and decide that henceforth we shall use products made with the hard work and sweat of the people of India. You make New Year resolutions every year. This time, one has to certainly make a resolution for the country," the PM said.Modi also touched the subject of wildlife conservation. Noting that the population of leopards in India had increased by over 60 per cent between 2014 and 2018, from 7,900 to 12,852, he described this as a big achievement for the year. He said over the past few years, the population of lions and tigers too had increased and so had India's forest cover. Speaking of the feedback he received for his ‘Mann ki Baat’ broadcast on multiple platforms, he said the common factor had been that people had commended the country's capabilities and the collective strength of the countrymen during the pandemic. A novel experiment like 'Janta curfew' became an “inspiration” for the whole world, he said.Millions of people across the country had stayed home on March 22 on the PM’s appeal for a ‘Janta curfew’ to check the spread of coronavirus. Modi also noted that teachers had prepared creative course material in this period of online studies, and asked them to upload these materials on the Diksha portal of the Education Ministry. This would help students who were staying in far-flung areas of the country a lot, he said. (With agency inputs)
28-12-2020||Jhajjar||Farm Acts: Fazilka advocate ends his life at Tikri border||A lawyer from Fazilka consumed poison at the Tikri protest site on Sunday. Amarjit Singh Rai, who hailed from Jalalabad, Punjab, was rushed to the PGI-Rohtak where he was declared “brought dead”. In a purported suicide note, addressed to the PM, he said he was “sacrificing” his life in support of the protesting farmers so that the government was forced to listen to the voice of the people.Fourth such incident“The general public of India has given you absolute majority, power and faith... But you have become the PM of special groups... common people like farmers and labourers are feeling defrauded by your three agriculture ‘black’ laws... In order to feed some capitalists you have destroyed the common people and agriculture,” the note read.Rohit Dahuja, president, Bar Association, Jalalabad, said Amarjit Singh had been practising law for the past about 27 years. The advocate’s clerk, Ram Jeet, said Amarjit was “deeply perturbed” by the farmers’ plight. — TNS
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||North shivers, 2°C in Gurdaspur||Biting cold conditions persisted across Punjab and Haryana on Sunday, with Gurdaspur reeling at a minimum temperature of 2°Celsius. As per the India Meteorological Department, parts of the region will witness severe cold wave and dense fog later this week.Gurdaspur was the coldest in Punjab, while Narnaul at a low of 3.3°C was Haryana’s coldest place, officials said.Among other places in Haryana, Karnal, Rohtak, Ambala and Hisar experienced a cold night, recording respective minimum of 3.8, 5.4, 4.6 and 5.8° C.Chandigarh also braved the cold weather, registering a low of 4.1 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Pathankot, Halwara and Faridkot recorded a low of 3.7, 5.7 and 4.6°C, respectively. Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala were also under the grip of biting cold recording a low of 4.8, 4.2 and 3.9°C, respectively. — PTI
28-12-2020||Ludhiana||Camps to educate farmers on direct bank transfer||Officials of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) today organised camps at different villages to educate farmers about the Direct Benefit Transfer Electricity (DBTE) scheme of the Punjab Government.The camps were held at Kot Ise Khan sub-division under Faridkot, Jhandiana village under Talwandi Bhai sub-division, Samrala division, Kakrala village under Samana division, Khurampur village under Phagwara sub urban sub-division, Raidharana and Navagaon villages under Patran sub-division, Khajurala village under Chiheru sub-division (Phagwara), Sri Nagar village under Devigarh sub-division, Ladpur village under Bhangala sub-division, Dalla village under Lohian sub-division and Mianwal village under Shahkot sub-division.The DBTE scheme was launched by the state under ‘Pani Bachao Paise Kamao’ campaign with an objective to save groundwater by restraining farmers from pumping out excessive water. — OC
28-12-2020||---||Farmers clang ‘thalis’, say listen to our ‘Mann ki Baat’||Tribune News ServiceSangrur/Amritsar, Dec 27Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi today addressed people in this year’s last ‘Mann ki Baat’, farmers clanged ‘thalis’ (plates) to protest the new agriculture laws in several parts of the state.In Sangrur, state AAP chief Bhagwant Mann joined the farmers and demanded an immediate rollback of the contentious laws.Satwinder Singh, a young farmer from Jhaneri village in Sangrur, said: “Our brothers and sisters have been protesting at Delhi borders for over a month, but the Central Government is not listening to them. Today we protested with utensils against the Prime Minister and his ‘Mann ki Baat’.”Sentiment against laws, repeal themThe sentiment of the people is against the new farm laws. Keeping in view the aspirations of the farming community, these laws should be repealed. —Rattan Singh Randhawa, Farmer leaderIn Amritsar also, ‘thalis’ were clanged at many villages during ‘Mann ki Baat’ to protest the agriculture laws. Protesters urged the Prime Minister to listen to their ‘Mann ki Baat’ for once and repeal the laws. Jamhoori Kisan Sabha leader Rattan Singh Randhawa said: “The sentiment of the public is against the new laws. Keeping in view the aspirations of the farming community, these laws should be repealed.” Farmer leaders stated that the PM as head of the government should try to listen to people instead of adopting an autocratic attitude. The farmers also organised events at different places in city where they beat ‘thalis’ and raised slogans against the government.In Abohar, farmers and labourers organised a protest march, raised slogans and burnt the PM and corporate houses’ effigies.Criticising BJP leaders for their attempts to defame farmers at Delhi borders, they appealed to petrol pump owners to remove flex boards that carried PM’s pictures and false claims about welfare of farmers and other people. They called upon the people to boycott all products and services by certain corporate giants.In Khuyiansarwer village, a group of 30 farmers and labourers reportedly shut a phone tower. The closure of another phone tower in Pattisadiq village also stalled mobile services of a certain company in that area. Meanwhile, AAP activists today joined Kisan Morcha members in blocking a toll plaza near Dabli village on the Suratgarh highway. Hundreds of farmers in surrounding villages beat “thalis” during the PM’s programme.
28-12-2020||---||40 booked for disrupting BJP’s event in Bathinda||Bathinda, December 27Days after farmers ransacked the place where BJP workers were celebrating former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, the police on Sunday booked around 40 unidentified persons.The case was registered on the statement of Kotwali police station SHO Inspector Davinder Singh. In the FIR, he stated that on December 25, BJP workers had pitched tent on the Amrik Singh road here to celebrate Vajpayee’s birthday anniversary.“BJP workers were waiting for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address, for which an LED was installed, to begin, when members of farmers’ and other unions breached the barricades. They vandalised the place and disrupted the event. A BJP worker was injured,” the SHO said.A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 427 (mischief causing damage), 269 and 270 (unlawful and malingnant act), 148 (rioting with armed weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 120 B (whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of IPC has been registered at the Kotwali police station.Sources say the case was registered after the BJP mounted pressure on the authorities. State BJP chief Ashwani Sharma had, on Saturday, visited the city to boost the morale of the party cadre and held a meeting with administrative officials. He had demanded that a case be registered against persons, who had disrupted the event.Protesters lay siege to Jyani’s houseFazilka: Farmers on Sunday started ‘pakka morcha’ (permanent protest) outside former BJP minister Surjit Kumar Jyani’s residence at his native Katehra village in Fazilka. Farmers led by Gurwinder Singh, district president, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) began the protest. He said despite being a farmer, Jyani had been batting for the draconian farm laws. Saying the farmers had a right to protest, Jyani called upon farmers to resolve the issues through talks. A union leader, Pipal Singh Ghanga, appealed to Jyani to support their agitation and they would lift the dharna. OC
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||‘Kisan parade’ planned on Republic Day||In protest against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre, the farmers are planning an alternative Republic Day parade on tractors in Delhi. As per a proposal taken up by a group of 32 farmer organisations at their last meeting, farmers will hold a ‘kisan parade’ to mark Republic Day.The proposalsDuring the parade, the farmers plan to march on the roads of Delhi atop tractors. Another proposal being considered is to hold the Tricolour and march on the roads of Delhi. The proposal may also be taken up by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.A senior leader of one of the farmer organisations said: “We want to tell people this government does not have the moral right to hold R-Day functions.” — TNS
28-12-2020||Bathinda||More farmers from Malwa  leave for Tikri||Scores of farmers from Malwa districts left for the Tikri border to take part in the ongoing farmers’ agitation today. The farmers will be staying for the night in Fatehabad district in Haryana before resuming their travel on Monday morning.The groups of farmers from Bathinda, Muktsar, Fazilka, Ferozepur and Faridkot districts crossed from the Dabwali border (Haryana) and reached Fatehabad.Jasveer Singh, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) press secretary, said, “On the completion of one month of continuous protests against the new laws, a large number of jathas of farmers left for the Tikri border from southern Malwa districts today. The gathering of protesters will continue to grow in the coming days and the adamant stance of the government or biting cold will not dampen the determination of the agitating farmers. These jathas are coming prepared with all essential items. The farmers will not settle for anything less than repealing of the laws.” — TNS
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Despite Punjab CM’s plea, 176 more mobile towers damaged||Even as Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh today reiterated his appeal to protesting farmers not to damage telecom towers and other infrastructure, more than 176 signal transmitting sites were vandalised in the last 24 hours, sources said on Sunday.This had taken the total number of telecom tower sites damaged to 1,411, two sources with direct knowledge of the matter said. Incidents of snapping of power lines to attempts to axe the towers had been reported from different parts of Punjab, one of the sources said.“Site managers are slapped and abused for trying to persuade protesters from damaging sites,” he said. The second source said the telecom towers damaged belong to a leading telecom service provider and common access infrastructure of the telecom industry.Keep protest peaceful, disruption hurtingKeep your protests peaceful as you have done all these months…disruption of telecom services is hampering the education of children, the work of professionals as well as the essential services. —Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterThe attacks had impacted telecom services and operators who were struggling to maintain services in absence of action by law enforcement agencies, the source said.The CM had on Friday appealed to protesting farmers and today again urged them not to cause inconvenience to the general public with such actions and continue to exercise the same restraint as they had shown over the past several months of their agitation.The CM’s appeal came in the wake of a request from the Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association, a registered body of telecom infrastructure providers, asking the government to persuade farmers not to resort to any unlawful activity. — PTI/TNS
28-12-2020||Aparna Banerji||Youths set up ‘Jangi Kitab Ghar’ at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceSinghu, December 27“Kitaban da rujhan hairani karan vala hai. 200 kitaban daily issue hundian ne. Sade kol 1,300 sigiyan, 900 issue ho gaiyan.” (the affinity to books is astounding here. We had 1,300 books of which 99 have been issued).A minute’s walking distance from the stage at Singhu is the ‘Jangi Kitab Ghar’, a library which issues an average of 200 books per day to readers. Two students pursuing PhD and MPhil decided to take their books to the Delhi border 29 days ago in solidarity with the farmers’ protests. With erratic network and loads of time at hand, the library is a hit with the readers at Singhu.Books from the library are being issued free of cost and are being read in tractors, trailers and inside tent cities on the sprawling protest site.Name resonatesIf we check history, the word ‘jangi’ has preceded strugglesand wars. When Sikh generals fought, their belongings were prefixed with ‘jangi’. —Jasvir Singh, Moga youthCalled the ‘Jangi Kitab Ghar’, the library found its name from the warrior spirit of the Sikhs. Duo Jasvir Singh from Chuharchak village in Moga and Kiranpreet Singh from Akbarpur village in Ropar headed to Singhu with the aim to provide people something to read. Friends for the past five years, the duo stayed in a PG accommodation together. They headed to the Singhu border 29 days ago to spread awareness and education though their books.Most of the books come from Jasvir’s personal library at Chuharchak while many have also been subsequently donated.Jasvir says, “Keeping the struggle in mind, we thought educated youngsters here shouldn’t lose time. We came here with the aim to keep the young busy.”Speaking about the name ‘Jangi Kitab Ghar’, Jasvir adds, “When I asked my brother what should we name the library, ‘jangi’ was the first word that came to mind. If we check history, the word ‘jangi’ has preceded struggles and wars. When Sikh generals fought, their belongings were prefixed with ‘jangi’. Jangi bhaande, jangi yodhe (war utensils, war warriors). That’s how the library found its name.”
28-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Milk of kindness flows unabated in memory of Sahibzadas||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 27Following Gurus’ preachings, many villages are organising langars (community kitchen) in the memory of Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh apart from supplying ration and milk to protesters on the Delhi border, petrol pumps and toll plazas every day. Hundreds of commuters partake of kheer, parshad, pakoras, hot tea, besides meal, daily at these sites.Despite being hit by Covid-19, ongoing farm stir and a slump in earning, there is no dearth of essential commodities at various locations.“We are only serving what God has given us. Apart from ration, our village supplies 100 litres of milk to the protesters at Kalajhar toll plaza, 200 litres to Delhi protesters and 200 litres for langar daily. We have enough stock and may start supply to another location, if required,” said Avtar Singh from Gharachon village while serving kheer to commuters on the Sunam-Bhawanigarh road. They started the langar three days ago and would continue the service for two more days. A group of women, who came to cook chapatis, said the langar dedicated to Sahibzadas was an annual affair, but this year’s farm stir had inspired them to go the extra mile.Supplying 500 litres a day to protestersWe are supplying 100 litres of milk to protesters at Kalajhar toll plaza, 200 litres to Delhi protesters and 200 litres for langar daily. We may start supply to another location. —Avtar Singh, Gharachon village resident“I have two buffaloes, but am not selling milk these days as all goes to protesters at various locations. There are more like me,” said Balwinder Kaur, an elderly woman.Similar is the story of Kothe Akalgarh and Kothe Gobindpura villages in Barnala district. “Apart from langar near Dhanaula on the Sangrur-Barnala road, we have been supplying ration and milk to protesters at Badbar toll plaza and petrol pump near here ever since the beginning of the protest,” said Gurwinder Singh, a resident from Kothe Akalgarh village.Villagers contribute voluntarily after announcement is made on the public address system.
28-12-2020||---||Stop maligning farmers: Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, December 27Lambasting the BJP over the derogatory terms used by its senior leaders against protesting farmers, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday asked the party to stop maligning the farmers and their genuine fight for justice by calling them offensive names like ‘Urban Naxals’, `Khalistanis’, ‘hooligans’, etc.“If the BJP can’t distinguish between anguished citizens fighting for their survival and terrorists or militants or hooligans, it should give up all pretense of being a people’s party. A party which treats citizens exercising their democratic right of protest as Naxals and terrorists has lost all right to rule over those citizens, he said.AAP: CM advocating corporates’ causeHe hit out at BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh over his alleged description of farmers in Punjab as `Urban Naxals’. He pointed out that such protests by angry farmers were taking place not just in Punjab but also in BJP-ruled states such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.“Do the farmers protesting in all these places look like Naxals to you? And does that mean law and order has collapsed everywhere?” he asked Chugh.Lambasts ChughProtests by angry farmers are taking place not just in Punjab but also in BJP-ruled states such as Haryana and UP. Do the farmers protesting in all these places look like Naxals to you? —Capt Amarinder Singh, CMInstead of heeding to the plea of the ‘annadatas’, the BJP was busy trying to demean them and stifle their voice, he said. Pointing out that various farmer leaders had themselves appealed to agitating farmers not to disconnect power to mobile towers, the Chief Minister said this clearly showed that what was being witnessed on the ground in some places was a spontaneous manifestation of the wrath of farmers who see a dark future ahead as a result of the new farm laws.The Chief Minister noted that the farmer leaders themselves were stressing the need to keep protests peaceful. “Is that the language of Naxals, as Chugh is alleging?” he said.
28-12-2020||---||Urban Naxals on the loose in Punjab, says BJP||Chandigarh, December 27Taking exception to the damage caused to the telecommunication infrastructure in the state, the BJP on Sunday claimed the “urban Naxal” forces seemed to be having a field day, while Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had failed to maintain law and order.Also readStop maligning farmers: Capt AmarinderAkalis demand apology from BJPTarun Chugh, BJP general secretary, said: “Of late, the state has seen several incidents such as blockade of roads and railway tracks, taking over of toll plazas and uprooting of telecommunication lines. The police have failed to rein in disruptive forces.”He also claimed that in the name of farmers’ agitation, Naxal forces had been let loose in the state. “I urge farmer leaders to make sure that disruptive elements do not defame their cause.”Need to rein them inOf late, the state has seen several incidents such as blockade of roads and railway tracks, taking over of toll plazas and uprooting of telecommunication lines. The police have failed to rein in disruptive forces. —Tarun Chugh, BJP General SecretaryThe BJP leader also hit out at the Chief Minister, who, he said, seemed to be pushing the state towards a red corridor. “The situation in Punjab is becoming similar to that seen in pockets of Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand,” he added.Meanwhile, in an open letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, state BJP general secretary Shubash Sharma said he should adhere to ‘raj dharma’.He alleged the state was already paying the price for his failure as a Chief Minister, but now his patronage to the alleged criminal elements and unleashing violence against his political opponents was dragging the state back to days of political violence. “The state, the citizens, the economy and sociology cannot afford to have another round of violence.”The CM was doing this to shield his failures of the past four years, he said, adding the state couldn’t afford to pay the price for this misadventure.He said the CM had failed at an opportunity when the state could have transformed the agriculture portfolio, instead used cheap political tactics to flare up the emotions of the farming community. The violence against political leaders and failing to provide protection to the investors’ property are actually pushing the state in the hands of miscreants.
28-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Eight +ve fliers’ samples sent to Pune lab||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, December 27The state Health Department has dispatched samples of eight confirmed Covid-19 passengers, who arrived from the UK at the Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International (SGRDJI) Airport on December 22, to the Pune laboratory for genome test to ascertain whether they carry the new virus strain or not.Delayed order from the Union Government to keep track of those arriving from Britain in a bid to prevent the new strain from reaching India is keeping officials here on the toes.Two flights a week have been arriving from the UK for the past one month before these were stopped by the Centre on December 21.1K of 1,550 from UK traced so farAirport Director VK Seth said the flights, operated under the Vande Bharat and Air Bubble schemes of the Centre, brought in around 1,550 passengers in the past one month. No scheduled international flight had been flying from the local airport since the start of the pandemic.Neither the airport authorities nor airlines had the data of these passengers as airlines only kept record for 24 hours, he said.Sethi added unlike the rapid test, which gave result within half an hour, all passengers were subjected to the RT-PCR on arrival, report of which arrives in seven to eight hours.Officials of the health department along with district administrations are engaged in tracing the passengers. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, State Nodal Officer for Covid-19, said 1,000 passengers, residing in different districts of the state, had been traced so far.Cases of those from other states were being handed over to respective governments. Efforts were on to trace the remaining passengers, he added.Dr RS Sethi, District Civil Surgeon, said 78 of the 81 passengers from the holy city had been traced and efforts were on to locate others.The government wants to keep track of the passengers as UK’s new strain displays symptoms even a week after coming in contact with the virus.
28-12-2020||Abohar||Liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda booked for cheating||Liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda, his former real estate manager and five others have been booked for allegedly cheating the wife of Satpal Thatai, a former IB officer, who had died of blood cancer a few months ago.Doda, who has been sentenced to life imprisonment in the Bhim Tank murder case, is lodged in the Ferozepur jail in connection with two similar cases.The others named in the FIR include Ridhi Siddhi Colony former manager Rajiv Chugh, Harjit Singh, Gurjit Singh, Vaisakha Singh and Sukhwinder Singh.Asha Rani, widow of Thatai, in a case registered at the City-1 police station here under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC had claimed her son Neeraj Thatai, alias Neeraj Arora, had on April 20, 2013, executed a sale agreement pertaining to 19 acres of agricultural land with four Khairpur village farmers and paid Rs 2.45 crore in the presence of two persons.However, the sale deed was not executed in his favour even after extending the date of execution in 2014 as Doda allegedly connived with the owners to grab the property after Neeraj reportedly refused to make him a partner in the real estate business. Doda was then halqa in charge of the SAD, the complainant added. — OC
28-12-2020||---||Light and sound show marks Nagi Day||
28-12-2020||---||Akalis demand apology from BJP||Chandigarh, December 27The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today condemned the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for terming the farmers of Punjab as “urban Naxals” only because they were protesting against the Central Government.“It is reprehensible that the Punjab BJP unit has fallen so low that it is calling the farmers urban Naxals. This insult is intolerable and I advise the Punjab unit to take back this slur inflicted on the ‘annadata’ immediately and apologise for it,” SAD Kisan Wing president Sikandar Singh Maluka said in a statement here.Farmers’ fears coming true: MP“BJP leaders seem to have forgotten that their first loyalty should be to the farmers of Punjab and not to MNCs which are behind the three agricultural laws. The BJP leaders have been constantly hurting the sentiments of farmers by calling them Khalistanis and urban Naxals. This is why they have faced the anger of farmers,” he said.Even though you (PM) have given repeated statements about the continuance of MSP, your inability to specify anything regarding assured purchase at MSP is having an impact on departments. —Harsimrat Badal, Bathinda MPMaluka said state BJP President Ashwani Sharma should also act maturely and snub some leaders who were giving such divisive statements.
28-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Cong fields 12 in Bathinda MC poll, FM disburses grants||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 27The Congress has taken the lead in the forthcoming Bathinda Municipal Corporation elections by announcing 12 candidates, while the Opposition is still holding meetings to discuss the names of probable nominees.In its first and second list, the party has fielded senior leaders or their wives. District planning board chairman Jagroop Singh Gill has been fielded from ward 48, while former district party chief Ashok Kumar will fight from ward 37. Bathinda city block Congress president Harvinder Singh Laddu is in fray from ward 36.PPCC secretary Pawan Mani’s wife Parveen Garg has been fielded from ward 31, former councillor Master Harmander Singh Sidhu from ward 28 and Bathinda block president Baljinder Singh Thekedar from 30.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, meanwhile, has started convening public meetings and distributing grants ahead of the elections. On Sunday, he held 10 public meetings here.For him, it will be a litmus test before the 2022 Assembly elections, more so in light of the last year’s Lok Sabha election results. Congress candidate Amrinder Singh Raja Warring had trailed from Manpreet’s Bathinda (Urban) Assembly segment by around 3,700 votes.Poll analysts say the task of winning a majority in the MC is not going to be a smooth sailing for the Congress, which has never won an absolute majority in the MC House on its own since 2008, when the city was upgraded to the Municipal Corporation status. Even before that, it had struggled to get a majority.Another problem for the Congress is the internal rift. More than 10 former SAD, BJP and Independent councillors joined the party in the past. All are eyeing the Congress ticket. It remains to be seen how the party maintains the balance between old leaders and new entrants.Senior leaders, their wives get ticketIn its first and second list, the party has fielded senior leaders or their wives. District planning board chairman Jagroop Singh Gill has been fielded from ward 48, while former district party chief Ashok Kumar will fight from ward 37. Bathinda city block Congress president Harvinder Singh Laddu is in the fray from ward 36. PPCC secretary Pawan Mani’s wife Parveen Garg has been fielded from ward 31, former councillor Master Harmander Singh Sidhu from ward 28 and Bathinda block president Baljinder Singh Thekedar from 30
28-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||1971 war veteran felicitated||Abohar, December 27 Subedar Brijendra Singh (retired), Vir Chakra awardee, popularly known as Subedar Baba, was felicitated on Sunday at his residence in Kumher village in Rajasthan to acknowledge his contributions during the 1971 war in Fazilka. Subedar Baba of the 4 Jat Regiment of the Army is remembered as a gallant hero of the 1971 Indian-Pakistan war. He was involved in the Battle of Beriwala Bridge, fought in the Fazilka area. Subedar Baba was the second-in-command of the Delta Company of the regiment.  As part of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’, Brigadier Vaydeesh Mahajan accompanied the ‘Victory Flame’ from Bharatpur to the residence of Subedar Baba.  At 94, Subedar Baba is full of life and is a source of motivation for the people of his area.  He still continues to do social service and has inspired many people of his area to join the armed forces. For his valour and leadership, he was awarded the Vir Chakra in 1972.
28-12-2020||---||Industries Minister: Rs 40 cr earned from PACL divestment||Chandigarh, December 27Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora has claimed that his department acted proactively and provided relief to the industry hit hard by the Covid pandemic.“The department took several measures. To name a few, it introduced the Punjab Right to Business Act, 2020, New Telecom Guidelines 2020 and District Reform Action Plan 2019-20, and divested the Punjab Alkalies Chemicals Limited (PACL), realising Rs 40.90 crore,” he said here on Sunday.The other achievements of the department, the minister said, were that the telecom guidelines 2020 aligned with the Right of Way (RoW) Rules of the Centre were notified after an approval from the Council of Ministers. “This is expected to increase investment in the telecom sector, give boost to ease of doing business for telecom infrastructure providers and improve connectivity in the state.”Under the Punjab Right to Business Act, the District Bureau of Enterprises has been empowered to issue certificates concerning in-principal approvals within three to 15 days to new MSME units being set up in industrial parks and zones.
28-12-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Shaheedi Jor Mela concludes||The three-day annual Shaheedi Jor Mela concluded with religious ceremonies here today.A ‘nagar kirtan’ was taken out from Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib to Gurdwara Jyoti Swarup Sahib by Bhai Harpal Singh. In his message, Giani Harpreet Singh, acting Jathedar of the Akal Takht, reminded the Sikhs how the religion was formed after great sacrifices. He said no struggle or agitation could be a success by deserting the religion. He urged everyone to pray for the success of the farm agitation. — OC
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gets four elite breed bulls from Germany||The Punjab Government has received four HF Breed bulls which have been imported from Germany. State Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said under the Rashtriya Gokul Mission, the National Dairy Development Board had imported the elite bulls to enhance germ plasm of crossbreed cows in the country.He said the bulls provided to Punjab would not only give a boost to milk production but also help improve the breed of milch cattle in the state. Additional Chief Secretary of Animal Husbandry Department VK Janjua said the imported HF Bulls were in the age group of 10 to 12 months and semen production would duly start within next two years. — TNS
28-12-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Muslims from Malerkotla serve langar at Shaheedi Jor Mela||Cops use Doctrine of PleasureGurdaspur: As the year draws to an end, the Gurdaspur police have succeeded in closing down illegal stills. This has pleased excise officials and residents. In August, post the hooch tragedy, SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal held a closed-door meeting with SHOs, and told them that he would invoke the little-known ‘Doctrine of Pleasure’, or Article 311 of the Constitution if any still was found in their respective areas of jurisdiction. Within 96 hours,the police busted 49 stills, against three in the last calendar year. People started flocking to the authorised wine shops instead of reaching out to illegal vendors. “This Doctrine of Pleasure has been applied in the past too. If our society can benefit from it, why not make use of it again?,” Sohal said.NGO extends helping handAbohar: The Manav Seva Samiti, an NGO that has been serving the needy by raising ‘Neki Ki Diwar’ outside the subdivisional administrative complex for the past few years, has now reached out to families of brick-kiln workers. So far, it has set up eight stalls near the labour colonies of brick-kilns in different villages. The families had requested for clothes, footwear, woollens, salt and plastic utensils to meet their seasonal needs. Every year, essential items are distributed among the needy by putting woollens at ‘Neki Ki Diwar’ in Abohar. “We decided to reach out to them. More than 500 persons have contributed essential goods,” said chief organiser Subhash Manav.
28-12-2020||---||All set for vaccine dry run at Nawanshahr, Ludhiana today||Chandigarh, December 27To ensure the smooth implementation of the dry run of the Covid vaccine on December 28 and 29, the state government is all set to commence the vaccination programme in Nawanshahr and Ludhiana districts.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “The vaccine will be rolled out in a phased manner with priority groups — healthcare workers, frontline workers, elderly and population with co-morbidities. The details of 1.5 lakh healthcare workers from private and public facilities have already been uploaded on the CoWIN portal. All beneficiaries are to be compulsory pre-registered on the portal and a photo ID will be needed for it.”In Phased mannerAs per instructions of the Ministry Health and Family welfare, the Nawanshahr administration has identified five facilities for the vaccine roll out — a district hospital in Nawanshahr, a Community Health Centre (CHC) in Mukandpur, a Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Jadla, a sub-centre in Usmanpur and Ivy Hospital.In Ludhiana, seven facilities have been identified — Lord Mahavir Civil Hospital as district hospital, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital as private facility, three sub-divisonal hospitals in Jagraon, Raikot and Khanna as urban outreach facilities, and CHCs in Dhamot and Machhiwara as rural outreach sites.
