28-10-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 20 more deaths, 528 new cases in Punjab||Twenty more coronavirus-related fatalities in Punjab pushed the death toll to 4,158, while 528 new cases took the infection tally to 1,32,263 on Wednesday, according to a medical bulletin.The places which reported new coronavirus cases include Mohali (73), Jalandhar (67) and Bathinda (53), it said.There are 4,239 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.A total of 356 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,23,866.Twenty critical patients are on ventilator support, while 102 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 25,38,610 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI
28-10-2020||New Delhi||Chandigarh, Himachal, Punjab have the best air pollution monitoring in India||Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab were the only ones among 23 states and union territories listed in the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) to have above average readings in the past three years for PM 10, an analysis of the National Air Quality Monitoring Programme tracking has said. NCAP policy says 104 readings are required in a year to get an accurate picture.The list shows Punjab has an average PM 10 reading of 133 over the last three years. Himachal Pradesh stands at 125, and Chandigarh at 102.This does not necessarily mean that pollution levels have gone down in these states--- in fact pollution levels in all three continue to be much higher than acceptable CPCB norms and way above the WHO limits of 10 micrograms/cubic-metre. What these rankings seem to indicate is a trend on air pollution in Chandigarh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, and that all three monitor them better than other states in the country.Delhi, meanwhile, ranked the most polluted state for PM 10 monitoring data over an average of three years. The national capital was followed by Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, according to the CarbonCopy and Respirer Living Sciences ‘dashboard’ of comparative picture of PM 2.5 and PM10 for the non-attainment cities from 2016 onward. Ghaziabad had the worst PM 10 level at 253 among 122 non-attainment cities, followed by Delhi (246) and Dhanbad (242). Dehradun ranked fourth, and was followed by Bareilly, Lucknow, Firozabad, Silcher, Noida and Kanpur. Varanasi just missed the top 10, coming in at eleventh.Santosh Harish of the Centre for Policy Research says “tracking annual average concentrations provides an objective way to verify whether air quality levels have improved or not. Annual averages have the advantage to speak better to long term exposures as opposed to episodic highs and lows”.In Punjab, Jalandhar and Ludhiana have four manual monitors each, Amritsar has three, Khanna, Patiala, Dera Bassi and Naya Nangal two each and Mandi Gobindgarh and Dera Baba Nanak one station each. Punjab's average PM10 readings for the 2016-2018 remained at 133 micrograms/cubic metre, higher in comparison to states like West Bengal, Gujarat, HP, Chandigarh, Maharashtra, TN, Andhra, Assam, MP and Chhattisgarh.Chandigarh fared the best among all NCAP states with 141 followed by Himachal Pradesh. The UT has five monitors and saw a slight annual improvement in the PM 10 levels from 105 in 2016 to 102 in 2018.  With three monitors, Himachal had a three-year average PM10 of 125, almost double the acceptable CPCB norm of 60 micrograms/cubic-metre. The dashboard provides a comprehensive picture of India’s National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) which come under the NAMP. The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change notified the NCAP in January 2019 with the aim to reduce 20-30 per cent PM levels in 122 non-attainment cities by 2024, taking 2017 as the base year. These cities failed to meet the NAAQS standards for the period of 2011-2015 and are largely considered the most polluted cities among those being monitored.
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana remain dry in October, Himachal gets a trace of rain||The agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana have remained totally dry during the month of October this year while there has only been a trace of rain in the adjoining hill state of Himachal Pradesh.While no rainfall was received by Punjab and Haryana from October 1 to October 28, where the normal for this period is 8.4 mm and 9.2 mm respectively, the deficiency in Himachal Pradesh is 99 per cent, according to data compiled by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).Kullu is the only district in Himachal to get rain this month, which was recorded by IMD at just 0.2 mm against the normal of 26.7 mm. The normal rainfall for the state for this period is 26.3 mm. Some upper reaches of Himachal experienced the season’s first snowfall recently.In addition to the aforementioned states, most parts of northern, western and central India witnessed deficient rains in October.The weather department has predicted that generally dry weather would continue to prevail in these areas over the next few days.Today also happens to be the day when the south-western monsoon, which retreated from the region in September end, has finally withdrawn from the entire country and simultaneously, north-eastern monsoon rains have commenced over South India.According to IMD, maximum as well as minimum temperatures were up to three degrees above normal over some parts of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh while some parts witnessed temperature below normal by up to three degrees.It has predicted that the mercury is likely to fall by 2-3 degrees over some parts of north-western India over the next three days.
28-10-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Four years after their son was burnt alive in Australia, parents still hopeful of justice||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, October 28Four years after their younger son Manmeet Alisher was burnt alive in Brisbane, his parents have still not lost hope for justice as coronial investigations are still going on in Australia.The case had hit international headlines, pushing Indian government to take up the matter with the Australian  authorities.On the fourth death anniversary of their son on Wednesday, Manmeet’s parents released a book on the life of their deceased son at Sangrur and in different cities of Australia, Italy , England, New Zealand , Canada and  United States to share the unknown facts about his life.The book ‘Adhwate Safar Di Sirjana - Manmeet Alisher’ also includes poems and small stories written by Manmeet, his friends, relatives and other known persons.Renowned Punjab writer Surjit Patar released the book at Sangrur.“Despite massive outpouring of grief and demands for strict punishment to accused, the Brisbane court  had  dropped the criminal charges two years back. Though  coronial investigations are going on slow, we are hopeful that we would get justice,” Amit Alisher, elder brother of Manmeet, said after the launch of the book.Manmeet had  shifted to Australia in 2007 and got the country’s citizenship while his family was planning for his marriage in 2016 when he was murdered.“Accused poured chemical on Manmeet in bus and burnt him alive within seconds and court declared him (accused) an unsound mind. But all Punjabis across globe want to know that why the accused was roaming freely at the time of crime if he had some psychological problems and Australian government must fix the accountability,” said Winnerjit Singh Goldy, a close friend of Alisher family and SAD spokesperson.
28-10-2020||---||Cop among 5 killed as car collides with tractor-trolley in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 28Five persons, including a head constable deployed at Ballianwali police station, were killed in a road accident involving a car and tractor-trolley near Kotshamir village on Bathinda-Mansa road on Wednesday evening.The deceased have been identified as Harjinder Singh of Makhewala village, near Jhunir in Mansa district, his wife Mandeep Kaur, his son Navtej Singh, his daughter Sharandeep Kaur and his relative Surjit Singh of Dhan Singh Khana village in Bathinda.They were travelling to Dhan Singh Khana village when the incident took place.Villagers said the accident took place due to low visibility caused by smog.Police officer at Kotshamir police post said: “During preliminary investigations, it is learnt that the accident took place during overtaking. We are probing the matter and further action would be taken as per law.”
28-10-2020||New Delhi||Nadda urges BJP leaders in Punjab to reach out to rural areas||BJP president JP Nadda urged the leaders of his party in Punjab on Wednesday to reach out to rural areas in order to make the saffron party “number one” in the state.Paying tributes to late Punjab BJP leader Kamal Sharma, Nadda said it will be a true homage to him if the leaders resolved to make the party number one in the state.“We need to resolve to make the BJP the number one party in Punjab, recognise our strength, get together with people sharing our ideologies and go to the rural areas,” he said.The people of Punjab like the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and want to spread the saffron party’s ideology in the state, Nadda said.Political parties in Punjab are “misguiding” the farmers of the state in order to serve their political self-interest, he said, adding that the BJP needs to clear the doubts created by them in the minds of people.Many politicians in north India, who established themselves as farmer leaders, paid only “lip service” to farmers, the BJP chief alleged.“They did nothing to change the fate or condition of farmers. It was only Prime Minister Modi in independent India, who transformed and changed the fate of the country’s farmers,” he said.Nadda slammed the Congress for its opposition to laws that will “reform” the farm sector, saying “while opposing Modi, it has got down to opposing the country and farmers”.The BJP chief asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who is opposing the recent farm laws enacted by the government, to clarify whether scrapping the agricultural produce marketing committees was a part of the Congress’s poll manifesto or not.“In Punjab, farmers cannot sell their produce beyond the mandis in the districts, they cannot even change their stockists. Modiji has given freedom to them from these restrictions,” he said. PTI
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||SAD asks Punjab govt to declare MSP for farm fruits, vegetables||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday asked the Punjab government to follow the Kerala pattern and declare the minimum support price (MSP) for fresh farm fruits and vegetables to give a boost to agriculture.In a statement here, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said the Congress government in Punjab should launch this scheme on the state’s foundation day on November 1 in the same manner in which the Kerala government had done recently.Majithia said while this measure would provide much-needed protection to the state’s farmers against sudden price drops in times of glut, it would also pave the way for diversification.   He said simultaneously the state government should also ensure that the entirety of crops listed under the MSP regime, including cotton and maize, were procured by government agencies.“The Congress government must ensure that in case the central agencies do not purchase these crops in their entirety, the state agencies should do so as per the MSP. Then only will the rights of farmers be secure,” the SAD leader added.Majithia said the state government should pass an ordinance if needed and follow it up with budgetary provisions for the current financial year.“The SAD is prepared to support any such pro-farmer move,” he added.              He said the government could also hold another special Vidhan Sabha session to secure the rights of farmers, as it had failed to circumvent the central agri-laws by amending the same recently.“Besides repealing these laws completely and declaring the entire state as a single mandi (principal market yard), the government should make budgetary provisions to purchase of fruits and vegetables if the same are not purchased by private players. It should similarly form a policy to purchase cotton and maize if they are not purchased at MSP by central agencies.”          Meanwhile, the SAD lashed out at what it called “double standards” of the BJP governments at the Centre and in states on property ownership rights of citizens in different states.              The party came down heavily against the “contradiction” in the decision of the BJP government to allow property ownership rights to outsiders in Jammu and Kashmir on the one hand and denial of these rights to farmers from Punjab in Gujarat and Rajasthan under the BJP governments on the other.Senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said, “This deliberate contradiction between the two yardsticks smacks of strong communal prejudices. Isn’t it strange that while anyone can buy and own properties, including agricultural lands, in Punjab and now in Jammu and Kashmir, where the country’s two main minority communities happen to be in a majority, Punjabis are denied the same rights in other states, notably in Gujarat and Rajasthan.“Why no Indian citizen has the right to buy agricultural land in Himachal Pradesh,” he questioned. PTI
28-10-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Four-year-old raped by juvenile in Barnala||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, October 28A four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 16-year-old boy from her neighborhood in Dangarh village under Dhanaula police station of Barnala district. Police have arrested the accused and started investigations.“We are trying to verify whether the crime took place at the house of victim or accused as her medical examination is going on and she is in shock. We could ascertain the more details only after recording her statement,” said sub-inspector Rajpal Kaur, who is conducting investigations.When contacted, Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel said police acted quickly after getting information and registered a case.“Accused has been arrested while medical of the victim is being conducted at civil hospital Barnala. We have deputed SP (Headquarters) Harwant Kaur and SI Rajpal kaur. Our team would also get the medical of the accused also done from doctors,” said SSP Goel.
28-10-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Talwandi Sabo thermal plant runs out of coal, power generation stalled||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 28Faced with an acute shortage of coal following the farmers protesting on rail tracks leading to power plant at Baniwala in Mansa district, the Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) has to stall its power production as it has run out of coal stock.TSPL has three units, each having installed capacity of 660 MW, but for the last many days it was running only one unit and that too at half its capacity due to coal shortage.Vikas Sharma, CEO and whole-time Director, TSPL, said, “We have run out of coal and are not producing any power as of now. We hope this deadlock will be resolved soon as it is resulting in wastage of taxpayers’ hard earned money. Stalling power production will end up creating serious disruptions in the region.”The farmer agitation has started taking its toll on the thermal plants as farmers are agitating on the rail tracks since October 1 leading to disruption in coal rake movement. Now, the situation is becoming serious as other thermal plants across the state are also facing similar situation.Farmers are still adamant on their demands that they won’t allow coal to reach at the private thermal plants in the state. They have blocked the rail tracks for coal supply to both Baniwala and Rajpura thermal plants in the state.Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary of BKU Ekta-Ugrahan said, “We are against the private thermal plants and will not allow private thermal plant at Baniwala and Rajpura to run, due to which we have blocked their rail track and the protest will continue in coming days as well.”He said if the state government is so concerned about the power shortage, then they should cancel the agreement with private companies and run Rajpura, Ropar and Bathinda thermal power plant at full capacity.
28-10-2020||---||40-year-old businessman shoots himself in Punjab’s Goraya||Jalandhar, October 28A prominent businessman of the area allegedly shot himself at Virk village in Goraya in this district in the wee hours of Wednesday. He succumbed to his injuries at a Jalandhar hospital on Wednesday afternoon.The family owns Guru Nanak Auto Enterprise.Forty-year-old Gurinder Singh Sehra allegedly shot himself with his licensed revolver at around 2 am at their house at Virk village. The family owns a factory and a farmhouse in the village. According to police, the family heard the gunshot and rushed Gurinder to a private hospital in Phagwara, where he was referred to Johal hospital in Jalandhar.The doctors at the Jalandhar hospital said Gurinder was in a critical condition and couldn't be saved even after a marathon surgery. The bullet had pierced his head. While no suicide note was found, sources claimed Gurinder took the extreme step following a family feud.However, Goraya SHO Hardeep Singh Mann said that according to the family, Gurinder was in depression for months and had taken to drinking heavily. He is survived by wife, two minor children and parents.
28-10-2020||New Delhi||I-T dept seizes Rs 62 crore in cash after raids on hawala operatives in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi||The Income Tax Department has made a seizure of at least Rs 62 crore in cash as part of its multi-city tax evasion operation against hawala or entry operators and individuals who prepare fake bills, official sources said on Wednesday.They alleged that the money is unaccounted and had been seized from various premises, including those belonging to a person identified as Sanjay Jain.The seizure is linked to the searches launched by the department at 42 premises in Delhi-NCR, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa on Monday and the taxman had said that the alleged illegal transactions point to a hawala racket worth about Rs 500 crore.The cash, in crisp Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 notes, was found stashed in wooden almirahs and furniture on the premises that were raided, they said.The CBDT had earlier said that the action was carried out against "a large network of individuals running the racket of entry operation (hawala-like operation) and generation of huge cash through fake billing", officials said.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Board had said that Rs 2.37 crore cash and jewellery worth Rs 2.89 crore was found along with 17 bank lockers which are yet to be searched.The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) is the administrative authority for the I-T department."The search has led to seizure of evidences exposing the entire network of the entry operators, intermediaries, cash handlers, the beneficiaries and the firms and companies involved."So far, documents evidencing accommodation entries (hawala) of more than Rs 500 crore have already been found and seized," it said.Several shell entities and firms were used by the searched entry operators for layering of unaccounted money and cash withdrawals against fake bills issued and unsecured loans given, the Board said.Describing the modus operandi of the tax evasion racket, it had said personal staff, employees, associates had been made dummy directors and partners of these shell entities and all bank accounts were managed and controlled by these entry operators."Statements of such entry operators, their dummy partners/employees, the cash handlers as well as the covered beneficiaries have also been recorded, clearly validating the entire money trail," the statement said."The searched persons were also found to be controller and beneficial owners of several bank accounts and lockers, opened in names of their family members and trusted employees and shell entities, which they were managing in collusion with bank officials, through digital media," it said.The CBDT further said the beneficiaries had been found to have made huge investments in real estate properties in prime cities and in fixed deposits to the tune of several hundred crores of rupees. PTI
28-10-2020||Lucknow||UP BJP MLA accuses Congress govt in Punjab of protecting gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari||BJP MLA from Mohammadabad seat, Alka Rai, has written a letter to Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, accusing her party government in Punjab of helping gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari evade appearance in courts in Uttar Pradesh.Alka Rai is the wife of MLA Krishanand Rai, who was shot dead in 2005 along with six others. Ansari and seven others were acquitted in the case citing lack of evidence.Ansari, sitting BSP MLA from Mau, is at present lodged in a Punjab jail in connection with an extortion case.“I have been fighting for justice for my husband for the past 14 years," she said, alleging that Ansari was being given open patronage by the Congress."Courts in Uttar Pradesh have summoned Mukhtar Ansari but the Punjab government is not ready to send him to UP. Every time I and so many like me are being deprived of justice on one pretext or the other,” Rai said in the letter."This is most shameful that your party and the government led by it were standing blatantly in support of Mukhtar Ansari.No one will believe that all this is happening without your or Rahulji's knowledge," she said."Every victim is waiting for the moment when Mukhtar gets strict punishment. You are yourself a woman and it is my humble question to you as to why you are doing this," she said, terming as "most regrettable" that the Congress was standing with the "disgusting criminal".The BJP MLA said she has come to know through media reports that whenever the UP Police has gone to bring back Ansari, the Punjab government has "saved" him by advising him to rest on medical grounds."The people of Uttar Pradesh want to know why Rahulji and Priyankaji are silent on the questions being raised regarding Mukhtar. Why are you trying to save this notorious criminal under the compulsion of vote bank," she said.Rai hoped Priyanka Gandhi would not only reply to her letter but also help in ensuring justice. —PTI
28-10-2020||Neha Saini||Covid induced a mental health pandemic as well||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, October 27As the world grapples with the crippling effects of the pandemic and the lockdowns, mental health had never before been the talk on the lips of people before. Many have not only been impacted economically and financially with loss of jobs and livelihoods, but emotionally as well. With growing levels of stress and depression and the loss of loved ones, this is a subject still being kept under wraps and in an attempt to start a conversation around the topic, Majha House’s online platform invited eminent authors, including Jerry Pinto, Jhilmil Breckenridge, Gayatri Gill and Amandeep Sandhu to share their end of tale and experiences.Award winning author Jerry Pinto, whose book, ‘Emm and the Big Hoom’ won the prestigious Windham-Campbell Prize as well as the Sahitya Akademi Award articulated how it is to love a person suffering from mental health problems and why the more you talk, the better. “The silence around this taboo subject needs to be broken by conversation and communication. We live in a society that is in denial about a lot of social ailments,” he said. Agreeing with Pinto, poet and writer Jhilmil Breckenridge, who joined the conversation from London, talked about the obsession we have with beauty and positivity that result in denial of mental health issues. “India is surrounded by this culture of toxic positivity fuelled by capitalism where everyone has to feel alright and deny the existence of illness, especially mental illness.”Author Amandeep Sandhu, said that the pandemic has been brutal to people who are diagnosed with mental illness. “The distancing, no contact, the difficulty in access to medicine and doctors has meant that it has been a catastrophic time. There have been reports that people suffering from mental disorders like dementia, bipolar etc have deteriorated amid the pandemic.”Veteran journalist Nirupama Dutt talked about how job cuts led to mental stress disorders. She confessed that she had faced an acute breakdown in communication after her younger and older colleagues lost their jobs and this was like a sword hanging over her head. “The isolation, the fear and stress was so great. At a time like that it was family support, friends and my work that came to my rescue,” she reminisced.Gayatri Gill, screenplay writer with her first book ‘The Day Before Today’, spoke about how she was depressed in the early days of the lockdown in Mumbai that these stories came tumbling out of her head. “What we have seen in these times has affected us all and will never forget what we have learnt now,” she said. For children and older people these last eight months have been particularly gruelling. Children, especially young kids, have no idea that life exists outside the computer screen where they have classes and also interact with friends — it has been so weird!” Gill added.
28-10-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Centre halts Rs 1K cr rural fund to Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27The Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution has placed the utilisation of Rural Development Fund (RDF) under scrutiny, saying it will not be paying this fee amounting to Rs 1,000 crore for the custom milled rice this year.In a letter to the state regarding provisional rates of milled rice and gunny bags, the ministry said: “Matters related to deductions from the MSP made by the state and the utilisation of the RDF are under scrutiny.” The ministry has not included the RDF while calculating incidental charges to be paid to the state. In another letter, the ministry observed that the fund was being misused. Punjab Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said he would write to the Centre and seek justification for stopping the RDF payment.Flags its ‘misuse’
28-10-2020||Vibha Sharma||Punjab Bills will harm farmers’ interests, claims Agri Ministry||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 27The three farm Bills passed by the Punjab Assembly recently will “limit” the farmers’ competitiveness, “disincentivise” private investment and “hinder” the overall growth of the agriculture sector, claims an assessment by the Union Agriculture Ministry.It said provisions in the Punjab Bills were in contradiction with the central Acts. The Bills suggest that implementation of the central Acts will depend on the notification in the official gazette by the state despite these being already in force. “Such a change in the date of implementation of the central Acts with a retrospective effect is unlawful,” it adds.There is a clause in the Punjab law suggesting that no sale or purchase of wheat and paddy will be valid unless the price paid is equal to or greater than the MSP announced by the Union Government, whereas the Acts do not deal with the MSP at all, it says.“The Acts provide for mutual agreement on the price between the buyer and the seller based on market forces and independent of the MSP. This will allow farmers to mutually finalise prices with buyers based on quality, variety etc. in addition to continued access to MSP procurement by the government,” it adds. The analysis by the Agriculture Ministry is expected to be included in Centre’s observations on the Bills.
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid cases, fatalities dip to 30% in a month in Punjab||The state’s Covid cases and deaths have declined to 30 per cent in October as compared to the figures of September.As per the state government data, since March first week, when the first Covid case was reported, the number deaths and cases increased consistently till September. Covid, it seems, hit the peak in the state in September when 59,894 cases and 1,954 deaths were reported. However, the cases and deaths witnessed a steep decline in October. So far this month, the state has reported 17,851 cases and less than 731 deaths. The number is more than three times lesser than September.On Tuesday, the state reported 353 cases and 13 deaths in the past 24 hours.As per the media bulletin, the total number of cases has now reached 1,31,737 and deaths 4,138.In the district-wise break-up of cases, Ludhiana topped the chart (50), followed by Hoshiarpur (42), Patiala (34), Amritsar (26), Jalandhar and Fazilka (25 each).Meanwhile, the number of active Covid cases have declined further to 4,089. At present, 105 patients are on oxygen support and 19 on ventilator.As far as the deaths are concerned, the state reported 13 deaths in the last 24 hours. In the district-wise break-up, Jalandhar recorded maximum deaths (three); Ludhiana and Ropar (two each); Amritsar, Fazilka, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and SAS Nagar (one each).
28-10-2020||Jalandhar||Raninder skips ED hearing, now called on November 6||Summoned by Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials on Tuesday in the alleged FEMA case, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh didn’t appear and instead sought adjournment in the matter. The ED has now issued fresh summons to him for November 6.His lawyer and Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said, “My client is the president of the National Rifle Association and was required to be present before the Parliamentary Standing Committee in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday for a hearing in relation to the Olympics-2021.”He said since the summons were vague and didn’t mention in which context Raninder was called, his client also sought details from the ED about the matter in which he had been asked to appear.Raninder had last appeared before the ED on July 21, 2016. He was asked to explain the alleged movement of funds to Switzerland and the creation of Jacaranda Trust. — TNS
28-10-2020||Amritsar||Terror module: 4 convicted under Arms Act||A local court has convicted four persons, who were part of a seven-member ‘terror module’ busted in 2017, under the Arms Act. However, all seven have been absolved of the charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and Foreigners Act.Defence counsel Navjit Singh Turna said Additional Sessions Judge Sarbajit Singh Dhaliwal held Maan Singh Nihang, Sher Singh, Simaranjit and Gurpreet Singh guilty under provisions of the Arms Act.However, Maan Singh Nihang, Sher Singh, Simranjit and Gurpreet besides three others: Balwinder Singh, Balkar Singh and Satinder Rawat were absolved of the charges under UAPA andForeigners Act. Balwinder Singh, Balkar Singh and Satinder Rawat are already out on bail while the remaining four are lodged in different jails in the state.As per an FIR registered at the Ramdas police station on May 21, 2017, Maan Singh Nihang, a resident of Samrai village near Shri Hargobindpur (Gurdaspur), and Sher Singh, a resident of Kartarpur (Jalandhar), were nabbed by the BSF and a huge quantity of arms and ammunition were recovered from them. It was alleged that the two had links with terrorists in Canada and Pakistan and weretrying to recover an illegal consignment of weapons smuggled from Pakistan when they were arrested.During the investigation, five more persons were named in the case. It was claimed that the accused were in contact with one Gurjivan Singh, an alleged hardliner living in Canada who had arranged the weapons from Pakistan.
28-10-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda DSP held for ‘sexually exploiting’ ASI's wife||A DSP posted with Bathinda Special Task Force (STF) was arrested for allegedly sexually exploiting a woman in a hotel here on Tuesday evening.Identified as Gursharan Singh, he along with his team had reportedly arrested an ASI, his wife and son with 212 gram of ‘chitta’. Later, he started to sexually exploit the woman after she had come out on bail, while her husband and son were still in jail. Subsequently, the woman approached a senior police official seeking action against the DSP in the matter.The woman said the DSP had asked her to come in a hotel located near Hanuman Chowk on Monday. Acting on it, the team of Civil Lines police laid a trap and arrested the DSP from the hotel.SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said the accused was held from a hotel near Hanuman Chowk and was booked under relevant Section of the IPC. He has been sent to three-day police remand. Besides, a letter has been written to the department seeking action against him. — TNS
28-10-2020||Muktsar||Five days after Malout murder, cops clueless||Five days after four unidentified armed attackers shot dead a youth, facing nearly a dozen criminal cases, in his car at Aulakh village on the Muktsar-Malout road here, the police are so far clueless. No one has been rounded up in this connection.Linked to SOPU ex-prez Gurlal Brar killing?Unidentified person(s) in an FB post from account of SOPU ex-chief Gurlal Brar, who was shot in Chandigarh on October 10, claimed responsibility for murdering Ranjit SinghRanjit Singh, alias Rana Sidhu, a former kabaddi player, associated with the NSUI, was travelling in his car along with pregnant wife to see a doctor at Aulakh village on Thursday when three persons chasing him in a car fired nearly 15 bullets and fled. He died on the spot.Rajpal Singh, SP (D), Muktsar, said, “As per the autopsy report, 11 bullets were pulled out from the deceased’s body. His family has not raised suspicion on anyone. But we are probing it from all angles. We are trying to locate the person who posted on Facebook from the account of Gurlal Brar, taking the responsibility of the murder, tagging gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.”Sources claimed that it was a result of some old gang war as Rana was once linked with gangster Jaipal Ferozepur’s gang. “After Rana’s close aides Jimmy Sidhu and Davinder Bambiha were killed, he too had claimed that some people were trying to eliminate him,” said a relative of the deceased. — TNS
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Accused denied pre-arrest bail for removing man’s turban||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that viewing lightly and in a casual manner the incidents of disrespect towards the signs and symbols of a religion may result in creating communal and religious tension in the society. It may affect peace and tranquillity.The Bench was hearing a petition filed by Lakhveer Singh against the state of Punjab for pre-arrest bail in a case registered at City-1 police station in Mansa district on September 25 for ‘injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class’ and other offences under Sections 341, 323, 149, 109 and 295 of the IPC.Justice HS Madaan asserted India was inhabited by people belonging to various religions, races, castes and creeds. All people lived in harmony and mostly showed respect for each other’s religious feelings but at times, some mischievous persons tried to create tension by hurting the religious sentiments of others.Justice Madaan added that the allegations against the petitioner and co-accused were “very grave and serious”. The acts attributed to the petitioner was that he, along with a co-accused, had removed the complainant’s turban and then kicked it away, showing disrespect towards his long hair and other signs/symbols of Sikh religion worn by him. It was required to be dealt with all seriousness and strictness.He said the facts and circumstances of the case did not warrant the grant of discretionary equitable relief of pre-arrest bail to the petitioner. Rather, his custodial interrogation was found to be necessary for complete and effective investigation for finding out how the incident was planned and executed. It was also required to find who were the other persons involved in the planning and providing indirect help in carrying out the incident.“In case the custodialinterrogation of the petitioner/accused is denied to the investigating agency that shall leave many gaps and loopholes, adversely affecting the probe, which is uncalled for. Thus, finding no merit in the instant petition, the same stands dismissed,” Justice Madaan said.
28-10-2020||Patiala||Scholarship scam: AAP activists protest outside minister Dharamsot’s house||Alleging Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot’s involvement in the multi-crore post-matric scholarship scam, the AAP’s district unit on Tuesday staged a protest in front of his Nabha residence.The leaders also protested his equating Capt Amarinder Singh with Guru Nanak Dev and sought an apology.Earlier, they burnt Dharamsot’s effigy outside his residence at Patiala Gate. They also staged a dharna there to protest the mistreatment at the hands of the local police.The party leaders alleged that the shoddy way in which Dharamsot had been given a ‘clean chit’ in Rs 64-crore scholarship scam needs further probe. They sought a time-bound probe into the multi-crore scam by the CBI under the supervision of the High Court. — TNS
28-10-2020||Jalandhar||MLA Rinku hurt in mishap||Congress MLA from the Jalandhar West constituency Sushil Rinku and two others were injured when the Fortuner SUV they were travelling in hit a tractor-trailer near Nawanshahr this morning.The accident took place on the Nawanshahr-Chandigarh highway at Jadla village, 10 km ahead of Nawanshahr town, around 10.30 am when the MLA was heading to Chandigarh from Jalandhar for a meeting. The front portion of the vehicle hit the tractor-trailer coming from the wrong side.The MLA suffered minor injuries on his left wrist, hand and legs. His driver Vicky was seriously injured as his legs and hip were fractured. His gunman too was hurt. All three were taken to a private hospital in Nawanshahr.MLA Hardev Laddi, who too was heading to Chandigarh around the same time in his car, reached the hospital to take care of his colleague. Nawanshahr MLA Angad Saini also called on Rinku, who was discharged for being given preliminary treatment. He came back to Jalandhar in the afternoon. — TNS
28-10-2020||Patiala||No let-up in stir at Punjabi University||The Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) along with A-class Officers’ Association and Pensioners’ Association on Tuesday staged a protest against the university administration and the state government over their demands on the campus.Over 300 faculty members joined the protest march across the campus. Their demands include financial grants, ensuring autonomy of the university and timely disbursal of salary and pension.The Joint Action Committee, a body formed by the employees comprising teaching, non-teaching faculty members and pensioners, has been staging protests over the demands for more than 65 days now. This is because the cash-starved university has not been able to disburse the staff’s salary on time for months.Nishan Singh Deol, PUTA president, said, “The state government’s grant is only 12 per cent of the university’s salary budget, which should otherwise be 100 per cent. The state government instead of ensuring autonomy raises unnecessary demands regarding the university’s administrative decisions.”Avneet Pal Singh, PUTA secretary, said, “The government should release a grant to clear the pending payments of the university. It should also increase the monthly grant from Rs 8.7 crore to Rs 30 crore.” He alleged that the government had been blocking the university’s grants over time and should refrain from the same.A faculty member said: “We should be focusing on research and teaching but the university’s condition has left us protesting on a daily basis.”The employees and pensioners said they would continue the protest in coming days too.
28-10-2020||Faridkot||Nursing admissions start prior to filling MBBS seats||In what can be viewed as a reversal of trend, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has started admission process in over 100 nursing colleges in the state for different courses prior to filling seats in MBBS and BDS courses.Trend reversal Generally, the admission in nursing courses starts after the seats in medical and dental colleges are filled. This time things have been planned out differently. Reason: The four-month delay in holding NEET, a test to secure admission in MBBS and BDS.Last year, NEET was conducted on May 5 and its result was announced on June 5. However, this year, the exam was conducted on September 13 and the result was declared on October 16. Whereas,Punjab Para Medical Entrance Test (PPMET) for admission to nursing courses was held on September 27 and the result was out the same day.In addition, it has been witnessed that candidates, who appeared in both PPMET and NEET, are not forthcoming in taking admission in the nursing courses before trying their luck in MBBS and BDS courses. In the first round of counselling for the nursing courses, not more than 300 seats could be filled. Of the total 108 nursing colleges, over 70 colleges could not secure a single candidate’s admission. Moreover, even the most sought-after government nursing colleges could fill about 50 per cent of their seats. Government nursing colleges in Amritsar, Patiala, Goindwal, Badal village, Jalalabad and Faridkot could fill 162 of the total 299 seats in BSc nursing.Private colleges would secure admissions only after the process for MBBS and BDS seats was completed, said an insider in the university.
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Banda Bahadur’s 350th birth anniversary celebrated||Celebrating 350th birthday of Sikh warrior Banda Singh Bahadur, farmers’ organisation Kirti Kisan Union today organised two political conferences at Gurdas Nangal and Fatehgarh Sahib.Paying tributes of Banda Bahadur, union vice-president Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala said Banda Bahadur was the first man in the region who fought for land for tillers. He said he snatched lands from the feudal lords and allotted it to the landless.He said, “when the Acts are being brought to snatch the land of farmers, we need to take inspiration from Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, who fought for the landless.” — TNS
28-10-2020||Patiala||For Covid survivors, Patiala's Rajindra Hospital opens recovery clinic||Government Rajindra Hospital has opened an exclusive recovery clinic for Covid survivors. The objective is to treat patients suffering from acute as well as chronic post-Covid effects.As soon as the OPD services were started last week, people who have recovered from Covid started visiting the hospital with complaints of breathlessness, chronic fatigue, chest pain, headache, dizziness and anxiety. The OPD will be open for two days in a week — Monday and Friday.Dr Rajan Singla, principal, Government Medical College, said they had already started the recovery clinic to treat the Covid survivors, adding that the authorities would themselves call the recovered Covid patients for a check-up.RPS Sibia, in charge, recovery clinic, said around 70 per cent of people complain of breathlessness, fatigue and joint pain. Besides, many also complaint of psychological problems, including sadness, mood swings and anxiety. Therefore, recovery clinics would have a specialist from the psychiatry department.In view of the number of patients complaining of breathlessness, doctors have already installed a Spirometry machine to assess disorders pertaining to lungs.Dr Vishal Chopra, specialist, chest and TB, said: “Firstly, we counsel patients to avoid activities which might aggravate their condition. However, if the difficulties still persist then we give them a course of steroids.”Experts said Covid survivors should be extra cautious because they might suffer from stroke, breathing problems, fluctuations in o2 saturation, chronic fatigue along with anosmia. Therefore, the best way to prevent Covid complications was to avoid contracting the virus altogether.
28-10-2020||Amritsar||SGPC schoolteachers, staff rue non-payment of salary||More than 500 teachers and allied staff of SGPC-run schools complained of not getting salaries since March. However, the SGPC claimed it was due to Covid lockdown.Malkeet Singh, a physical education teacher at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Public Senior Secondary School in Tarn Taran, said, “Covid lockdown has just been made as an excuse, whereas the irregularities prevailed for long in paying salaries, fixing grade and seniority. Teachers were forced to spare Rs 500 each as fund for the Tarn Taran elections. Teachers and non-teaching staff were made to contribute for whitewash and maintenance of school buildings. Due to such mental harassment, I chose to quit.”After the “Dharam Parchar”, it is education that finds prominence in the SGPC’s annual budget.In 2019-2020 budget worth Rs 1,205 crore, the SGPC had allocated Rs 238 crore for its 53 aided and non-aided schools and 37 colleges.Though the 2020-2021 budget was squeezed to 18 per cent, Rs 215 crore was proposed for education institutions. Of Rs 28.44 crore for raising the education graph in schools, Rs 11.34 crore was for salaries to teachers.A teacher with the SGPC-run school in Amritsar called it a “gimmick” to show the figures in papers only. “I am unable to meet the monthly expenses of my family of four. Since the lockdown a majority of teachers have not been getting salaries though we are taking online classes,” she said.This is not the lone case as teachers in at least half of SGPC-run schools are going through the same situation. They approached government school unions to raise their cause.Balkar Singh Valtoha, general secretary, Government School Teachers Union, Punjab, said teachers of half of the SGPC schools were struggling to get their dues. “We are contemplating to take up their issue with the state Labour Laws Department,” he said.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal admitted that “some” school teachers were not paid dues. “SGPC’s major income source is through donations. Due to Covid lockdown, it has come down to 30 per cent. Despite that we never laid off our staff whether in schools, offices or gurdwaras. As the situation is getting back to normal, the SGPC executive body has taken it on priority to pay the salaries,” he said.
28-10-2020||Our CorrespondentAbohar||Abohar residents await fogging in dengue-hit areas||After Covid-19 outbreak, Abohar residents, who are dealing with rising dengue cases, feel fogging needs to be intensified in the town.Rising cases a concernAbohar residents, who are dealing with rising dengue cases, feel fogging needs to be intensified in the townA woman teacher in a government school in a village near Abohar has been referred to Sriganganagar as her platelet count nosedived to an alarming level.The Health Department has now appointed a lab technician to conduct dengue tests in the Civil Hospital here free while it costs up to Rs 700 in private labs. Earlier, samples were sent to the district headquarters in Fazilka for tests. Reports of 57 samples are still awaited.Senior Medical Officer Ashwani Kumar said so far 86 dengue patients had been detected and a separate ward had been set up in the Civil Hospital. A team today inspected 1,182 houses and examined 2,271 water bodies. At 32 places, larvae were detected and destroyed.Another team had yesterday inspected 1,335 houses and examined 2709 water bodies. It had destroyed larvae in 82 houses. It was found that most of the citizens had stopped using desert coolers after maximum temperature fell to 26 degree Celsius. Many water containers in open areas were also found uncovered.Sources said a 40-year-old businessman Kuntal Kukkar and 14-year-old school student Nikhil Verma were the latest casualties of dengue here.
28-10-2020||Sangrur||Saroop row: Protests held at SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal’s house||Members of various organisations today staged a dharna outside the residence of SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal after he allegedly failed to meet them despite giving them time. The SGPC chief, however, claimed the members didn’t turn up on time for the meeting.Sukhbir slams case against SGPC membersVarious orgnisations have been protesting at Longowal for the past 36 days, demanding legal action against SGPC employees allegedly involved in the disappearance of ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib.The SAD (Amritsar), SAD (United) and other social organisations alleged that the SGPC president had called their members to his house, but left without meeting them. They alleged that SGPC authorities have been working under political pressure.“We had come to the SGPC president’s residence to hand over our protest letter to him. Though he had given us time to meet, he left before we reached,” said Amritpal Singh Sidhu, Longowal circle president, SAD Amritsar.Members of various organisations pasted the protest letter on a pillar outside his house and staged a dharna.The SGPC president said he had called the protesters at 2 pm. “They got late and I left after waiting for them. They should have come on time as I had other meetings scheduled,” said Longowal. — TNS
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||SAD slams proposed cut in states’ tax share||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday lashed out at the Centre’s proposed move to further slash the states’ share in the divisible pool of revenue. He reiterated his party’s demand that the states’ share in this pool must be raised to 50 per cent “at the very least”.Sukhbir also called for a national initiative to protect the federal structure of the country. “Time has come for a nationwide awareness and movement for securing greater fiscal autonomy for all states. This is the only long-term solution to the Centre’s growing hegemony, which in fact is working against our national interest.”He said the SAD had always been a votary of more powers to the states and had made huge sacrifices for this cause. “Strong states mean a strong India, just as strong limbs mean a strong body. You cannot weaken legs and arms or heart and lungs and still claim that the body as a whole would remain strong. Those at the helm of affairs need to understand this.”“It is unfortunate that the federal structure of the country has been under constant attacks from the successive governments at the Centre. Unfortunately, the present government is no exception. The states have already been reduced to the status of beggars at the Centre’s door. The latest reported move is only one more step to impoverish them further and to make them complete slaves before the Centre,” Sukhbir added.
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Paddy trucks stuck at border, millers threaten legal recourse||Basmati rice millers in the state are up in arms against the state government for its alleged failure to protect them. Suffering huge losses as trucks carrying the basmati paddy from outside the state have been stopped by farmers from entering the state, they have now threatened to take legal recourse.The Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters’ Association said as many as 100 basmati rice millers had already been booked by the police, allegedly on charges of getting non-basmati paddy in the state for selling it to government agencies at the minimum support price (MSP).“No one is checking if it is basmati or non-basmati paddy. Based on just hearsay, our trucks are being impounded,” said Ranjit Singh Josan, vice-president of the association.He alleged other than officials of market committees, farmer unions, too, were stopping their trucks at the border villages and not letting them in. “Our business has taken a big hit,” said Josan.The association said it wasdisheartening to see such a stand being taken by farmers, without realising that it would impact them too.Association director Ashok Sethi said this unnecessary harassment of the industry should stop and government machinery must ensure that the industry remained progressive for uplifting the economic sentiment in the state.Export containers carrying rice worth over Rs 5,000 crore are stuck at Ludhiana ICD and and other locations, disrupting the entire supply chain and blocking the precious funds resulting in unprecedented financial crunch. This is also impacting the prices of basmati in the state, which have gone down considerably, he said.Rice millers say that 25 lakh tonnes of basmati paddy, amounting to Rs.6500 crore, was produced in Punjab last year. “There are about 150 units of basmati millers in Punjab. A few varieties such as RS10, Sugandha, Sharbati and Sona Masoori are not available in Punjab. Additionally, the quantity of 1509 and 1121 available is not appropriate for 150 units of rice mills. Due to these reasons, basmati millershave to purchase some paddy from inter-state as well,” said Josan.
28-10-2020||Ropar||Congress: Plan to turn state  into mandi impractical||Punjab Pardesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Sunil Jakhar today said the SAD’s demand to declare the entire state as one mandi (principal market yard) was impractical and would only work against the farmers’interests further.Jakhar visited grain markets of Takthgarh and Nurpur Bedi to interact with farmers regarding the new farm Acts. He said SAD president and former deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal had been demanding an immediate promulgation of an ordinance to declare the state an agriculture market so as to ensure that corporates do not enter the grain markets.The Congress chief said it was just not practical. “The idea of mandi is to regulate the purchase of farmers’ produce. It would be impossible to manage every road, every school yard and every other open space, if the entire state is declared a mandi.”He said the SAD as well as AAP instead of training their guns at the Congress to settle the political scores should go after the Centre, the perpetrator of farm laws.
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farm laws encroach on  Punjab domain: Economists||Eminent economists, hailing from Punjab and working in top institutions, have come up with a set of 20 policy briefs on resurrecting the state’s sagging economy post the Covid-induced lockdown.Proposals for post-Covid revival Strengthen supply chains for quality seeds, involve farmers’ cooperativesThe policy briefs call for urgent reforms in agriculture produce marketing committees (mandis). The briefs state ideally the state APMC Act should be in tune with the Central Acts, but at least two of the three farm laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act — encroach on the state’s domain and are anti-farmer.Talking to The Tribune, Prof Sukhpal Singh at Centre for Management in Agriculture, IIM Ahmedabad, who has made this particular policy brief, said he was “disappointed” that the amendments to the above mentioned Acts, passed by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, would also be detrimental to the interests of farmers. “These aim at killing private participation in trade. If the Centre were to change the policy on foodgrain procurement, where would the farmers find buyers?” he reasons.Interestingly, the policy briefs have recommended that Punjab stop free power to big farmers and rationalise power subsidy for farmers having over 10 acres of land.Besides Prof Sukhpal Singh, Dr Lakhwinder Singh from Punjabi University, Patiala and Dr Kamal Vatta, from PAU, Ludhiana, were involved in coming up with a 20-part series, framing a medium and long-term sustainable policy to aid in the post-Covid recovery in agriculture, industry, uplifting marginalised sections and employment generation.Punjab has been severely hit by the economic slowdown, with its economy expected to contract by almost 25 per cent. The industry is estimated to have suffered a loss of Rs 40,000 crore. With the debt-stressed state not getting its GST compensation from the Centre so far, the experts, who have come together in an initiative undertaken by Centre for Development Economics and Innovation Studies, are recommending major shift in policies for taking the state on path to success.
28-10-2020||Ludhiana||Goods train suspension repressive step: BKU||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) today termed the Railways’ decision to suspend the freight trains a repressive step against the protesting farmers.BKU (Lakhowal) former general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal alleged the Narendra Modi government’s latest move was aimed at settling the political scores with the Congress government. With the movement of freight trains coming to a halt, the state would face shortage of essential supplies, especially coal which is critical for power generation, he added.Editorial: Freight trouble: Centre-state stalemate disrupting economic activityLahowal slammed the Modi government for allegedly trying to muzzle the farmers’ voice. “Farmers have a democratic right to protest, which the NDA government is trying to silence… if pushed to the wall, the farmers would retaliate and take their agitation across the country,” cautioned the BKU leader.He alleged the Central farm Acts would not only spell doom for the farmers, but would also affect farm workers, arhtiyas and transporters adversely, as these would favour the big business houses in the foodgrain trade. — OC
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer union claims Punjab farm Bills toothless||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), the largest farmer union in Punjab, has turned the heat on the Congress government in the state, saying it cannot be absolved of its responsibility towards farmers by passing three Bills to counter the Centre’s farm Acts.In a press release, the union said though they appreciated the resolution passed by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha against the Acts, the three amendments were toothless to deal with the corporatisation of agriculture.At a time when the other 30 farmer organisations in the state are opposing the BJP-led Centre for enacting three farm laws, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have turned the heat on the state government. It said the Bills were too weak and did not legally stop corporates from entering into the food procurement business.
28-10-2020||Sangrur||Crop cartage tenders under lens in Sangrur||The allotment of cartage tenders to the tune of crores of rupees for paddy and wheat in Sangrur city has come under the scanner. Members of the Punjab Pradesh Palledar Mazdoor Union, Sangrur, have alleged that the authorities have allotted the work to a bidder, who had used their documents without their consent. They have announced to launch an agitation if the tenders are not cancelled immediately.“The senior authorities of the Food and Civil Supplies Department have allotted the tender to an individual, who used our Aadhaar cards without our consent. Since the allotment of tender, we have been running from pillar to post,” said Satwinder Singh Kaka, former union head.According to sources, the District Tender Allotment Committee (DTAC) had allotted the tender last month, which includes works of loading and unloading of wheat and paddy and transportation within 8 km from the city.“Around 400 members of our union have been sitting idle and are on the verge of starvation,” said Kaka. District Food and Civil Supplies controller Tarvinder Singh Chopra denied the allegations, saying DTAC had allotted the tender after due process. — TNS
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||5,200 bags of PDS rice seized||Food and Civil Supplies Department officials today recovered 5,200 bags of rice meant for the public distribution system (PDS).Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said a team of the department conducted a raid at Vishnu Rice & General Mills in Kurali which is allotted to PUNSUP, from where 3,000 bags were recovered.He said the sacks were hidden in the stock of paddy.Ashu said a raid was also conducted at Kharar Rice Mill, which is allotted to Punjab State Warehousing Corporation. As many as 2,200 bags of rice meant for the PDS were recovered from the mill.He said the rice stock was imported at a lower price from other states and was to be used for bogus billing during the current market season. Ashu ordered legal action against the mills. — TNS
28-10-2020||Bathinda||Row as Bathinda MC ‘dumps’ flour||MC officials reportedly dumped flour meant for distribution during the lockdown as it became unfit for consumption.The Aam Aadmi Party alleged MC officials failed to distribute ration during the lockdown and was now dumping it to hide its laxity.MC Commissioner Bikramjit Singh Shergill said a probe will be held to fix the responsibility. — TNS
28-10-2020||Abohar||Abohar mill fined for milling paddy sans nod||The market committee here has issued a notice to a rice miller to pay Rs 3.73 lakh as fee and an equal amount as penalty for milling paddy without any permission.Market Committee secretary Sulodh Bishnoi said he had received a complaint against a rice mill located in Dharampura village that rice was being extracted from paddy without permission. The probe indicated that 1,860 quintals of rice had been processed from paddy.Mill director Sanjay Bhaguwala claimed the mills were following the instructions of the government and the action being taken by the market committee was wrong. SDM Jaspal Singh Brar said the matter was under investigation. — OC
28-10-2020||Ludhiana||Land under stubble management increases to 62.5%: PAU study||Even as there has been a sudden spurt in farm fire incidents this year, the land under stubble management has increased considerably.According to Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), the percentage of farm land on which stubble was managed sans burning has improved from 16.03 per cent in 2017 to 50.61 per cent in 2018 and 62.58 per cent in 2019.Dr Gursahib Singh, additional director, Farm Power and Machinery, PAU, said the remote sensing data showed a two-fold increase in the farm fire cases when compared to incidents recorded last year. The state had recorded 14,461 cases this year as against 7,040 last year till October 25.Meanwhile, both last year and this year, the percentage of land where the stubble was burnt till October 25 has been over 20 per cent. This is despite early harvesting of the crop this year.Dr Gursahib further laid emphasis on the fact that farmers were better placed this year to take up paddy straw management practices due to enhanced availability of machines, as there had been an addition of 23,500 machines to the existing number of 50,815.The prevalence of short duration rice varieties, such as PR 121 and PR 126, on more than 70 per cent of parmal rice area is another favourable feature. These varieties have less biomass and short duration, making them highly amenable to paddy straw management. The advent of super seeder, which has been approved by the PAU this year, can improve the situation further by providing the farmers with more options for straw management.Hopefully, farmers would respond to the need for clean air and set a benchmark for managing straw, he added.
28-10-2020||---||Centre’s farm laws are an assault on agriculture||In the summer of 1985, a massive event was organised simultaneously at the Wembley Stadium in the United Kingdom and the John F Kennedy Stadium in the United States. An estimated 1.9 billion people across 150 nations watched the Live Aid concert.As an aspiring law student in England, I was one of the 1.9 billion who watched this global event, as 70 of the world’s biggest bands got together to raise money to combat hunger in Ethiopia.Thirty-five years later, we are discussing hunger once again. This time, it is not Ethiopia, but India. India, the home of the Green Revolution now lags behind Ethiopia on the Global Hunger Index (GHI). The five countries ranked just above India are Tanzania, Burkina Faso, Congo, Ethiopia and Angola; while the five countries that rank just below India are Sudan, North Korea, Rwanda, Nigeria and Afghanistan.In an alternative universe, a country facing such a ‘serious’ hunger issue would have embarked on a farmer-incentivisation programme on a massive scale, announced more state interventions to ensure better food production, procurement, storage, and distribution system, promoted farmers, and ensured adherence to time-tested norms of food procurement.Almost simultaneously, as the nation discusses the embarrassing indicators in combating hunger, an absurd exercise is under way that threatens to undermine the very basis of Indian agriculture and rural economy. The farm laws, passed with the sole intent of benefiting a select group of chosen traders, will seriously hurt India’s already precarious food situation.It will result in greater pauperisation of farmers, agriculturists and farm labourers, and impact the rural economy that thrives on agriculture. In fact, the farm Acts will create paupers out of farmers, and they will only benefit the elite class of commodity traders for whom stocking and hoarding are some more malevolent ways of enriching themselves at the cost of the vast majority of Indians.Let us go beyond the Ethiopian famine almost 35 years ago. Let us revisit another moment in history in 1965. Far away from Wembley stood a frail-looking Indian Prime Minister addressing his compatriots at the Ramlila Grounds in Delhi. On that occasion, India’s second Prime Minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri, gave us a slogan: Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan.Decades later, Indians relate to the messaging in this slogan very well. A vast majority of our jawans come from kisan families. Do not forget that the sword arm of India is nurtured in the farmlands of India.In June this year, I went to condole the martyrdom of a soldier from Punjab who had sacrificed his life fighting enemy soldiers in the Galwan valley. The 22-year-old belonged to a small marginal farming family in Moga district, and he was one of the four bravehearts from Punjab who embraced martyrdom. Not surprisingly, most of them come from farming families or families that rely on agriculture.This creates another challenge for the majority of Indian families. Their families’ livelihood is under attack from the ill-advised farm Bills hurriedly passed in September 2020, and their children are under attack from enemy fire.To live up to the ideal of Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, we need to nourish both, and while I have quoted an example from Punjab, let me reiterate that the farmer-soldier kindred is India’s backbone.Let us travel back another 20 years to revisit a tragic page of the Indian history — the Bengal famine of the 1940s. Experts term it an anthropogenic crisis, clearly stating that the famine was caused not by crop failures but due to lopsided government policies.The colonial empire practised a denial policy, coupled with deceitful practices by traders and commission agents, unauthorised procurement, and war-time measures. This led to distress among farmers, a burgeoning black market, and withholding of stocks, trader speculation and hoarding. The lack of state-sponsored procurement and distribution schemes and abstinence from Indian farmers and agriculturists’ interest led to one of the worst humanitarian crises in the previous century. Millions of deaths, population displacement, land grab, pauperisation, and exploitation of women and children followed. Historians opine that the Bengal famine is a faultline in Churchill’s legacy.This was the backdrop against which India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru delivered a historic speech in Parliament (1952), stating: “If our food front cracks up, everything else will crack up too.”It paved the way for India's agricultural development and became the bedrock of India’s Green Revolution. A slew of measures was pursued by successive governments, leading to the establishment of the Minimum Support Price (MSP), the establishment of farm markets, the network of mandis, and a procurement and distribution system that has stood the test of time.Seven decades later, the three agriculture Acts of 2020 are equivalent to throwing the baby out with the bathwater. The MSP and mandi systems are the heart of the Indian agriculture. The government threatens to undo whatever India has achieved during the previous seven decades by introducing this free-for-all.Indians are already reeling from twin assaults — the ill-advised demonetisation of 2016 and the inept response to the Covid-19 crisis. The first crisis affected our businesses like never before. The second battered the livelihoods of millions of wage earners, labourers and citizenry alike. The 2020 farm laws are the third attack, and this is an assault on Indian agriculture.These three reckless moves are a body blow that India cannot afford. And no Live Aid concerts would be able to undo the harm.
