29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 25 coronavirus deaths; biggest single-day spike in fatality||Punjab recorded 25 deaths from coronavirus and 568 new infections within 24 hours, the state’s COVID bulletin showed on Wednesday---a development that makes it the biggest single-day spike yet in the state’s fatalities.Ten of Wednesday’s 25 deaths came from Jalandhar---a district that continues to remain among the hardest hit in the state. Ludhiana---the district with the most coronavirus cases in the state---reported nine cases. Amritsar (3), Gurdaspur (2) and Patiala (1) made up the rest of Punjab’s death count.Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Patiala also continued to report alarmingly high number of cases. Ludhiana reported 95 new coronavirus cases---the most of any district in the state on Wednesday. Patiala (86), Amritsar (77), Jalandhar (45), Gurdaspur (35), Barnala (35), SAS Nagar (31), Fatehgarh Sahib (31) and Sangrur (30) also reported alarming infection numbers on Wednesday.Three septuagenarians died in Amritsar on Wednesday, taking the district’s death toll to 75. Health authorities said two of the deceased had pre-existing health problems. The third death occurred in another district.Twenty-three of Amritsar’s 77 cases were contacts of already diagnosed cases. Eighteen were new cases---that is, cases that have neither any known contact nor travel history. Five were policemen and one was a health official.  Jalandhar reported 47 new cases, health officials said. Punjab’s health bulletin accounted for 45 of these cases. The district’s new cases include Mahinder Bhagat, a leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party. The district also reported 10 coronavirus fatalities---the highest deaths of any district---in the past 24 hours, the state’s COVID bulletin showed on Wednesday.A 26-year-old man from Khurka Kingra with heart problems and suffering from hypertension was among those who died in the district.Jalandhar district’s Ashok Vihar, Mohalla Qadian, Hargobind Nagar, Phillaur, Apra, Saifabad, Ali Mohalla, Kila Road, Link Road, garden Colony, Jyoti Nagar are now containment zones, the bulletin showed.Punjab’s district-wise breakup is as follows: Ludhiana (2819);   Jalandhar (2157);  Amritsar (1735); Patiala (1569); Sangrur (1019); SAS Nagar (799), Hoshiapur (517), Gurdaspur (490), Pathankot (353), Ferozepur (335), Tarn Taran (336), Fatehgarh Sahib (331), Bathinda (331), Moga (316); SBS Nagar (304); Faridkot (271), Muktsar (221), Ropar (245), Kapurthala (242), Fazilka  (263), Barnala (179), and Mansa (112)The state’s death toll stands thus: Ludhiana (79), Jalandhar (49), Amritsar (75), Patiala (26), Sangrur (26), SAS Nagar (14), Hoshiarpur (14), Gurdaspur (18), Pathankot (11), Ferozepur (6), SBS Nagar (3), Bathinda (5), Tarn Taran (10), Fatehgarh Sahib (2), Moga  (5), Muktsar  (1), Ropar   (4), Kapurthala (9), Fazilka (1), and Barnala  (3) July has witnessed a steady rise in the state's COVID-19 cases---just over 62 per cent of the state's coronavirus cases were recorded in this month alone. The state’s death toll now stands at 361. About 29 per cent of the state’s 14,946 cases are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-25-coronavirus-deaths-biggest-single-day-spike-in-fatality-119556
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||No question of falsely implicating anyone under UAPA: Punjab CM||A day after SAD chief Sukhbir Badal cautioned against “indiscriminate” use of the UAPA, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday asserted that there was no question of falsely implicating anyone under the anti-terror law.The Chief Minister also said he would do everything under the law as needed to protect the security and integrity of Punjab and of the nation, and the SAD president's “threats” could not deter him from ensuring the safety of his people.The Shiromani Akali Dal chief had cautioned Amarinder against “indiscriminate” use of the UAPA by the state police.The CM said if there were any specific instances of wrongful arrest or registration of cases by Punjab Police under the UAPA, as Badal has claimed, he should send him a list of the same instead of making "unnecessary noise".There is no question of falsely implicating anyone, he said, urging Badal to refrain from playing into the hands of separatists by trying to incite the youth against the police force.The CM reminded Badal that during the SAD-BJP dispensation, over 60 cases were registered under the UAPA in Punjab, of which 19 were in 2010 and 12 in 2017.Of the 225 people arrested in these cases, 120 were acquitted or discharged, indicating that indiscriminate application of the UAPA was done by the Akalis, he said in a statement.The Chief Minister lashed out at the SAD chief for trying to “compromise” the interests of Punjab with his politically motivated propaganda against the state police, particularly the DGP, whose professional and secular credentials were above board.It was shocking that Badal, who was leading a party that claimed to be the custodians of Sikhism, was protesting against the Punjab Police's fight against separatist and terrorist activities designed to divide Sikhs on communal lines, said Amarinder.Pointing to the increasing attempts by Pakistan's ISI to send terrorists and smuggle weapons into Punjab, the CM said his government was committed to taking necessary steps to protect not just the state but India from these elements.There were forces bent on destabilising the nation by fomenting trouble and promoting the separatist ideology, he noted, citing the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ).Badal should know that the SFJ has been declared an unlawful organisation and its chief Gurpatwant Pannun has been designated a terrorist by the Centre, and the police force of all states were duty-bound to fight their attempts to subvert national security, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-question-of-falsely-implicating-anyone-under-uapa-punjab-cm-119548
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fuel pumps in Punjab remain shut due to high tax rates||More than 3,400 petrol pump stations on Wednesday remained shut in protest against the high rate of taxes on petrol and diesel in Punjab in comparison to neighbouring states.Fuel pump dealers said their businesses had been adversely affected due to the disparity in retail prices of petroleum products on account of the high rate of value added tax on petrol and diesel.“Over 3,400 petrol pump dealers in Punjab kept their fuel stations shut today,” Petrol Pump Dealers Association, Punjab, president Paramjit Singh said.The daily sale of petrol and diesel in Punjab is 3,200 kilolitre and 10,000 KL respectively, said Singh.Fuel consumers faced inconvenience because of the closure of petrol pumps in the state.However, a few petrol pumps in some areas including Faridkot and Ferozepur remained open.Punjab-based petroleum dealers had announced the closure of their fuel stations from 8 am till 5 pm after the death of one of their members.A Mohali-based fuel pump owner G S Chawla had allegedly committed suicide on July 22 after suffering business losses.According to fuel traders, petrol and diesel is costlier in Punjab in comparison to UT Chandigarh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.There are 3,450 fuel pumps in Punjab and of them, 800 located in the border districts including Mohali, Fatehgarh Sahib, Rupnagar which are losing sales because of the high rate of value added tax on fuel.“800 fuel pumps in the border district have lost more than 50 per cent of their sales,” said Singh.According to fuel dealers, Punjab imposes 33.40 per cent taxes on petrol and 19.77 per cent on diesel.However, VAT rate in Chandigarh is 22.45 per cent on petrol and 14.02 per cent on diesel while in Haryana the tax on petrol and diesel is 25.25 per cent and 17.60 per cent respectively.Petrol and diesel in Mohali are costlier by Rs 4.94 per litre and Rs 2.63 per litre respectively as compared to Chandigarh, they said.The retail price of petrol in Punjab is Rs 82.35 a litre as compared to Rs 77.41 in Chandigarh and Rs 78.46 in Panchkula (Haryana), according to a fuel pump owner.Similarly, the rate of diesel in Punjab is Rs 75.54 in comparison to Rs 72.91 in Chandigarh and Rs 73.54 in Panchkula.Retail prices of petrol and diesel are also dearer in comparison to what they are in Himachal Pradesh.Fuel pump dealers sought from the state government to bring the tax rate on petroleum products at par with that of neighbouring states.They were of the view that with reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel, the petroleum trade will revive in the state and would also lead to generation of more revenue. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fuel-pumps-in-punjab-remain-shut-due-to-high-tax-rates-119542
29-07-2020||---||Now, plant 10 saplings to get arms licence in Patiala||Patiala, July 29With a resolve to check land degradation and declining ground water levels in Punjab, and to ‘nudge’ Patiala residents to be part of fight against deforestation, Patiala Division Commissioner Chander Gaind has introduced a novel idea by putting a new condition for issuance of arms licence.Terming this initiative as ‘Trees-For-Gun’, Commissioner Gaind said the idea was based on encouraging and nudging the people to plant more and more trees.He said anyone desirous of getting a new arms licence will have to plant 10 saplings and five for renewal.“One would have to submit a selfie with each planted sapling at the time of filing of the application. After one month, before marking the application for police clearance and dope test, the applicant would have to furnish the fresh status of the planted trees by submitting new selfies with the trees,” he said.This way, he added, one would have to do this plantation compulsorily, which would help increase tree cover.Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur, while appreciating the idea, appealed to the other districts to follow this initiative for the sake of environment.Meanwhile, applicants said already the process is lengthy and cumbersome and authorities are adding conditions to it. “This is another way to harass residents who will have to visit the police and Suwidha centres many times to get a clearance. When we pay fees and get all tests done, the commissioner cannot impose on us to plant saplings. Self-defence is our right,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-plant-10-saplings-to-get-arms-licence-in-patiala-119532
29-07-2020||---||Yog Raj Sharma appointed PSEB chairman||Patiala, July 29Yog Raj Sharma, a professor at Punjabi University, Patiala, has been appointed chairman of Punjab School Education Board on directions of the Punjab Governor.The notification regarding the same was released by the office of Special Secretary, Department of School Education, on Wednesday.The professor at the Punjabi Languages department of the University was recently appointed as University Registrar. He is also functioning as Director, human resource development centre at the University.Yog Raj is a member of Punjabi Sahit Academy, Ludhiana, and Kendriya Lekhak Sabha, Jalandhar. He has remained a member of the Senate at Punjabi University and holds 25 years of experience in education and research. He holds MA in Punjabi, Hindi and Journalism and Mass communication.Apart from other projects, Yog Raj holds credit for translation work of Mahabharat in Punjabi. He has edited Punjabi University’s publication of a book of poems of Bhai Veer Singh which is under printing and has remained as co-coordinator of translation work of Mahan Kosh written by Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha into Hindi.He will remain at the post for up to three years from the date of appointment or until the age of 66 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yog-raj-sharma-appointed-pseb-chairman-119527
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder urges sweet shops to distribute free masks on Raksha Bandhan||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has advised owners of sweet shops and other shops in the state to provide free masks to customers on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan.The appeal comes four days after the Chief Minister had announced that the sweet shops will be allowed to remain open on August 2, a day before the Raksha Bandhan festival, despite the Sunday lockdown in place in the state.DCs have been asked to advise the owners of sweet shops in their respective districts to give a pair of masks free of cost with the purchase of sweets in order to promote and popularise the use of masks. Similar advisories may also be issued to owners of other shops for giving away free masks on purchase of Rakhis, said the Chief Minister.An active proponent of the use of the mask to check the further spread of coronavirus in the state, where the number of COVID cases has been steadily increasing over the past couple of weeks. Captain Amarinder has already warned of an increase in the fine amount on violation of mandatory wearing of a mask. Among the first states to impose fine on those not wearing the mask when venturing out of their homes, Punjab is currently imposing a penalty of Rs 500 in every instance of violation. However, with a large number of violations being reported from many districts, the Chief Minister has said the amount can be hiked further if people do not behave responsibly.The Chief Minister has recently directed the Health Department to install mask vending machines at bus stands and other strategic points. In addition, free masks are being distributed to the poor along with their ration kits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-urges-sweet-shops-to-distribute-free-masks-on-raksha-bandhan-119506
29-07-2020||Patiala||Cyclist dies after being hit by car on Patiala-Sangrur bypass road||A cyclist was killed while another was seriously injured after they were hit by a car on the Patiala-Sangrur bypass road in the wee hours of Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Dimpy Khurana. Police said that both the cyclists were hit by a fast-moving Creta Car. The injured was admitted to a private hospital in Patiala.Civil Line SHO said that he had sent police personnel to the spot to investigate the matter.He said, “Until now, I have not received any written complaint. A police party has been sent to investigate the matter.”No dedicated cycling track alongside the roadsAmid the coronavirus lockdown, cycle sales have surged but there is no dedicated cycling track alongside main roads in Patiala. Consequently, riders are forced to go on highways.It is pertinent to mention that the issue of the cycling track had already been raised with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh during the ‘Ask Captain’ Facebook Live program. The Chief Minister had asked the sports department to check the feasibility of the cycling track in Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cyclist-dies-after-being-hit-by-car-on-patiala-sangrur-bypass-road-119496
29-07-2020||New Delhi||Punjab’s Princepal signs with G League||Exciting teenaged prospect Princepal Singh has signed to play in the NBA G League next season, League President Shareef Abdur-Rahim announced on Tuesday. The 19-year-old basketballer, who will train and compete alongside the new G League team featuring elite youth prospects, is the first NBA Academy graduate to sign with the NBA G League and first NBA Academy India graduate to sign a professional contract.Princepal FilesBorn: Jan 3, 2001 (Dera Baba Nanak)Height: 6ft 10inPosition: ForwardIndia debut: Dec 2018Singh, who started playing basketball at the Ludhiana Basketball Academy, joined the NBA Academy India in 2017, an elite basketball training centre in Delhi for the top prospects from throughout India, as part of the academy’s inaugural class of athletes identified through the ACG-NBA Jump Program.In November 2018, Singh transitioned to the NBA Global Academy — the league’s hub for top prospects from outside the US — in Canberra, Australia, where he continued his development before graduating this spring.“We are very proud of Princepal, who has worked extremely hard to earn this opportunity as he continues to be a trailblazer for the NBA Academy program and basketball in India,” said NBA Vice President, Head of International Basketball Development Troy Justice. — TNS, agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-princepal-signs-with-g-league-119435
29-07-2020||Muktsar||SAD begins road repair in Malout||SAD’s former Malout MLA Harpreet Singh and some party men today started the repair work of the Malout-Muktsar road along the Bathinda Chowk in Malout town on their own expenses.“A number of road mishaps have taken place on the road and innocent lives have been lost. However, the state government is least bothered to start the repair work. Irate over it, we today repaired the road along the Bathinda roundabout. If the state government does not start the work soon, the SAD will fill all the potholes itself,” he said.Himesh Mittal, SDO, PWD, Malout, said, “This is a national highway and we have sent a detail project report for its widening to senior officials. Besides, a report has been prepared to execute the necessary repairs. Now, it is up to the seniors to carry out the work from the funds of the state government or of the Centre.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-begins-road-repair-in-malout-119245
29-07-2020||Sangrur||Five booked for opening fire||The police booked five persons for allegedly opening fire at Badrukhan village last night. The accused have been identified as Lakhwinder Singh, Jagseer Singh, Arshdeep Singh and their two aides. “The accused opened fire on Karmjit Singh when he was returning home after closing his shop,” said ASI Karm Singh, incharge, police post Badrukhan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-booked-for-opening-fire-119230
29-07-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Mining near Beas poses threat to Shah Canal||Hoshiarpur, July 28Mining activities in the Beas riverbed in the Mand area of Himachal Pradesh are posing a threat to the Shah Canal Barrage. Since 2012, residents of Himachal Pradesh villages are demanding that crushers be removed and the area be declared a no-mining zone. The executive engineer of Shah Canal Headworks has been writing to senior officials for the past eight years to stop mining in the area, but to no avail.The Mand Khetar Paryavaran Sanrakshan Samiti, comprising residents of villages in Mand, said this was a disaster in the making that would affect at least 80,000 people of 30 villages of Himachal Pradesh and countless people in Punjab. In response to their representations, the Executive Engineer of Shah Canal Headworks, Talwara, wrote to the Mukerian SDM on May 22, 2012, that due to presence of stone crushers near the Beas in Himachal Pradesh, the riverbed was being exploited. After some time, the erosion may pose a danger to Shah Canal and allied works leading to disruption in the production of 207-MW electricity at the Mukerian hydel plant. Another letter was sent to the Kangra Deputy Commissioner on June 26, 2013, urging him to take action on the crushers placed near the Beas riverbed up to Milwan village.A committee formed by the Kangra Deputy Commissioner, comprising the ADC, Kangra, and SDM, Fatehpur, had recommended on December 12, 2019, that “for the safety of people living near the Pong Dam and 52 gate barrage, to protect the environment, flora and fauna from irreversible ecological damage and to safeguard the livelihood and land of people living in Mand, it is recommended that the area should be declared as ‘no-mining zone’ at once”.Balbir Singh, president of the samiti, said, “The report was submitted but no action has been initiated yet. The recommendation report has been gathering dust for the past seven months.”Ujagar Singh, secretary of the samiti, said, “The report of the ADC says that mining has created gorges of 1.5-km in size, which are up to 0.5 km in width. We demand that these gorges in the riverbed be refilled else the erosion may cause a disaster.”The Executive Engineer, Shah Canal Headworks, Talwara, said, “I am not aware of the past communication as I joined here last year. There’s no mining in the area falling under our jurisdiction. Mining in far-away areas is not an immediate danger but with time, the erosion may pose a problem.”Govt sheltering sand mafia: AAP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mining-near-beas-poses-threat-to-shah-canal-119231
29-07-2020||Saurabh Malik---||NOC from adoption panel not required by Indian parents: High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 28 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) was required only by foreign and not Indian parents for issuance of a passport. The ruling by Justice Nirmaljit Kaur came in a case where the Passport Authority had refused passport to a minor girl, adopted in accordance with the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act (HAMA), on the ground that a NOC from the CARA or photocopy from a recognised Indian placement agency was required. The petitioner’s counsel, Sukhvinder Singh Nara, contended that the NOC from the CARA was not required as Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act (JJ Act) clearly stated that its provisions would not be applicable to an adoption made under the provisions of the HAMA. Nara added the minor petitioner was adopted under an adoption deed, which was a duly executed document and was under the provisions of the HAMA. The counsel for the Union of India, during the course of arguments, contended the inter-country adoption was valid only under the JJ Act. After hearing arguments, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur asserted it was evident that “Indian parents” were not required to provide the NOC from the CARA. The requirement was for foreign parents. “Although, the Court is of the view that an Indian or Overseas Citizen of India with a British passport, i.e. with British Citizenship, will not lose their identity of being an Indian parent or Indian, especially when they are called ‘Overseas Citizen of India’, nevertheless, the debate is left open as no argument was raised qua the same by either side,” Justice Nirmaljit Kaur asserted, while referring to the facts of the case. Justice Nirmaljit Kaur at the same time added that  it would be in the interest of the adoptive parents and the child to obtain a simple NOC from the CARA to ensure a clean transition from one country to another, lest they face difficulty in visa or any other requirement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/noc-from-adoption-panel-not-required-by-indian-parents-high-court-119232
29-07-2020||Amritsar||SGPC flays bid to convert Pak's gurdwara of Bhai Taru Singh into mosque||The SGPC has condemned attempts to encroach upon a historic shrine dedicated to Shaheed Bhai Taru Singh in Pakistan and convert it into a mosque. The shrine was reportedly being claimed to be the place of Masjid Shahid Ganj by the locals.Gurdwara Shaheedi Asthan Bhai Taru Singh is a historical shrine built at Naulakha Bazaar in Lahore, where the martyr laid down his life for the sake of protecting Sikh values in 1745.Lodging a strong protest against its conversion, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal asked the Union Ministry to take up the matter with its counterpart across the border.“This is our call for justice for the minority Sikh community in Pakistan. The authorities should take immediate remedial measures to safeguard rights and cultural heritage of Sikhs,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-flays-bid-to-convert-paks-gurdwara-of-bhai-taru-singh-into-mosque-119233
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Western Army Chief visits forward areas||General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lieutenant General RP Singh, today visited Kapurthala to review operational readiness of formations based in the sector. He was briefed on operational, training and logistic matters by field commanders and witnessed an equipment display. He also visited the Selection Centre (North), where he was acquainted by the centre commandant on various aspects aspects related to selection procedures. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/western-army-chief-visits-forward-areas-119234
29-07-2020||---||Detaining PSPCL staff proves dearer for cops||Mansa, July 28In a tit-for-tat move, Powercom employees disconnected electricity supply to Boha police station in Mansa district over nonpayment of Rs 5.59-lakh dues after their employees were detained for not wearing mask.Mahar Singh, member of the PSPCL Employees Federation, said the Powercom employees were sitting outside their office on Sunday, when the SHO came and took away their employees for not wearing mask. Police officials misbehaved with the staff, but released them later.On Monday, the police started harassing the employees and wrongly accused them of tearing their uniform.Members of the Employees Federation and Technical Service Union, Boha, staged a protest. Later, DSP Baljinder Singh held a meeting with the Powercom officials.Boha SHO Sandeep Bhatti said: “The police station’s power bill was outstanding, but the issue has been resolved and the power supply has been restored.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/detaining-pspcl-staff-proves-dearer-for-cops-119235
29-07-2020||---||Pargat Singh writes to CM, says reopen blasphemy case against Gurmeet Ram Rahim||Jalandhar, July 28Jalandhar Cantonment Congress MLA Pargat Singh has written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, asking him to get the 2007 blasphemy case against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh reopened.In a letter to the CM, he said: “Now that the SIT investigating the 2015 Bargari case has expedited the inquiry and nominated the dera chief in the case, it is time that the 2007 blasphemy case be re-investigated and the guilty be brought to the book. Our party had come to power in the state after giving a commitment to the people that all those involved in sacrilege and blasphemy cases will be punished.”Pargat said: “The then SAD-BJP government had, in a very dubious way, withdrawn the 2007 case against the dera chief just four days ahead of the 2012 elections. As per my information, a petition into the matter had been filed by a Ludhiana-based lawyer. You must ask the Advocate General of Punjab to get details of this case, check its legalities at the earliest so that it can be reopened.”He alleged that the dera functionaries had enjoyed the patronage of the previous SAD-BJP leadership due to which they engaged in sacrilegious activities without any fear.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pargat-singh-writes-to-cm-says-reopen-blasphemy-case-against-gurmeet-ram-rahim-119236
29-07-2020||Moga||Moga man kills wife over illicit relationship||Former DGP’s ‘PA’ dupes man of Rs25L, bookedFazilka: A personal assistant (PA) of former Director General of Police has been booked for allegedly duping a person of Rs 25 lakh on the pretext of getting him a post of a Drug Control Officer. Complainant Raj Kumar, a resident of Tehliwala Bodla village, said he had been running a medical store and had applied for the post of Drug Control Officer in July 2018. Raj said his friends, Sanjeev Kumar and Lakhmir Singh, offered to help him. He said the duo allegedly arranged a meeting with Vikram Sharma, a resident of Bathinda. Vikram claimed to be a personal assistant of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini. He allegedly demanded Rs 35 lakh, but the deal was fixed for Rs 30 lakh. Fazilka SSP found Vikram guilty and booked him under Section 420 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-man-kills-wife-over-illicit-relationship-119237
29-07-2020||---||Show political will, resolve SYL imbroglio: Haryana BJP to Capt Amarinder Singh||Jhajjar, July 28State BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar has appealed to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to show political will in resolving the long-pending imbroglio concerning the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal.“Haryana and its farmers have been waiting for their share of the SYL canal waters for long. It is an opportunity for Capt Amarinder to show political will and take a decision. Punjab is a ‘daata’ (giver) and Haryana is a ‘leta’ (taker) in this matter,” he told the media here on Tuesday.The Supreme Court has asked the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana to attempt a negotiated settlement of the SYL canal issue that has defied any solution for decades in spite of several rounds of litigation.Meanwhile, Dhankar said BJP president JP Nadda would inaugurate party’s offices in six districts — Rewari, Hisar, Nuh, Palwal, Fatehabad and Sonepat — through video-conferencing on Wednesday.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar would participate from Chandigarh, while Dhankar would be present at the Hisar function.Chandigarh: State Congress chief Kumari Selja tweeted, “The state has the right over the SYL waters. Haryana has been waiting for long for the canal waters. There should be no more delay. The matter should be resolved soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/show-political-will-resolve-syl-imbroglio-haryana-bjp-to-capt-amarinder-singh-119312
29-07-2020||---||To tackle surge in infections, Punjab to double the testing||Chandigarh, July 28With Punjab ready to increase its daily testing capacity to 20,000, the number of positive cases may witness a spike. So far, 2.5 per cent of those tested have been found positive.As per the data released by the government since April, the numbers have risen with increased testing, particularly after the lockdown was relaxed in June. When the state was under curfew in April, the government had tested 19,945 people, of whom 434 were positive. In May, of the 64,676 samples, 1,678 had turned positive.In June, the testing went up to 2,10,717 and the number of positive cases doubled from the previous month at 3,267. This month, the number of positive cases has doubled again even as the number of tests remained almost the same.Since the first case reported on March 8, the Health Department has taken samples of 5.3 lakh people. Of them, just 13,218 have been found positive.According to experts, Punjab is doing far better than several other states. After Delhi, the test number per million in Punjab is the highest in the country. Nationally, the number of cases per million is 1,055. It is 472 in Punjab.At present, the state is collecting around 11,000 samples a day, but within a month, the capacity is likely to go up to 20,000.The death rate in the state is 2.31 as out of more than 13,000 cases, 306 people have succumbed to the virus. Most of the victims were suffering from various other diseases and were above 50 years of age.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-tackle-surge-in-infections-punjab-to-double-the-testing-119212
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Young IAS officers to lead war against virus||Amid increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the Punjab Government has appointed young IAS officers as nodal officers in Amritsar and Patiala to effectively manage the rising caseload in two Government Medical Colleges, as well as coordinate with private sector hospitals providing tertiary level Covid care.  Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday also tasked the IAS officers with coordinating between the hospitals in the respective districts and the state government’s expert health advisory committee, headed by Dr KK Talwar, besides managing the day-to-day functional needs and challenges related to testing, isolation, hospitalisation, treatment and discharge.   Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan has also directed all DCs to identify dynamic young officers in their districts to track Covid-19 patients and  coordinate their treatment and care and ensure timely and efficient healthcare facilities. Mahajan said the officers functioning as the one-point contact for all Covid-related needs across hospitals and organisations, including Covid care centres, isolation centres, quarantine facilities, ambulance services, the process of managing the crisis would become seamless and smooth for the patients and their families. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/young-ias-officers-to-lead-war-against-virus-119213
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||40 police officials volunteer to donate plasma||Forty police personnel, who recovered from Covid-19 virus, have offered to donate blood plasma to save lives of people. Majority of these cops were from Jalandhar (Rural), with Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal himself leading from the front. Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta had personally reached out to his men to donate plasma after their mandatory two-week recovery period ends. The DGP said two cops –ASI Ram Lal and Punjab Home Guards Lakhwinder Singh – have already donated plasma. He said three cops from Batala and Gurdaspur had volunteered to donate plasma. The DGP said a special campaign had been launched to create awareness among cured police personnel to come forward for this noble cause.  Till July 28, a total of 831 police personnel tested Covid positive, of whom 336 had recovered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/40-police-officials-volunteer-to-donate-plasma-119214
29-07-2020||Karam Prakash---||Norms violation puts workplaces at risk||Tribune News Service Patiala, July 28 Occupational sites, where human activities are on, are fast becoming a source of infection in the district, officials of the Health Department said. The latest case is of Qila Chowk branch of the State Bank of India (SBI) where 12 staff members tested positive for Covid-19. Official sources said social distancing norms were not being followed, which led to the spread.  The infection from this branch also spread to another branch of the SBI from where a staff member got infected. Both bank branches have been sealed till further orders. A peon of the Qila Chowk branch, who had recovered from the infection two months ago, again tested positive for the virus. Similarly, 14 officials of the Excise Department had tested positive two weeks ago. Another such instance of spread at the workplace was reported from a car dealer’s premises in Nabha, where 18 staffers had got infected. District Epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said they were finding cases mostly in household contacts or workplaces such as banks, shops, offices, labs and clinics. He said: “We have to ensure that sick employees are not allowed to join duty. Employees should not sit together to have lunch or tea in offices. However, despite awareness drives and personal communication with the offices, norms are not being followed in letter and spirit.” Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said there had been spread in offices, including government departments. “The guidelines are not being followed strictly. Therefore, occupational sites are the worst hit,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/norms-violation-puts-workplaces-at-risk-119215
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab has no surplus water to share with neighbours: Jakhar||State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday said Punjab’s first responsibility was towards its own people, particularly its farmers, and it was unfortunately not in a position to share its limited water resource with other states.Reacting to Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar’s statement on the Supreme Court’s directions in the SYL case, Jakhar said political will could not supersede the interest of Punjab’s people. The Congress government had never shirked its humanitarian responsibility, but the acute water crisis faced by the state prevented it from sharing its resources with any other state, he added.On Dhankar’s remarks that Punjab owed it to Haryana’s farmers to give them their due, Jakhar said as per the riparian principle, it was Punjab and its farmers who had the first right to the waters of the rivers flowing through the state. Any violation of the riparian principle would not only be against the law, but also unjust to the state’s people, he added. Pointing out that Capt Amarinder had been repeatedly asking for a fresh assessment of water availability in the Beas and Ravi, Jakhar said such a reassessment would make the ground situation clear and would endorse Punjab’s stand on the SYL issue. While the Punjab Government had no objections to a negotiated settlement on the issue, any discussion would have to take into account the situation on the ground, he added.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-has-no-surplus-water-to-share-with-neighbours-jakhar-119216
29-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Aid announced, but kin hopeful of missing sepoy’s return||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, July 28An official release from the office of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday night announced an ex-gratia relief of Rs 50 lakh along with a government job to the family of Sepoy Satwinder Singh, who was swept away near the Line of Actual Control (LAC). However, his family and residents of his native village Kutba believe he is alive and are hopeful of his safe return.Subedar Gurmale Singh, who also works as a Guardian of Governance and a resident of the village, said he had spoken to the Army authorities this morning and learnt that the search for Satwinder was still on.“Satwinder is missing but we cannot say he is dead. His seniors have told me that they are taking all possible steps to trace him. We are hopeful that he will come back alive,” Gurmale said.The CM, on Monday evening, had announced Rs 50-lakh aid and a government job each to the families of Sepoy Satwinder Singh and Sepoy Lakhveer Singh of 4 Sikh Light Infantry unit. He paid homage to the sacrifice of the fallen soldiers and extended sympathies to their families.Both Army men were part of a patrol party near the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh. While crossing a wooden bridge on a fast-flowing nullah in the high-altitude area, they fell down and were swept away while trying to save each other. Search and rescue operations are in progress to trace Satwinder Singh while the body of Lakhveer Singh was recovered on Monday.Lakhveer Singh hailed from Demru Khurd village in Baghapurana tehsil of Moga district and is survived by his wife Namdeep Kaur. Satwinder Singh’s family comprises of his mother and father.Sukhwinder Kaur and Amar Singh, parents of the missing sepoy, said their son would come back alive by defeating death. Harmanjit Singh, another resident of Kutba village, said: “The whole village has been praying for Satwinder’s safe return.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aid-announced-but-kin-hopeful-of-missing-sepoys-return-119217
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||50 K girls to get smartphones in Punjab||Three years after promising the distribution of smartphones to the state’s youth, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said the first consignment of 50,000 smartphones had been received. He said the company from where the phones were procured had no connection with China.The Chief Minister also announced holding of student body elections in public universities as soon as the Covid situation improved. The polls in private institutions would be held at a later stage. The CM today held a video-conference with Punjab Youth Congress president Birender Dhillon and his team.He said: “The phones will be given first to girl students of government schools of Classes XI and XII, with priority to those who do not have a phone so that their online learning can be facilitated amid the pandemic.”The CM said the government was planning to cancel the order, but went through with it after it was learnt the company was manufacturing the product in India only. Capt Amarinder said the Bargari case was getting delayed due to the CBI’s refusal to hand over the investigation and return the case file. The false propaganda being spread by the Opposition on the issue needed to be countered effectively, he said. The government had fulfilled 435 of the 562 promises listed in the Congress 2017 poll manifesto, the CM claimed.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/50-k-girls-to-get-smartphones-in-punjab-119218
29-07-2020||---||Covid claims 19 more lives in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 28The state reported 19 deaths and 612 cases in the past 24 hours. With these fresh cases, the total count has reached 14,378 in Punjab. Apart from that, 112 patients are on oxygen support and 14 are on ventilator support.The Central Jail in Amritsar has turned into a new hotspot with 31 prisoners and staffers getting infected. Earlier, at least 20 employees, including a DSP posted at the jail, had tested positive for Covid. Following this, the administration has started collecting samples of all jail inmates. Seven personnel from a BSF battalion posted at Attari have also tested positive.58 challaned for not wearing maskHoshiarpur: The district administration on Tuesday challaned 58 persons for not wearing mask and imposed a fine of Rs29,000 during a special drive. The Hoshiarpur SDM imposed a penalty of Rs7,000. Similarly, the Dasuya SDM issued a challan of Rs5,500 to 11 persons. The Garhshankar SDM challaned 21 persons and collected a penalty of Rs10,500. OCThe total count of casualties due to Covid in the state has reached 336. Six deaths were reported from Ludhiana, three each from Patiala, Sangrur, Tarn Taran and Amritsar and one from Hoshiarpur.In Amritsar, the deceased have been identified as Gurdial Singh, a 45-year-old resident of Khiala village near Ram Tirath, Sukhchain Singh, a 59-year-old resident of New Partap Nagar, and Bhupinder Singh, a 75-year-old resident of Bakhna Kalan village.Ludhiana continues to be the worst-affected district as it reported 142 cases in the past 24 hours, followed by Amritsar (73), Patiala (66), Jalandhar (57), Ferozepur (37), Bathinda (35), SAS Nagar and Sangrur (30 each), Ropar (26) and Kapurthala (24).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-claims-19-more-lives-in-punjab-119219
29-07-2020||---||Ex-cop arrested for threatening witness in Multani case||Mohali, July 28The police have arrested one of the two retired Chandigarh Police officials who have been booked for intimidating former Punjab cop Gurmeet Singh Pinki, a witness in the Multani disappearance case.On the complaint of Pinki, a case has been registered against the retired cops — Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh — under Sections 195A (threatening any person to give false evidence) and 500 (punishment for defamation) of the IPC at the Sadar Kharar police station.Anokh Singh was arrested today. He was produced in a local court and sent to two-day police custody.According to sources, Anokh Singh had applied for bail which was rejected due to some technical reasons. Pinki said recently, Anokh Singh had visited him at his pig farm near Landran. Anokh Singh told him that he also wanted to set up a similar farm.While they were having a discussion, Anokh Singh started recording the conversation on his phone. Later, he forwarded the recording to a mediaperson. Pinki claimed that Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh then started threatening him that he would have to face consequences if he did not deviate from his testimony against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, who is an accused in the case.Following the threats, Pinki lodged a complaint with the police. After preliminary investigation, the police registered a case against Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh.No police official was ready to comment officially on the matter.Notably, a Mohali court, while granting anticipatory bail to four former UT police inspectors facing charges along with Saini in the case, had explicitly directed them not to intimidate the complainant, witness or anyone else during the bail period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cop-arrested-for-threatening-witness-in-multani-case-119220
29-07-2020||---||Punjab cuts fuel allowance by 25% for employees||Chandigarh, July 28A day after the state government slashed the mobile phone compensation given to all employees, it has imposed a cut of 25 per cent on the fuel allowed to officials of all departments.The decision has been taken by the Finance Department. According to information available, the 25 per cent cut in fuel allowance would be applicable to employees working in the state headquarters. It covers all administrative, police personnel and health staff.The cut had been imposed citing restricted movement by the employees in the field in the wake of the spread of Covid-19. Also, only 50 per cent of employees are coming to offices each day.Yesterday, the mobilephone compensation for all categories of employees was slashed by 50 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cuts-fuel-allowance-by-25-for-employees-119221
29-07-2020||Raj Sadosh||Rain damages cotton on 10K acres in Abohar||Abohar, July 28Due to the recent downpour, cotton and other crops spread over 10,000 acres in Abohar, Khuyiansarwer and Fazilka development blocks have been damaged.As per a preliminary survey conducted by teams of the Agriculture Department, the loss to crops, mainly cotton and maize, ranges from 15 to 17 per cent in about 10,000 acres across 60 villages. The final report is yet to be compiled. The exact loss will be calculated when the Revenue Department carries out a special ‘girdawari’ to ensure compensation by the government. Harsh reality Some farmers, who failed in getting the stagnant water out, ploughed the fields today. In Dharangwala village here, Pala Ram was the first to drive a tractor on cotton crop sown over five acres. Inderjit Singh ploughed 10 acres while Ram Chander did it on five acres of cotton plants. Another farmer, Madan Lal Kirodiwal, said four acres of crop had been destroyed due to rain.While Punjab is expecting a 25 per cent increase from the last year’s 4-lakh hectare area under cotton crop, the ground reality seems to be different.The farmers said due to poor productivity, they had to bear financial losses running into lakhs of rupees. They said if the government gave them due compensation on time, they could sow their crop again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-damages-cotton-on-10k-acres-in-abohar-119222
29-07-2020||Archit Watts---||Fields flooded again, Muktsar farmers yet to get aid for last year||Tribune News Service Muktsar, July 28 Jagpreet Singh, a farmer of Haraj village in Muktsar district, lost paddy crop on 13 acres as rainwater inundated his fields last year. His crop has met the same fate this year as well. However, Jagpreet is yet to get a single rupee in compensation from the state government against his last year’s losses. “This time, I was expecting to cover my last year’s losses. However, paddy crop on 13 acres of my land is waterlogged again. I have spent nearly Rs 1 lakh on my crops so far but even a week after the rains, the fields are inundated. The state government has failed to make any arrangements to drain out the rainwater. It has even failed to provide compensation of last year’s losses. Further, this year, the officials have not yet got the orders to start special girdawari,” Jagpreet maintained. Similarly, Kaur Singh, a farmer of Udekaran village, who lost his paddy crop on 30 acres for two years in a row, said: “During the monsoon, nearly 400 acres in our village get waterlogged. The rainwater from other villages flows in and accumulates here. We are bearing this from the past many years, but the state government has not found any permanent solution till date. It has even failed to give us compensation against the last year’s losses. We had met the Deputy Commissioner in this regard, but to no avail.” Notably, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, AAP leader-cum- Kotkapura MLA, had on Sunday visited some affected villages in Muktsar district and spoke to the Deputy Commissioner to disburse the compensation against the last year’s losses at the earliest. In this regard, Avtar Singh, District Revenue Officer, Muktsar, said: “We have received the money and will soon disburse the compensation against the last year’s losses.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fields-flooded-again-muktsar-farmers-yet-to-get-aid-for-last-year-119223
29-07-2020||---||Seeking financial aid, kin of slain dera man move court||Faridkot, July 28 Accusing the Nabha jail authorities of negligence that led to the murder of Mohinder Pal Bittu, a central committee member of Dera Sacha Sauda and prime accused in sacrilege cases, his family members today filed a petition in a local court here. They are demanding financial assistance from the state Home Department. Relying on the FIR lodged by the jail authorities, the family of the deceased alleged that due to inadequate security and supervision in the jail, two murder convicts walked into the cell where Bittu was lodged and killed him without any provocation. They claimed that Bittu was the sole bread winner of the family. Besides it being a mental trauma, the murder had left them in economic distress, they pleaded. Bittu owned a bakery and his annual income was about Rs 6 lakh, the family claimed in the petition filed the court of ACJ (senior Division) here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seeking-financial-aid-kin-of-slain-dera-man-move-court-119224
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Akalis allege  UAPA misuse||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday cautioned CM Capt Amarinder Singh against the alleged indiscriminate use of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) by the police.  He said directions should be given to the police chief not to lodge cases against Sikh youth under the UAPA for minor offences. There were many cases of youth being jailed for minor offences under the UAPA, he added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-allege-uapa-misuse-119225
29-07-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Won’t cut VAT on fuel: Punjab Government||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 28Amid the call to shut down petrol pumps for nine hours across Punjab on Wednesday in protest against the high Value Added Tax (VAT) charged on fuel, the state government has refused to roll back the tax.VAT on petrol and diesel has been hiked twice during this financial year by the government — in May and in June. While the hike has led to an increase in the much-needed tax collection for the cash-strapped government, retail fuel pump owners, especially those in districts bordering Chandigarh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, said their sales had gone down drastically as people preferred to buy fuel from neighbouring states.Petrol in Chandigarh is cheaper by Rs 5.02 per litre, in Haryana by Rs 4.43 per litre and in Himachal Pradesh by Rs 4.75 per litre. On the other hand, diesel in Chandigarh is cheaper by Rs 2.70 per litre, in Haryana by Rs 2.51 per litre and in Himachal Pradesh by Rs 3.86 per litre. “This disparity in prices has ensured a fall in the sales for retail fuel outlets in border districts. Unable to bear these losses, a petrol pump owner in Mohali committed suicide last week. To protest against this, we have decided to close down all retail outlets from 8 am to 5 pm on Wednesday,” Paramjit Singh Doaba, president of the Punjab Petroleum Dealers’ Association, told The Tribune.Figures available from the Taxation Department reveal that the state earned Rs 707.20 crore as VAT on the sale of diesel and Rs 325.407 crore as VAT on the sale of petrol in June. With other sources of state’s taxes showing little signs of recovery, it would not be possible for the government to roll back the VAT hike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-cut-vat-on-fuel-punjab-government-119226
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||CPS back at Sectt office||Four days after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh rejected his resignation, Chief Principal Secretary (CPS) Suresh Kumar today started attending his office in the CMO at the Civil Secretariat here. After working in the office for some time, he left to attend a meeting with the CM at the latter’s farmhouse. It has been seven months since the CPS had not attending his office at the Civil Secretariat and worked from Punjab Bhavan due to the ongoing court case in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cps-back-at-sectt-office-119227
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Harsimrat in war of words over GST arrears||A Twitter war broke out between Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and her estranged brother-in-law and state Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal over the release of GST compensation to Punjab.It began with Harsimrat posting a tweet saying that the Centre had cleared the pending GST compensation of Rs 12,187 crore for 2019-20, and she hoped that the state government would use this to streamline the state’s fiscal situation and ensure timely payment to employees.Manpreet replied that the dues for April to July 2020 were still pending. “Four months of GST dues are equivalent to two months of salaries of government employees. Please ask your alliance partners to stop misleading and release what is due, not just to Punjab, but to all states,” he tweeted.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finance-minister-manpreet-singh-badal-harsimrat-in-war-of-words-over-gst-arrears-119228
29-07-2020||---||Addl Chief Secy seeks report on inferior gypsum||Chandigarh, July 28The Additional Chief Secretary, Development, Anirudh Tewari, has sought a report from the Agriculture Department regarding delivery of substandard gypsum by three suppliers.Out of 25,000 metric tonne (MT) ordered, around 3,000 MT of gypsum had been delivered. Random sampling of the gypsum by the Agriculture Department and the Punjab Agro Industries Corporation had found 85 samples of inferior quality out of 146 samples.The Tribune had highlighted on Tuesday, how substandard gypsum (lower proportion of calcium sulphate) was supplied to the Agriculture Department for distribution to farmers. This stock of gypsum had been rejected and payments stopped.Officials in the Agriculture Department said they had submitted a report to the ACS (Development). “We have also decided that each and every consignment that we receive from three suppliers will be checked for quality,” said a senior official.Officials of the Punjab Agro Industries Corporation (PAIC) had stated that till last year, gypsum was checked at the point of source, but this year onwards, the corporation made it mandatory to check each consignment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/addl-chief-secy-seeks-report-on-inferior-gypsum-119229
29-07-2020||Aman Sood||ED illicit liquor probe hits excise dept bump||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 28After the Punjab Police, it’s the state Excise and Taxation Department that has refused to share with the Enforcement Directorate any details about the alleged multi-crore illicit liquor manufacturing scam that was busted recently.Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials are learnt to have written to the excise authorities on June 15, seeking details of all raids and arrests related to the scam over the past two years. An alleged political-excise nexus is said to be behind the unlawful practice that caused heavy losses to the exchequer.A Venu Prasad, Principal Secretary, Excise and Taxation, said he was yet to receive the ED letter and would check with the officials concerned in his department. “We will look into the matter and respond as per rules,” he said.Prior to this, the ED authorities had sent letters to the Patiala Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) on June 6 and again on June 12, to the Mohali SSP on June 17 and the Ludhiana (rural) police on June 18, said sources. The letters sought information on “FIRs, probe reports, property details of accused and interrogation reports of those arrested in related cases”.Nothing has been shared to date by the three police districts, said an ED official.Interestingly, ED Deputy Director Niranjan Singh himself met senior police officials to seek records pertaining to the seizure of illicit liquor and manufacturing units, but to no avail. “I have heard nothing from the two departments. We need requisite information to nail the culprits and probe the financial angle,” Niranjan Singh told The Tribune.12 FIRs under lensThe ED is conducting a probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. It is looking into at least 12 FIRs registered at various police stations in Patiala, Mohali and Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-illicit-liquor-probe-hits-excise-dept-bump-119178
29-07-2020||---||Negotiate political settlement of SYL dispute, SC tells Punjab, Haryana CMs||New Delhi, July 28The Supreme Court today asked the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana to attempt a negotiated settlement of the Sutlej-Yamuna link (SYL) canal issue that has defied any solution for decades despite several rounds of litigation.A Bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said talks should be held between the two states at the highest political level. Stating that the Centre had been trying to facilitate talks between the two sides, Attorney General KK Venugopal requested the top court to give more time for the purpose.The Bench — which wanted the two states to clearly tell it if they could solve it through negotiations or not — indicated the matter would be taken up in the third week of August.Punjab has been demanding a negotiated settlement between the two states with the help of the Centre, while Haryana maintains it can’t be made to wait indefinitely despite having a decree in its favour. The Union Jal Shakti Ministry has already convened several meetings — attended by chief secretaries of the two states — which remained inconclusive.The Supreme Court had earlier told the Centre, Punjab and Haryana to conclude their talks on the construction of SYL canal “as soon as it can be”. Else, it would proceed to decide the matter, it had said.The scrapped 1981 water-sharing pact1981: Punjab, Haryana sign a water-sharing agreement2004: The Congress government in Punjab terminates agreement2016: SC declares law passed by Punjab House unconstitutional2017: Punjab returns the SYL canal land to landowners||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/negotiate-political-settlement-of-syl-dispute-sc-tells-punjab-haryana-cms-119184
