29-06-2020||New Delhi||CBI arrests fake currency smuggler deported from Thailand||The CBI has arrested an alleged fake currency smuggler, who was deported from Thailand, at the Indira Gandhi International Airport here, officials said on Monday.Kuldeep Singh Dua, a resident of Nawanshahr in Punjab, was wanted in a case pertaining to seizure of fake currency having face value of little over Rs 6 lakh on September 11/12, 2012 from a passenger, Kulwant Rai, at the airport by officials of Customs Preventive, they said. During the investigation, Rai told officers that Dua had handed him the consignment of fake currency to be smuggled into India, they said.The agency had filed a charge sheet against Rai, but Dua remained absconding. The CBI had also issued a look out circular against him, officials said.Nearly eight years later, the CBI received information about Dua being deported from Thailand to India where he was taken into custody by the probe agency, they said.He was produced before the CBI court and sent to judicial custody, they added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cbi-arrests-fake-currency-smuggler-deported-from-thailand-106159
29-06-2020||Kolkata||Mamata wants to cut off West Bengal from five locations with high COVID cases||West Bengal government has requested the Railways to stop special trains coming to the state from five places having large number of COVID-19 infection cases.Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha had written to Chairman of the Railway Board to stop service to the state from the five locations.Banerjee said she would not like to name the places her government wants excluded. The Chief Minister clarified that she had nothing against them, but that these states had a high number of coronavirus cases.Banerjee said flights coming to the state from the five locations should also be stopped. From the remaining places in the country commercial flights should come to West Bengal only once in a week instead of several flights daily, she said.However, flights could operate freely within West Bengal, she said.The Chief Minister said the recent increase in the cases of COVID-19 infection in the state was due to the arrival of people from outside by availing the resumed air and rail service.Return of migrant workers to the state also led to a spike but that crisis could be handled effectively and brought under control, Mamata said.West Bengal has been witnessing a steady rise in the number of COVID-19 positive patients with 572 people testing positive on Sunday---the highest single-day spike for the state so far.  The state’s testing has also been ramped up---the figure stood at 10,573 tests on Sunday, also the highest so far.Banerjee also announced launching an initiative to rope in recovered COVID-19 patients to assist in the treatment of active patients. She said 60 recovered patients of the pandemic from Berhampore in Murshidabad district have already volunteered for the service. The volunteers would visit the active patients and spend time with them so that the latter could draw strength from them.The Chief Minister also announced that July 1, which marks birth anniversary of West Bengal’s first Chief Minister Late B C Roy (a renowned physician) and observed country-wide as National Doctors’ Day, would be a holiday in West Bengal. This is to pay tribute to the service being rendered by doctors in the fight against the pandemic, Banerjee said.Banerjee said she would request central government and other state government to declare holiday on July 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mamata-wants-to-cut-off-west-bengal-from-five-locations-with-high-covid-cases-106141
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sangrur reports 60 new coronavirus cases; Punjab’s number stands at 5,418||Sangrur continued to report alarmingly high number of coronavirus cases, accounting for 60 of Punjab’s 202 new cases on Monday, the state’s latest COVID bulletin showed.Punjab also reported five more deaths in a span of 24 hours—developments that take the state’s COVID-19 count to 5,418 with 138 deaths.Sangrur’s numbers were the highest of any district on Monday.  The district has been steadily reporting a rise in COVID-19 cases since June 21, when the district’s COVID-19 cases stood at 206. The cases have more than doubled since, standing at 468, according to the latest bulletin.Apart from Sangrur, Patiala recorded 45 cases, Amritsar 21, Ludhiana 14, SBS Nagar 10, Barnala 9, Jalandhar 9, Tarn Taran 6, Ropar 5, SAS Nagar 4, Mansa 4, Gurdaspur 3, Pathankot 3, Fatehgarh Sahib 1, Faridkot 3, Ferozepur 2,  Moga 1, Bathinda 1 and Kapurthala 1.    Patiala’s figures have also been rising steadily---the district has reported 112 new coronavirus cases in one week since June 23.Patiala also reported three of five deaths on Monday. Sangrur and Gurdaspur made up the rest of Monday’s death count.Three districts---Sangrur, Patiala and Amritsar---accounted for 62 per cent of Monday’s cases, the state COVID tally showed.Sangrur’s 60 included 12 contacts of already diagnosed cases, 12 new coronavirus cases with no contact or travel history, one person who recently returned from abroad and one policeman.The bulletin said that the state was still compiling details of the other cases.Of Patiala’s 45 new cases, 23 were contacts, 19 new cases, and one a domestic traveller.In Amritsar, eight were self-reported cases, seven were categorised as ILI (influenza-like illness), five were contacts of already diagnosed cases and one was SARI (severe acute respiratory infection).Ludhiana’s 14 cases included three healthcare workers employed at private organisations and one policeman.SBS Nagar, which was the first district in Punjab to report a coronavirus case in March but has lately been reporting no more than one the odd case or two, reported 10 new cases. All 10 had recently returned from abroad.Punjab has been reporting a steady rise in coronavirus cases in June---the state’s cases have more than doubled from 2,233 infections reported on May 31.About 2,151 cases---just over 67 per cent---of Punjab’s 3,185 coronavirus cases reported in June have been reported since June 15.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (904), Ludhiana (795), Jalandhar (712), Sangrur (468), Patiala (326), SAS Nagar (254), Gurdaspur (219), Pathankot (212), Tarn Taran (194), Hoshiarpur (174), SBS Nagar (140), Muktsar (127), Fatehgarh Sahib (111), Ropar (107), Faridkot (106), Moga (95),  Fazilka (91), Ferozepur (96),  Bathinda (90), Kapurthala (90), Barnala (59), and Mansa (48).Death toll stands thus: Amritsar (39), Ludhiana (20), Jalandhar (20), Sangrur (13), Patiala (8), SAS Nagar 3), Gurdaspur (4), Pathankot(6), Tarn Taran (3), Hoshiarpur (6), SBS Nagar (1), Ropar (1), Moga (2), Ferozepur (3), Bathinda (2), Kapurthala (5), and Barnala (2).   Three districts---Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar---account for 44 per cent of Punjab’s total cases and 57 per cent of its deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-reports-60-new-coronavirus-cases-punjabs-number-stands-at-5-418-106138
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder for reopening of Kartarpur corridor||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said on Monday he was all for having the Kartarpur corridor reopened with adherence to the physical distancing norms amid the COVID-19 pandemic.His statement came two days after Pakistan conveyed its readiness to India to reopen the Kartarpur corridor on the occasion of the death anniversary of Sher-e-Punjab or “Lion of Punjab” Maharaja Ranjit Singh, who ruled the Sikh empire spread across the northwest Indian subcontinent in the early half of the 19th century.The corridor was temporarily suspended because of the COVID-19.“I want the Kartarpur corridor to be open. There can be social distancing,” said Singh while replying to a question during a press conference here.He said if he is asked on this issue, he would suggest the reopening of the corridor.“If they ask me, I will suggest that it can be opened with social distancing,” Singh added.He, however, said that the Indian government could not be ready for reopening the corridor in a short time.In November last year, India and Pakistan had thrown open the corridor linking Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur in India and Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan.Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is located in Pakistan’s Narowal district across the river Ravi, about 4 km from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district.It is the final resting place of the Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, who had spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur.Indian pilgrims of all faiths are allowed to undertake round the year visa-free travel to the historic gurdwara. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-for-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor-106130
29-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Budding Punjabi Singer dies of drug overdose; family alleges police inaction||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, June 29A budding Punjabi singer allegedly died of a drug overdose at his house in Mehal Kalan town of Barnala district on Sunday night.The father of deceased alleged that the police had failed to act despite the complaints against the smugglers. The police, on the other hand, denied having received any information from the family of the deceased about the sale of ‘chitta’ in their area.“Deceased Gagandeep Singh (26) was a drug addict. He tried many times to quit ‘chitta’ but the easy availability of the drug and the pressure by the smugglers created serious problems for him. He sang five songs in his career and one of them was about the ill-effects of ‘chitta’. He was found dead in his room on Sunday night with the syringe in his arm. He died of a drug overdose,” said Sukhdev Singh, father of the deceased.“We had informed the police about the smugglers many times but they did not take quick action. The easy availability could be gauged from the fact that Gagan used to come back with ‘chitta’ in only five minutes. He wasted lakhs on the drug as his daily dose varied between Rs 5,000 and Rs 15,000 daily. His wife left him due to his addiction. Drugs are more dangerous than coronavirus but, unfortunately, the Punjab government is not serious to end ‘chitta’,” alleged Sukhdev.“The family informed us about Gagan’s addiction only after his death. The family members are making baseless allegations as they never lodged any complaint with us about the sale of ‘chitta’,” said ASI Mahinderpal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/budding-punjabi-singer-dies-of-drug-overdose-family-alleges-police-inaction-106124
29-06-2020||Patiala||Punjab Police claim to foil major terror module with arrest of 3 persons||The Punjab Police on Monday claimed to have foiled a major terror module with the arrest of Amritpal Singh of Mansa who along with two others has been arrested.The police have recovered weapons from the three alleged terrorists. Senior officials confirm that the terrorists were funded by Khalistani ideologies and were to strike against particular persons in Punjab.While senior officials remain tight lipped about the arrest, sources confirm that the module was targeting prime targets in the coming month.“We had some inputs from our Delhi counterparts and therefore the terrorists were apprehended in a special operation by Patiala police,” said a senior police officer.A senior officer confirmed that the police arrested Amritpal Singh of Mansa for trying to train and carry out some terrorist activity in Punjab.“His arrest has helped us to foil a different self-styled module that was active in a few states of India,” said a top copSources say that two of the associates of Amritpal are yet to be arrested as they got to know of his arrest and managed to go underground.“This is a vital arrest ahead of the 2020 referendum, confirmed a senior official.A top cop confirmed that the arrested terrorists had planned to send some recruits to Pakistan for weapon training “but they could not be sent due to lockdown”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-claim-to-foil-major-terror-module-with-arrest-of-3-persons-106121
29-06-2020||Vibha Sharma||New scheme will generate investment of Rs 35,000 crore, says Food Processing Industries Minister||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 29The “PM Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PM FME)” will generate investment of Rs 35,000 crore and employment for 9 lakh skilled and semi-skilled workers, Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said on Monday, officially launching the scheme announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a part of “Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan” during the Coviid-19 crisis.Terming the scheme as “historic and game changer”, Harsimrat Kaur said it will benefit 8 lakh units through access to information, training, better exposure and formalisation through financial, technical and business support for up-gradation of existing micro food processing enterprises.To be implemented over a period of five years from 2020-21 to 2024-25 with an outlay of Rs 10,000 crore, the expenditure will be shared in  60:40 ratio between the Central and State Governments, in 90:10 ratio with North Eastern and Himalayan states, 60:40 ratio with UTs with legislature and 100% by Centre for other UTs.Highlighting the importance of local food processing units, the Union Minister said rural entrepreneurs in villages have a long tradition of supplying Indian food products to local population. Their importance has been amply emphasised by the PM, she added.However, the sector faces a number of challenges due to lack of access to modern technology and equipment, training, access institutional credit, basic awareness on quality control of products and branding and marketing skills that limit their performance and growth.They contribute much less in terms of value addition and output despite its huge potential, she said.“The sector comprising nearly 25 lakh units contributes to 74% of employment in food processing sector. Nearly 66% of these units are located in rural areas and about 80% of them are family-based enterprises supporting livelihood of rural household and minimizing their migration to urban areas,” the minister said.The scheme adopts “One District One Product” (ODOP)under which states will identify food product in a particular district keeping in view the existing clusters and availability of raw material.The ODOP product can be a perishable produce-based product, a cereal-based product or a food product. The list includes mango, potato, litchi, tomato, tapioca, kinnu, bhujia, petha, papad, pickle, millet-based products, fisheries, poultry, meat as well as animal feed.Preference would be given to those producing ODOP products but units producing other products would also be supported, she said.The scheme also focuses on waste to wealth products, minor forest products and Aspirational Districts. Existing Individual micro food processing units desirous of upgradation can avail credit-linked capital subsidy at 35% of the eligible project cost with a maximum ceiling of Rs 10 lakh per unit.Seed capital at Rs 40,000 per SHG member would be provided for working capital and purchase of small tools, she added.Meanwhile, the Operation Greens Scheme has been extended from tomato, onion and potato (TOP) crops to other notified horticulture crops.The scheme provides subsidy for transportation and storage from surplus production area to major consumption centres with an objective of protecting growers from making distress sale and reducing post -harvest losses.The MoFPI is planning to start free online skill classes for SC and ST entrepreneurs, in collaboration with NIFTEM and FICSI, for providing e-learning. It has identified 41 courses and job roles like baking, making jam, pickles, for which access to digital content would be made available. Once certified, these entrepreneurs would have better employment potential, or they can start their own venture, said Harsimrat Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-scheme-will-generate-investment-of-rs-35-000-crore-says-food-processing-industries-minister-106093
29-06-2020||---||No cabinet reshuffle in Punjab: Amarinder||Chandigarh, June 29Brushing aside reports of a Cabinet expansion, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday said the state had a bigger challenge to fight Covid-19 pandemic.He said all his cabinet colleagues were doing good job in their respective departments to fight the pandemic.  “I read it in news reports. There is no such plan,” he said.Replying to a question on Navjot Sidhu being given a bigger responsibility in the party in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly election, the CM said he is a good orator and it is for the party high command to assign any role to Sidhu.Responding to queries on Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Bajwa and Shamsher Dullo cornering the government on its alleged failure on controlling cable, sand and liquor mafia, the Chief Minister advised the MPs to concentrate on their work in Rajya Sabha and let him do his job in Punjab.The CM said he was in favour of reopening the Kartarpur Corridor provided strict social distancing norms were observed. Responding to Mr. Rajmeet from @thetribunechd, CM @capt_amarinder Ji shared that the state's revenue from excise duty has started increasing day by day and yesterday's sale was 16.9 crores and strict measures are being taken against illegal smuggling and production of liquor. pic.twitter.com/DfNoGfvfPb||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-cabinet-reshuffle-in-punjab-amarinder-106092
29-06-2020||---||Amarinder urges Modi govt to return donations received in PM Cares fund from Chinese companies||Chandigarh, June 29Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder singh on Monday called upon the Narendra Modi-led BJP government to return the donations received in PM Cares fund from Chinese companies or companies in which Chinese companies have stakes.Addressing a press conference here, the Chief Minister slammed receiving donations from Chinese companies at a time when the hostile neighbour is involved in aggression at the border.“Every single Chinese penny should be returned,” said Amarinder.The Chief Minister said China had been constantly troubling us on the order as it wanted to bridge the gap between Siachen and Aksai Chin to its advantage. “It is time the Centre took a tough stand on China,” he said with reference to the controversy over donations being received from Chinese companies.The Chief Minister quoted different Chinese companies that have contributed to the PM cares fund. China wanted to grab our territory, he said. 'Will find China's 'involvement' in Indian firm chosen to deliver smartphones'Capt said his government would check on the “involvement” of China in an Indian firm selected to deliver smartphones to be given to youths as part of the Congress’ poll promise.The Chief Minister said the state government had given a contract to an Indian company for the delivery of smartphones.“We will check what is China’s involvement in this company and to what extent and then make a decision,” said Singh while replying to a question.“What is the equity situation (in the company)? Is it Chinese equity or Indian ?” said Singh, elaborating the issues to be examined.He said the firm had said 50,000 smartphones were ready and that they wanted to deliver another 50,000 more phones in July.Before coming to power in 2017, the state Congress had promised to give free smartphones to youths in the state.The Congress had announced in its election manifesto that in order to “encourage and incentivise” youths to use digital technology in day-to-day lives, it would distribute free smartphones. — with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-urges-modi-govt-to-return-donations-received-in-pm-cares-fund-from-chinese-companies-106082
29-06-2020||---||‘Mechanisation of paddy transplantation need of the hour’||Amritsar, June 28Even as the department of agriculture had been trying to encourage mechanisation of paddy transplantation, it failed to convince farmers as they felt no need for the same.However, this season, with the restrictions on movement of labour from other states for manual transplantation of paddy, the farmers are were more interested in mechanical transplantation or direct seeding techniques which do not require much labour.Also read: Why the Centre does not want Punjab to diversifyAgriculture engineer Ranbir Singh Randhawa said, “We have been creating awareness about mechanical transplantation and direct seeding as an alternative to manual transplantation.” He said they had received success in motivating only a few progressive farmers to change their agricultural practice.He added that this year, as the labour was in limited supply, the farmers too have felt the need for mechanisation. The agriculture experts stated that mechanisation and direct seeding techniques were the future of paddy cultivation in state.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Gurdial Singh Bal said, “Many farmers wanted to shift to mechanisation in one go. So we advised them not to do it on over 25 per cent of land holding. We wanted them to have hands on practice before they shifted to mechanisation in entirety.” Dr Bal said the farmers were very encouraged with the direct seeding technique.Amid reports of certain farmers not feeling happy with the outcome of direct seeding technique, Randhawa said, “The farmers are required to sow seeds in the optimum moisture and spray the weedicides. There are other requirements as the soil should not be low nutrient or sandy. If anyone has not taken care of one or more points, the result might not be encouraging,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mechanisation-of-paddy-transplantation-need-of-the-hour-105880
29-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Traders question Punjab government’s move to run buses at full seating capacity||Jalandhar, June 28The recent move of the Captain Amarinder-led Congress government to lift restrictions on the passenger capacity in all buses, including mini-buses, has not gone well with residents, especially traders, it seems.Raising objections, they said the decision was uncalled for and it would further spread the virus. They said on the one hand the government was issuing Rs 2,000 challans to those owners of shops and commercial places who have been violating social-distancing norm and on the other it had given ago ahead to ferry passengers on its full capacity. They said the risk of contracting the virus in buses was all-time high.“Everyone is bearing the brunt of Covid-19 and increase in fuel prices, but that doesn’t mean a particular sector is bound to get relief, as it’s not the transporters who are suffering financial losses alone. Rather, each and every person has been going through the same situation,” said, Nitin Arora, who owns a gift shop near Goal Market.He said if the government’s statement of wearing mask — that it can reduce the spread of Covid-19 by 70 per cent — is to be believed, then the 50 per cent capacity bar that has been implied on hotels and restaurants should also be lifted.Another resident, Kanwarpreet, a media professional said: “We have been adhering to all steps of the government after unlock 0.1. However, if we take notice of government’s move, it seems they have already given up giving a clear indication that people are responsible for their health now.”Moreover, if lifting restrictions would improve someone’s financial situation, then educational institutions, too, should be allowed to start functioning with students joining back and adhering to precautionary measures from the respective institute’s end. Also, when you can go to a restaurant and shop anywhere as most of the busiest markets are open now, then schools, colleges, malls and gyms among other things should also be opened, he said.Jagdeep Singh, who owns a readymade garments store in Rainak Bazaar, said: “We have been facing a huge financial loss due to this lockdown. And now, when shops were allowed to open, there are a lot of restrictions on people travelling by two-wheelers or cars, due to which customers are avoiding visiting shops.” He said lately, a shop owner close to his shop was challaned for allowing four persons to his shop at the same time.Ajay Wadwa of Wadwa Collections said: “The question is when the government has now permitted bus travel with full occupancy, then why is money being minted by issuing challans to innocent people? Let it be clear that no social distancing is required and only wearing face masks is mandatory. It seems the government is really confused.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/traders-question-punjab-governments-move-to-run-buses-at-full-seating-capacity-105823
29-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers to get online training on paddy cultivation without pesticides||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 28Under the Pesticides Free Punjab Campaign, NGO Dr Surender Dalal Keet Saksharta Mission will be holding an online farm field class on cultivation of paddy without spraying pesticides which will be held on Tuesday, ie, June 30.The class will be held from 6pm - 7pm live, that too from the fields. It will be organised on the Google Meet app, which the farmers have been advised to download on their mobile phones. Ashok Kumar, Punjab coordinator of the NGO said it would be for the first time that an online class would be held for farmers. “A link to attend class has also been given to the farmers and they can join the class by just clicking on it,” he said. Ashok Kumar also held a practice session of 10 minutes at 7 pm today so that the farmers get accustomed to the procedure.The mission has to its credit another first too. In a first-of-its kind, since three years, this NGO named ‘Dr Surinder Dalal Keet Saksharta Mission’, will not teach farmers in classes or in closed rooms, but in the fields and their farms to practically tell them why they do not need pesticides in their farms. The society selects those farms which are near the main road as it is convenient for participants to reach and participate.The NGO is named after a Haryana-based scientist, Dr Surinder Dalal, who died in 2003 and gave a theory to farmers that the amount of fertilisers and pesticides that they were using in the fields was not required.Dr Dalal’s TheoryAfter research, Dr Dalal told farmers about the integrated pest management (IPM) and said they should not spray pesticides in the fields. He said it was important to know the insect before killing it.Though it is a Haryana-based NGO, farmers of the state, after getting impressed by thoughts started giving education to fellow farmers.The training has been started under the ‘Pesticide-Free Punjab Campaign’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-get-online-training-on-paddy-cultivation-without-pesticides-105829
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||University, college exams in Punjab put off till July 15: CM||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced that exams in Punjab’s universities and colleges had been put off till July 15. Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, was to hold the exams from July 1. Punjabi University, Patiala, planned to start these from July 10.RK Singla, Dean, University Instructions, Panjab University, Chandigarh, said the exam dates would now be announced as per the new UGC guidelines.The Chief Minister said that with the exams postponed, the universities had ample time to adapt to the fresh UGC guidelines, which were expected any time now. The universities in the state were to hold exams for the final year/semester classes in July in accordance with the UGC guidelines that were issued on April 29.The Punjab and Chandigarh Teachers Union (PCCTU), in a letter to Capt Amarinder Singh, had pointed out that the GNDU communication on conducting exams as per the April 29 UGC guidelines had created panic and confusion among the teachers and students. It had sought to know whether the Punjab Government had given “any special concession to the university to waive the condition that a gathering must not exceed 50 persons.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/university-college-exams-in-punjab-put-off-till-july-15-cm-105969
29-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Online classes: Smartphones top labourers’ shopping list||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 28Sandeep Kaur and Anita Rani, both from poor families and students of a government middle school in Lohian tehsil, used to visit their friends’ homes for online study due to lockdown, but that couldn’t continue for long.There were times when neighbours did not let them in or cooperate otherwise. Both girls’ fathers, who work as daily-wagers and whose earnings had already plummeted due to the lockdown, somehow arranged smartphones for them so that they could cover their syllabi in time. Availability of smartphones for their daughters’ education took precedence over the availability of rations or other essentials in both households.“We had never thought that we will have to shell out money for a smartphone while we are already faced with so many other problems,” said Anita’s father Hazara Singh. Left behind in studies due to non-availability of a phone, his daughter used to cry often, so he recently bought a new phone for her by spending Rs 4,000 from his meagre resources, he said.Joginder Singh of Mundi Shehrian village, a farm labourer, said his daughter Sandeep used to visit her friend’s house to study online, but her performance was affected. He then bought a phone from one of his friends for Rs 3,000. “I have paid Rs 2,500 and will pay the remaining Rs 500 soon,” he said.There are several students in rural areas whose fathers cannot afford even proper rations for their families, but they are ready to borrow or buy smartphones for their children’s studies.Father of Ashish Kumar (16) is a factory worker. Recently, he bought a second-hand phone for Ashish. “We have got it for Rs 3,500. Now, I will be able to study properly,” Ashish said.Ravinder Kang, Principal of Uggi Government Primary School, said, “Many parents have bought phones for their children as they don’t want their studies to suffer.”‘Educare’ app for Punjab students in 15 daysChandigarh: The Punjab Government is all set to launch “Educare” app within a fortnight. The mobile-based app will have chapters, assignments and quizzes for pre-primary to Class XII students on a single platform. As a result, students of around 19,500 government schools would get access to classroom lessons and appear in tests even if they miss their classes due to non-availability of smartphones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/online-classes-smartphones-top-labourers-shopping-list-105970
29-06-2020||Patiala||Rains ahead, flood fear looms large in areas along Ghaggar||The lack of preparedness on the part of the state government led to floods in over 36 villages along the Ghaggar in Patiala and Sangrur districts last year. A year later, things are no different with villagers still living on the edge and in many parts carrying out vital repairs all by themselves.With the Irrigation Department yet to complete the repair of banks and start desilting work, villagers are living in the fear of floods.Raman Bains, XEN (drainage), Patiala division‘Prepared for monsoon’We are spending Rs45 lakh at Purr village where a bridge has been constructed to ensure that villagers stay connected during the monsoon.“We have been placing sandbags at many places and have also carried out desilting work as Irrigation Department officials are not bothered about our plight,” a villager said.“We have arranged hundreds of sand bags on our own and have been placing these at all vital locations where we feel the banks cannot sustain a strong water current,” he said. Monsoon rains expected this week onwards have left the residents of nearby villages along the banks of the Ghaggar worried. While the water level is below the danger mark as of now, villagers fear the worst if it rains continuously in the coming few days.“Last year in July, the rainwater had thrown life out of gear in villages, including Sirkapra, Bolar Kalan, Bossar, Asarpur, Jogipur and Rathian in Sanaur and Maru, Sarala Khurd and Mandoli in Ghanaur. A crack that developed in an overbridge in Sanaur further widened to over 40 feet and disconnected Malakpur, Batti, Batta and Rathiyan villages,” said a villager from Ghanaur.“The lack of funds for strengthening the Ghaggar banks was always the problem and even this year, we are short of money,” said a senior Irrigation Department official.“Every year, we are threatened by the Ghaggar. The department failed to complete the repair of its banks and desilting work on time. Now, public as well as private property and paddy on hundreds of acres are likely to get affected,” said Manjinder Singh of Maru village.“We are never safe living near the Ghaggar, but there is nothing much we can do. Politicians have announced to solve the problem many times, but nothing concrete has been done,” said Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Samana. “While Haryana has raised a concrete wall to save its villages, Punjab needs to do something similar to save its residents. The fear of floods always looms large on all villages and in case of heavy rain, the damage will be too much to deal with,” he said.Raman Bains, XEN (Drainage), Patiala Division, said they were spending Rs 45 lakh at Purr village where a bridge had been constructed to ensure that villagers stayed connected during the monsoon when the Ghaggar water rises. “We will also be placing some sandbags as a temporary measure to strengthen the banks of the Ghaggar. However, this year, only this much work has been sanctioned and it will be completed soon,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rains-ahead-flood-fear-looms-large-in-areas-along-ghaggar-105847
29-06-2020||Harshraj Singh||Sutlej banks not repaired, Ludhiana farmers worried||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, June 28A big portion of the Dhussi bund and berm (area along the banks) on the Sutlej was damaged at Garhi Fazal village near Mattewara in Ludhiana district last year, when the river had overflowed during the rains. However, floods were averted when a villager reached the embankment and raised an alarm after seeing the damaged portion.However, learning no lessons from the past, no work has been done to strengthen the river banks this year. The panchayats of various villages, including Garhi Fazal, Machhiyan, Toggar and Mattewara, have written to the Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner in this regard.The sandbags placed to repair the banks at Garhi Fazal last year have now started getting damaged. The residents of nearby villages are worried that the ‘weak banks’ might lead to a difficult situation once the rains begin.Gurnam Singh (68), a villager, said, “When a major portion of the bund and adjoining land washed away last year, axed trees and sandbags were placed to protect the remaining portion. The trees and sandbags have started getting damaged now. Monsoon is nearing but no steps have been taken to strengthen the banks. We fear there are chances of flooding if the banks are not strengthened on time”.In the letter to the Ludhiana DC, Garhi Fazal village sarpanch Joginder Kaur said around 1-km-long portion of the river bund had become weak. She appealed to the district administration to take steps to strengthen it.In August 2019, floods had hit some villages of Ludhiana district, when a long breach had occurred in the Dhussi bund on the Sutlej in Bholewal Qadim village. Gurcharan Singh, sarpanch of Allowal village, said the breach in the bund at Bholewal Qadim was plugged by putting in soil last year. “But there is an urgent need to strengthen the river embankment. We have requested the department concerned in this regard many times but officials of Ludhiana and Jalandhar are passing the buck over the jurisdiction. The flood threat can’t be ignored as the bund is weak. We request the government to do the needful,” he said.According to an official of the Drainage Department, the work got delayed due to fund crunch. However, Harjot Singh, executive engineer of the Drainage Department, Ludhiana, said the tendering process had been completed and the required work at the Garhi Fazal bund and other points would be started soon. “The work will start within a few days at vulnerable points at Dulewal, Mattewara, the seed farm site near Ladhowal, Khera Bet and Manewal sites in Ludhiana district,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sutlej-banks-not-repaired-ludhiana-farmers-worried-105848
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Amid crisis, Punjab takes Rs 19,000 cr hit in revenue||While Punjab has been hit hard by the Covid-induced economic crisis this year, the state’s revenue collections fell by a whopping Rs 19,200 crore in the last financial year.This has been revealed in the detailed key financial indicators for 2019-20, which have been approved by the state government. The statement shows that against Rs 78,509.70 crore, that the state had estimated as its total revenue receipts for 2019-20, the total receipts were just Rs 59,261.75 crore.Grim ScenarioAt the time of presenting the 2020-21 Budget in February this year, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had said that the revenue receipts for 2019-20 would be Rs 73,975.08 crore. He had projected a shortfall of Rs 4,534 crore, but the revenue is actually down by Rs 19,247 crore. The state’s tax revenue fell by Rs 10,979.20 crore, while the non-tax revenue fell by more than 50 per cent of the Budget estimates. It witnessed a reduction of Rs 4,936.25 crore.It may be mentioned that the fall in revenue is not just in comparison to the Budget estimates, but also in comparison to the revenue collections of 2018-19. The tax revenue in 2018-19 was Rs 3,571 crore higher as compared to 2019-20, and non-tax revenue was higher by Rs 1,579 crore.A closer look at these key financial indicators reveals that excise collections last year were just Rs 4,865 crore, as against the target of Rs 6,201 crore, seeing a fall of Rs 1,336 crore. This fall had been in the eye of the political storm, with the ruling Congress MLAs and some MPs demanding action against the then Chief Secretary, who also headed the Excise and Taxation Department, for the fall in the collections. At the height of this controversy last month, the Excise Department had claimed that no losses were incurred by the department in 2019-20, except the losses because of the lockdown.Land revenue collections in 2019-20 were down by 40 per cent, the share of union taxes has dropped by 22 per cent, sales tax collections by over 17 per cent and stamps and registration by 15 per cent. The grants-in-aid from the Centre, too, have shown a decline of 18 per cent, in comparison with the Budget estimates for 2019-20.As the state’s income took a beating, the total expenditure too came down by almost 26 per cent – against Rs 1,13,039.02 crore of the targeted revenue expenditure, the actual expenditure in 2019-20 was 71,958.37 crore. As a result, the revenue deficit was Rs 10,239.33 crore, as against Rs 11,687.26 crore, as projected earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-crisis-punjab-takes-rs-19-000-cr-hit-in-revenue-105849
29-06-2020||Sangrur||11-year-old girl booked for sacrilege||Tension gripped Rampura village under the Bhawanigarh police station in the district after an incident of ‘sacrilege’ of Guru Granth Sahib was reported at the village gurdwara.Seven pages of the holy book were found torn. The police registered a case against an 11-year-old girl after checking the CCTV footage of the gurudwara.Last evening, after spotting torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib, the management committee of the gurdwara tried to trace the persons behind it. However, when they checked the CCTV footage, they found a girl trying to put the Rumala Sahib over Guru Granth Sahib, which seemed to have led to the tearing of pages. The committee today informed the police about the incident. “From CCTV footage, it seems that she tried to put the Rumala Sahib over Guru Granth Sahib, but damaged the pages unintentionally,” said Sharnjit Singh, SP (Headquarters), Sangrur. A case under Section 295A has been filed against the girl. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-year-old-girl-booked-for-sacrilege-105850
29-06-2020||Amritsar||SGPC withholds dues of ex-staffer over ‘missing birs’||The SGPC has blamed one of its former employees for 267 missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib. Consequently, his service benefits, including gratuity and provident fund, have been withheld.Kanwaljit Singh, who retired from the post of assistant supervisor (publication department), on May 31, alleged that of the 267 “saroops”, at least 80 were burnt in a fire incident of May 19, 2016, at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, the place designated by the SGPC to publish and store Sikh holy books.Rajinder Singh, SGPC Vice-President‘Bid to defame SGPC’The 2016 fire incident had damaged 14 ‘saroops’, not 80, as claimed by Kanwaljit Singh. When his negligence was exposed, he agreed to pay the damages. Now, he is defaming the SGPC.He alleged that the matter was hushed up to avoid its adverse political consequences. “Now, I am being harassed by some high-ranking officials. During my posting, I was made to issue ‘saroops’ to influential persons without putting it on record. The SGPC has withheld my monetary benefits and is asking for Rs 5.6 lakh as damages,” he alleged.The Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), headed by Justice Ajit Singh Bains (retd), has come to his rescue and approached the Chief Secretary, Punjab, to conduct a probe.SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta claimed that Kanwaljit Singh was the record keeper and he had admitted to his negligence and even agreed to pay the damages out of his dues.“The fire incident had damaged around 14 ‘saroops’, not 80, as claimed by him. When his negligence was exposed, he had agreed to pay the damages. Now, he is backing out and defaming the SGPC,” he said.PHRO member Surjit Singh Verka said the fire incident was hushed up in view of the 2017 Assembly elections.“Neither the CCTV footage of the incident was procured, nor any forensic team was called up to ascertain the cause of fire. The partially burnt holy books were ferried in SGPC buses to Gurdwara Bawli Sahib in Goindwal Sahib without any inquiry into the matter,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-withholds-dues-of-ex-staffer-over-missing-birs-105851
29-06-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Government to review order on independent floors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 28As the Local Government Department is reviewing its year-old order, banning the construction and sale of independent floors on individual plots by builders, the Punjab chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association (CREDAI) has sought permission to construct flats in the independent floor category under the new Punjab Municipal Bylaws.In the amended bylaws, rolled out by the Local Bodies Department in December last year, a new category of independent floors has been clubbed with the group housing projects for the purpose of charging external development charges, change of land use and processing fee.Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra said: “I am going through the order issued by the then director last year. I will take a decision on the issue at the earliest. While addressing concerns of big builders, the interests of the smaller ones would also be protected.”“Any increase in construction activity will boost economy and attract investment,” said the minister.Harish Gupta, vice-president, CREDAI, said: “If the government allows stilt plus three or ground plus three floors, then the December 2019 notification should be implemented on those projects also and same terms and fees should be charged which is being charged from the four-storey projects as group housing projects.”As per the prevailing rates, the government fee for a group housing project comes to around Rs 1 crore per acre, compared to around Rs 40 lakh per acre for plotted development.In July last year, the Director, Local Government, in a letter to all the urban local bodies (ULBs), had pointed out that certain promoters of illegal colonies were selling floor-wise flats (independent floors) while getting the same approved as individual houses. The builders/ developers get plans sanctioned for a row of contagious units by showing each as a separate unit, whereas in reality they are part of a larger project, it had pointed out.The developers of independent floors have been pressing upon the government to withdraw the July 2019 order. The practice of selling independent floors is more prevalent in Zirakpur, Mohali, Kharar, Ludhiana and others towns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-to-review-order-on-independent-floors-105852
29-06-2020||Sangrur||Sangrur residents bid adieu to Ladakh martyr||The bhog ceremony of Sepoy Gurbinder Singh, who attained martyrdom while battling Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, was held at his native village, Tolawal. Officials of the district administration, political, religious and social leaders, besides villagers paid tributes to the martyr.On the occasion, Public Works Department (PWD) Minister Vijay Inder Singla announced a new road from Tolawal village to Jakhepal via the martyr’s house. He said an estimate for the 3 km-long road had been prepared by the PWD and it had been sent for approval. “The Government High School of the village has already been named as Shaheed Gurbinder Singh High School and the school’s library has also been dedicated to the martyr. The village has provided two acres for the construction of a stadium which will also be named after him,” Singla said. “The government will always stand by the families of martyrs. Financial help of Rs 50 lakh has been announced as immediate relief,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-residents-bid-adieu-to-ladakh-martyr-105853
29-06-2020|| ---||Cong misleading farmers on MSP regime, says SAD||Chandigarh, June 28 The SAD on Sunday said the Congress’ claim about the end of MSP regime had been exposed for the third time with an announcement by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar that MSP and assured procurement of paddy and wheat were here to stay. In a statement here, former minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said with the announcement by the Union Minister, the resolution dictated by the Congress to AAP and other “friendly” political leaders during the all-party meeting had become infructuous.  “With Tomar making it clear that there would not be any change in the MSP regime as well as assured procurement of foodgrain, the Congress is in no position to befool the farmers to divert attention from various scams that were exposed recently,” he alleged.  Dr Cheema also took on PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, who, he said, had claimed that the MSP system would be dismantled in the future. “After this clarification, the PPCC chief cannot mislead the farmers with conspiracy theories that MSP and assured procurement would come to an end in due course of time. We will see this system being put in place during the forthcoming paddy harvesting season three months from now and all subsequent harvests too,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-misleading-farmers-on-msp-regime-says-sad-105854
29-06-2020||Ludhiana||Sans phones, workers refuse to upload data||The Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) and anganwadi workers along with Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) have been roped in by the state government to do house-to-house survey to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.The workers have been collecting the data and uploading it on the ‘Ghar Ghar Nigrani’ mobile app, but due to unavailability of smartphones and Internet connections, the workers have refused to upload the data. The workers are being paid Rs 4 per person for collecting medical details of people. Subhash Rani, secretary, Anganwadi Mulazim Union, said, “We have been asked to conduct surveys. We are collecting details without safety gear. It is not possible for us to purchase smartphones.” Balbir Kaur, secretary, ASHA Workers’ Union, said, “We informed the department about the issue. We have been told to purchase or borrow smartphones.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sans-phones-workers-refuse-to-upload-data-105855
29-06-2020||---||Concern over high mortality as 5 more die in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 28Nearly 160 positive cases and five deaths were reported from across the state today. Besides, one patient each in Amritsar, Pathankot, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur succumbed to Covid-related complications.Expressing concern, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan asked deputy commissioners to take steps to control the mortality rate, which stands at 2.4 per cent.Directing the DCs to take special care of critical patients, she told them to take the help of the state expert group, chaired by Dr KK Talwar.During her videoconference with the DCs, Mahajan told the officers to go the extra mile to ensure proper surveillance and curb the mortality rate.Meanwhile, Sangrur continued to throw up a high number of Covid-19 positive cases, with the district today reporting 69 cases — the highest in the state. Of these, reports of 24 patients turned positive after the release of the media bulletin.Patiala district too is witnessing a surge in the number of Covid cases. In the highest single-day spike so far, the district reported 30 cases.Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said 13 cases belonged to a family of 30 at Lohand village in Rajpura. Two members of the family were truck drivers, who had came from Uttar Pradesh.In Sangrur, of the new cases reported today, 32 were from Malerkotla, seven from Sangrur, three from Sherpur, two from Dhuri and one from Dirba.In Ludhiana, 39 more tested positive, including four cops. Four have tested positive in Khanna, including a 10-year-old girl and a pregnant woman from Amloh.In Amritsar, a 65-year-old Covid positive woman from Rayya town died. The district death toll has reached 39. She was suffering from cancer and had tested positive recently. As many as 12 new positive cases were reported, taking the district count of positive patients to 883. The new cases include a Vigilance Bureau employee and a Civil Hospital employee.In Jalandhar, 17 more cases came to the fore. With this, the district tally reached 704. A 73-year-old woman from Lamma Pind died, taking the death toll in the district to 21.On the positive side, the number of Covid patients who have been cured and discharged today (206) were more than the new cases reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/concern-over-high-mortality-as-5-more-die-in-punjab-105856
29-06-2020||Pathankot||Mission ‘cover-up’||Sewa or publicity?Muktsar: Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Sunday sanitised roads in the town, where lockdown has been imposed for three days after 11 people, including eight of a family, tested positive for Covid. Warring himself drove the vehicle and urged residents to follow the guidelines issued by the state government. A majority of locals appreciated his initiative, but critics termed it “a publicity stunt”.Befitting tributeAbohar: Buildings at public places are normally dedicated to leading philanthropists or eminent personalities, but the management of Nanak Nagari Shiv Bhoomi here has set an example. It has decided to build a community hall to facilitate religious and social meetings in the memory of a volunteer, Hari Om, who died recently after working for the group for over a decade. An elderly gardener, Daddu, who looks after the lawns and plants in the complex, laid the foundation stone of the hall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mission-cover-up-105857
29-06-2020||---||Baba Farid University starts MD/MS exams from today||Faridkot, June 28Despite opposition from students, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) is starting exams for various medical and dental courses from tomorrow amid the Covid scare.For MD/MS and postgraduate diploma courses, the BFUHS is starting the theory exams from June 29.While MBBS (first and second year) exams will begin on June 30, the third and final year exams of over 3,200 BDS students in 12 dental colleges are scheduled to start from July 7. In the MD/MS exams, around 440 students will appear at five centres.The students, particularly of BDS and MDS courses, are asking the authorities to postpone the exams. As many students belong to other states, they said they would have to face difficulties in reaching Punjab and undergo the 14-day mandatory self-isolation.However, the university authorities said they were conducting exams as per the guidelines of the Dental Council of India and the Medical Council of India. “We are already running a month behind schedule. Any further delay will be detrimental to students,” an official said.“Keeping in view the safety of students, we have allowed them to opt any of the university-designated exam centre near their hometown,” said Dr Raj Bahadur, VC, BFUHS. “We have conveyed that students coming from outside Punjab will preferably be called first. The colleges have been asked to allow the entry of students in their hostels in a phased manner,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/baba-farid-university-starts-md-ms-exams-from-today-105858
29-06-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana---||App for school students on cards||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 28 The Punjab Government is all set to launch ‘Educare App’ within a fortnight. The mobile-based app will have chapters, assignments and quizzes for pre-primary to Class XII students on a single platform. As a result, students of around 19,500 government schools would get access to classroom lessons and could appear in tests even if they miss their classes due to non-availability of smartphones. Krishan Kumar, Secretary (Education), said, “We have sent content details to Google. We will start the classes soon.” The application has been developed by a special team comprising assistant director Salinder Singh, state coordinator (primary) Dr Davinder Boha, state coordinator (science) Sushil Bhardwaj, state coordinator (math) Nirmal Kaur, Chander Shekhar, Jaswinder Singh, Harjeet Kumar and Deepak Kumar. Speaking to The Tribune, Chander Shekhar, said, “At present, students are using Doordarshan, NCERT and other online portals to study. Students have to download the entire data on their smartphones. Our app will provide all the links on a common platform and there will be no need to download the learning material.” Teachers and students will be facilitated to have easy access to syllabus, textbooks (pdf), worksheets, assignments and quizzes, among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/app-for-school-students-on-cards-105859
29-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||4 accused held in Cong worker’s murder case||The police have arrested four out of the eight people accused of murdering a Congress worker and injuring five persons, including the sarpanch of Chanarthal Khurd village. The accused had allegedly opened fire and attacked the victims with swords and lathis. The police have also recovered a Swift car, a .32 bore revolver and four cartridges, allegedly used in the crime.  Harpal Singh, SP (Investigation), said the sons of SAD district president Swarn Singh, along with their supporters, were involved in a clash over the possession of panchayat land. They allegedly killed a Congress supporter and injured the sarpanch, along with four of his supporters. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-accused-held-in-cong-workers-murder-case-105860
29-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Travel agent held for duping man of Rs 9.74L||Nakodar, June 28 The police have arrested a travel agent for allegedly duping a person of Rs 9.74 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad.The accused has been identified as Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Sarih village.Complainant Manjinder Singh, a resident of Saincha village, had informed the Senior Superintendent of Police, Jalandhar(Rural), that he had paid the money to the accused for migrating to Canada, but neither did the accused sent him abroad nor did he return his money.A case under sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/travel-agent-held-for-duping-man-of-rs-9-74l-105861
