29-04-2020||---||Restrictions on working of subordinate courts to continue: Punjab and Haryana HC||Chandigarh, April 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that the restrictions imposed on the functioning of the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in view of the Covid threat would continue till the curfew and the lockdown was in force.Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha ordered that all the district and sub-divisional Courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh will function “restrictively” from May 1 “till the lockdown/curfew is in force in the respective area”.Preparing the blueprint for functioning during the Covid lockdown period, Chief Justice Jha added the District and Sessions Judge would ensure in their Sessions Divisions that one or two Additional District and Sessions Judges, along with one or more Civil Judges-cum-Judicial Magistrates, and minimum supporting staff would attend urgent matters on rotation basis.Chief Justice Jha added the number of judicial officers to be so deputed for urgent work in the Sessions Division would be decided by the District and Sessions Judge. The remaining officers as well as the staff would work from home during the period and not leave the station without prior permission.
29-04-2020||Patiala||Patiala SMO suspended for dereliction of duty and derogatory language||A Senior Medical Officer (SMO) was suspended by the principal secretary of health for dereliction of duty and using derogatory language against the seniors in the department, on Wednesday.The SMO — who was posted at Patran block of the district — was put under suspension and asked to join duty at Civil Surgeon Office, Patiala.It has been learned that some doctors, working under him, had levelled allegations of misconduct against the SMO—during the duty hours.Moreover, a function was organised in Patran block where ASHA worker had been honoured by the local MLA.In the same function, the said SMO was also honoured by the MLA. The sources informed that social distancing norms were openly flouted in the presence of the SMO at the function.Immediately, Patiala civil surgeon forwarded the complaints to the principal secretary to take action against the SMO.Acting on the complaint, secretary health suspended the SMO and asked Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit to submit the report on the issue at the earliest.When asked about the same, Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra refused to make any comment on the issue.The suspended SMO could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
29-04-2020||Aparna Banerji||2 Covid-19 ‘cured' patients discharged from hospital called back as they test positive||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 29Jubilant over having been discharged from the civil hospital – a youngster went around his neighbourhood on a bike, face covered with a handkerchief tied across, greeted by friends, rained with flowers by neighbours – only to be called back to the civil hospital with the news that he was still positive.In a major faux pax, the civil hospital Jalandhar, on Tuesday evening, discharged two patients – with the declaration that they had recovered even though two of them were in fact still positive.Reports of the 10 people confirmed to be recovered of COVID 19 in the district proved to be false – after the health department later discovered that two of them had been discharged while they were still positive.  As of now, a total of eight persons have recovered in the district, not 10.The only person to test negative for second time – and be discharged on Tuesday – is a 19-year-old member of the Tablighi Jamaat.The two who had been erroneously declared recovered are – 25-year-old Lal Bazaar resident who is a contact of Jalandhar’s first deceased Mitha Bazar Ayurvedic chemist and the second is 40-year-old Raja Garden journalist – with whom a slew of media house cases came to the fore in the district. Luckily, despite being discharged – the Raja Garden journalist did not go back home – as he wanted to stay with his daughter back at the hospital - who is also receiving treatment. Late on Tuesday night – the duo received intimation that they hadn’t recovered.While the 25-year-old came back to the hospital late night, police who had gone to the 40-year-old’s home to bring him back in the wee hours - were told he was still at the hospital.   Videos of the 25-year-old riding a bike in his neighbourhood and being greeted by friends with a rain of flowers are also being circulated on social media.   Nodal Officer for COVID-19, Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh said, “The first negative test report of these two persons was erroneously believed to be the second due to which the situation arose. After the mistake was spotted they were called back. Only a 19-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member has been discharged on Tuesday. The rest both are under treatment and will be discharged after their second report tests positive.”
29-04-2020||---||Punjab CM approves appointment of ACP Kohli’s son as SI||Chandigarh, April 29Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has approved the appointment of the younger son of ACP Anil Kohli, who succumbed to COVID-19 earlier this month, as Sub-Inspector in Punjab Police once he completes his graduation.During his first video conference with 687 frontline field officers/personnel on Wednesday, DGP Dinkar Gupta disclosed that the conditional offer of appointment of ACP Kohli’s son, Paras, had already been signed by him and he would be appointed as a Sub-Inspector in the Punjab Police once he completes his graduation.The Chief Minister had been extremely supportive of the health and welfare of the police personnel working on the frontlines, said the DGP, adding that Punjab government and Punjab Police remained totally committed to the welfare of its personnel.Captain Amarinder Singh was the first CM in the country to announce a health insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh for Punjab Police personnel.The DGP further said he had also proposed to the state government that full salary be paid as pension, till the date of superannuation of the deceased police officer, to the families of police personnel who lose their lives to COVID-19. Gupta also made it clear that there was no dearth of protective equipment or funds for frontline police personnel.The Punjab Police has sufficient PPEs, and even glass visors for those fighting the COVID battle from the frontline, he said.The DGP said special quarantine facilities for police personnel had also been put in place.Dinkar Gupta also informed that CPs and SSPs had been directed to identify additional SHOs to give the existing ones a break, which was necessary considering the long-drawn battle ahead.Referring to the huge success of the social media campaign -- #MainBhiHarjeetSingh, the DGP said besides creating massive goodwill for the police, it had served to send a strong signal that an attack on even one police personnel would be deemed as an attack on the entire force.He hailed the support to the campaign from across the country, with police force of many states expressing solidarity with the Punjab Police.Curfew relaxationPointing to the curfew relaxations announced by the Chief Minister with effect from Thursday, the DGP asked the force to be prepared to deal with the additional movement, and keep a close watch for any overcrowding or violation of the COVID safety protocols, including use of masks and social distancing.Gupta also asked the SHOs to coordinate with the local administration to work out the rotation scheme for opening of shops from 7 am to 11 am, beginning Thursday.The DGP suggested making announcements regarding continued restrictions on vehicular movement, and advising elderly people not to venture out, with only one person from a household to be allowed to move around during the relaxation time.The police should be seen as being firm, yet humane, he stressed.The DGP though pointed that no movement should be allowed in the containment zones. He added the borders shall continue to remain sealed, with only permitted government buses to ply inter-state. Terror threatCiting inputs from the Ministry of Home Affairs regarding possible reactivation of some terror outfits, who could target right-wing leaders, the DGP directed the officers to identify probable targets and ensure their safety.The entire police force needed to remain on its toes in the coming days, said Gupta, pointing to the ongoing procurement, curfew enforcement and maintenance of law and order as the major tasks which were needed to be implemented effectively.
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Home Department issues guidelines to allow industrial activities across state||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced extension of curfew in the state by two weeks after May 3, while unveiling steps for limited lifting of the lockdown restrictions, from tomorrow, in the non-containment and non-red zones, with strict adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols.Punjab Home Department has issued detailed guidelines to the district authorities to allow industrial activities across the state.Clarifying the scope of permissible construction activities specifically whether it includes personal, residential/commercial building, the state government has also permitted all kinds of new constructions in rural areas without any restrictions.In urban areas, there is restriction in the sense that only on-going projects can continue subject to availability of workers at site.It may accordingly be seen that there is no restriction on continuing/resuming work on the already ongoing works including personal, residential/commercial building subject to availability of workers at site.Accordingly, construction activities in clause 16 of MHA guidelines of April 15 would include construction of houses/commercial/institutional buildings by individuals subject to condition already imposed.Disclosing this here today, an official spokesperson said Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Satish Chandra has issued detailed guidelines in this regard ensuring industrial activities, already permitted by the Government of India, in the state.Accordingly, the district authorities have been directed to call the industrial associations for a meeting and persuade them to restart the operations in the permitted areas.The spokesperson further pointed out that the management of the state industry have also been asked to implement the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in line with the guidelines of Union Ministry of Home Affairs, as per clause 15, which have permitted the industries in Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and Export Oriented Units (EOUs), industrial estates, industrial townships and industries in rural areas to operate subject to the condition of complying with the SOP.The SOP requires that the management would provide for special transportation of workers, in house facility for labour, medical insurance of workers, tie-up with hospitals and arrangements for disinfecting the premises, thermal screening of employees and hand washing etc.The spokesman further said that in the light of MHA’s guidelines of April 15 about labour being stationed in the premises mean that the labour will not depend upon public transport, auto-rickshaws or state transport buses etc.However, the labour may be permitted to move on cycles or on foot if the workers are residing within a short distance from the industry.Allaying the fears of Punjab industry that in case a worker in the factory was found to be COVID-19 positive, district authorities might take legal action including imprisonment of CEO, the spokesperson stated that the Union Home Secretary on April 23 has already clarified that there is no such clause in the consolidated revised guidelines issued on April 15, 2020 for an automatic legal action against the management.As per these guidelines, work places and industrial and commercial establishments are required to follow the SOP and the protocol as notified by the health authorities.The spokesperson further said the Union Home Secretary on April 3 has stated that no fresh licence or statutory approval is required by the industry for resumption of permitted activities.Likewise, the Ministry of Home Affairs has separately clarified that for restarting the operations, industry would require no approval of district authorities.If the industry is satisfied that they have made adequate arrangements for implementation of SOP and they have made a self-declaration to that effect, then they can start the operations.However, passes for special transportation of workers from the district authorities would still be required, said the spokesperson adding that the management would also require passes for themselves and the vehicles.Accordingly, the industries be allowed to operate and the orders passed by the district magistrates under Section 144 of CrPC may be amended clarifying this issue.
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway will pass through Amritsar: Harsimrat Kaur Badal||The Union Food Processing Industries Minister, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, today disclosed that one section of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway will pass through Amritsar after being split into two at Kartarpur. The other section will go through Gurdaspur to Katra.The Union minister said she had recently been informed by the Amritsar Vikas Manch and other social organisations that the Expressway was not going to pass through Amritsar and had herself got alarmed. “I took up the matter with Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari and he informed me that there was no cause of worry for people of Amritsar as the Expressway would not only pass through Amritsar but also the Raja Sansi International Airport,” she added.Giving details, Harsimrat Badal said the Expressway would split into two from Kartarpur. She said one section going to Amritsar would use the existing highway for 50 km, which would be developed as an access controlled expressway with service roads on both sides even as a new 30-km stretch would be constructed to take the expressway to the Raja Sansi Airport. She added the second section would be a new 65 km stretch, which would take the expressway from Kartarpur  to Gurdaspur, and from there it would join NH 44 for the next 180 km stretch to Katra.Badal said the expressway left station from Jassur Kheri in Haryana and passed through Ghana- Kalayat in Haryana to enter Punjab near Patran, and from there the expressway would pass through Bhawanigarh and Nakodar to Kartarpur and then be bifurcated in two with one section passing through Amritsar and the other through Gurdaspur.The Union minister said the total length of the expressway would be 658 km and it would be constructed at a cost of Rs 30,000 crore. The first phase of the project was proposed to be awarded in the current financial year, she added.
29-04-2020||---||Punjab extends curfew by 2 weeks, with limited relief in non-containment areas from Thursday||Chandigarh, April 29Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced extension of curfew in the state by two weeks after May 3, while unveiling steps for limited lifting of the lockdown restrictions, from Thursday, in the non-containment and non-red zones, with strict adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols.Based on the report of the Expert Committee set up to formulate the state’s exit strategy, and the inputs received from various sections of society, the Chief Minister said it was necessary to continue with the lockdown restrictions for some more time.Read: Punjab Home Department issues guidelines to allow industrial activities across stateThe curfew/lockdown in the state will now remain in force till May 17, though limited easing of restrictions will be in place from Thursday from 7 am to 11 am every day. The containment and red zones will, however, continue to remain under total and strict lockdown.In an address to the people of the state, the Chief Minister said the situation would be reviewed after two weeks and further relaxations announced thereafter if the pandemic remained in control.As per the limited relief announced by the Chief Minister, certain shops will be allowed to remain open in certain areas by rotation, for four hours every morning, with 50% staff strength. The DCs have been directed to work out the rotational schedule for the shops that are allowed to be opened in line with the Chief Minister’s directives, which have come four days after the new MHA guidelines came into effect.The lockdown/curfew will remain in place after 11 am, as usual, said the Chief Minister, appealing to people to be back in their homes by that time, and continue to maintain social distancing. All those stepping out during the relaxation period would have to wear masks and maintain a 2-metre distance from others, he said, adding that the relief had been provided only for the convenience of the people and should not be used for interactions with friends, etc.If the situation improved after two weeks, the government could take more steps, said AmarinderThe limited relaxations announced by the Chief Minister from Thursday include permission for opening of all registered shops, except those in multi-brand and single-brand malls, with 50% strength of workers from 7 am to 11 am. In urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open during this period, as per the new directives, which make it clear, however, that establishments dealing in services like salons, barber shops etc would continue to remain closed. Further, e-Commerce companies will continue to be permitted to deal in essential goods only during this period.Expressing his government’s keenness to open up the industry, the Chief Minister urged all those who could accommodate the workers or had workers staying in the vicinity to start opening up, in order to help revive the state’s battered economy.Referring to the large number of Punjabis stranded in other states due to the lockdown, the Chief Minister said it was his government’s duty to bring them back but they would have to be quarantined for 21 days. The state had made arrangements for their quarantine in all districts, he said, adding that the problem had aggravated in Punjab due to the large number of NRIs who came home, followed by the attendees of the Nizamuddin event. The state, he said, could not afford to let those coming from outside again let things spiral out of control. The quarantine for those coming home from other states was essential for the protection of the people, he said.Earlier, the Chief Minister said the relief announced was for the benefit of the people who had been under severe curfew restrictions for the past 38 days. Describing it as a difficult time for the people, who had sacrificed a lot for themselves, their families and the state at large, Amarinder said it had been necessary to control the pandemic, which had so far infected 330 people in the state.While various experts were coming out with different opinions, there seemed to be an indication that the coronavirus crisis could continue till July/August, or even September, said Amarinder, terming it a long-drawn battle. Pointing out that no country had escaped the coronavirus, he observed that the disease had claimed lots of lives across the world, with nearly 50,000 people dying in the US, which had reported 10 lakh cases so far. He cited the examples of the UK, Germany and Canada, to underscore the need for continued caution.
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon in Chandigarh by June 26; excess in Punjab, short in Himachal in April||While rains during, the month of, April were above normal in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana, it was below par in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh.Rainfall in Punjab was 32 per cent above the long period average and seven per cent above in Haryana, but 11 per cent below the long period average in Himachal Pradesh, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the period April 1 to April 28.Punjab received 16.8 mm rain during this period as compared to the long period average of 12.7 mm.Haryana received 7.7 mm against the norm of 7.2 mm while Himachal received 54.6 mm against the 61.3 mm.While northern and eastern parts of Punjab received good rains during April, the south-western parts were relatively drier.Bathinda was the only district in the state that did not receive any rainfall during this period, IMD data shows.Other districts that have been hit hard including Barnala and Mukutsar, where the shortfall was 84 per cent and 81 per cent respectively.Sangrur, Moga, Ferozepur, and Faridkot are other districts where the shortfall ranged between 14 per cent to 54 per cent.Kapurthala and Patiala were the wettest districts, with the rains being as much as 403 per cent and 231 per cent above the long period average, followed by Fatehgarh Sahib and Ropar, where the surplus was 163 per cent and 114 per cent respectively.Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Mohali were other districts receiving significant surplus ranging between 96 to 102 per cent.Only nine districts in Haryana received rain above the long period average, with the central part of the state being deficient.Bhiwani, Panipat, Hisar and Jind were the driest in the state with the shortfall ranging from 60 per cent to 81 per cent.Ambala remained the wettest in April, with the surplus being 237 per cent. In Kaithal, Karnal and Rewari, rains were 118 per cent to 153 per cent above normal.Barring two districts, rains in Himachal Pradesh remained above the long period average.The upper regions of the state comprising Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur were highly deficient, with the shortfall being 58 per cent and 51 per cent respectively. Sirmour, Solan and Mandi were the wettest with a surplus of up to 100 per cent.Above-average rain in Punjab and Haryana comes in the backdrop of IMD predicting normal monsoon this year ranging between 96 to 104 per cent of the long-period average.Based on the data from 1961 to 2019, IMD has designed new objective criteria for defining monsoon onset over the entire country.According to the new forecast model, the monsoon onset date for Chandigarh has been revised to June 26 instead of July 1.For Jalandhar in Punjab, the date has been revised to June 28 from July 13 while for Bhiwani in Haryana it is now July 3 instead of July 6.For Shimla in Himachal Pradesh, the onset is delayed by a day to June 24 from June 23.
29-04-2020||Batala||Drunk man goes to sleep after committing murder in Gurdaspur district||A man, who is the husband of a sarpanch aligned to the ruling Congress, murdered his neighbour in Gurdaspur district after an altercation on Wednesday.An inebriated Santokh Singh of Khaara village allegedy went to sleep after commiting the murder around midnight. Police yanked him out of his slumber and took him into custody.The accused entered into an altercation with his neighbor Dilbagh Singh around midnight. Later, he brought a .12 bore rifle from his house and gunned down Dilbagh.After committing the crime, he returned to his house, disclosed nothing to his family members, and went to sleep.SSP Opinderjit Singh Ghuman dispatched a team of senior officers after the incident came to light. The team found Santokh Singh sleeping when they reached his house.Singh was arrested. An FIR under section 302 IPC (murder) was registered at the Sekhwan police station.
29-04-2020||Jalandhar/Chandigarh||At 37 new coronavirus cases, Punjab reports biggest spike in a day||Punjab reported 37 new coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours---the biggest spike the state has seen since the infection was first reported in the state in March.The state's infection tally now stands at 379. Ludhaina, Jalandhar, Faridkot, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Mohali, Patiala, Sangrur, Kapurthala and Bathinda all reported infections, Punjab's evening health bulletin showed.  Over 20 Sikh pilgrims who recently returned from Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra's Nanded were among Punjab's 35 new cases, officials said. Mohali, Ludhiana, Hoshiapur, Faridkot, Sangrur, Kapurthala and Bathinda all reported that some Sikh pilgrims who recently returned from Sri Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra's Nanded had tested positive.Bathinda, which had so far reported no infections, reported its first coronavirus cases on Wednesday. Officials said two pilgrims who returned from Nanded had tested positive.Mohali reported eight new cases, of which five were Sikh pilgrims who recently returned from Nanded. Three others were from Jawaharpur in Dera Bassi---a village that, at 43 cases, accounts for a large chunk of Mohali coronavirus infections, which now stands at 73.Three people who returned from Nanded Sahib tested positive in Faridkot, taking the district tally to six.Eleven people tested positive for coronavirus in Ludhiana on Wednesday, of whom  seven had recently returned from Nanded. Four others were students who recently eturned from Rajasthan's Kota.  Ludhiana's tally now stands at  29.Three women tested positive for COVID-19 in hotspot Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur district, taking the district's case tally to 11. The women are senior citizens and were among the 16 people who had recently returned from Nanded, where they had gone to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib. The group had returned in a tempo traveller after staying there for 38 days. The driver of the vehicle tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The other 15 people were earlier home-quarantined but were brought to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Hoshiarpur after the driver tested positive. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said that the samples of 35 people, including the 16 travellers and their contacts, have been taken and sent for testing and that all the 16 people have been isolated. Health authorities said that seven of the patients returned from Sri Nanded Sahib on April 25 while four were students who were studying at Kota and returned here April 27.Dr Rajesh Bagga, Civil Surgeon, said that all the patients were asymptomatic. All 56 pilgrims from Nanded and 20 students who returned from Kota have been quarantined for 14 days. While the students were kept in isolation by the administration, the pilgrims were sent back to their homes to self-quarantine but were called back.Liekwise, two residents of Kapurthala's Sultanpur Lodhi residents who recently returned from Nanded also tested positive. The district tally now stands at eight. These two cases have yet to be added to the state's official tally.Patiala reported two new infections, the update showed.Health authorities say the source of infection in both cases was likely from outside Punjab.In Sangrur, a Dhuri resident who returned from Sri Hazur Sahib on Monday has tested positive for Covid 19, officials said on Wednesday---a development that takes the district's infection tally to four.Jalandhar reports two cases, one deathIn Jalandhar, test reports of a 50-year-old woman from Jalandhar who died on Tuesday came back positive on Wednesday, officials said. The woman was cremated on Tuesday.This death has yet to be counted in Punjab's offial death tally, which still stands at 19. Two more people tested positive in Jalandhar later in the evening, officials said on Wednesday evening. However, these two infections have yet to be added in the state's official tally.The development takes the Jalandhar's infection tally to 88---the highest in the state.Mohali has the second highest number of cases at 73 and Patiala comes next at 63.Bathinda has become the latest district in Punjab to report Covid-19 infections. This development means that only Fazilka has reported no infections.Besides, the state's update showed SBS Nagar had reported two new infections, taking its tally to 22.  The state government's update also shows that except for three of Mohali's cases from Jawaharpur and two of SBS Nagar's cases, the source of infection of all of Wednesday's cases is likely to be outside Punjab.
29-04-2020||Karam Prakash||With zero staff infection, Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital shows the way||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 29At a time when the hospital staff worldwide is falling prey to coronavirus, Government Rajindra Hospital here has set an example of zero staff infection. Despite high Covid-19 patients' intake, the hospital staff has so far been successful in keeping the virus at bay.PPE kits to every staff member — who are dealing with Covid-19 patients — and to follow the strict protocol have been the hallmark of their success story of not getting infected.Rajindra Hospital has been adopting a 6/6 home quarantined schedule for staff, whereby a staff member has to home quarantine himself for six days after working for six days. This is a standard protocol of the hospital one has to follow in letter and in spirit to stem the infection.The hospital, which has 600 beds, with the highest ventilator capacity in the state, has been treating serious patients from the nearby districts as well.Dr Sachin Kaushal, nodal officer of isolation ward, said 100 doctors with 70 staff nurses are working at the isolation facility. Apart from strict protocol for patients and staff, he said there was a distinct bifurcation for the suspected patients and Covid-19 positive patients.“We have divided the isolation facility at MCH building into seven floors — each floor handling as per the degree of the severity of the infection. Each floor of the isolation facility comprises of separate medical and nursing staff,” said Kaushal.He said they had been providing accommodation facilities to the staff nurses in order to prevent them from the risk of infecting their family members. “Besides the patients, the hospital is also providing food and accommodation to staff,” he said.Flu corners are a great helpThe patients entering the hospital are first screened at the flu corners as a precautionary measure to safeguard the doctors and paramedical staff.At these corners, the staff is equipped with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit. Screening corners have been made to save the saviours of Covid-19 — medical staff, says the administration.By erecting these corners at the entrance, said the hospital authorities, they would be able to identify suspected COVID-19 patients at the gate itself. Thereby, the vulnerability of doctors, paramedical staff and patients could be reduced a great deal, said the health department.
29-04-2020||Amritsar||UK engages Qatar Airways to ferry citizens back||As many as 271 British citizens of Punjab origin were ferried back to their country on Tuesday, as the British government today engaged Qatar Airways’ flight from Amritsar to Heathrow (London).Passengers said they came here on a vacation, but got stranded after all flights were grounded following the imposition of the curfew to prevent the spread of Covid. So, they contacted their High Commission online appealing to repatriate them so that they could resume their official and domestic work pending in the UK.Earlier, the British government utilised the services of British Airways by operating several flights between Heathrow and Amritsar. — TNS
29-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Gurdaspur district epidemiologist — the cynosure of all eyes||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 28Setting an exampleIn her capacity as the nodal officer, Dr Vandana, district epidemiologist, has supervised the collection of a whopping 460 samples in a short span of time. This development has earned her accolades from Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq, Civil Surgeon Dr Kishen Chand and her senior colleagues.Even as a fear psychosis has gripped doctors of the Civil Hospital following the Covid scare, Dr Vandana, district epidemiologist, has become the cynosure of all eyes by screening suspected patients, collecting their samples, packaging them and subsequently transporting them without even the slightest of trepidation or anxiety.“Actually fears are educated into us, and can, if we wish, be educated out,” she says.In her capacity as the nodal officer, she has supervised the collection of a whopping 460 samples in a short span of time. This development has earned her accolades from Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq, Civil Surgeon Dr Kishen Chand and her senior colleagues.Amid all fears unleashed by the fury of the virus, her family life had threatened to go haywire. However, like an astute trapeze artist, she manages to maintain a fine balance between her domestic chores and exigencies of work, a fact that is not being lost on her seniors.The mother of a dotting three-year-old daughter, the ‘doctor-is-in’ before dawn and starts preparing notes.“You never know which officer will call, and at what time, to ask for details. If I will not be prepared, In that way I will be setting a bad example which is the last thing that I want. I also have to stay tuned with the latest developments and hence I read a lot of scientific journals and newspapers to learn how different countries are trying to cope with the pandemic. Epidemiology is more than skin deep. It is actually the science on which public health decisions are based. It is also about the study about the spread of diseases, health problems or risk factors on the population and action taken to alleviate those problems,” she maintains.Before Covid broke out in all its intensity, life was a bit easy. Now with its spread, things have changed. She admits she has to be on her toes 24x7.Her team comprises ENT specialists, microbiologists, lab technicians and her Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) team members.“There is no lack of PPE kits. It is mandatory for all of us to wear them. This, in turn, takes the fear of catching the virus far away from our minds,” she says.She admits that this is the most difficult time she is passing through ever since she joined in 2016.“Hard times may hold you down, but they will not last forever,” she says.The most difficult part is to convince patients to stay at home after their samples have been collected. “Test reports arrive within 36 hours. However, despite telling them the dangers of not staying at home during this period, some people refuse to listen to us. They are not only compounding their problems, but ours too,” she said.What does she think about life after the lockdown? “I am an eternal optimist. Man never has made any material as resilient as the human spirit,” was her reply.
29-04-2020||Archit Watts||Veggie prices crash, so do hopes of Punjab farmers||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, April 28Amid curfew, the prices of vegetables have crashed in wholesale markets across the state. Staring at losses, the vegetable growers have appealed to the state government to buy their stock at a fixed price and bail them out of the crisis.Vegetable traders here said that cauliflower and capsicum were being sold at Rs 2-6 per kg in the wholesale market. Many growers were unable to even cover the input costs.As a mark of protest, some growers are even throwing away their vegetables. Farmers of Bhaini Bagha village in Mansa today threw their capsicum on the Bathinda-Mansa highway as no one was paying them more than Rs 2 per kg for their produce. “If the situation doesn’t improve, farmers will not opt for crop diversification. It is high time the government intervened,” said Harjit Singh, a farmer.“Due to curfew, growers are unable to send their produce to wholesale markets. This is resulting in a glut in mandis and prices crashing in wholesale markets,” said an official at the wholesale vegetable market here.Meanwhile, KS Pannu, Secretary, Agriculture, said, “It is a fact that vegetable growers have suffered huge losses. The government has tried to keep the supply line intact, but the demand has dropped with restaurants remaining closed. Some mechanism has to be worked out to compensate the farmers.”
29-04-2020||---||20 booked for 'misbehaving' with cops in Malerkotla||Sangrur, April 28  Following heated arguments with vegetable vendors in Malerkotla last night, the police have booked 20  unidentified persons. Videos of the incident  have also gone viral. “Last night, vegetables vendors from Khanna, Ludhiana and some other towns reached the Malerkotla vegetable market, but when our PCR team went there to check their passes, they misbehaved with officials," said Manjit Singh, SP, Malerkotla.   “We have registered an FIR and a probe is on. The accused will be identified with the help of the videos and apprehended," said Sangrur SSP Sandeep Garg.
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers, staffers protest on rooftops in Punjab||
29-04-2020||---||280 shopkeepers fined for overcharging in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 28 Cracking the whip on shopkeepers charging exorbitantly for essentials during the lockdown, Punjab Consumer Affairs conducted checks at 892 shops, petrol pumps, gas agencies and medical stores across the state. "Of these, 280 establishments were found indulged in malpractices and the department imposed a fine of Rs 7,94,000 on those," said Consumer Affairs and Civil Supplies Minister Punjab Bharat Bhushan Ashu today.Ashu said the department had received four complaints against such shopkeepers. Prompt action was taken and 152 cases were registered under the PCR Act. Challans have been issued to 128 shopkeepers. The minister said on the directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the department was working to ensure that the sale of essential commodities was as per the MRP or below it. He said if anyone wanted to file any complaint, he/she could call on helpline number 0172-2684000 of the Food and Civil Supplies Department.
29-04-2020||Patiala||Team reviews procurement in Rajpura||
29-04-2020||Muktsar||Delayed test reports have officials worried||Despite the state government’s efforts to scale up testing for Covid-19, the reports are getting delayed. At least 485 samples were sent from the district for testing in the last eight days, but the reports of only 187 persons have been received and the remaining 298 are pending.Local health officials had sent 49 samples on Thursday, 69 Friday and 72 Saturday, four Sunday, 102 Monday and 100 on Tuesday to the laboratory. However, just five reports were received on Thursday, 14 Friday, 18 Saturday, 64 Sunday, 11 Monday and 75 on Tuesday.A health official said they were in a fix as the state government had asked them to increase the pace of sampling, but the reports were getting delayed. “People with symptoms like cold, cough and fever are not easily getting ready to give their sample. We have to pursue them. When the test report doesn’t come within 24 hours, they get panicky and start calling us. ” he said.Dr HN Singh, CMO, Muktsar, said, “We are acting as per the state government’s guidelines and sending samples daily for testing. There might be some problem at the laboratory.”A majority of the samples are being sent to the Covid-19 testing lab at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot.The sample of the lone Covid-19 patient of Muktsar district was again sent for testing today. The 18-year-old boy from UP’s Meerut, who had come here after attending the Tablighi event, was first tested positive on April 8. Thereafter, he tested negative on April 21. But on April 23, he again tested positive. — TNS
29-04-2020||Sangrur||Dalits protest ‘fake’ FIR, register complaint with SC commission||Dalits of Chapdauda  village today complained to the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission against the police for registering a ‘fake’  theft case against them under the influence of upper caste members. SC panel member Poonam Kangra said Dalits, including Charnjit Kaur, Jaswinder Kaur, Kuldeep Kaur and Sukhwinder Singh, alleged that some members of the upper caste community reached the  house of Charnjit Kaur on April 23, and  alleged that she had stolen wheat  from their fields. “Apart from levelling false allegations of theft, the upper caste men also used filthy language against the community. Dalit women had only collected scattered wheat from various fields, they had not stolen it,” said Kangra.  Kangra said: “Later, Dalits also apologised in writing. The upper caste members got an FIR registered against Dalits at Amargarh police station. We have asked the Sangrur SSP to conduct an inquiry into the incident.” — TNS
29-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||3 nabbed with 18 kg opium||Khanna/Fazilka, April 28 The Khanna CIA and Samrala police arrested three inter-state drug suppliers and recovered 18-kg opium from their possession.  The accused have been identified as Harjot Singh Jot, Jatinder Singh and Balkar Singh, all residents of Takhran village near Samrala.  Khanna SSP Harpreet Singh said a special police team posted at Neelon Bridge arrested two persons who were coming on a motorcycle from Takhran village side.  After their search, the police party recovered 3-kg opium from their possession. The police raided the house of one of Harjot Singh and recovered 14-kg opium. Later, 1-kg opium was recovered from the residence of Balkar Singh.  A case under relevant sections of the NDPS Act had been registered at Samrala police station.  Harjot Singh has five criminal cases already registered against him at different places.
29-04-2020||Sameer Singh||Bathinda doctor reaches out to poor||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 28Going beyond the call of duty, a city-based doctor, along with six volunteers, has been providing free medical consultation, besides distributing medicines in slum areas for the past one month.While doctors from a majority of the private hospitals have opted to provide medical services over the phone due to the Covid-19 outbreak, Dr Vitull Gupta is reaching out to those living on the margins.More than 4,000 patients living in slum areas have so far been benefitted from medical camps organised by Dr Gupta in the past one month.The volunteers, accompanying him, say if one follows the guidelines issued by the WHO, one can minimise the risk of catching the virus.Dr Gupta, MD, Medicine, said, “If you do not take precautions, you are at risk of virus transmission even while sitting at your home. Prior to organising medical camps in slums, we have put in place a proper mechanism to ensure that every patient takes precautions.”“Calls started pouring in both from acquaintances and medical practitioners in the region after the first camp, asking me to drop the idea of camps and stay at home to stay safe. But we did not give up and managed to hold these camps with vigour and motivation,” added Dr Gupta.Anil Bhola, a city-based social worker, who has been organising and funding these camps, said, “A day after the lockdown, I got a call from a woman, who pleaded for help to get medicine for her son who had high fever. She narrated how doctors refused to examine or give medicines to her son. I contacted scores of private doctors in the city for the cause, but nobody agreed to my proposal of funding the camps and providing necessary safety equipment. Then I contacted Dr Vitull, who agreed to provide his services for free. The move will also take off the load from the government as well as private hospitals.”Birju Kumar, a labourer from Dhobiana basti, said, “I could not muster courage to visit government hospital for treatment, fearing action by the police. After two days, the doctor and his team came to our area and treated me and other patients in our area.”
29-04-2020||---||41 drivers of Punjab stuck in WB, Maharashtra, Rajasthan||Ropar, April 28 As many as 41 drivers, who had gone to Bangladesh, Assam, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and UP to deliver vehicles manufactured by SML Isuzu near Ropar before the lockdown, are now stuck in different parts of the country.   The CITU (Punjab) general secretary wrote to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, urging him to bring them back. He said 15 drivers had left on March 6 for Bangladesh to deliver the vehicles. On return, they got stuck at Bangaon town in 24 Pargana district of West Bengal.   Similarly, 19 drivers, who had left on March 7 for Maharashtra, were stranded at Manmad town, he added.   Two others are stranded at Guwahati and as many at Bhilwara of Rajasthan, while three got stuck at Gorakhpur of Uttar Pradesh.   The CITU (Punjab) general secretary said the company management was paying for their stay without any deduction from their remunerations for the lockdown period.
29-04-2020||Ferozepur||Ferozepur Covid-free||The residents of the border district heaved a sigh of relief as the only Covid-19 patient tested negative today. The patient was Paramjot Singh, the 27-year-old cop who had won applause after uploading his workout videos form the civil hospital’s isolation ward. He was tested positive on April 17. Navdeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said Paramjot’s latest report had turned negative. “Ferozepur is now Covid-free. The cop had remained asymptomatic during his stay in the isolation ward. He ate well and did rigorous exercises,” he said. Paramjot, a resident of Wara Bhai village, 25 km from here, was posted as driver with Ludhiana ACP Anil Kohli, who lost his life to Covid-19 on April 18. At least 35 persons, including Paramjot’s family members and close contacts,  tested negative.  — OC
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||AAP alleges tardy lifting, late payment||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has blamed the state and central governments for the difficulties being faced by the farmers, labourers, arhtiyas and transporters due to alleged non-payment of wheat crop and poor lifting arrangements at mandis in the state. In a statement, state kisan wing president and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan and others claimed on an average, only 50 per cent wheat had been lifted from the mandis across the state, while in some place, only 30 per cent grain had been lifted. — TNS
29-04-2020||---||5 more positive in Jalandhar, count reaches 85||Chandigarh, April 28With 12 fresh Covid-19 cases being reported today, the state tally reached 342.According to a state media bulletin, seven cases were reported from Jalandhar, two each from SAS Nagar and Tarn Taran, and one from Hoshiarpur.Among the five patients from Jalandhar was a 46-year-old woman whose mother-in-law had tested positive a few days back in Jawala Nagar, Maqsudan. The total count in Jalandhar is now 85. Health officials said of the 2,674 samples, the reports of 566 were still awaited.Late in evening, two fresh cases were reported from Nawanshahr district. Both are contacts of a patient (truck driver) in Nawanshahr. They belong to Balachaur and have been shifted to Nawanshahr Civil Hospital. As per the information, tests of 51 close contacts of the truck driver were conducted, and his mother and helper were found suffering from the infection.Apart from Jalandhar and SBS Nagar, a 48-year-old driver from Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur has tested positive in Hoshiarpur district. Prior to this, there had been no Covid-19 positive case in the district for 28 days. The driver, who had been in Nanded for 38 days, reached Moranwali village on April 25 with 15 others in his Tempo Traveller. On the same day, he was admitted to the isolation ward at Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital.So far, samples of 17,021 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 13,966 samples tested negative and reports of 2,713 are awaited.After turning green zone, Nawanshahr sees fresh casesTwo fresh cases were reported from Nawanshahr district on Tuesday. Both are contacts of a patient (a truck driver) in Nawanshahr.They belong to Balachaur and have been shifted to Nawanshahr Civil Hospital. Tests of 51 close contacts of the truck driver were conducted.His mother and helper were found suffering from the infection.
29-04-2020||Sangrur||Water crisis hits Sangrur village||This year too, 3,000 residents of Bhullan village, located on Punjab-Haryana border, will have to fetch water from the Bhakra canal to meet their daily needs.The groundwater is unfit for drinking and the authorities have failed to start the canal-based water supply project.But this year, the spread of Covid has added to their worries as they fear untreated canal water may spread the virus.The village is under Moonak sub-division. The water of all hand pumps and both tubewells installed in village is unfit. Most residents say their repeated pleas have fallen on deaf ears.“We do not have any facility even to treat the canal water. We are directly using it while the groundwater of our village is highly polluted,” said Suresh Kumar, sarpanch.Lehra MLA and ex-Finance Minister Parminder Dhindsa said he had been writing repeatedly to the Water Supply Department to start the canal water supply project.Executive Engineer of the department Gurwinder Singh said: “We have written to the Irrigation Department for permission to start water supply from the canal to the village.” — TNS
29-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Amid lockdown, kin get justice in 40-year-old insurance case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 28POLICYHOLDER HAD DIED IN 1981The second payment which was due on November 28, 1980, was belatedly paid with next instalment, along with the interest, on May 28, 1981The policy holder died on May 31, 1981Sukhminder Singh's claim was declined by the insurance company on the ground that Hardip Singh had died prior to May 28, 1981Justice came Sukhminder Singh’s way during the days of Covid lockdown. Nearly 40 years after his son Hardip Singh’s death, the family will get the insurance amount along with interest and costs with the Punjab and Haryana High Court today allowing his appeal against an insurance company via video-conferencingSukhminder Singh’s regular second appeal (RSA), the first in the category to be decided during the restricted functioning period, came three decades after he moved the High Court and may actually mark the beginning of a new trend to hear old and pending cases during the lockdown phase.The High Court is currently working in a restricted mode following the Covid outbreak and is hearing urgent matters only through video-conferencing. Hearing and deciding RSAs during the period may not only facilitate the disposing of matters waiting to be listed for decades, but also prevent the phase from turning into a “denial of justice” era as apprehended.The Tribune has all along been advocating the separation of the legacy or long-pending cases from other matters and hearing them on priority. As of now, no less than 5,62,808 matters are awaiting justice. Of the total, 4,29,531 cases are more than a year old; 1,89,691 are pending for 10 to 20 years and 46,646 are pending for 20 to 30 years. One regular second appeal filed in 1976, another in 1978, followed by “thousands” more subsequently, is still pending.In Sukhminder Singh’s case decided by Justice Arun Monga, the trial court in Ferozepur had decreed the suit for recovery of Rs1 lakh, along with interest and costs. But the order was reversed by the first appellate court, compelling them to move the High Court in 1990.Justice Monga’s Bench was told that Hardip Singh purchased an insurance policy in May 1980 before paying first half-yearly instalment. The second payment due on November 28, 1980, was belatedly paid with next instalment, along with the interest, on May 28, 1981. But the policy holder died on May 31, 1981. Sukhminder Singh’s claim was, however, declined by the insurance company on the ground that Hardip Singh died prior to May 28, 1981.It claimed that an application by Hardip’s wife for absence from duty from May 27 to May 29, 1981, and from May 30 to June 1, 1981, mentioned “husband’s death” as the reason for the leave.Justice Monga asserted the evidence established that the leave application was undated and not made by the wife and the trial court rightly held it was apparently made at a later date when she rejoined the duty on June 2, 1981. “The suit of the plaintiffs is decreed in terms of judgment and decree passed by the trial court,” Justice Monga concluded.
29-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Back  from Rajasthan, 2,582 screened||Abohar, April 28Finally, homeAmong the returnees include 1,104 from Fazilka, 683 Muktsar, 300 Bathinda, 217 Faridkot, 57 Ferozepur, 23 Mansa, 20 Barnala, 29 Kapurthala, 74 Sangrur, 20 Patiala, 15 Jalandhar and 11 from LudhianaTo monitor the arrangements for 2,582 labourers, who were ferried in 61 buses of Punjab Roadways and the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation from Jaisalmer and other districts of Rajasthan, DC Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu, SSP Harjit Singh, SP Manjit Singh, Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Singh and senior medical officer Dr Saurabh Phutela reached Gumjal village here on Tuesday.To earn their livelihood, hundreds of labourers had gone to far-flung areas in Rajasthan for harvesting crops, but had got stuck there in the wake of lockdown.The DC said 25 teams of the Health Department had screened the workers at eight filling stations bearing the norm of social distancing in mind. The labourers would be detained at quarantine centers at sub-divisional headquarters of Abohar, Fazilka and Jalalabad till their test results come out. The test report would be reconsidered as per the instructions of the Health Department.“All of them, including 1,104 labourers of Fazilka district, had thanked the Punjab Government for arranging for their return to their respective states,” Sandhu said.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar’s nephew Sandeep Jakhar said the labourers were served with tea and refreshment by Sriganganagar gurdwara volunteers at Gumjal village and Radhasoami Satsang Ghar in Usmankhera village. Besides this, Gumjal village panchayat dished out 3,000 food packets to them on Tuesday afternoon.Some of the Abohar-based students, who were stuck in Kota, also returned home.
29-04-2020||Bathinda||Hazur Sahib pilgrims allege poor facilities||A video of pilgrims who returned from Nanded Sahib highlighting poor arrangements at the quarantine centre has gone viral on the social media.In the video, a group of women are claiming they were members of the first group of pilgrims which returned two days back. They are residents of Bathinda city and have been kept in the quarantine centre at the Meritorious School located near the Dabwali road.They said there was no arrangement of proper food and toilets as no bucket and soap were available. The pilgrims complained they were not served tea in the evening and overcooked chapattis were being given to them.They said most of the pilgrims were patients of other ailments, but they were not given due care. DC B Srinivasan said he had not seen the video yet. — TNS
29-04-2020||---||20 pilgrims kept in isolation at Faridkot government school||Faridkot, April 28Twenty pilgrims, who returned from Maharashtra’s Hazur Sahib on Tuesday, have been quarantined at a government school in Sandhwan village here.The Health Department has sent the swab samples of the pilgrims for Covid test at VRDL Laboratory at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. All 20 pilgrims, including 11 women, will stay at the government school till their test report comes, said the authorities.A total of 45 persons of Sandhwan, the native village of late President Giani Zail Singh, had gone to Nanded Sahib in the first week of March this year, but after the lockdown, they got stuck there.About 50 more persons, including 25 from Sandhwan and 12 from Pacca village, are expected to arrive here from Nanded Sahib in the next 24 hours. To quarantine these person, arrangements at government and private schools at Kotkapura and Faridkot, said Kumar Saurabh Raj, DC, Faridkot.
29-04-2020||---||21-day quarantine must for returnees of Hazur Sahib, Rajasthan||Chandigarh, April 28Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said a 21-day quarantine was mandatory for all those returning to the state from other places. His statement came a day after eight pilgrims, who had recently returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, tested positive for Covid-19.All pilgrims returning from Nanded, Maharashtra, and students and labourers coming from Rajasthan will be stopped at the border and sent to government quarantine centres, he said in an official statement.He said Radha Soami Satsang deras would also be used to quarantine the people, whose return was being facilitated by the government for the past three days.The CM made the announcement while discussing the lockdown situation as well as the ongoing procurement operations with Congress MLAs through a video-conference, the statement said.Around 4,000 pilgrims from Punjab who had gone to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded were stranded there after lockdown was imposed to combat coronavirus. Now, they are being brought back after the intervention of the Union Home Ministry.Besides, 3,000 workers from Jaisalmer and 152 students from Kota in Rajasthan are also being brought back to the state.After NRIs and Tablighi Jamaat attendees, the latest threat was on account of the pilgrims coming back from Gurdwara Hazur Sahib, the CM said.Another large ‘jatha’ (group of people) is expected to return to Punjab on Wednesday and the state government plans to put all of them under quarantine in the Radha Soami deras, he said.Pointing to rising cases even after 35 days of lockdown, he said the Centre had indicated, based on various inputs and studies, that the trend would continue till July.
29-04-2020||Aman Sood---||Ban on feeding animals in sanctuaries to prevent spread||Tribune News Service Patiala, April 28 The state Wildlife Department has put a blanket ban feeding wild animals by anyone, except for department officials. It has asked all divisional forest officials to arrange food for wild animals along with enough water, so that they do not stray out of the protected area and “get the virus from eatables provided by nearby residents”.  To ensure that animals such as blue bull, black buck, wild boar, rhesus macaques, python, pangolin, barking deer, red jungle fowl, kalij pheasant, porcupine, hedge hog and sambar don’t go hungry, the department has started arranging food for them inside ‘birs’ (sanctuaries). It has already started feeding monkeys and other animals on veggies and fruit.  The department has another worry and that is the spread of the virus among animals as a few people are still seen feeding animals near the fencing of birs. In recent cases, monkeys and jungle cats were seen near human settlements as they could get out of the fencing using trees.  A Covid-positive person can be a threat to the wildlife inside the birs, says Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Kuldip Kumar. “Already some cases in the cat family have been reported across the world, and we have many leopards straying into Punjab. Thus, we cannot take any chances,” he said.  The state has declared 35,040.20 hectares across the state as a protected area. This includes 12 birs. To stop human activity around the birs, the department has said it would conduct round-the-clock patrolling. “I have directed the divisional forest officers to ensure no human activity around the 12 birs of the state,” Kuldip Kumar said. Less human activity has led to monkeys venturing out of the birs in search of food. “As not many people are coming out to feed them, monkeys can be seen venturing out of the birs, posing a threat to villagers and even city residents,” said wildlife expert Jaskaran Sandhu, who is also a member of the Punjab Wildlife Protection Board.
29-04-2020||---||SAD decries ‘poor’ health infrastructure||Amritsar, April 28Emphasising on testing and revamping the infrastructure to fight Covid-19, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said the state government had been lacking in taking appropriate measures in comparison to Haryana.Majithia said the high Covid death rate (6 per cent) should wake up the government from its deep slumber.“Tarn Taran, the green zone with no suspected case, has six cases that emerged in the past 24 hours as tests were not conducted when the pilgrims reached here from Hazur Sahib. The reason was that no government order on ‘testing’ was received and they were allowed to go home. Testing has to be the foremost in controlling the pandemic. How can we overcome the Covid threat with such ill-conceived policies,” he said.
29-04-2020||---||Labour crunch won't let us resume operations: Jalandhar industrialists||Jalandhar, April 28With Jalandhar being declared a hotspot in the state with highest number of Covid cases, industrialists who are running pipe fitting, valves and cocks, sports, nut and bolts, and rubber chappal manufacturing units are a harried lot.The aforementioned industries have a huge concentration here and they supply products across the length and breadth of the country.‘Wages being paid’About 95 per cent of the workforce is from UP and Bihar. We know the labourers will return home the moment the lockdown is lifted. This despite the fact that we’re paying them wages.—Charanjeet Singh Maingi, industrialistEvery industrialist fears that once the lockdown is lifted, more than 50 per cent of migrant labourers will rush to their native places, affecting the work badly. Besides this, the industrialists opine that restarting the operations isn’t going to be easy, as the prices of raw material will fluctuate sharply. “We know that the labourers will return homes the moment the lockdown is lifted. About 95 per cent of the workforce is from UP and Bihar. Despite the fact that we’re paying them their wages, we are aware that they will return immediately after the lockdown is lifted,” said Charanjeet Singh Maingi, an industrialist.Owners say that it won’t be easy to procure raw material such as pig iron, iron scrap, zinc, furnace oil, gun metal scrap, rubber and other chemicals ware as easily, as they were imported from Jharkhand and Mumbai, among other states.Maingi, who is also the general secretary of Jalandhar Chamber of Industries and Commerce, said it was not clear if they would be able to obtain raw material or not. “I think it will take us a month for our operations to gain some momentum,” he said.A trader from valves and cock industry opined the situation of the industrialists would remain critical in the coming days. “There are several things that are required to start the unit. From where will we get the raw material?” he asked. Ravinder Dhir, president, Traders Forum, who owns a sports manufacturing unit, said: “In our deliberations with the industrial groups, we concluded that a majority of labourers would return home. Sports manufacturing unit won’t be able to get pass the break-even point, as the manufacturing cost will go up.”
29-04-2020||---||Centre lauds ITIs for stitching 2.5L masks||Patiala, April 28The government industrial training institutes (ITIs) in the state have stitched 2.5 lakh masks free of cost as a part of their efforts to check the spread of Covid-19. Union Minister for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Mahendra Nath Pandey lauded the efforts of 28 ITIs across the country of which six are in Punjab.The state government had started the initiative of stitching masks with the help of students of ITIs this month. As many as 2,200 girl students of ITIs took part in the programme. Officials said, “The students were advised to stay at home, maintain social distancing and stitch masks. On an average, a student can stitch 25 masks daily.”They said girl students of ITI-Rajpura had stitched 15,426 masks while those at Raiya had stitched 16,375. Students at ITI-SAS Nagar stitched 13,058, ITI-Patiala 10,500, ITI-Moga 10,800 and Government Institute of Garment Technology 8,730 masks.The ITIs in the state have now been given the target to make 10,000 masks by May 10. Officials of the Department of Technical Education and Industrial Training had been directed to coordinate and provide raw material for masks to all ITIs.Self-help groups pitch inChandigarh: Members of women self-help groups (SHGs) in villages have emerged as corona warriors in a big way. The self-help groups, through the Rural Development Department, are producing masks, aprons and gloves for the civil administration, police and panchayats.In a press statement today, Rural Development and Panchayats Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said about four lakh face masks produced by members of SHGs, under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM), had already been delivered.The minister said 3,711 SHG members from 22 districts of the state were engaged in producing masks, aprons and gloves. The SHGs, which have received a new order for making 50,000 masks, are delivering these without any delay.
29-04-2020||---||Can use our hospitals: SGPC||Amritsar, April 28The SGPC has now offered its medical institute to the government to combat Covid. Apart from Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College and Hospital (SGRDMCH) in Amritsar and inns, the SGPC has now opened the door of its Miri Piri Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (MPIMSR) in Shahabad (Kurukshetra) for suspected patients.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, who is also the chairperson of Miri Piri Trust, said at the MPIMSR, a 10-bed ICU had been kept on standby.Also, a lab and medical testing facilities were opened on “special” rates for patients.“Senior citizens and patients belonging to weaker sections have been exempted from paying admission, emergency and revisiting charges. Our hospitals already charge charitable rates for medical tests, but now we are offering 10 per cent discount on tests like the MRI, which is done for Rs 2,000 and CT scan for Rs 1,000, which is just half of what is charged by other labs,” he said.In this 50-bed hospital, an MRI scanning machine worth Rs 6 crore was installed in November. The MPIMSR is Kurukshetra’s biggest hospital, where an estimated 1.5 lakh patients visit the OPDs annually and around 4,000 major and minor operations are conducted. “Four suspected patients were kept in the isolation ward and discharged after they recovered,” he said.At Sri Guru Ramdas Hospital, 300 beds and 10 ventilators have been kept for symptomatic patients. Recently, rapid antibody testing complying with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recommendation was started here.
29-04-2020||---||Need for survey of urban, rural poor in Punjab: Task force||Chandigarh, April 28As a long-time measure to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, the task force on the lockdown exit strategy has recommended to the state government to conduct scientific mapping of urban and rural poor.Learning lessons from the free distribution of 10 lakh packets of dry ration to the poor and migratory labour by the state, it has been observed that a large section of state’s workforce is left out from the public distribution system (PDS). As per the current assessment, about 20 to 25 lakh eligible persons are not included in the beneficiary list under the PDS scheme.“Distribution of dry ration only helped in retaining the labour to some extend as other states witnessed mass exodus,” said a government functionary.Experts have pointed out that local daily wage rural labourers, migrant labourers and other workforce are not covered under Central or state welfare schemes like MNREGA, NFSA and Jan Dhan programme. Punjab’s share of informal workers (non-agriculture) stands at 51.8, second in terms of percentage share of informal workers in the country. To prepare for any such disaster, the task force has pointed out that the scientific mapping would improve state’s understanding of its workforce, result in better coverage under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme and provide a platform for assessing labour availability in the state. For the benefit of the unregistered construction workers, the committee has recommended payment of Rs 6,000 relief allowance to all eligible workers, apart from the 2,82,576 registered construction workers. Funds to the tune of Rs 1,200 crore are lying in the Workers’ Welfare Fund.
29-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Roll back ‘inflated’ power bills: Fazilka traders||Fazilka, April 28 Local traders have urged Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to roll back inflated power bills for the month of March, the billing of which was made on the basis of power consumption in the month of March 2019.  A brief meeting of traders was held here on Tuesday under the chairmanship of Beopar Mandal president Ashok Gulbadhar. PSPCL officials couldn’t be sent out to record the meter reading, hence the decision to bill its customers based on last year’s power bill. The traders said they hadn’t received any hard copy of the electricity bill, but a message on their mobile phones. They alleged they had been receiving repeated reminders to clear their dues, causing agony to them.  The traders opined that by March last year, they had begun using air conditioners and other electronic gadgets following the early onset of summer, however, this year March since the weather was pleasant throughout, they didn’t feel the need to use air coolers. Moreover, their shops had remained closed for several days last month amid curfew. The traders have also sent a letter to the Chief Minister and officials concerned, demanding roll back of the bills. They have made it clear that they would only be able to pay the amount based on actual meter reading and if their condition is not fulfilled, they wouldn’t be able to clear their dues.
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘Hoist Tricolour on May 1 against Centre’s bias’||The Congress government has asked people in the state to raise Tricolour from their homes/rooftops on May 1 in protest against the Centre’s “discrimination” against non-BJP ruled states in the matter of extending support in the fight against Covid-19. The party would demand an immediate relief of Rs 20,000 crore from the Centre.The idea was mooted by PPCC president Sunil Jakhar, and seconded by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh during a videoconference with party MLAs today.The event, coinciding with May Day (Labour Day), will serve to underscore the right of Punjab to Central aid in this unprecedented crisis, said Jakhar. “Punjab is an integral part of India and the Union Government cannot discriminate against us,” he said, asserting that the party would demand Rs 20,000 crore as immediate relief to support the state’s efforts to combat the crisis. — TNS
29-04-2020||---||CM Capt Amarinder Singh hints at relaxations in some areas||Chandigarh, April 28Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today indicated that the state government could give certain relaxations, while taking all precautions, based on the report of the expert committee on post-lockdown strategy.‘Withdraw cut on shrivelled grain’Chandigarh: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday sought immediate withdrawal of the value cuts imposed by the Centre on farmers, while allowing relaxation in specifications of shrivelled grain and lustre loss, caused by unseasonal rains in the state. In a letter to PM Narendra Modi, Capt Amarinder expressed shock over the heavy value cuts imposed on the MSP, which was further burdening the farmers. tnsThe Chief Minister today discussed the ongoing situation with party MLAs through videoconferencing. There was largely a consensus among the MLAs to continue with the strictness for another couple of weeks with limited relaxation in certain areas. They were also of the view that not just state borders, but also of districts and villages should remain sealed. Covid-19 patients should be treated within their own district to limit outside contact and exposure, they opined, advising extreme caution in lifting restrictions.The Chief Minister urged the MLAs to set an example by taking all precautions while executing their public responsibilities.Jakhar suggested allowing industries in rural areas to operate at night to prevent workers from socialising. He suggested classification of Covid zones at the village level to ensure better management of relaxations as and when announced.The issue of shortage of testing facilities, ventilators and relief ration kits were raised by many MLAs with Pathankot’s Amit Vij and Bhoa’s Joginder Pal calling for more sampling. They also suggested that books should be made available to government school students, as they were not being able to attend online classes, with many of them belonging to underprivileged sections.Gurdaspur’s Barindermeet Singh Pahra said testing facilities should be made available at the district level. The Chief Minister said the state was trying to procure approval for testing at GADVASU and PAU. Underlining the need to increase testing, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said since PPE use became difficult in summer season, the department was exploring the option of building kiosks for testing. Rana Gurjeet Singh (Kapurthala) sought health insurance cover for the mediapersons and contractual/temporary safai workers working on the frontline.
