29-03-2020||Aparna Banerji||Running out of rations, Jalandhar villagers say will bang ‘thalis’ from rooftops||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 29Amarjit Kaur from Bhakkhu Nangal carries a crying and ailing child in her hands. Her husband is ill and she want for ration.Amarjit, a resident of Kartarpur, the sole bread winner of the family rendered immobile due to a recent surgery says he has no food to feed his family.Makkhan Singh and Daato, both over 70, have run out of the rations they recently procured. At Fateh Jalal village, a colony of 150 migrants makes do with a diet of boiled potatoes.Residents of some villages mobilised by the Pendu Mazdoor Union and the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee have now given a ‘thali banging’ call for March 31. They say they will bang their utensils and thalis from their rooftops and windows if they are not provided with grocery and ration until then. At the colonies near Chogitti and Domoriah Bridge colonies of migrants line up with outstretched hands whenever someone comes to disburse rations.While the police administration has been taking groceries to doorstep of villagers, it does not suffice the large number of migrants and underprivileged in the district. Some villages also complain while administration provided them rations several times, it’s not enough to last the entire length of the lockdown.Mangal, a panch at the Fazalpur village, says, “We have several families here, mostly from Bihar. The police came and gave ration to us a week ago. Yesterday, some people distributed food. The ration will last a week at the most. Teams can’t come in daily we also understand that. We are all daily wagers and have lost livelihood due to the lockdown.”Maninder (60), a resident of the Fateh Jalal village, says, “Allo ubaal ke kha rahe hain (We are living on boiled potatoes). No one has given us ration. We don’t even have grains. All of us are from Bihar. We need food to survive. There are 50 to 60 children and 40 to 50 women here. We used to get Rs 300 to 350 a day. Now jobs are also gone. We request the administration to provide us with food.”
29-03-2020||---||Bodies of 3 Sikhs killed in Kabul attack to be brought to India on Monday: Harsimrat||Chandigarh, March 29Union food processing minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Sunday said bodies of three Sikhs killed in the Kabul gurdwara attack, whose families were based in India, would be brought back to the country on Monday.She also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take steps to facilitate the relocation of all Afghan Sikhs who wanted to leave Afghanistan and settle in India.In a statement here, Harsimrat said the bodies of three Sikhs were being brought back to India tomorrow. He said while the families of two – Shankar Singh and Jiwan Singh were based in Ludhiana, the third Tian Singh’s family was based in Delhi.She said while Shankar’s wife would also return with her husband’s body to Ludhiana where his six children were residing with their maternal grandparents, Jiwan’s wife and children were living in Ludhiana.The Union minister has appealed to the Prime Minister to initiate an exercise to relocate all Afghan Sikhs who wanted to leave Afghanistan due to growing insecurity and threats to their very lives and livelihood. She said from a population of several thousands, only around 300 to 400 Sikh families remained in Afghanistan with thousands migrating to India and elsewhere in the last more than one decade.She also appealed to the Prime Minister to take up the issue of the safety and security of the Sikh community in Afghanistan with the latter government. “Sikhs in Afghanistan are undergoing a trauma. They are facing threats on a day to day basis. Earlier also there have been gruesome attacks on its members including a terrorist attack in 2018 while killed 13 persons in Jalalabad. Many want to leave Afghanistan and relocate in India. This relocation should be facilitated at the earliest,” he added.
29-03-2020||---||Industries can operate with migrant labour if they are accommodated on premises: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, March 29To address the problem of migrant labourers and prevent their exodus from the state amid the COVID-19 crisis, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has asked all industrial units and brick-kilns in the state to commence operations with such migrants if they have adequate provisions to accommodate them safely within the premises.Amarinder said his government was also in discussion with Radha Soami Satsang Beas, which has already offered its Bhawans as quarantine facilities, to allow migrant labourers to stay there as these people would be needed for wheat harvesting in the fields in two weeks’ time.The owners of industrial units and brick-kilns can commence production if they have enough space to accommodate the migrant labourers and provide them with food, said the Chief Minister, while appealing to the owners to ensure that social distancing is maintained during this period.Industry Minister Sunder Shyam Arora said, “We can start our industries immediately but with a condition that we have to provide lodging, boarding and food to the workers inside the premises of factories.”All hygiene precautions must be made fully available at all such industrial facilities for workers, said Amarinder, adding that the owners should also make soap and water freely available for use by the workers and regularly sanitise the common facilities. Hand-wash facilities and sanitisers should be placed prominently at strategic points, said the Chief Minister.The directions and discussions came amid reports of lakhs of migrant labourers getting stranded across the nation, and the problem assuming ominous proportions with such labourers gathering in large numbers at borders in many states, according to an official spokesperson.  The Centre has directed states to adhere strictly to the national lockdown, including sealing of the borders for human movement, to check the spread of the deadly coronavirus.The Chief Minister said this would be beneficial for both, the industry/brick-kiln owners as well as the labourers who had lost their employment and homes in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown, and had been left to fend for themselves.In line with the Chief Minister’s directives, the Punjab Labour Department has also issued an advisory to employers/owners of private establishments, including industries, factories, shops and commercial establishments, etc., not to terminate their employees/workers, particularly casual and contractual workers, from their jobs, and not to deduct their wages/salary.
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: BBMB prepares facilities, distributes food to needy||Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) is volunteering its services to fight against the deadly coronavirus during the 3-week nationwide lockdown by not only providing hospital facilities and ambulances, but also providing groceries, and food to the poor people.BBMB is also helping local administration in sanitising the townships at Nangal, Talwara, and Sundernagar by providing men and the equipment.They have established flu zones at its hospitals,  in Nangal, Sundernagar, and Talwara, which are well equipped to tackle emergencies.Seventy percent of the hospital beds have been prepared to cater any extraordinary circumstances. Isolation wards are equipped with oxygen cylinders, N-95 masks, protection kits, infrared thermometer, hand sanitisers and emergency drugs. In addition, some of the vacant houses in BBMB townships have been converted into isolation rooms for quarantine purposes.Hospital areas are being sanitised on a regular basis. Ambulances are available at all project station of BBMB to facilitate every citizen.The chief engineer of each project station has been assigned the responsibility to tackle any emergent situation emerging out of COVID-19.Sufficient funds are being made available to tackle any emergency. Retirement of doctors and para-medical staff has also been extended up to September 30, as one time measure on the same pattern as done by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Punjab.
29-03-2020||Jalandhar||Migrants run out of essential commodities in Jalandhar even as admn distributes food||Even as the availability of essential commodities in the city areas of Jalandhar district is slowly being streamlined, the impending crisis in the slums and labour colonies is now a cause for concern.After an initial lull, the exodus of migrants from slum areas for their native places has begun. Mostly daily-wage labourers, these people claim to have run out of essential commodities as well as money.While the district administration is making efforts to provide rations to the slum dwellers and the poor – teams of the rural police have been reaching out to underprivileged every day to drop off rations at their homes. The administration is also releasing updated lists of grocers, milk sellers and chemists as well as sharing private grocery helplines on a daily basis. Teams of the police department are keeping ration bags at the villagers’ doorsteps during daily drives. To prevent hoarding of vegetables in the city – as was being complained about from various areas – the district administration on Sunday also released a list putting a cap on prices of essential commodities to prevent hoarding. From Sunday, chemists have also been allowed to open shops from two to five pm.In violation of the curfew, huge crowds were seen at the Masudan Mandi every day.While the majority of the personnel have been put on the job to distribute ration–the problem is the sheer number of slum dwellers and daily wagers in the city. A real estate as well as an industrial hub, the number of construction labourers and factory workers in the city is huge. Despite the best efforts of the administration, the amount of ration needed to feed all these poor is very huge.In Jalandhar, slum dwellers near the Kala Sanghian road, Chugitti Chowk, near the PAP flyover, Focal Point etc. are facing a serious paucity of funds. Long lines were also seen at the slums near the Chugitti bypass on Saturday as residents gathered around those distributing rations. On the highways – the exodus of the workers has also begun – going back to Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and UP as rations run out.Ram Deen, a local slum dweller who originally hails from Darbhanga, said, “I have been staying here for the past four years. Police teams gave us rations and some other do-gooders also donated. But now we are running out of food. Money is already scarce. I will wait a day more, after which we will have to move out.
29-03-2020||---||OOAT clinics, drug de-addictions centres provide take-home medicines: Balbir Singh Sidhu||Chandigarh, March 29In a major relief for the victims of drug abuse, Punjab Government on Sunday has permitted 198 OOAT clinics, 35 government de-addiction centres, and 108 licensed private de-addiction centres to provide take-home medicines.   The dose of  Buprenorphine + Naloxone will be provided for two weeks after an assessment by the psychiatrists.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that instructions have already been issued to the all Deputy Commissioners in this regard.He said that Captain Amarinder Singh led Punjab Government is committed to provide healthcare services including the treatment under the drug de-addiction program.He said that during this period of lockdown and curfew, the government has taken special initiatives to provide treatment and care to the patients of drug abuse.The Health Minister added that to generate awareness about COVID-19 with special emphasis on social-distancing amongst the patients.These steps have been taken to minimise the visits of the patients of substance abuse to the centres so as to check the transmission of COVID-19. Balbir Singh Sidhu said that most of the centres are functional and distributing medicine to the patients.In the last two days, average dose per patient in government centres is 11.4 tablets against daily average dose of 3.2 tablets, due to take home dose.Number of BPN tablets dispensed by government centres in last two days are around 3,09,796 tablets and by private centres are 5,68,747. He said that during the visit to these centres the patients are given awareness about coronavirus and its preventive measures.He said that social distancing is being maintained and the patients are informed that in case of high grade fever, dry cough and difficulty in breathing they must report to the nearest health facility.“Liaison is being maintained with the district authorities for facilitate the visit of such patients to their respective de-addiction centres and OOAT clinics.Availability of 24 × 7 medical services are also being provided through toll free helpline number 104”, he added.
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Building up stock of life-saving equipment, says Punjab govt||Punjab is building up its stocks of life-saving equipment such as masks, gloves, ventilators, PPE kits etc, the government announced on Sunday.By March 31, the state will have another 25,000 N95 masks, in addition to the 52,500 it already has in stock, along with 1 lakh Nitrile gloves, according to a government communique.While the state government already has at its disposal 26,32,000 Triple Layer Masks, another 12 lakh will get added to the inventory by April 1, according to Additional Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.“As far as the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Kits, the government has ordered a total of 1 lakh, of which 7640 have already been received,” said Mahajan, adding that all efforts were being made to procure the balance at the earliest."Other critical supplies already available with the government include 10,425 hand sanitisers and 17000 VTM kits, with 2000 and 10000 more, respectively, already on the way and expected to be added to the inventory by April 1. The government is also procuring the ventilators for handling critical cases," she added.Other materials being procured by the government to combat the Coronavirus crisis include the Automated Mid-High Nucleic Acid Purification machines, along with large quantities of Azithromycin & HydroxyChloroquine tablets, besides Laryngoscopes - Pediatric and Adult, Ambu Bags - Pediatric & Adult, Portable X-ray machines and ABG Eltrolyte Analyzers. These are in addition to the Urine analysers and Fully Automated Biochemistry Analysers which are already available with the state, according to Mahajan.Talking about equipment already made operational, Vini Mahajan said that 1,06,000 TLMs, 45,000 Azithromycin Tablets, besides 30,000 Gloves, 4510 N 95 Masks and 1200 each of PPE & VTM Kits have been made available with the Government Medical College at Amritsar.Similarly, the Government Medical College Patiala has received 1,21,500 TLMs,  30,000 Gloves, 3100 N 95 Masks and 800 Sanitizers. GMC Faridkot has got 1,00,000 TLMs, 30,000 Gloves besides 1800 N 95 Masks, 1200 VTM and 800 sanitizers.In addition, 8000 tablets each of ARV (Ritonovir and Liponovir) have been provided to these three medical facilities. Besides 36,000 TLMs and 5000 Azithromycin tablets, MS Gian Sagar Hospital has been provided 280 N95 Masks and 210 VTM Kits, according to the ACS.To reduce dependence on outside vendors Government has roped in local manufacturers, she said, adding that samples prepared by them were at present in testing phase. Business to business tie ups were being facilitated, as a result of which 10 lakh pieces of indigenously made hazmat armour suits had been ordered by the central government from JCT Mills, said Mahajan, adding that to facilitate testing of these suits, the Punjab Police had taken samples through the lockdown to Delhi from where they were taken to the Central testing laboratory at Coimbatore via a special flight.Samples of PPEs and N95 masks designed and made at six more Punjab units had left for Coimbatore and Gwalior respectively for testing, while two local entrepreneurs had come forward with proposals for making ventilators, said the ACS.The state was also in continuous discussion with the Health Ministry and other central ministries involved in regulatory clearances, to hand hold the entrepreneurs and fast track clearances to enable Made in Punjab ventilators, she said, adding that the state government will ensure immediate orders for these as soon as the clearances come in.The Industry Department was extending full support, in the form of packaging material and transportation, to the various industries engaged in manufacturing essential items like sanitizers, masks, food items, pharmaceuticals, etc, said Mahajan.All necessary support was also being extend to the Communications systems, including Broadband, ISP etc, said the ACS.Assuring the people of the state’s full preparedness to tackle any eventuality, Mahajan said as per the directives issued by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the state was aggressively focussing on prevention and treatment of infection. She appealed to people to exercise restraint and maintain social distancing protocols to assist in flattening the curve.4 committees to deal with various aspects of COVID-19 containmentThe Government has also constituted four committees to deal with various key aspects of the state’s COVID-19 management efforts.These are Health Sector Response and Procurement, Lockdown Implementation, Media & Communication as well as Agriculture & Food committees.These committees would report to the State COVID-19 Management Group already notified by the Health & Family Welfare Department for taking quick decisions with respect to their subjects.Disclosing this here today, a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said that these Committees would meet as frequently as required and report to the COVID-19 Management Group headed by the Chief Secretary.The Health Sector Response and Procurement Committee has been constituted with ACS Governance Reforms as its chairperson, besides Principal Secretaries Finance, Health & Family Welfare, Medical Education & Research, Special Secretary Governance Reforms as members, while Secretary Health & Family Welfare and MD NHM would be the convener of the Committee. Dr KK Talwar and Dr Raj Bahadur would be associated as professional advisors to the Committee, which would assess and review all requirements of personnel, material and infrastructure of Health & Family Welfare and Medical Education & Research Departments and ensure timely procurement. The Committee would also ensure provisioning of IT support needed for COVID-19 management.The Lockdown Implementation Committee would be chaired by ACS Home Affairs and Justice with DGP, Principal Secretary Food & Civil Supplies and Transport as its members, besides ADGP Law & Order as convener. The  committee would review all arrangements related to security and enforcement of law & order and all measures that are required for effective management of curfew/lockdown in the state due to COVID-19, and will take appropriate measures to ensure the supply of essential commodities and services.The committee on Media & Communication would be headed by Secretary Information and Public Relations with Joint Development Commissioner (IRD), Director Health Services (State Epidemiologist) as members and Director Information & Public Relations as convener. The Committee would make all necessary arrangements for preparing, compiling and disseminating information with regard to management and containment of COVID-19 in the state for all media, including social, print and electronic.The Agriculture and Food Committee has been set up under the Chairmanship of ACS Development with Principal Secretary Food and Civil Supplies and Managing Directors of Punjab State Warehousing Corporation, Markfed, Punsup and Pungrain as members, while Secretary Mandi Board would be the convener. This Committee would focus on smooth harvesting and procurement of crops, including wheat, potatoes, kinnows and vegetables. The Committee would also ensure smooth and proper procurement and harvesting operations in a regulated manner keeping in view curfew/lockdown in the state due to COVID-19 as well as the precautionary measures required to be taken to prevent corona virus. Mandi-wise system of procurement by appointment would be worked out to ensure proper social distancing and to avoid any untoward situation as also to ensure that every grain produced is procured by the agencies.
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||'Search' for missing NRIs in Punjab who travelled with 'coronavirus'||Elderly Baldev Singh is no more, dollar rich Punjab's first coronavirus casualty.But the virus that travelled with him from Germany and Italy survives and now the 'search' for people who came in contact with him is virtually like looking for a needle in a haystack.So far approximately 70 per cent of state's COVID-19 positive cases have been traced to 'super spreader' Baldev Singh, a resident of Banga town in Nawanshahr district who died on March 18 owing to a heart attack but was diagnosed to be coronavirus positive after his death.Authorities suspect the count could go much higher as the 'granthi', who had the mass following in villages in the Doaba region, attended the spiritually significant Hola Mohalla celebrations, which coincides with the Holi festival where tens of thousands of devotees converge every year in the Sikh holy town Anandpur Sahib, located some 85 km from Chandigarh, between March 8 and 10.During his stay in Anandpur Sahib, he mingled freely with the people despite advisory on landing in Delhi's IGI Airport on March 7 for isolation at home.Ten days after his death, Baldev Singh is suspected to have infected 27 people, comprising 14 family members.Apprehending major outbreak, the state government has been closely monitoring through contact tracing Baldev Singh's acquaintance mainly in Nawanshahr, renamed Shahid Bhagat Singh Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar districts, the hotbed of NRIs.Contact tracing means finding out each individual who came in contact with a patient and then isolate them at their homes to prevent the further spread of infection.Now, local health authorities have self-quarantined around 30,000 residents that were linked to the 'super spreader'.Health Minister Balbir Sidhu told IANS that 25-30 villages in Nawanshahr, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur from where the patients suspected to be infected by Baldev Singh were sealed to prevent the further spread of the virus."The social isolation in infected villages through sealing at the micro-level and further imposition of 21-day statewide curfew will help to narrow detecting the asymptomatic patients as well as to halt the spread of the microbe," he said.Health officials are monitoring nearly 550 patients who came or believed to have come into contact with Baldev Singh by expanding random checks.Earlier, the focus was only those who have come from affected areas overseas or have been in contact with positive cases.But Baldev Singh is not an isolated case in the state where almost 75 per cent of the non-resident Indians (NRIs) have their plush residential properties and landholdings especially in the Doaba region (the prosperous area between the Sutlej and Beas rivers) comprising the districts of Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr and Kapurthala.For a majority of NRIs visiting their native's places is the best way to escape the harsh winters of Europe, the US and Canada from November onwards.This season too was no exception, many of them landed in hordes, maybe to escape coronavirus epidemic prevailing there, with a little attention to complying with the home quarantine advisory.As per re-assessment carried out by the health authorities, 55,669 international passengers came to Punjab from January 30 onwards.Earlier, the government said no less than whopping 90,000 landed in the state in March alone.Official sources told IANS Jalandhar district now tops the list with foreign arrivals with 13,723 out of the total 55,669. Nawanshahr, the hometown of the deceased coronavirus patient, has received 1,605 foreign travellers.Currently, 30,000 of them are placed in self-isolation in the state.Acting on the alert of Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, Punjab has started a special drive to trace its 1,330 'missing' foreign travellers.Police officials said these NRIs were not found as their addresses on their travel declarations did not match with the actual addresses."We believe that a majority of them who carry the infection have reported to some hospital by now or they are about to report," said a police official.Taking the coronavirus outbreak "seriously", the government on Saturday again asked the NRIs and foreign travellers who came in India after January 30 to furnish their details on helpline number 112 immediately.Issuing a warning, the government said if any NRI or foreign traveller deliberately concealed this information, authorities may contemplate stern action against him or her.Widening the testing, Medical Education and Research Principal Secretary D.K. Tiwari said the state has doubled the testing capacity at government medical colleges in Patiala and Amritsar.As per the government's latest medical bulletin, no new confirmed case of Covid-19 was reported in the state on Saturday, a sigh of relief for authorities. The number of confirmed cases was 38 with the report of 264 suspected patients is still awaited.Currently, the spread of the disease is limited to six out of 22 districts.Nawanshahr saw the highest number of 19 coronavirus patients, followed by Mohali and Hoshiarpur districts with six each, Jalandhar five and one each in Amritsar and Ludhiana districts.The silver lining is that the state's first case—of an NRI belonging to Hoshiarpur—was discharged after being cured on Saturday. —IANS
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Bank branches in Punjab to remain open on rotational basis from April 1||Banks in Punjab will remain open only two days a week by rotation from April 3, the state government said in a notification on Sunday.The notification issued by Punjab’s home department said that in the light of the ongoing curfew in the state, banks in Punjab will be open on March 30 and 31, while April 1 will be a non-public dealing day for them as is their usual practice.In the wake of the fight against #Covid19, banks in Punjab will remain open on 30th & 31st March. From 3rd April, Banks will open for two days in a week by rotation. One-third of branches shall be open on the other days of the week. 24X7 Cash availability in ATMs to be ensured.From April 3, only one-third branches will remain on any given day of the week.
29-03-2020||Jalandhar/Chandigarh||Punjab reports second death due to coronavirus||Punjab reported second fatality due to coronavirus on Sunday with the death of Harbhajan Singh, a contact of Baldev Singh who was the first patient to succumb to the infection, even as no new confirmed case was reported for the consecutive second day in the state.Harbhajan Singh, a 62-year-old priest, was an associate of Baldev Singh. While Baldev Singh was the first COVID positive patient to die in Punjab, the Moranwali priest, his close associate and a regular at the Pathlawa dera, was among the six persons to test positive at Hoshiarpur.Harbhajan Singh’s wife, son and daughter-in-law and a neighbour had also recently tested positive for COVID and are receiving treatment at Hoshiarpur. Harbhajan Singh was diabetic and also suffered from hypertension.Confirming the death of Harbhajan Singh, Amritsar Deputy Commssioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said, “Harbhajan Singh, patient Baldev Singh’s contact, has died here this evening. The patient had a previous history of diseases, including hypertension and diabetes. The Hoshiarpur administration had referred him after which he was being treated.”While the total tally of patients infected due to Baldev Singh in the state is at 29 — 19 at Nawanshahr, four at Jalandhar and six at Hoshiarpur – Harbhajan Singh is the first from his ontact list to die.          Meanwhile, The number of confirmed cases in the state remained 38 witn no new case during the past 48 hours. However, result of 190 suspected cases are still awaited.According to the latest media bulletin issued by the state health department, so far 977 samples have been collected out of them 38 were found positive and 749 were negative.And the result of 190 is still awaited. All the confirmed cases have been hospitalised. According to the state health bulletin, the condition of one of the positive cases is critical but stable.The health officials said the case of 21-year-old man of Ramnagar village in Ghanaur block of Patiala district, who was tested positive for COVID-19, will not be counted in Punjab.He had been living at his native village in Patiala before he was admitted to Ambala Civil Hospital.As his native village was close to Ambala Civil Hospital therefore he chose to go there.Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, state nodal officer for COVID-19, said he will be counted in Haryana as per the guidelines of the Government of India.However, district health department, in a press release, admitted it as a first positive case of the Patiala district.In the press release, Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said that after he received test report from Ambala Civil Surgeon, he immediately sent his team to his native village. The team took his close contacts to Government Rajindra Hospital for isolation.At present the spread of the disease is limited to six districts only.Out of 22, 16 districts are disease free. At present, confirmed 38 cases have been reported from five districts.This includes 19 from SBS Nagar, six cases each from Mohali and Hoshiarpur, five from Jalandhar and one each from Amritsar and Ludhiana. Apart from that in wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the Punjab Government has directed to waive off the process of biometric authentication of the patients before getting treatment from the empanelled hospitals under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna (SSBY).Giving details in a press communiqué, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the process of bio authentication of the patient at the time of admission or discharge has been waived off temporarily in the safety interest of the patients who are eligible under Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna.The registration of the patients under the scheme would now be done based on the e-card number only. All the empanelled hospitals have been informed about the decision.De-addiction centres to provide more take-home doseIn a major relief for the victims of drug abuse during this challenging time of novel coronavirus (COVID- 19), the Punjab Government has permitted 198 OOAT clinics, 35 government de-addiction centres and 108 licensed private de-addiction centres to provide take-home dose for 2 weeks of medicine Buprenorphine + Naloxone to the registered patients of substance abuse after assessment by the psychiatrists.Disclosing this here today, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that instructions have already been issued to the all deputy commissioners in this regard.Sidhu said most of the centres are functional and distributing medicine to the patients.In last two days, average dose per patient in government centres is 11.4 tablets against daily average dose of 3.2 tablets, due to take home dose.Number of BPN tablets dispensed by government centres in the last two days is around 3.09 lakh tablets and by private centres 5.68 lakh.
29-03-2020||Patiala||21-year-old man tests positive for coronavirus in Patiala; admitted to hospital in Ambala||A resident of Ramnagar village of Ghanaur block of Patiala district, who was tested positive for COVID-19, will not be counted in Punjab as per the state health department.He was living at his native village in Patiala before he was admitted to Ambala Civil Hospital. His native village was close to Ambala district.Dr Gagan Grover, state nodal officer, said he will be counted in Haryana as per Government of India guidelines.Interestingly, the district administration and Patiala health department in press notes declared it as first positive case of the district.A 21-year-old, who returned from Nepal on March 20 has been admitted to Ambala Civil Hospital for testing positive for the deadly disease.Armed with a lab report from PGIMER, Chandigarh, Patiala Health Department, and police rushed to the youngster's native village, Ramnagar. The Health Department has already sent four surveillance teams to identify close contacts at the village. Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotr, said that they have collected 14 samples of the close contacts of the patient for testing. The patient complained of stomach aches on March 26 and was admitted to the hospital, said the Civil Surgeon.The Health Department revealed that the patient was working in a private firm in Chandigarh. Notably, the patient recently visited another nearby village, Shahpur.Consequently, Shahpur has been locked down by the police. Civil Surgeon, Harish Malhotra, said: “We have already sealed two villages. Four teams have already been formed, and two Senior Medical officers are working continuously for last 12 hours. Samples of close contacts have already been sent to lab.”He, further, revealed that the Health Department had also initiated a survey in his native village to detect any other symptomatic of COVID-19.
29-03-2020||---||Rs 70 cr approved to tackle Covid:  Manpreet Badal||Bathinda, March 28Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Saturday said the state government had approved additional assistance of Rs 70 crore to prevent the spread of Covid cases. Earlier, the state government had sent Rs 22 crore to all 22 districts of the state.After a meeting with senior officials of the district here on Saturday evening to review the latest situation, the Finance Minister said the state government would not allow any shortage of funds to protect its people from this major disaster. He said the role of people was greater than the government in preventing the spread of the disease. So they invited the people to follow the curfew with self-control. He said the disease was spreading person to person and residents need to stay at home.Manpreet made it clear that the government had put in place all the administration to provide items of daily use to the people. He assured the people of the state that every help to the people would be accessed at home.The minister said the distribution of wheat in the district through public distribution system was being initiated by the department concerned soon. In addition, directives have been given to the district administration to issue orders for running flour mills from 9 am to 6 pm so that there is no shortage of flour in the supply line.The FM said the medicine shops were allowed to open in Bathinda from 5 to 7 pm. The supply of milk, fruits, vegetables, gas, etc has been streamlined in the district and people are getting the items of daily needs regularly. He also appealed that every able citizen should help feed his employees and needy neighbour. On the occasion, Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan, SSP Nanak Singh, Commissioner Municipal Corporation Bikramjit Singh Shergill, SDM Amarinder Singh Tiwana, Jajit Singh Johal, KK Aggarwal Chairman, Nagar Improvement Trust and others were present.
29-03-2020||Ludhiana||Security scaled down, four inmates flee prison||Four inmates lodged at the Ludhiana Central Jail fled on Saturday morning after scaling two 14-foot walls. The incident came to light during the counting of the inmates. Two of the inmates fled second time. One had escaped from the jail in June 2019 while another had fled from a jail bus in November last year.Sources said due to the spread of Covid-19, security in the jail had been reduced, which helped inmates in fleeing. Some CRPF men were also deployed at the jail, but they too failed to notice the movement of inmates.The four inmates, who escaped from jail, have been identified as Ravi Kumar (24), Suraj Kumar, Aman Kumar, alias Deepak (23), and Arashdeep Singh, alias Seepa (24). All were lodged in the jail in cases registered under the NDPS Act and IPC.Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said four inmates escaped from the Ludhiana Central Jail early in morning today. They were lodged in ‘chakkis’ (special cell) inside jail, he added.The inmates first scaled a wall of the Central Jail, entered the women’s jail from where they further scaled another wall and fled. They attached an iron hook at one corner of the blanket. The inmates threw blanket over the wall and used it to scale it.“Due to curfew they will not be able to go far. People are requested to inform the police if they notice suspicious persons,” the CP added.
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab police scale up 112 helpline service||The Punjab Police on Saturday further scaled up its citizen support systems, including the 112 helpline and supply of essentials, to cope with the emergency situation arising out of the imposition of curfew/lockdown in the state in the light of COVID-19 crisis.To further improve its response time and cope with the increased pressure on 112 helpline, the Punjab Police today augmented the capacity of the 112 call centre by adding 11 workstations, raising its capacity to 53. A total of 159 personnel are manning the stations, working in three shifts, according to DGP Dinkar Gupta. Operators from Punjab Police Saanjh Kendras and private BPOs have been roped in and were on Friday provided training to join the 112 workforce, said the DGP. The workstations were earlier, on Thursday, increased from 32 to 42.The government is also in talks with a private BPO firm for hiring a ready/functional 100-operator station to augment/supplement the capacity of 112, disclosed the DGP, adding that they will join the existing workforce soon.Gupta said while in normal times, the number of calls received on 112 was around 4000-5000, this has gone up to over 17,000. — TNS
29-03-2020||Phillaur/Nakodar||Policemen distribute food packets||Distilleries help meet demand for sanitisersChandigarh: In the wake of Covid-19 threat, state distilleries have risen to the occasion to manufacture sanitisers. In a press release, KS Pannu, Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, said NV Distillery, Patiala; Chandigarh Distilleries and Bottlers, Banur; Bathinda Chemicals Ltd, Bathinda; Chadha Sugar and Distilleries, Gurdaspur; etc, have not only been manufacturing sanitisers as per the government prescribed formula, but also supplying and transporting the material to the civil hospitals free of cost. TNS
29-03-2020||Jalandhar||Blood shortage puts thalassaemic children at risk||The ward of 70 children suffering from thalassaemia, who have been receiving treatment at the local civil hospital in Jalandhar, has now been shifted to the ESI Hospital. Many of them are from rural areas and have been receiving treatment at the thalassaemia unit of the local civil hospital. However, the 550-bedded civil hospital has now been reserved for Covid patients.Two of the major issues that these children now face are the possible shortage of blood as volunteers decrease during the lockdown and transportation, especially for those coming from villages.TS Bhatia (81), general secretary of the Thalassaemic Children Welfare Society, who has been taking care of the children since 2004, is also held up in his house in view of Covid protocol. Besides, the ward where children get transfusion at the ESI Hospital lacks essential facilities which were available at the thalassaemic ward created especially for these children at the civil hospital. The children need transfusion every 10 to 20 days.Bhatia is now facing an uphill task of arranging free medication and drugs for them while he himself has to stay at home. He said, “I wanted to go out, but I have been prohibited by civil hospital doctors. There are 70 children at the unit whose lifeline is blood transfusion. Four to five receive blood transfusions every day. While the blood bank has adequate blood presently, we fear it will run out. We have to ensure their good health. The medicines for the children have been arranged, but blood is the only issue. I have been urging people to ensure adequate blood donation. So far there is no dearth, but with the lockdown and decreased blood donations, we fear a grim situation in the future. We have to prevent that at all costs.”Every month in normal times about 150 units of blood are required for the children at the ward. While Bhatia had ensured bus passes for the thalassaemic children last year as many of them are from BPL families, due to the suspension of public transport, an additional problem has arisen for them.
29-03-2020||---||Consult doctor through mobile app||Bathinda, March 28The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab, will launch a mobile app to provide free medical consultation (OPD services).With the launch of the app, people will not have to go to hospital to get examined.“This app will have contact details of more than 500 doctors of different specialities, who will provide free medical consultation on the phone,” said Dr Vikas Chhabra, vice-president, IMA Punjab.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Chhabra said, “The app holds a lot of significance under such circumstances. Not every patient needs to visit a doctor, especially those with mild symptoms. These patients can download the app from Play Store and can choose from a list of more than 500 doctors.”“Patients will be able to select doctors as per their medical condition and location. All they need to do is make a call and state their problems. The doctor will then prescribe medicines on the phone or share the prescription on WhatsApp. And all this will be done for free. Medicines will be delivered at the doorstep of patients,” added Dr Chhabra.
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Now, get updates on COVA Punjab app||People in the state can now get curfew passes for emergencies, report mass gatherings, know home quarantine patients and foreign-returned travellers and do a lot more on the ‘COVA Punjab’ app, which will also soon provide facility to request for groceries and other essentials, as well as consultation with doctors.Several states have adopted the unique coronavirus alert (COVA) app, which is underway for implementation in two provinces in Canada. The app was launched earlier this month to disseminate official information about Covid-19 pandemic. The app, launched by the state government along with its innovative Digital Punjab Team, is available on Android Play Store and iOS App Store. As of March 28, it has more than 4.5 lakh registrations and more than 20,000 views per day. The application is available in English, Hindi and Punjabi. — TNS
29-03-2020||Moga||16 incidents of assault on cops in 4 days||At least, 16 incidents of assault on police officials have come to the fore in the past four days. Instead of cooperating with men in khaki, the people are making their job difficult and even thrashing them.“Asking people to remain indoors has become a tedious task for us,” said police officials.“We are on roads round the clock. Apart from maintaining law and order, we are taking people to hospitals to get medicines, distributing food items, locating NRIs and suspects,” said Harmanbir Singh Gill, SSP, Moga district.Many other senior officials said at some places, they had to act tough and punish people violating the prohibitory orders. But at the same time, there have been numerous incidents of assault on police officials in the state.On March 23, four such incidents were reported. One Mayank Sharma was arrested after he assaulted a police constable, Navjot Singh, at Haibowal in Ludhiana. On March 24, three incidents of assault were reported. Similar incidents were reported from Jalandhar, Tarn Taran and other places on March 25 and 26. — TNS
29-03-2020||New Delhi||Ensure survival of industry, says Bajwa||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has urged CM Capt Amarinder Singh to take steps to ensure the survival of industry and trade in the state.In a letter to the CM, Bajwa said the industry and trade were on the verge of closure not only in the state, but across the country due to the impact of lockdown on the economy.Since these sectors have been badly affected, the MP requested that fixed minimum charges from electricity bills of all industrial and trade sector units be waived.He further requested that offices and factories be charged for only the actual usage during the lockdown period and nothing more.“As the industry is facing acute shortage of funds due to non-movement of goods and no new orders thereafter, it is not in a position to deposit electricity bills,” Bajwa said in the letter. The MP also requested the state to delay the deadline for the payment of state taxes like property tax, water and sewage tax, excise duty etc. till June. He suggested that the department be ordered to release pending GST refunds. — PTI
29-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Stuck in Iran, 70 seafarers without food, safety gear||Hoshiarpur, March 28As many as 70 seafarers, stuck in Iran, have sent an e-mail to the Indian Embassy in Tehran, seeking help.“Seventy Indian seamen have been stuck here for the past over 45 days. Some are stranded at Khorramshahr Port, Kish, Bandar Abbas and Bushehr. We want to come back to India after a proper medical test. The situation here is not good and Covid cases are on the rise. We have completed our sign-off procedure. The owner and the crew have abandoned the ship, the e-mail stated.”Gurjant Singh Gill of Makhu town under Zira sub-division of Ferozepur district said: “We are stranded at different ports of Iran, some are in Karun and others in Bushehr, Bandar Abbas and Kish. We don’t have food. There are no medicines or safety kits here. We only have masks to protect us from the virus.”The seafarers had sent a series of tweets to the India Embassy and the Shipping Minister. Following which, the Director General (DG) of Shipping sought details of those stuck at different ports.Capt Sanjay Parashar, chairman, International Maritime Federation, prepared a list containing the details of 70 seafarers stuck in Iran and sent it to the authorities concerned. Seafarer Anurag Kailash Chand from Thane in Maharashtra has sent an e-mail to the Indian Embassy, providing the details of those stranded. He said they had no food and that the ship was without power.Anurag Chand told this correspondent on the phone: “We have requested the authorities to rescue us. We don’t have any safety equipment to protect us from this virus. Please help us.”“We had our flight on April 4, which has been cancelled now.” another seafarer said.Capt Parashar said, “Indian Embassy in Tehran has been putting in efforts to rescue the seafarers. It will happen after the lockdown is lifted.”
29-03-2020||---||Moosewala draws flak for song on Banga man||Nawanshahr, March 28A recent song sung by popular Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala which allegedly portrays the 70-year-old Covid victim in bad light has not gone down well with the family of the deceased, the sarpanch and youth of Pathlawa village in Banga.The song, titled ‘Mein Gurbaksh gwacha Italy ton aaya haan’ though takes the name of Gurbaksh instead of his real name, it shows his photograph repeatedly and squarely blames the elderly deceased for spreading Covid in the state . The villagers said it was unnecessary for the singer to blame a man who had lost his life and had 15 persons from his immediate family, including his grandchildren and 12 other relatives, still suffering from the disease.The villagers have said through the song being promoted by the Punjab Police (its logo comes in the song several times), the entire guilt was being shifted on the dead man. They also have problems with the lyrics,“Si jehri meini bimari ho gyi pote nu, aaya sare pind te maut da saya. Galti meri bhugte dunian, mere karke marde mere. Kidan khud nu maaf karun, bada zulm kamaya.”Harpal Singh, sarpanch of Pathlawa village, who is currently taking care of his Covid-infected mother at the Civil Hospital in Nawanshahr, says, “We are all busy taking care of our families from the deadly disease but people have begun mocking us. The deceased was in complete ignorance. Who wants his 2-year-old grandson and 15 family members to fall ill at one go? I have been meeting the family here daily and I know what all grind they have been going through. Though we have no time to listen to such songs, what we have learnt about it is that it is completely ill-conceived, ill-timed and in completely bad taste.
29-03-2020||Patiala||Punjabi University professors give lectures online||The 21-day lockdown has not stopped professors at Punjabi University from discharging their duty.They have now taken to online platforms like Moodle, an open source learning platform, YouTube, Zoom application and WhatsApp for teaching students. The professors have started giving assignments to the students.Going tech-savvyThey are using Moodle, an open source learning platform, YouTube, Zoom application and WhatsApp for teaching students. The latter have started getting assignments tooDr Himender Bharti, head, department of zoology, has so far taken 12 classes of MSc students. He said, “I am using Zoom video-conferencing app and have delivered five to six lectures. I have the record of all students connected through the portal. They can ask me questions through chat option.”Dr Surjit Singh, head, department of Punjabi, is using the department’s YouTube channel, along with WhatsApp.The department earlier uploaded only special lectures through its YouTube channel. In the latest video, the professor can be seen talking about “On the Sublime by Longinus”, a work of literary criticism.He said, “We are sharing PDF files with the students on WhatsApp and have started using the department’s YouTube channel for classroom teaching. The content is not only reaching our students across the state, but other people too can benefit from it.” Dr Sukhjit Ranade, professor, department of computer science, said she kept sharing her presentations with the students through Punjabi University’s e-learning portal. “We as professors are also learning how to use the portals. We contact each other in case we face any problem. I have given them an assignment, which they have to submit on March 31.”
29-03-2020||Ludhiana||Mandis closed, farmers sell veggies at throwaway prices in Ludhiana||A bumper crop of vegetables is being harvested these days, but the farmers are unable to reap its benefit. Instead, they are incurring losses as they are forced to either plough the crop or sell the produce at low prices due to curfew in the state.There is no designated channel for selling farm produce during the lockdown period. Besides, the farmers are losing sleep as wheat harvesting is due within the next few days. Many farmers are unable to get permission to venture out to sell their produce, as they do not have the ways and means to approach the authorities concerned.At this juncture, the crop of peas, cucumber, cauliflower, cabbage, potato etc is being harvested. The middlemen and the retailers are making a quick buck by selling vegetables at exorbitant rates.The local mandis, where the farmers can sell their produce directly to the customers have been shut down, while the time limit to go to the main mandi is just two hours, which doesn’t give them time to bargain, so they just have to take whatever price is being offered.Amrik Singh, a farmer from a village near Kohara, says, “Since vegetables are perishable, we cannot keep the stock for long. This is the harvesting season and we have quintals of vegetables, but no place to sell. The vegetables which we used to sell at Rs 15 per kg are now being sold at as low as Re 1 per kg.” If things remain the same, I will be left with no option but to plough the crop. I do not know how to take permission from the DC, he adds. Another farmer from Sariah village says, “Some farmers in our village have already destroyed the crop of peas. Yesterday, I went to the main mandi in Ludhiana, but the wholesalers are hardly giving any price and in two hours, I was unable to sell my produce at the desired price.”Farmers have demanded that the agriculture and mandi officials should be designated for collecting the produce in such a manner that there is no rush of the people at one place and farmers get the desired price.
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Little supply, shops running out of stock||Grocery shops in several towns of Punjab are fast running out of stock. The situation in villages is even worse. A shopkeeper in Bathinda said he had to switch off his cellphone as his shelves were empty and yet he continued to be flooded with requests for supplying rice, wheat, salt and turmeric.Jarnail Singh, a panchayat member of Nangal Isher village in Hoshiarpur said: “We have two shops in our village. Both are shut. We contacted a shopkeeper in Hariana town, 5 km away. He too could deliver only half of the items listed. He said he was running out of stock and that he had no backup whatsoever.”In Ferozepur, home delivery of essential items is being done through tractor-trailers. In Dhaliwal, Gurdaspur, shops in the labyrinthine streets are open but those on main roads closed.In Faridkot, the administration gave respite to residents for emergency purchases on Saturday afternoon.Residents of Ludhiana villages complained that certain pharmacists had given out their phone numbers for home supply, but the delivery was very poor. They also said there was no supply of cooking gas.
29-03-2020||---||Release Rs 2,088 crore GST dues, Punjab CM tells Centre||Chandigarh, March 28Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday sought urgent intervention by Union Finance Minister to mitigate the crisis caused by Covid-19 outbreak in the state. He demanded immediate release of GST compensation arrears of Rs 2,088 crore, specific only to Punjab (as on March 31), as well as deferment of installments of industrial and agricultural/crop loans by commercial banks.CM empowers ulbsA day after authorising sarpanches to use panchayat funds to help out people in villages, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday empowered the urban local bodies (ULBs) in the state to buy medicines and food for daily wagers, labourers and poor, as well as fodder for gaushalas out of municipal funds at their disposal.In a letter, which followed a telephonic conversation, the Chief Minister sought from Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman some additional and urgent steps to mitigate the crisis. The Union Finance Minister had earlier called up the Chief Minister, who subsequently sent her a detailed letter listing out certain important proposals to help out the state in this critical time.The Chief Minister conveyed to Sitharaman that for opening the banks, he had asked the state Finance Department to issue necessary guidelines to facilitate the common man in meeting his banking requirements.In addition to the Punjab-specific GST compensation arrears, the Chief Minister proposed that the balance GST compensation due may be released with other states.Capt Amarinder further proposed that the Centre should ask the RBI to raise the ways and means advances for all states to tide over the shortfall in receipts. He also suggested that the Centre should raise the borrowing limit of states under the FRBM Act from 3 per cent to 4 per cent.
29-03-2020||Jalandhar||Virus source not being traced, contacts remain untested: Jalandhar woman’s kin||Two days after a 70-year-old Nijatam Nagar woman tested positive for Covid-19, the source from which she received the virus remains untraced even as it has now been confirmed by her family that there is no travel history in the family.Even as alarmed residents of Nijatam Nagar submitted a list of 26 people whom the woman came in close contact with, residents rue none of them were being tested. Her family says she might have met thousands during a function in the area.Presently, 11 members of the woman’s family, including her three sons, three daughter-in-laws and five grandchildren have been kept in isolation at the Civil Hospital. A boy with fever in the area hasn’t been tested despite repeated requests. Several elderly sevadars, like the woman, who were active during the function, also freely interacted with residents.The woman’s son, who lives at Nijatam Nagar and is presently in isolation, said, “We have no travel history. My mother doesn’t even have a passport. She was active during the three-day annual sammelan which is held at the Advait Swaroop Ashram in Nijatam Nagar every year in March. She met the sangat, served langar and mingled with guests. People from Ludhiana, Delhi and Nawanshahr came to the ashram. The trustees of the ashram include NRIs too. Many gurus and VVIPs from across the country also participated in the proceedings. Any of them might have Covid. But we don’t know the status of any them yet.”Nikhil Sharma, general secretary of the Nijatam Nagar Residents’ Welfare Society and the woman’s neighbour, said, “We have sent a list of 26 people to the Health Department and district administration. We are apprehensive because the root of the virus isn’t known yet. Despite repeated requests, the family’s neighbour, a young boy who is symptomatic and has persistent fever, hasn’t been checked by the health teams. Unless sampling is conducted, we won’t know the root of the infection. The carrier might still be walking around.”While one of her sons lives at Nijatam Nagar, two other sons are residents of Rama Mandi and Narayan Nagar. Collectively, they have five children. Meanwhile, one of the woman’s 15-year-old sons had also been playing and socialising in the neighbourhood before she tested positive. While the samples were taken three days ago, the reports are yet to arrive.The family says while she was healthy during the three-day sammelan held at Nijatam Nagar, her health deteriorated on March 23. Currently, she is admitted at CMC, Ludhiana. Civil Surgeon, Jalandhar, Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, said, “We are sampling all people who have come in contact with positive patients. Till date, we have taken 81 samples. Health teams are bringing new suspects to our notice. We have seven ventilators at the Civil Hospital and 115 private ventilators on the backup.”
29-03-2020||Patiala||Percentage of positive cases three times higher in Punjab||The percentage of confirmed cases of Covid-19 among suspected patients in the state is three times higher than the national average. While the state has a percentage of 7.5 positive reports when suspected cases were tested, the national average is just 2.5 per cent.7.5 per cent positiveOf the 789 tested patients in the state, lab reports of 518 patients are already out. As per the Punjab Health Department bulletin released on March 27, of the 518 suspected, 38 have already been tested positive for Covid, which amount to 7.5 per cent of total tests. This implies that every 13th suspected patient in Punjab is likely to be positive for the virus.This indicates a higher concentration of virus carriers in the state than the rest of the country, claim experts. Besides, the higher rate implies there could be a slow rate of testing in the state as compared to the national level, therefore it is time to “scale up” the testing, they said.Of the 789 tested patients in the state, lab reports of 518 patients are already out. As per the Punjab Health Department bulletin on March 27, of the 518 suspected, 38 had already been tested positive for Covid, which amounts to 7.5 per cent positivity. This implies that every 13th suspected patient in Punjab is likely to be positive for the virus.As per the Indian Medical Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country has tested 27,688 suspected patients and of them, 691 people across the country were tested positive as on March 27, a positivity of 2.5 per cent only.However, the testing numbers saw a rise only after the ICMR pushed the states to go for more testing after a change in strategy on March 20.It is pertinent to mention that hundreds of people who have returned from abroad started living at a new address to escape themselves from the Health Department’s surveillance.A health department official said, “We have already scaled up testing. However, people, who had returned from a foreign nation, are continuously hiding to avoid 14 days home quarantine. They should follow the guidelines strictly.”
29-03-2020||Gurdaspur||Gurdaspur residents’ distress calls — Send curd, noodles||Even as officials are fighting a grim battle against Covid, Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq is having a tough time tackling weird calls, with residents waking him up at odd hours to fulfil their demands, a majority of which are “illogical and irrational”.Minister gets call in dead of nightCabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was also a receiver of one such call and that too in the dead of the night from a resident of Dera Baba Nanak, the Assembly seat he represents. “Mantri ji, sade ghar noodles khatam hogaye ne. Kuch kar deyo please” (minister sahib, there are no noodles in our house. Please do something.)At 4.15 am today, Ishfaq, who slept well past midnight after presiding over a high-level meeting on how to put an end to rumour-mongering, was woken up by a call on his mobile by a woman who demanded that curd be sent to her house immediately “as her husband had a hangover”.“DC sahib, kal rat mere gharwale ne daru zyada pi lee te dahi mere ghar bhej do” (Sir, last evening my husband overdrank, so please send curd to my place),” she said.Fifteen minutes later, the DC received a video of a man unabashedly crying and claiming that despite repeated reminders to grocery store owners, he was not supplied ration. The DC got in touch with the police and food supplies officials, who in turn visited the house of the “aggrieved man”.When the officials reached the man’s house, they were taken aback to see a room fully stacked with a dozen large boxes of ration items. They then reported the matter to the DC, who rang up the man to know the truth. The reply he got was, “DC sahib, eh ration tan main apne munde de viah layee rakhiya hai. Sade pandit ji ne keha hai ki viah to pehlan isnu hath nahi lagana” (this ration is for my son’s wedding. Our priest has asked us not to touch it before the wedding day).”Officials from the Food and Civil Supplies Department claimed that every day, a number of people called them up saying “Sade ghar adhrak khatam hogya” (we do not have ginger in our house), “Bache Maggi mangde ne” (children are asking for Maggi)).Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was also a receiver of one such call and that too in the dead of the night from a resident of Dera Baba Nanak, the Assembly seat he represents. “Mantri ji, sade ghar noodles khatam hogaye ne. Kuch kar deyo please” (minister sahib, there are no noodles in our house. Please do something).Raman Bahl, chairman of the Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board, distributed 300 ration kits. Real estate dealer Manjit Singh Dala has sent a message on social media, asking residents to contact him if they needed anything.
29-03-2020||---||Ensure safety of farmers, says Sukhbir||Chandigarh, March 28Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal on Saturday requested Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to make changes in the wheat procurement process so that farmers go to "mandis" in batches, besides taking urgent steps to restore the food supply chain in Punjab to the poor from hunger.In a statement here, Sukhbir said in view of the pandemic, the government should come up with measures to ensure the safety of farmers. He said the government could distribute gunny bags to the farmers and ask them to store wheat on their premises. He said the grain could then be procured in batches in such a manner that the "mandis" did not get congested at any given time. He said the state should announce a subsidy of Rs 50 per quintal to enable farmers to cope up with huge costs of labour.
29-03-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab doubles testing capacity, begins emergency recruitment||Amid the growing threat of Covid-19, the state government has doubled the testing capacity at government medical colleges in Patiala and Amritsar.ICUs to be set up in district hospitalsHealth Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Saturday said ICUs would be set up in all district hospitals with hi-tech machines. Sidhu, who was in Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur to review Covid cases, said the state had started the process to procure 50 ventilators to meet the demand of district hospitals. Moreover, to handle the ICUs and ventilators, anesthetic doctors had been put on training with reputed health institutes.DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, said the government was combating with this threat on war footing and additional real-time PCR machines had been installed at GMC, Patiala and Amritsar, to double the testing capacity, He said shifts of staff to supplement testing facilities had been increased so that the results came rapidly and the treatment was initiated immediately. He said the bio-safety equipment had been shifted from IIT Ropar to GMC Patiala to further increase the testing capacity.Six districts affectedAt present, the spread of the disease is limited to six districts only. Of 22, 16 districts are disease-free. At present, the confirmed 38 cases have been reported from five districts. This includes 19 from SBS Nagar, six each from Mohali and Hoshiarpur, five from Jalandhar and one each from Amritsar and Ludhiana.Tiwari said the Medical Education and Research Department was working 24X7 and a daily status report was being taken via videoconferencing.He said special desks have been set up at medical colleges for guiding public, apart from this round the clock staff facilitation counters have been put up for assisting doctors, nurses, paramedics on duty during odd hours. He said there was no scarcity of any medical commodity and buffer stock of N95 masks, PPE kits, triple layer masks and other essentials had been provided to the staff.No new confirmed case of Covid-19 has been reported in the past 24 hours in the state. The number of confirmed cases remained 38 even as the report of 264 suspected patients is still awaited.According to the media bulletin issued by the Health Department, so far 898 samples have been collected and out of them, 38 were found positive and 596 negative. The result of the remaining 264 is still awaited.At present, the spread of the disease is limited to six districts only. Of 22, 16 districts are disease-free. At present, the confirmed 38 cases have been reported from five districts. This include 19 from SBS Nagar, six each from Mohali and Hoshiarpur, five from Jalandhar and one each from Amritsar and Ludhiana.Meanwhile in a new initiative, the Health Department has started recruiting emergency staff on a temporary basis. They include pharmacists, staff nurses, radiographers, laboratory technicians, ANMs, staff nurses and ward attendants. In an advertisement issued in various newspapers, the department said each of the recruited employees would be paid Rs 1,000 per day. The ward attendants will be paid Rs 750 per day.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Sidhu said they were yet to take a final decision on the number of workforce which was to be engaged.
