29-09-2020||Chandigarh||75 coronavirus deaths, 1,100 new cases in Punjab||Seventy-five more COVID-related fatalities in Punjab pushed the death toll due to the disease to 3,359 while 1,100 fresh cases took the infection tally to 1,12,460 in Punjab on Tuesday.Twelve deaths were reported from Ludhiana, seven each from Amritsar and Gurdaspur, five each from Mohali, SBS Nagar and Pathankot and four each from Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar, as per the health department’s medical bulletin.Three deaths each were reported from Barnala, Kapurthala and Muktsar, two each from Bathinda, Faridkot, Patiala, Rupnagar and Tarn Taran and one each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Moga and Sangrur.Among the places which reported new cases were Ludhiana (180), Jalandhar (145), Mohali (109), Amritsar (95) and Patiala (71).There are 16,824 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, according to the bulletin.As many as 1,932 more coronavirus patients were recorded to have recovered from the infection, taking the total number of cured people to 92,277.Sixty-five critical patients are on ventilator support while 396 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 18,10,086 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. PTI
29-09-2020||Patiala||As paddy procurement kicks off, Patiala health department starts corona tests at mandis||As the paddy procurement kicks off, the Patiala health department has already started special screening in grain markets to curb the spread of the coronavirus.The health department on Tuesday took coronavirus samples of farmers, labourers, and commissioned agents at the Seel grain market, here. However, of the 60 samples taken of the said grain market, none tested positive for the coronavirus.The health department informed that they had chalked out a plan for sampling at grain markets even before the paddy season started.  It is pertinent to mention that Punjab Food, Civil Supplies, and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had flagged off the paddy procurement at Rajpura Grain Market on Sunday and claimed that masks, soaps, and sanitizers were provided to farmers at the grain markets. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said they would hold screening camps at various grain markets in the district to stem the spread.He said, “We have already started the screening at grain markets. All the stakeholders in the paddy procurement will be tested for the coronavirus. Early detection of the cases will help to curb the local spread.”Meanwhile, Patiala on Tuesday reported only 71 cases of coronavirus. Of the 71 positive cases, 42 were reported from Patiala city, nine Rajpura, one Dudhan Sadhan, two Samana, two Harpalpur, and one from Dudhan Sadhan. Besides, four cases each were reported from Bhadson and Kauli Block.Dr Malhotra informed that the district count of positive cases was 11,469 while 9,839 patients had already recovered from the virus.
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Retreating monsoon leaves behind rain deficiency in region||As the monsoon retreats for this year, it leaves behind below normal rain in the region. While the country as a whole experienced a slightly surplus rain with the monsoon being the wettest since 1994, this was not so for the largely agrarian states in north India, where the average shortfall of three states amounted to almost 19 per cent.The deficiency in the region is highest in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh, where the rainfall this season has been 26 per cent below the long period average.In Punjab and Haryana it has been 16 per cent and 14 per cent below normal respectively.From June 1 to September 29, Himachal received 565.5 mm rain against the normal of 762.7 mm, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Punjab received 391.7 mm against the normal of 466.4 mm while Haryana received 376.1mm against the normal of 438.2 mm for this period.According to weather experts, the process of monsoon withdrawal is underway and it has already retreated from many parts of Punjab and Rajasthan.Complete withdrawal from north India is expected to be complete this week. Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of southwest monsoon from some more parts of Rajasthan and Punjab and some parts of Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during next 2-3 days, IMD forecast states.The Consensus Statement on the Forecast for the 2020 October to December Season issued during the 17th Session of the South Asian Climate Outlook Forum has warned that below normal rainfall is likely during the season over the  northwestern and northern parts of  South Asia, including some areas along the foot hills of the Himalayas.Climatologically these areas already receive very low rainfall during this season. During the October–December season, normal to slightly above normal temperatures over most parts of the region are also predicted.According to the forum’s statement, circulated by IMD, weak La Niña conditions are currently prevailing in the tropical Pacific Ocean and neutral Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions are prevailing over the Indian Ocean. These parameters, which are known to influence the climate variability over South Asia, are likely to continue at their current level during October-December.
29-09-2020|| ||Multani case: SIT summons Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini again on Wednesday||Mohali, September 29 The Special Investigation Team (SIT) has issued summons to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini to appear before it at Mataur police station at 11 am on Wednesday in connection with alleged kidnapping and murder case Balwant Singh Multani.The SIT had sent the notice through a messenger at the Saini’s house in Sector 20, Chandigarh, the copies of which have also been sent to his counsels.Pertinently, former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini had appeared before the SIT on Monday to join the investigation in the 29-year-old abduction and murder of CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani, in Mohali.  According to police sources the SIT had asked around 200 to 250 question from Saini which included “where he lived after his bail application was rejected besides revealing the names of places and persons he lived with”. He was also questioned about as to how and where the body of the junior engineer Balwant Singh Multani was disposed of. The team had also told him to say about the two former UT cops who had become approvers in the case.It is pertinent to mention here that earlier former Inspector Jagir Singh and ASI Kuldep Singh also co-accused with Saini became approvers and were granted pardon in the case. Then, another person who was in the lockup along with Multani also became approver.Saini was facing arrest in the case after the SIT added Section 302 of the IPC to the FIR registered against him when two co-accused turned approvers and deposed against Saini of being eyewitness to the inhumane torture given to Multani at Sector 17 police station. Saini and six other police officers were booked in a 29-year-old case of alleged abduction, torture and stage-managed elimination of Balwant Singh Multani, son of former IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani. Balwant, the victim, was accused of carrying out an attack on Saini when he was the Chandigarh SSP on December 11, 1991. He, along with Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar, convict in a Delhi bomb blast case, and two others, was booked but the police later claimed Balwant escaped from the custody of Qadian, Gurdaspur, police.
29-09-2020||Ferozepur||6.5 kg heroin seized by BSF along International Border in Punjab||The BSF personnel seized 6.5 kg of heroin along the International Border in Punjab’s Ferozepur sector, officials said.The seizure was made near a Border Out Post (BOP), they said.According to the BSF sources, the border guarding troops on Monday night observed some suspicious movement ahead of the barbed wire fencing near BOP ‘Shamas’ area following which they sounded an alert.Later, a search operation was carried out during which six packets of heroin weighing 6.5 kg were seized.On September 24, the BSF had seized 13 kg of heroin from an area close to BOP Rattoke. PTI
29-09-2020||Faridkot||Potato prices to soar in Punjab, high temperature to blame||Potato prices in Punjab are soaring. At present, in the state, potatoes cost Rs 35-38 kg in the retail market, and the prices of tuber will increase around Rs 4-5 per kg in the coming days.  Though, potato prices used to be the lowest during October-end—when all cold stores have to empty their stocks on the deadline of October 31—this time, due to the absence of adequate stock to meet the demand of consumers, and also of farmers, who need potato for seeding purpose, the prices are increasing.Generally, the new potato crop hits the market in the mid-November, but this time due to high temperature in August-September month, about 50 per cent of the advance varieties sown in the last week of August either did not germinate or perished. Moreover, it had further increased the demand for potato as seed, said Rajinder Kumar, manager at a cold store in Faridkot.“The extended summer and high temperature will not only cause the delay in the arrival of the new crop but it will also adversely affect the production,” he said.After mid-October, potato prices generally hit the rock bottom in this area when cold stores are in a hurry to empty their stores and the owners of this stock face problem of germination in the stored stock, so the old stock is sold at throwaway prices.For the last few years, potatoes were sold at Rs 140-Rs 150 per quintal in the wholesale market in October-end.After incurring losses in the last three seasons, potato growers had reduced the area under the crop sizably last season. Market experts believe that the reduction in the area under potato cultivation and unfavourable weather conditions in January had resulted in increased potato prices this season. The unseasonal rain in January also led to an extensive loss to potato crop this year.A senior officer in the Agriculture Department said: “The arrival of the fresh potato crop in the market in the mid of November resulted in the fall of prices. But we are not expecting any fall in the prices this time due to delayed harvesting of the crop and declined yield due to high temperature in September.”
29-09-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Amarinder meets representatives of 31 farmers' unions; assures them all legal steps will be taken||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29Hit them where it hurts the most — this is what the 31 farmers’ unions in Punjab have decided on intensifying their agitation against the new farm Laws, beginning October 1.Extending his government’s full support to the farmers agitating against the farm Bills, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday assured farmers of all possible legal and other steps to fight the “draconian” new farm laws, including a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to discuss and decide the way forward.Chairing a meeting with representatives of 31 farmers’ unions to take their views on the matter, the Chief Minister said he would be discussing the issue with his legal team later today to finalise the next steps, including challenging the farm laws in the Supreme Court.With the farmers unanimous in their opinion that the laws were meant to favour corporates, all 30 farm unions have accepted to join in the protest of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) of ghearoing the Corporate Businesses.Even as Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh extended his government’s full support to the agitating farmers in these “dark and difficult times”, the Unions have decided on a three-pronged strategy — gherao residences of all BJP leaders; gherao businesses owned by MNCs; Rail Roko across the state; and energising the Gram panchayats to pass resolutions against the farm laws.Before the representatives of the farmers’ unions met the Chief Minister, they met at Kisan Bhawan here on Tuesday morning. The farmer leaders were unanimous in their opinion that a Special Session of the Vidhan Sabha should also be convened by the Chief Minister to reject the law and come up with a law of their own that can circumvent these three laws enacted by the BJP-led Centre.Besides farmers’ representatives, AICC general secretary in-charge Harish Rawat, Cabinet Ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, PPCC president Sunil Jakhar and Advocate General Atul Nanda attended the meeting.“We will take all possible steps to counter the Union Government’s assault on the state’s federal and Constitutional rights and fight for the interests of the farmers,” Captain Amarinder assured the farmers’ representatives. If the legal experts advise amendment to the state laws to fight the central laws, a special session of the Vidhan Sabha would be immediately called to do so, he said.Met with representatives of various Farmer Organisations of Punjab. My Govt will fight till the very last to save our farmers & their livelihoods. We are exploring all legal avenues against these Anti-Farmer Legislations and would not let our farmers be affected in any way. pic.twitter.com/hAGo5HxnmO   He made it clear that the government had no qualms about convening an Assembly session if that was the best course in the circumstances. However, he trashed SAD president Sukhbir Badal’s demand for a special Vidhan Sabha session as “cheap gimmickry” after their active support to the central laws for months.The Chief Minister slammed the Akalis for pawning off farmers’ interests to large corporates to promote their petty political interests, pointing out that the SAD MLAs had chosen to stay away from the Vidhan Sabha session during which the resolution against the farm Bills was passed.“It was clear,” he said, “that the Akalis, led by Sukhbir Badal, had been wholeheartedly supporting the farm Ordinances throughout and only backed out once their position in Punjab became untenable amid widespread angst among the farmers. If they were so concerned about the farmers’ interests, why did Harsimrat Badal not resign from the Union Cabinet the moment the Farm Ordinances were brought in by the Centre?”Asserting that the Centre had no right to enact these laws as it amounted to a violation of the Constitution and attack on the federal structure, the Chief Minister said his government shared the concerns of the farmers and would do whatever it took to scuttle the Union Government’s attempt to ruin the farming community with these “draconian legislations”.“The battle will be fought on all fronts,” the Chief Minister said, adding that besides the Congress signature campaign, announced on Monday by Harish Rawat, all Panchayats in the state would be requested to pass resolutions against the agriculture Acts and the same would be sent to the Union Government.Declaring that his government and the Punjab Congress was with the farmers in this ‘aukhi ghari’ (difficult time), Captain Amarinder said he would take the suggestions of the Kisan Unions to legal experts to finalise the next course of action.If the new laws were implemented, it would spell the end of agriculture, said the Chief Minister, warning that “in the times ahead, the Government of India will follow up these legislations with the elimination of MSP and FCI, bringing an end to the time-tested farming procurement and marketing system as we know it”.“The mandis, that have existed and worked well for more than 60 years, will be wiped out and with MSP also ending, wheat will be sold the same way as maize currently is – at much lower prices than dictated by the MSP,” he added.The farmers not just in Punjab but across the country would be ruined, the Chief Minister said, underlining the need to “fight these draconian laws tooth and nail to saving agriculture”.He said he had written to the Prime Minister thrice before the Bills were passed, urging him to not go ahead with the move as it would create immense problems for the whole nation but he did not get any response. Even his request for the bonus on paddy to check stubble burning, especially in these COVID times, had gone unheard, he said.“The Government of India could not be trusted to protect the farmers’ interests on its own,” he said, pointing out that the state had not received their rightful GST compensation from the Centre for eight months.Promising to fight the farm Laws shoulder to shoulder with farmers, Jakhar said he was ready to quit the PPCC presidentship to join their protests without making it a political act.“They (Centre) have killed the farmers with a pen. We will have to find a way to kill them with a pen,” he said, quipping: “Kalam naal marya hai, assi kalam naal bachavange” (We will save the farmers with the pen).Earlier, several farmer leaders urged the Chief Minister to challenge the central laws legally and take whatever other steps needed to protect the farmers, including blocking construction of Adani’s silos in the state. They all reposed their faith in Captain Amarinder to save the farmers from this catastrophe.
29-09-2020||New Delhi||Environment ministers of Punjab, Haryana, 3 other states to meet on October 1 over air pollution||Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday said, that environment ministers and secretaries from five states—Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh—would meet will MoEFCC and officials of CPCB on Thursday, in order to, discuss the air pollution arising due to paddy stubble burning in the fields, especially in Punjab and Haryana.The minister also hopes that the states would participate in a "positive manner", irrespective of "politics", to deal with the situation.Notably three of the five states, Punjab, Rajasthan and Delhi are ruled by non- NDA partiesResponding to the question related to protest over farmers' bills and Congress observation that RSS were collaborators of the British, Javadekar said, that "first the Congress needs to answer why is it standing with the middlemen.""The procurement of Kharif rice has started, farmers are being paid, mandis are operating, the government's actions speak for themselves," he said.
29-09-2020||Arteev Sharma||Violation of Covid protocol: 7 FIRs registered, 13 touts arrested for transporting labourers to J&K||Tribune News ServiceJammu, September 29In a major breakthrough, Kathua police have arrested 13 touts, including six from Punjab’s Pathankot area, for making money through illegal means by transporting outside labourers to Jammu and Kashmir via Lakhanpur in complete violation of COVID-19 protocol.The police have also found the involvement of a Railway police official and a chowkidar of the Excise Department for helping outside labourers to cross over to Jammu and Kashmir illegally. The role of an ASI and a constable is also being investigated.“We received reports that COVID-19 protocols, set by the UT administration, were being violated. After an investigation, it came to our notice that a gang of touts, mainly taxi drivers, was operating in Madhopur area of Pathankot district and was misleading and creating fear among outside labourers with regard to their entry into the Union Territory under COVID-19 protocol,” said Shailendra Mishra, SSP Kathua.“As Lakhanpur was the only surface link to Jammu and Kashmir, there used to be a rush of people coming to the UT from outside. Taking advantage of the situation, some people found it a lucrative business to make money by transporting people especially labourers to Jammu and Kashmir,” the SSP said, adding: “Under the modus operandi, the taxi drivers and touts in Madhopur, where the buses carrying labourers were making a halt, were creating fear and confusion for their entry into JK.”“They were misleading labourers that they would be quarantined or face several hardships in getting their COVID-19 tests done at Lakhanpur. After convincing poor labourers, they were charging them anything between Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per person for their transportation to the Union Territory. They used to keep their Aadhaar cards and other identity proofs with them to act as their contractor for generating a legal dispatch order, despite the fact that all such facilities are available at Lakhanpur free of cost,” Mishra said.The SSP said seven FIRs had been registered in this regard, including four in Lakhanpur police station, one each in Kathua and Hiranagar, and one in Sujanpur police station of Pathankot district.“A total of 14 persons — two from Kashmir, five from Kathua and seven from Pathankot — have been identified. Of them, 13 have been arrested. The main tout, Neetu of Pathankot, is still evading his arrest,” he said, adding that the involvement of a railway police SPO and a chowkidar of the Excise Department posted at Lakhanpur had also surfaced.“The role of a police ASI and a constable, posted at another bridge on Ravi river, is also being investigated,” the SSP said.
29-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar airport records 29.1% rise in passenger footfall in August||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 28Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International (SGRDJI) Airport has recorded a 29.1 per cent rise in passenger footfall in August as compared to July, as per the data tweeted by the Airport Authority of India (AAI).With the government relaxing flying norms, the number of domestic passengers increased to 31,652 in August from 22,389 in July. A marked change in movement of domestic flights was also witnessed ie 266 to 376. Meanwhile, international travels increased from 58 in July to 83 in August but the total number of passengers increased only by a small number from 9,837 to 9,956.The number of international passengers shall probably increase in coming months as Air India and other airlines added more flights, including once a week direct flight to London’s Heathrow and Birmingham airports in the UK. During the month of August, airlines from UAE (Fly Dubai, Air Arabia) and Kuwait (Jazeera) also operated special flights to Amritsar under the temporary air-bubble agreements. These airlines from UAE did not get permission to fly from September onwards to Amritsar.Middle-eastern carriers for many years have been willing to operate to Amritsar but unable to do as the airport is not included in the bilateral air agreements with India.Pleased with the increase in passenger footfall and flights, the global convener of FlyAmritsar initiative, Sameep Singh Gumtala, stated that despite pandemic there was a significant rise. It suggested that there is tremendous potential for more international flights from the airport.After almost 10 years, on August 25 the national carrier Air India operated its first direct flight between London and Amritsar.Gumtala said: “We are thankful to the national carrier and the Ministry of Civil Aviation for continuing these special flights under Vande Bharat Mission till October 24 and have appealed for permanent scheduled flights in future for Heathrow Airport from the SGRDJI Airport.”He also said NRIs of Punjabi origin were disappointed that despite handling the maximum number of 25 special repatriation flights by the Canadian foreign office that flew 7,500 Canadians back home during the lockdown period in April-May, Air India under the current Vande Bharat Mission operated many flights yet the national carrier is not operating any direct flights from Amritsar to Toronto or Vancouver.
29-09-2020||Amritsar||Sikh activists stage protest against missing ‘saroops’||Raising the pitch for the resignation of SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, a large number of activists associated with Dal Khalsa and SAD (Amritsar) staged a protest rally outside the SGPC headquarters where annual budget session was held today. Carrying the placards, they asked for the whereabouts of missing 328 saroops.The protest was led by Harpal Singh Cheema and Emaan Singh Mann. Both the leaders asked Longowal to resign on moral grounds as under him the SGPC has failed to disclose the whereabouts of disappeared saroops. They demanded strict punishment for the guilty officials who have been indicted by the probe panel. Protesters were highly critical of SGPC making somersaults on their decisions.Protesters led by Kanwar Pal Singh handed over the questionnaire to SGPC members aimed to awaken their conscience and make them accountable before the Panth. A youth carrying placard stated that 'SGPC is in the wrong hands'. Activists of SAD (Democratic), Akal Federation and Sikh Youth of Punjab also joined the protest.AAP delegation meets Akal Takht JathedarAam Aadmi Party (AAP) delegation led by MLA Baljinder Kaur, Jai Kishan Singh Rori and Kulwant Singh met Giani Harpreet Singh, Jathedar of Akal Takht, on Monday and handed over a memorandum demanding strict restraint of Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) from misusing gurdwaras and Takht Sahibs for their personal and political purposes.Addressing the media on the occasion, Baljinder Kaur said that there were times when Shiromani Akali Dal used to work for the betterment of Panth, Punjab and Sarbat, but in recent times it is on the verge of political collapse as its present leaders have abandoned its basic features, principles and have started managing the party like a private company. — TNS
29-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Protesting farmers’ bodies to keep distance from political parties||Mandi Ahmedgarh, Sept 28A joint front of 31 farmer organisations have decided to be overcautious on the issue of allowing political parties to join their coordinated movement launched against the Union Government to get the three farm Acts rolled back.A decision to keep a distance from political outfits was taken during the meeting of office-bearers of 13 agitating organisations at Gurdwara Manji Sahib, Alamgir, near here, on Monday. The meeting was presided over by Jagjit Singh Dallewal.Speakers, including Dallewal, Harmeet Kaadian, Satnam Singh Sahni, Onkar Singh , Satnam Singh Behru and Buta Singh Shadipur regretted that leaders of major political parties had started a rat race pretending to be supporting the agitation launched by farmer organisations to get the Acts withdrawn from the Union Government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Our alliance is clear on the role of Shiromani Akali Dal which is trying to harness political mileage by pretending to be supporters of farmers. Even Harsimrat Kaur Badal has not resigned from the ministry for farmers’ interest rather Badals want to harvest yield of our agitation,” said Dallewal, maintaining that Badals had been advocating in favour of the Farm Acts till farmers of the state had challenged their entry into villages.Seeing a ray of hope in Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s invitation for talks, the congregation demanded that the state government should reject the Acts in a special session instead of making appeals before the Union Government.Claiming that the joint front had been receiving invitation for talks from the Union Government too, Dallewal said the final decision about recourse to said invitations would be taken during a meeting of 31 organisations scheduled to take place at Kisan Bhawan in Chandigarh on Tuesday after which the front would participate in a meeting which would take place with the Chief Minister.12 outfits join protestAround 12 Muslim organisations of the town and surrounding localities have joined hands to launch a coordinated movement to support the struggle launched by Kisan Sabhas to get three farm Acts withdrawn by the Union Government. The joint action committee, constituted for the purpose, has announced to hold a protest march surrounding villages here on October 1.Convener of the committee Zeshan Haider said office-bearers and activists of around 12 Muslim outfits, led by Mufti Zia Ul Islam, had decided to launch a coordinated movement to get the farm Acts withdrawn from the Centre as these Acts were bound to hit the middle and lower middle class households.Haider claimed that people were enthusiastic to show solidarity with farmers of the state. The protest march would conclude on the Ludhiana-Malerkotla road where the protesters would perform namaz on the highway after passing through villages of the area, said Haider.
29-09-2020||---||Verka’s turmeric milk relaunched in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 28To boost immunity of people amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday relaunched the Verka’s ‘Haldi dudh’ at the Verka Ludhiana Dairy.He said Verka had come out with the nutritious drink by using unique haldi, which was developed and patented by the Department of Biotechnology, Punjabi University, Patiala. The drink gives higher absorption for human body as compared to normal turmeric. It would become a preferred drink to strengthen the immunity of people, especially in the fight against the virus.Civil Surgeon Rajesh Kumar Bagga was among those others present.General Manager, Verka, Ludhiana Dairy, Raj Kumar, along with his team members, apprised that themilk was made of a special type of turmeric, which contains curcumin, non-curcumin and more absorption power as compared to the normal turmeric milk.
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Additional Chief Secretary Kirpa Shankar Saroj shifted||The Punjab Government today transferred Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Social Welfare, Kirpa Shankar Saroj, who had recently exposed Rs 55 crore scam in the disbursal of funds under the SC post-matric scholarship scheme. He has been shifted to the Animal Husbandry Department.The officer had claimed Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had been protecting department officials allegedly involved in the wrong disbursal of funds.After the minister had objected to the report submitted by the ACS, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had directed the Chief Secretary to probe the matter. The CS had deputed a three-member panel of IAS officers Jaspal Singh, KAP Sinha and Vivek Partap Singh to hold an inquiry. — TNS
29-09-2020||Ludhiana||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh moves court, Enforcement Directorate fails to inspect tax case files||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials had to return empty handed today as Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh moved separate applications in the court of Judicial Magistrate Navjot Kaur seeking to restrain them from inspecting their income tax files in connection with its pending investigation under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA).In the application, it was pleaded one such order of allowing inspection of Raninder’s file had already been stayed by the Additional Sessions Judge and the matter was due in court on October 1. — OC
29-09-2020||Gurdaspur. September 28||Congress MLAs to boycott meet chaired by Sunny Deol||The political storm kicked up by MP Sunny Deol's recent tweet praising the farm Acts is failing to calm down with the Congress MLAs of Pathankot and Gurdaspur, which form an integral part of the actor's parliamentary constituency, now deciding to stay away from meetings scheduled to be held to monitor the Central Government flagship schemes.Going by the ministry's 'warrant of precedence', Union Minister Som Parkash is DISHA chairman in Gurdaspur while Deol is its co-chairman. In Pathankot, Deol himself is the chairman. All six MLAs of Gurdaspur, five of whom owe allegiance to the Congress, and three of Pathankot, out of which two are Congressmen, are ex-officio members. — TNS
29-09-2020||New Delhi||Delhi High Court orders 24X7 security to witness in ’84 riots case||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed the police to continue providing three security personnel round the clock to controversial arms dealer Abhishek Verma, a witness in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, as he was receiving threats.Justice Yogesh Khanna said the HC’s September 27, 2017, order directing the DCP (South) to provide in three security personnel to Verma and his family members be continued till further orders.The HC asked the CBI and the Delhi Police to file replies to Verma’s petition seeking directions to the authorities for the cover till he was examined in the riots case before the trial court. — PTI
29-09-2020||New Delhi||Supreme Court: Clarity needed on larger Bench verdict||Raising questions over lack of clarity in a March 6 Constitution Bench verdict on land acquisition, a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court on Monday said it created some confusion. “There are some questions in my mind. I want to discuss it with judges. The Constitution Bench judgement, I think, creates confusion,” said a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde. — TNS
29-09-2020||Amritsar||Amid uproar, SGPC passes Rs 981-cr budget||Amid uproar by some members over the ‘saroop’ issue, the SGPC passed its annual budget of Rs 981 crore for 2020-2021 today.The reduction in income in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic showed its impact on the budget that was cut by 18.5 per cent. In 2019-2020, it was Rs 1,205 crore. There has been a reduction of at least 30 per cent revenue due to the drop in the footfall of devotees.Against Rs 714 crore last year, only Rs 577 crore has been allocated for the management of gurdwaras in 2020-2021. The budget was bifurcated into three parts — general board fund, trust funds and education funds. For 2020-2021, the general board funds have been curtailed from Rs 75 crore to Rs 57 crore, a reduction of 28 per cent, the trust funds from Rs 55.33 crore to Rs 37.61 crore, a decrease of 32 per cent, and the education fund from Rs 37.70 crore to Rs 28.44 crore. However, for printing presses where saroops and Sikh religious literature is printed, a total of Rs 8.20 crore was spared to be spent on four printing presses. — TNSSaroop row: SGPC chief seeks apologyDuring the budget session, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal sought apology from the Sikh Panth for the misappropriation of Guru Granth Sahib “saroops”. He said the greed of some SGPC officials and staffers had put the SGPC in a worrisome situation
29-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court lists five rules to curb child marriage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 28Nearly 14 years after the enactment of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued five commandments to prevent minors from tying the knot.These include modification of the marriage certificate and directions to heads of all religious places in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to maintain a proper register of weddings. Periodic checking of records by the police has also been ordered.Once the directions are in place, the certificate, apart from the couple’s photograph, will “strictly” carry the description of supporting documents such as Aadhaar card, voter’s ID, matriculation certificate and birth certificate.The directions came after Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan, while taking up a protection matter filed by a runaway couple, took cognisance of a “large number” of religious places holding child marriages without maintaining record. It ordered heads to produce the register with counter file every three months/quarters of year before the SHO concerned. It would be returned after verification of age. The SHO would be liable for disciplinary action in case of any violation of the directions.
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to MLA over harassment||Taking up a petition alleging harassment at the behest of Ferozepur City MLA Parminder Singh Pinki, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made him a respondent in the matter before putting him on notice.The notice by Justice Jitendra Chauhan came on a contempt petition filed against a police official by Sukhwinder Singh through counsel KB Raheja. The petitioner contended his brother Iqbal Singh Mallan was the senior vice-president of the SAD, while Pinki was elected on the Congress ticket.Pinki was inimical with the petitioner’s family as they owed allegiance to the Akalis and supported the party in the local election. In order to settle a score with the petitioner and his family, Pinki started harassing them through the police.Raheja referred to certain documents to contend the petitioner was arrested from his house without any FIR against him on that day. “The petitioner is being harassed at the asking of said local MLA,” he added. The case will now come up on September 30. — TNS
29-09-2020||Vishav Bharti||‘Involve gurdwaras’ in Covid war in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 28The Centre has asked the state government to involve gurdwaras in the fight against Covid-19.After a virtual meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the Union Health Secretary wrote to Punjab’s Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan that delay in patients reaching hospitals was a big reason for most of the deaths due to Covid in the state.The communication said the state must start an intensive awareness campaign to tackle the challenge. “The state can involve gurdwaras and other social organisations in promoting usage of masks and other Covid appropriate behaviour.”Specific issues like delay in patients reaching hospitals were also discussed.The Prime Minister exhorted all chief ministers to reassess the efficacy of local lockdown of one-two days in controlling the spread of the virus. He also underlined that facilitating movement and ensuring availability of medical oxygen as well as essential medical supplies was of utmost importance, the letter said.As per the letter, the PM also urged the chief ministers to focus on 60 districts with a high caseload and make a weekly plan to personally review the preparedness with block and tehsil-level officials.
29-09-2020||---||Post ordinances, debt pushed 65 farmers to suicide in Punjab||Chandigarh, September 28As many as 65 farmers have committed suicide across Punjab ever since the three agriculture Acts were first announced as ordinances by the Modi government, shows data compiled by farmer unions on farm suicides in the agrarian state.Farmers are blaming the high rate of suicides in the state on high rural indebtedness owing to poor remuneration they receive for their produce. Data provided by the unions shows though the average monthly income of farmers in Punjab was Rs 12,481 — higher than most other states — the average income generated from each hectare of land was much lower at Rs 3,448 (in Kerala it is Rs 34,910). No wonder any Act that has the possibility of tinkering with the farm economics is met with caution.“The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act is a step that will leave procurement in the hands of corporates and there would be no guaranteed buy back of our crops,” says Jagmohan Patiala, member, All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.Last year, 501 farmers ended their lives in the state, shows the data compiled by Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan). For the past many years, the BKU has been collecting data on farm suicides through the ones reported in newspapers and the police cases registered after such suicides. In 2018, the number of suicides by agriculturists was 536.“Though the number of suicides during the period of lockdown was less — just 12-13 per month, as against 40-45 per month before the lockdown, the number has again gone up. The 65 suicides have been recorded between June 24-September 1,” says Dharminder Pishor, who compiles the data for BKU.
29-09-2020||---||Corporates feel farmers’ heat||Bathinda, September 28Corporates have started feeling farmers’ heat in the state over the three agriculture Acts with a protest being held outside a Reliance petrol pump in Talwandi Sabo in the district.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has announced that they would gherao petrol pumps, malls and toll plazas of Reliance and other MNCs across the state in the coming days. Besides, messages are being circulated among farmers on social media, appealing for the boycott of Reliance fuel and Jio SIM cards.“The Acts framed on the pretext of ‘one nation, one mandi’ is a bid to give control to the private players. Ambanis and Adani have a big hand in getting the farm legislations through. These will impact the farmers adversely,” alleged Resham Singh Tungwali, a farmer leader.He threatened if the Acts were not revoked by the Union Government, they would gherao Guru Gobind Singh Refinery at Rama Mandi.Farmers also claimed that the government had left them at the mercy of corporates. “It is preposterous to believe that farmers who have small land holdings will have any bargaining power over private players,” they said.Shingara Singh Mann of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) said: “Our target now will be PM Narendra Modi, BJP and corporate houses, such as Ambani and Adani groups. We will meet tomorrow to decide on the gherao of Reliance petrol pumps and malls.”
29-09-2020||Amritsar||Make MSP a legal right: Congress to Centre||Terming the three agriculture laws a grave mistake by the Central Government, two senior Congress leaders Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo today demanded that the MSP be made a legal right to prevent private corporations from purchasing agricultural goods below this price.Partap Singh Bajwa, Congress MP‘Can’t trust NDA’How can we tust the NDA government when they have even refused to pay the state almost Rs 7,000 crore in GST compensation. Urging all to unite for the repeal of the “draconian laws” against farmers, they said: “Today is the 113th birth anniversary of great martyr Shaheed Bhagat Singh and on this day we believe it is important to reiterate our support for our protesting farmers who were braving the heat and the Covid-19 pandemic.” They added: “The farmers of Punjab and Haryana have ensured India became the food surplus nation. The Centre has forgotten their sacrifices.” — TNS
29-09-2020||New Delhi||Paddy worth Rs 10 cr procured in 48 hours: Centre||Amid intensifying farmers’ agitation, the Centre, which today allowed all states to commence rice/paddy procurement operations in the Kharif Marketing Season (KMS), said 5,637 MT of paddy worth Rs 10.53 crore at MSP of Rs 1,868 per quintal has been procured from 390 farmers of Haryana and Punjab, where purchase started on September 26.The state governments have been asked to ensure wide publicity of uniform specifications among farmers to ensure they get due price for their produce and any rejection of the stocks is completely avoided. The Food Corporation of India and state procurement agencies have also been directed to “ensure hassle-free procurement and minimum support price (MSP) payments to farmers,” according to the statement.The cotton procurement for 2020-21 will commence from October 1.— TNS
29-09-2020||Karnal||Abhay Chautala praises SAD patron for snapping ties with BJP||Two days after the SAD snapped ties with the BJP, senior INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala appreciated former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal for standing with farmers and referred to him as their well-wisher.He was addressing mediapersons here today. Abhay had led the protest of INLD workers over the passing of three farm Bills by Parliament and lathicharge on farmers in Pipli recently.“The government has passed these Bills without consulting farmers. The Bills were brought in June when people were inside their homes amid Covid. The government must rethink, otherwise farmers will have no option but to intensify the stir,” he said, adding that the INLD would continue its protests at district level.He criticised the government over lathicharge on farmers in Pipli and demanded a judicial probe into it.Abhay also criticised the government over non-procurement of paddy even after the announcement. “I got verified in all four districts where it was announced to start the procurement, but nothing was done in Ambala, while a little was purchased in Karnal and Kurukshetra, which shows the government is still ill-prepared,” he said. —TNS
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Congress holds tractor rally in Chandigarh against farm laws||The city Congress, led by president Pardeep Chhabra, organised a foot march and tractor rally here in which hundreds of workers participated.The protesters marched towards the Punjab Raj Bhawan to submit a memorandum against the new farm laws, said Chhabra. “The BJP has passed draconian laws against the interests of government employees, youth and now it has targeted farmers, who are the backbone of India. We have registered strong protests all over the country in solidarity with the farmers. The government is favouring big corporate companies and are against the interests of small/medium farmers at large,” said Chhabra.He further said, “The BJP-led NDA government at the Centre knows that the new laws are hugely unpopular and that is why they avoided a vote by ballot in Parliament and passed the Bills in an undemocratic manner. The government is trying to end the MSP and mandi system,” Chhabra said.“If the government is honest in its statements that the MSP and the mandi system will not be abolished, then why are they hesitant to mention this in writing in the current laws that have been passed undemocratically?” questioned one of the protestors.
29-09-2020||Mohali||Commission agents found selling paddy of other states to face music||The Mohali administration has decided to register FIRs against commission agents (arhtiyas) found selling paddy from other states in various grain markets of the district.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan directed officials to take legal action against the arthiyas violating the Punjab Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) Act by selling paddy purchased from other states in local grain markets.Reviewing the paddy procurement scenario, it was brought into the notice of the Deputy Commissioner that grain markets adjoining the Haryana border tend to face glut and procurement process is hampered due to the unprecedented arrival of paddy from other states via local commission agents.It was informed that the local civil administration made arrangements for estimated arrival of produce from villages under its jurisdiction, but arrangements tend to fall short due to the illegal sale of paddy from neighbouring states in those grain markets.Police asked to establish interstate border checkpoints.Taking a strict note of the transgression, Dayalan directed police officials to establish special interstate border checkpoints so that ‘other state paddy’ might not come in the district. Besides, he issued directions to register FIRs and suspend licences of errant arhtiyas. The Sub-divisional Magistrates have been directed to maintain constant vigil to ensure compliance. — TNS
29-09-2020||Faridkot||Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini named accused in Behbal Kalan police firing case||The SIT probing the Behbal Kalan police firing incident on Monday nominated then Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal as accused in the case. The SIT claimed that on the basis of documentary evidence and witnesses’ account, both Saini and Umranangal had been prima facie found guilty.Former SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, two SP-rank officers and many other police officials have already been named as accused in the case. A week after the killing of two Sikh protesters in police firing at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, an FIR was registered under Section 302, 307, 34 of the IPC and 25, 27, 54, 59 of the Arms Act at Bajakhana police station in Faridkot.Earlier last week, the District and Sessions Court in Faridkot granted permission to the SIT to make prime accused Inspector Pardeep Singh, then reader of former SSP Sharma, an approver in the case. Pardeep had told the court that Saini and Umranangal had issued instructions to the former SSP to act tough against protesters and get the dharna site cleared at any cost. — TNS
29-09-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Lockdown-hit labour edgy as farm stir rages||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 28Having suffered job loss due to the Covid-induced lockdown recently, a large number of factory workers, who had started working as farm labourers, are once again a harried lot.Prakash and Ranju Devi, both natives of Bihar, had started working in the fields of BKU (Doaba) president Manjit Rai in Hoshiarpur after the factory they were employed with shut due to the lockdown.Now once again, they find themselves faced with a similar situation in view of the farmers’ agitation against the recently passed farm legislations. They feel if the farmers suffered, they would also have to face the consequences.Disho (55) also lost her job as a peon in a school due to the lockdown and started working in the fields of Gurtej Singh of Shahkot block. “Employment worries are back to haunt her again. Yesterday, she asked me what would she do if farmers faced hardship,” Singh said.Moosapur farmer and BKU (Doaba) member Kirpal Singh said, “The agitation is worrying labourers. They have started asking what they will do if it does not end.”
29-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Will consult lawyers, says Punjab Chief Minister||Tribune News ServiceKhatkar Kalan, September 28Launching a campaign against the Centre over the new farm laws on the birth anniversary of Bhagat Singh at the martyr’s native village, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh today announced he would consult a team of lawyers on the “draconian” farm laws.The CM was accompanied by his wife Preneet Kaur, Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, Speaker Rana KP, ministers, 45 MLAs and six MPs. Holding placards, they sat on a dharna near the martyr’s statue for over an hour. The CM slammed the “step-motherly” treatment meted out to the Punjabis only to please corporate houses. “Will the Adanis subsidise foodgrain for the poor,” he asked, claiming the new farm laws would mean the end of the public distribution system. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu and Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari did not attend the event.My fight for poorMy fight is for the 75% farmers with less than five acres of land who live from hand to mouth. —Amarinder SinghTewari said his colleague had tested positive for Covid-19, so he had decided to keep away.Later in Chandigarh, the CM announced that a campaign would be launched on October 2 to get the signatures of two crore farmers against the contentious laws that would be submitted to the President on November 14. Capt Amarinder said he had called a meeting of 31 farmers’ groups tomorrow to discuss the way forward. He accused the Centre of usurping powers granted to states under the Constitution. The CM asked why Harsimrat did not quit the Cabinet when farm ordinances were issued.
29-09-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh trying to defame Punjab farmers’ struggle: SAD||Amritsar/Chandigarh, September 28Addressing a gathering of farmers and party workers at Gurdaspur and Amritsar, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal called upon the BJP’s Punjab unit and other political parties to join hands to put up a united fight for the farming community.He dared Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to issue an ordinance to declare Punjab a notified principal market area meant for establishing agriculture mandi to thwart the implementation of the farm Acts.Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD President‘Should have declared state market yard’Before going to Khatkar Kalan, Captain should have issued an ordinance declaring the state an agricultural market to render the Centre’s Acts invalid. Taking a dig at the CM’s apprehension over farmers’ struggle in Punjab turning violent and weakening the peaceful movement, Badal said, “His statement defamed the farmers’ struggle. If he is honest about his concerns, he should call in his Advocate General and prepare the draft of the ordinance to declare the state a notified principal market area.We have been demanding it for so long.”He also asked the CM to immediately convene a special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act implemented in 2017 during the Congress regime. “The APMC Act enacted by the Congress government provides provision for open market for private players, identical to what the Centre’s farm Acts described. This state Act must be scrapped,” he said.Members asked to quit posts held in Delhi civic bodiesNew Delhi: The SAD has now asked its members to resign from the posts held by them in the three municipal corporations (MC) of Delhi, ruled by its former ally. The party has decided to give up all posts it jointly held with the BJP in any organisation, including the MCs, the president of the Delhi unit of SAD, Harmeet Singh Kalka, said at a press conference on Monday. — PTI
29-09-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Centre failed to read situation: Harsimrat Kaur Badal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 28The fact that the BJP did not reach out to farmers even when the RSS and the Rashtriya Kisan Sangh opposed the farm Bills tells how the Centre misread the ground situation, said former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal while talking to The Tribune here today.Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Ex-union Minister‘Didn’t pay heed’The alliance broke because the BJP did not listen to its oldest ally and refused to address the apprehensions of the annadaata.“I was given to understand that between the promulgation of the ordinances and before being tabled in Parliament all points of friction would be resolved. Farmers wanted the MSP and government purchase for wheat and rice. Farmers felt that the Bills did not have a single assurance for them. Following this, the nation saw a huge trust deficit between the farmers and the Central Government,” she said.The former minister said: “It is unfortunate that the alliance nurtured by Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Parkash Singh Badal for 23 years has fallen apart.”Harsimrat said this was not the first time she had expressed differences with the Centre. “We felt that Punjabi, which had been removed as an official language in the new J&K Official Languages Bill, should be restored. Our demand was not acceded to and the Bill was passed. I, on my part, could not raise an objection to this proposed legislation in the Cabinet as I could not attend the particular meeting as Badal village had been declared a containment zone,” she said.
29-09-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||In Malwa, cotton selling below MSP||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 28Cotton is being sold below the MSP in the Malwa region as the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) is yet to start its procurement. The MSP for cotton is between Rs 5,515 and Rs 5,725 per quintal, but is being sold as low as Rs 4,600 per quintal. However, traders have cited excess moisture content in the fibre crop as the reason for paying less.Jagmeet Singh, Mansa farmerCCI yet to start procurement, farmers sufferSince CCI hasn’t started the procurement, I sold six quintals of good quality crop at a rate of Rs 4,960 per quintal, which is way below the MSP.Many farmers are averse to selling their produce to the CCI due to the government agency’s condition of direct purchase. They said they could not break ties with arhtiyas even if they had to sell their produce at a lesser price.Randhir Singh of Jodhpur Romana village in Bathinda said, “We have been dealing with arhtiyas for years now and we cannot think of snapping our ties with them. They are the ones who hold our hand in the hour of crisis. They do not think twice before handing over advance payments to us whenever we need it.”Jagmeet Singh, a farmer from Tibbi Hari Singh village in Mansa district, said, “I had sold six quintals of crops at a rate of Rs 4,960 per quintal, which is way below the MSP. The quality was rich, but with the CCI yet to start procurement, I had no option but to sell it at a lower price.”“If we do not sell the crop at a lower price to private purchasers, who will finance us for the next sowing season?” asked Gurmeet Singh, another farmer. Market analysts said rates wouldstabilise once the CCI started procurement and moisture content in the crop fell within permissible limits of 8-12 per cent.
29-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Crop purchased in only 10 Jalandhar mandis||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 28Two days after the government announced paddy procurement in the state, farmers in the district have started arriving in the grain markets with their produce.However, the number remains limited as the crop is yet to mature. Of the 149 grain markets, the crop arrived in only 36 mandis and purchase was made only in 10 mandis. As per the revised minimum support price (MSP), the purchase was made for Rs 1,888 per quintal. Raman Nehra, an official of the Food Corporation of India (FCI), Jalandhar, said in the first two days of procurement, the FCI purchased 100 metric tonnes of rice and Pungrain purchased 600 metric tonnes.Owing to high moisture content, the procurement is likely to gain momentum only after the first week of October.Charanjit Singh, a farmer, who had come from Jandu Singha, said, “I am bringing my crop in a phased manner as in most of my fields, the crop is yet to ripen. Today I brought only 50-60 quintals of the produce. We are happy that the MSP was increased this year, but the government should ensure that there won’t be any private buyer as we have suffered huge losses after selling maize. The government had kept Rs 1,850 MSP, but private buyers purchased it for Rs 600 to Rs 1,000.”Avtar Singh, who had come from Nandanpur village, hailed the government’s decision to advance the procurement this year, but rued that the hike in the MSP was not sufficient. “The MSP will not give us any profit this year as due to labour shortage, the sowing process made a big hole in our pockets. Last year the labour cost was around Rs 2,400-2,600, but this season the cost was between Rs 4,000 and Rs 5,000. Considering this loss the MSP should have been over Rs 2,000.”
29-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Farming will be ‘taken over’ by big houses||Fatehgarh Sahib, September 28Farmers and farm labourers, owing allegiance to various farmer unions, today took out a tractor rally in protest against the farm Acts and demanded their immediate revocation.Farmer leaders Kamaldeep Singh and Gurpreet Singh feared the new laws would oust many from the agriculture-related activities as the corporate houses would take over the entire sector.Besides the withdrawal of the three Acts, the farmer leaders demanded the implementation of the Swaminathan Commission’s report in toto, adding 50 per cent of the profit over the expenses while deciding the MSP, pension of Rs 10, 000 to farmers and labourers, and free education and employment guarantee for farmers’ children. They urged the villagers not to allow BJP leaders to enter the villages.
29-09-2020||Sangrur||Navjot Singh Sidhu asks Punjab farmers to elect ‘own MLAs’||On a day Capt Amarinder Singh kickstarted a campaign against the Centre on the farm Acts in Jalandhar, his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Sidhu today held a rally at his ancestral Manwala village where he asked farmers to join politics and elect their own MLAs to raise their voice effectively.“The MSP has not seen the requisite hike for the past many years, but the salaries of government staff had increased manifold. When the country was dying of starvation, our farmers produced crops, but now when it has sufficient food, the Centre has passed black Acts to end the MSP,” he said.He urged farmers to unite under slogan “Punjab ekta, kisan ekta” to oppose the Centre. “Farmers should elect their own 10-12 MLAs to raise their voice effectively in the Assembly. I will share this idea in each village to make farmers aware about their power,” said the former minister. — TNS
