29-11-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 15 more deaths, 741 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Sunday reported 15 more fatalities due to coronavirus, pushing the toll to 4,780, while 741 new cases took the infection count to 1,51,538.Five deaths were reported from Jalandhar, three from Mohali, two each from Amritsar and Ludhiana and one each from Sangrur, Patiala and Pathankot, according to a medical bulletin.There are 7,888 active COVID-19 cases in the state as of now, as per the bulletin.Jalandhar reported 143 new cases, followed by 113 in Mohali and 92 in Ludhiana, among fresh cases recorded in the state.A total of 664 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 1,38,870, as per the bulletin.Sixteen critical patients are on ventilator support while 157 are on oxygen support.A total of 31,81,773 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin stated. — PTI
29-11-2020||---||Why didn’t Khattar use official channels or call on my mobile?: Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, November 29Trashing the call records released by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar as complete fraud, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Sunday, flaunting a page of his own office register, has said he cannot condone Khattar’s lies, and if he really wanted to connect, he could easily have used official channels or called up on the mobile phone.Dismissing it as a “pathetic attempt” by Khattar to prove his claims, the Punjab Chief Minister stated that by releasing the call record copies, purporting to be of his office’s attempt to get in touch with him, the Haryana Chief Minister had, in fact, exposed his deception even more sharply.“If at all someone from his office called my residence, why were the calls made to an attendant? Why were official channels not used to get in touch with me?” asked the Punjab Chief Minister.“Top officials of the Punjab government, at Principal Secretary and the DGP levels among others, have been in touch with each other on the farmers’ issue for the past several days, yet none of these officials conveyed Khattar’s desire to talk to me at any point in time,” the Chief Minister pointed out, adding that his Haryana counterpart’s attempt to seize high moral ground on the farmers’ Dilli Challo march was pathetic.“How many times in the past has Khattar used the attendant channel to get in touch with me,” he asked, asking the Haryana Chief Minister to stop lying.Captain Amarinder said the fact of the matter was that his Haryana counterpart was out to suppress farmers and had no serious intent of discussing their protests with him.“If I can talk to a whole lot of central leaders, right from the Prime Minister, on the issue of the farmers’ protest, why would I try to wriggle out of talking to Khattar on the same?” he quipped, assailing his counterpart in the neighbouring state for politicising the genuine demands of the farmers and their very real on-ground fight for survival.The Chief Minister also lashed out at Khattar over his remarks that “Amarinder would be responsible if COVID-19 spreads now due to the farmers’ protest.”On Khattar’s remark that farmers should not block Haryana’s borders, Captain Amarinder pointed out that it was Khattar’s government and police that had been blocking the borders for the past three days by forcibly stopping the farmers from proceeding.Captain Amarinder noted that Khattar’s lies on the issue had been totally exposed by the Haryana farmers themselves, as they had not only rejected their Chief Minister’s claims that no farmer from his state had joined the march but had shown their ID cards, duly issued by the Haryana government.“A man who can disown his own farmers, and even go so far as to call them Khalistanis, instead of standing by them in this hour or crisis clearly has no moral scruples about spreading lies,” he said, adding that Khattar clearly could not be trusted.
29-11-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||More support, aid pouring in from NRIs for protesting farmers at Delhi||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, November 29The non-resident Indians (NRIs) have openly come out in support of the protesting farmers in Delhi and has started sending them aid. The NRIs say they are worried and shocked over brutality to the farmers.Around 50,000 Canadian dollar (Rs 25 lakhs) has been donated by Raja Dhaliwal of Canada’s “World Financial Group” and the executive team to help the farmers and they have donated for providing langar to the farmers. They have given the money to Ravi Singh of the Khalsa Aid.Raja Dhaliwal, while releasing the video message through video conferencing, said it had been decided to do this work dedicated to the doctrine of Guru Nanak Sahib. He said he stood by the farmers and would also raise his voice for economic, community and political support.Canada Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan tweeted: “The reports of peaceful protesters being brutalized in India are very troubling. Many of my constituents have family there and are worried about the safety of their loved ones. Healthy democracies allow peaceful protest. I urge those involved to uphold this fundamental right.”NDP leader in Canada Jagmeet Singh has tweeted: “The violence perpetrated by the Indian govt against farmers peacefully protesting is appalling. I stand in solidarity with the farmers from Punjab and across India - and, I call on the Indian govt to engage in peaceful dialogue rather than violence.”UK MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi has posted: “It takes a special kind of people to feed those ordered to beat and suppress them. I stand with farmers of Punjab and other parts of India, including our family and friends, who are peacefully protesting against the encroaching privatization of #FarmersBill 2020.”Standing with farmers in India, Leader of the Ontario New Democratic Party Andrea Horwath said: “Everyone deserves to be able to exercise their democratic rights without fear of state-sanctioned violence.”Earlier, NRIs in Canada, Italy, the US, the UK and France have expressed support for farmers and also staged protests against the three farm bills passed by the Union Government recently.The NRIs have condemned the police action on protesting farmers who were peacefully marching towards Delhi to stage a protest.Gurpreet Singh of Canada said: “I came to Canada around ten years back and have agricultural land in Punjab. Even all my relatives in Punjab are associated with farming, I feel that these reform bills have been passed to crush the small farmers, so there is a need for everyone to come out and support our Punjabi farmers.”
29-11-2020||Islamabad||52% forced conversion cases reported in Pakistan's Punjab province||A Pakistani rights group has said that 52 per cent of cases of alleged forced conversions of women, specifically of underage girls from the religious minority communities, had occurred in Punjab province.The organisation, Center for Social Justice (CSJ), made the revelation during a discussion titled 'Forced Conversion Complaints and Religious Freedom' which was held online on Saturday, Dawn news reported.CSJ said that around 162 questionable conversions were reported between 2013 and 2020 and abuses which had occurred in violation of religious freedom enshrined in Pakistan's constitution of 1973.Besides Punjab, 44 per cent of these incidents had also taken place in Sindh, while 1.23 per cent each were reported in the federal and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa areas, while one case (0.62 per cent) occurred in Balochistan, according to CSJ data.The highest number of such cases, 21, was reported in Bahawalpur during the past seven years.Similarly 14 cases were reported in Lahore; 12 in Karachi; 10 in Faisalabad; eight in Hyderabad; six each in Tharparkar, Ghotki and Kasu; five in Badin; and four each in Umarkot and Sialkot.The figures showed that 54.3 per cent of the victims belonged to the Hindu community, while 44.44 per cent were Christian and 0.62 per cent belonged to the Sikh and Kalash communities, the CSJ said.Over 46.3 per cent of the victims were minors—some 32.7 per cent of them aged between 11-15 years.Only 16.67 per cent of the victims were above 18 years. IANS
29-11-2020||Chandigarh/Sangrur||Delhi Chalo march: BKU activist burnt alive as car catches fire near Tikri Border||A BKU (Ugrahan) activist, who was participating in the 'Delhi Chalo' march, was burnt alive as the car in which he was sleeping caught fire on Saturday night at Tikri near the Bahadurgarh- Delhi border.The deceased, Janak Raj, was from Dhanaula.Raj's family has been in shock since they received information."Though our family has no land, since the start of agitation, my father has been helping farmers. Earlier he performed sewa at the toll plaza. Two days back he left for New Delhi to repair the vehicles of farmers free," Sahil Garg told The Tribune.Sahil has done B.Ed and earns a livelihood by tuition work while his father ran a cycle repair shop in Dhanaula city."He had closed his shop many days back as he wanted to help farmers. He left for New Delhi with a tractor mechanic to assist him in repairing machinery like tractors, cars and others," said Sahil.Inder Sain, brother of deceased, said that Raj had sacrificed his life to save farmers of the state.BKU president Joginder Singh Ugrahan has demanded a probe into the incident.Thousands of farmers have reached the national capital on their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles, responding to the Delhi Chalo call against the agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre in September.
29-11-2020||---||Nagar Kirtan taken out to celebrate Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev||Amritsar, November 18A nagar kirtan was taken out to celebrate the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev here on Saturday. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee in association with sabhas, sikh societies and sangats initiated the nagar kirtan from Sri Akal Takht Sahib. Giani Jagtar Singh, Head Granthi of Sachkhand Sri Harmandir Sahib, performed the Chaur Sahib on the holy Sri Guru Granth Sahib. During the nagar kirtan, Sikh sangat chanted Gurbani, hymns and expressed their devotion. On the way of nagar kirtan, the sangat served langar, packed food, sweets and fruits. Meanwhile, band parties, shabad chowki jathas and gatka parties enthusiastically participated in the procession. Former Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Gurbachan Singh, Head Granthi Giani Malkit Singh, general secretary of Shiromani Committee Advocate Bhagwant Singh Sialka, member Harjap Singh Sultanwind, secretary Mahinder Singh Ahli, were also among prominent personalities who participated in the nagar kirtan.
29-11-2020||---||Expired tear gas shells used in Haryana to disperse Punjab farmers||Rohtak, November 28Tear gas shells beyond the expiry date were reportedly used by the police to disperse protesting farmers from Punjab on the Rohtak-Hisar road in Meham town here on Thursday night and Friday.Taking a serious note of the report, the state police are examining the matter.The police had lobbed tear gas shells and water cannons on the farmers to disperse them when they removed the barricades and broke the ‘naka’ at the Rohtak-Hisar border for moving ahead to Delhi.Some farmers found the used shells lying on the road and were shocked on finding that these had expired a year ago. Later, they approached the media to raise the issue.“Tear gas shells are used rarely. Hence, these expire in the stock on many occasions. But stock verification is also conducted at regular intervals. Expired tear gas shells do not have any adverse effect on human health. These become less effective and sometimes, do not burst,” said a retired Director General of Police (DGP) on the condition of anonymity.He further said tear gas shells were not bought in routine due to lack of funds and lengthy buying process.“We got the input about the use of expired tear gas shells yesterday. The matter is being examined,” DGP Manoj Yadava told The Tribune.Sandeep Khirwar, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Rohtak Range, denied having any such information while Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
29-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Support pours in from UP||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 28Thousands of farmers on Saturday staged a dharna at Singhu border for the second day in a row. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh also joined the protest at Singhu border.Meanwhile, various farmers’ unions have decided to stay at the borders till their demands are not met. A 12-km-long queue of vehicles was witnessed on the NH-44 due to which the commuters had to face a tough time.Activist Sant Gopal Das also reached at the border to extend his support to the farmers sitting on a dharna.Rakesh Bains, state BKU spokesperson, said a meeting of the Kisan Sanyukt Morcha was held on Saturday and Balbir Singh Rajowal announced to stay put at the borders. Their next strategy would be decided after the next meeting on Sunday.Meanwhile, BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said the farmers had blocked the entry to Delhi on two borders and if their demand was not met, they would shut all borders.Besides, farmers from UP under the banner of the BKU (Asli) led by state chief Harpal Singh Balari also joined the protest on Saturday.Chander Prakash Yadav, state vice-president, BKU (Asli) from Uttar Pradesh, said we were detained in a college-turned-temporary jail in Chandrawali of Bulandshahr by the BJP government for the past two days so we couldn’t join the protest earlier.
29-11-2020||Ambala||Ambala youth who turned off water cannon booked for murder attempt||Registration of three FIRs in three months have failed to deter Navdeep Singh (26), a farmer from Ambala, whose video in connection with the ongoing farmers’ agitation had gone viral for climbing atop Varun (a water cannon), turning the tap off and then jumping on a tractor-trailer.Navdeep is among those booked at Parao police station along with BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, Jai Singh, Rakesh, Amarjeet and others on the charges of attempt to murder, rioting and causing obstruction in government duty on November 25.About the video, Navdeep said “It was not planned. I just climbed that vehicle and turned the tap off and then jumped on a tractor. Later I found that the video went viral and people were appreciating my efforts.” — TNSRioting, Assault cases in Rohtak, Sirsa
29-11-2020||Jasvinder Kaur||How British brought knitting to Punjab||It is hard to believe that knitting, a favourite pastime of women in the subcontinent during winter, came to India only during the British Raj. Christian missionaries helped in spreading this skill as girls were taught knitting in schools. Gradually, it became popular among women and replaced spinning as more people starting wearing hand-knitted sweaters and socks.Cottoning on to woolIn the 19th century, people in Punjab were not in the habit of wearing sweaters, even when it was really cold in the winter. The wealthy preferred Pashmina shawls and the poor used woollen lois — for wrapping around oneself, as well as for bedding. Baden Powell (in 1872) writes, ‘It is a remarkable fact that in the plains during the cold weather natives do not like woollen goods, it is only the poorer class that resorts to kambal or blanket. Everyone who could afford it, much prefers wearing several thicknesses of cotton cloth and coats padded with cotton wool are universally worn.’Sir George Watt and Percy Brown also expressed similar thoughts in 1904 that, in general, cotton, rather than wool, was preferred throughout India. This has also been corroborated by other writers and gazetteers of the period. Hand-spun khaddar was thicker and warmer than mill-made cotton and women used it to stitch their suits. Men often used a khes as a wrap instead of a warm chaddar. This practice was common in Punjab even in the 1990s and might still be prevalent at certain places by the older generation.a stamp of Dewan Chand Atma Ram, a famous store in Shimla.History of knittingThe process of knitting is believed to have originated in Egypt and developed in the hands of a Christian sect known as the Egyptian Copts, famous for their skills. It spread with the expansion of Christianity, reaching as far as Peru in the 16th century.There are many theories attached with knitting and its spread. According to one theory, knitting was common in Italy and Spain before it reached England. Initially it started in Shetland Island in Scotland, before spreading to England in the 16th century. The story goes that the Spanish Armada owned by the Duke of Medina-Sidonia was wrecked at Fair Isles (part of Shetland Isles). The rescued sailors were the ones to teach knitting to Fair Isles’ natives. From there it slowly spread to England. Even today, Shetland wool is considered to be of superior quality and sweaters with a lot of patterns are called Fair Isle sweaters. These have patterns that are created by use of multiple colours.Fair Isle sweaters were, worn by Edward, Prince of Wales (later Edward VIII). He was the Captain of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews, Fife. In 1922, for The British Open, he wore a soft-collared white shirt, a tie with a geometric pattern, a Fair Isle sweater and plus fours. He thus started not only the fashion of this Scottish knitting style, but was also responsible for popularising plus fours (baggy knickerbockers reaching below the knee, formerly worn by men for hunting and golf). These derive the name from the fact that plus fours are cut four inches below the knee. Although this style was specifically intended for golf, yet it became fashionable for informal daywear for men in the 1920s and was specifically identified with the Prince of Wales. Some of the maharajas of Punjab as well as wealthy persons also wore these casually.There is yet another theory where the Scots claim to have invented knitting. This is more so because the first ‘Knitting Guild’ founded in Paris, took for their patron saint, St Fiacre, the son of a Scottish King.’Spreading the skillSir George Watt and Percy Brown in their catalogue of the ‘Delhi Exhibition’ of 1903 observe that ‘knitting seems to have been unknown in India prior to the efforts of the missionaries’. It was taught in most female schools and girls initially learnt to knit socks or jorab. Knitting therefore came to be known as jorab-bunnana as it was the first article that most girls learnt to knit although they were not in the habit of wearing them.Malcom Lyall Darling (1934) writes about a school in Moga where every girl at the high school had to make a homemade garment for their annual government inspection. Darling observes that while most girls made items that were suited to village life, yet some girls made knitted socks though they rarely wore them.Socks get mentioned in books and gazetteers from the third quarter of the 19th century onwards and it was always said that people wore white socks. Baden Powell, describing the dress of the people of Lahore and Amritsar, mentions them as wearing white stockings along with embroidered shoes. It can be presumed that since the shoes were embroidered, they were of Indian style. William Crooke, writing at the beginning of the 20th century, describes an official —‘his long white stockings mark the ‘baboo’ as clearly as short deer-skin socks distinguish Afghan.’For a long time the socks worn in Europe were white and when these were introduced in India, most people wore only white socks. In Europe, white was the popular colour for socks though chemical dyes were introduced in 1860s. Although socks were available in India, not everyone wore them. Initially, it was only the wealthy and the western educated that used them.We find that whenever knitting is mentioned by writers, it is always in the context of making socks. John Webster mentions that a woman in 1884 learnt to knit socks and gloves from a teacher. Baden Powell (1872) lists jails and orphanages of Punjab engaged in knitting. He lists the Mission Orphan School in Ludhiana, the Amritsar Female Orphanage, and the Female Penitentiary, Lahore, where knitting was taught.A missionary practiceA. Latifi, author of ‘Industrial Punjab’ (1911), writes that ‘It is a matter for congratulation that women have taken to socks making in Ludhiana as well as Wazirabad’. Writing some decades later in 1929, Darling mentions that in Ambala the wife of a missionary would visit the villages around and teach women how to knit cotton and woollen socks.Knitting also spread to Punjab hills (now Himachal Pradesh). Missionaries have been credited with bringing knitting there as well. The Moravian Mission in Kyelang (Keylong), Lahaul, under Rev Heyde was established in 1854. Another place in Basahir (Simla district) was set up. They also set up schools at Peo (Reckong Peo) and Kyelang (Keylong) that had 10 girls and who learnt singing, sowing & knitting stockings, etc. The girls learnt how to knit gloves and socks. The mission popularised knitting among the locals, and slowly more and more girls took to it in the region. Knitted products in Lahaul even today have multi-coloured patterns, similar to the Fair Isle designs, which could possibly reflect the early influence of missionaries. The threads for the gloves and the socks were at one time handspun by the women from local wool. The colours used were grey, brown, black, or white with multi-coloured patterns.Rise of the machinesAlong with hand knitting, machine knitting was also introduced in India. As technology advanced in Europe, knitting frame developed in the late 16th century. Machine-knitted socks in the 18th century replaced those made of cloth. Earlier socks and stockings were made with cloth that had to be cut according to the shape and size of the leg. Machine-made knitted woollens were made for the first time at Sialkot. Ludhiana became a major centre of production in the early 20th century and by 1911, there were 150 machines for making socks and eight for vests in the city.In the cities of Punjab, wealthy men had started to wear sweaters before they did so in the villages. For women, sweaters came in much later. However, around the 1920s and 1930s, as knitting gained popularity, girls and women took to knitting even though they themselves might not have worn sweaters.Making it to magazinesKnitting magazines, books and pamphlets were available in local shops and women closely followed patterns provided in these. This enabled women to knit using European patterns and colours as even colour specifications were given. Some magazines like ‘The India Ladies Magazine’ gave patterns for knitting cardigans. As some magazines were expensive, many women copied the pattern and the instructions.Knitting needles and wool came from England initially and were advertised in the local newspapers like The Tribune for sale of knitting yarn and needles. Many local shops also had connections abroad and got their supplies from there and advertised about it in magazines and newspapers.Knitting was not as popular as crochet work primarily as not everyone wore sweaters. However, with time, the popularity of crochet work declined and in post-Independent Punjab, knitting became popular. Slowly, as more and more people took to wearing sweaters, knitting became a necessity as readymade sweaters were not readily available and even if they were, they were very expensive.
29-11-2020||Roopinder Singh||Rabab to Nagara envisions Guru Nanak Dev||The 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev brought about a much-awaited focus on the founder of Sikhism. With his unique vision, he saw the world as one created by the Creator, and all beings as his creation. His message of unity of mankind has transcended centuries and guided his followers.There is only one God, said Guru Nanak, although there were many ways to reach Him. By transcending the ‘my way to my God’ is better than ‘your way to your God’ debate and acknowledging that there are other paths to reach Him, Guru Nanak set the stage for interfaith dialogue. He sought out scholars and religious leaders and held discourse with them. Today’s world, wracked by toxic tribalism in various forms, needs the succour that comes from the teachings of the Guru, who declared: “There is no Hindu, no Mussalman, all are creatures of God.”The year was marked with seminars, books, documentaries, and exhibitions. It was a time to dwell on the teachings of Guru Nanak and to understand his legacy. Governments, institutions and individuals all enthusiastically participated in the year-long celebrations that began in 2018. The celebrations were international, reflecting the presence and strength of the Sikh diaspora.Bhai Vir Singh Sahitya Sadan, New Delhi, held an early, high-profile event on November 10, 2018. In the presence of former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh and His Holiness the Dalai Lama, Prof BN Goswamy delivered the first lecture in the series, ‘Truth Does Not Grow Old, Ever’. Later, the Dalai Lama inaugurated an impressive exhibition, titled ‘From Rabab to Nagara: Life and Legacy of Guru Nanak’. It was mounted by the National Institute of Panjab Studies, a unit of Bhai Vir Singh Sahitya Sadan, New Delhi, and was a labour of love of Dr Mohinder Singh, director of the Sadan. ‘From Rabab to Nagara’ explores various expressions of the Guru’s teachings and their implementation.A series of lectures continued at the Bhavan, even as the exhibition travelled to various cities in India, where it was well received. Now it has been presented in the form of a coffee-table book, with the foreword by Dr Manmohan Singh. The lavishly mounted volume has quite a large collection of pictures that span time and styles of visual representation, representing the world of the Guru envisioned by artists over centuries.We have paintings, murals, photographs of gurdwaras, along with descriptive passages about their significance. The Janamsakhis, or hagiographic accounts of the life and teachings of Guru Nanak, provided the basis for Pahari miniatures that were drawn by talented artists. The same holds true for more recent artists like Sobha Singh, Kirpal Singh and Devinder Singh. The book has their paintings too. Contemporary works of Arpana Caur, The Singh Twins — Amrit and Rabindra, Sidharth, Bhagat Singh, Kanwar Dhillon, Swaranjit Savi and Sharandeep Singh are also represented.Photographs form a significant part and the works of William Baker, Lala Deen Dayal, Lance Dane, Deidi von Schaewen, Raghu Rai, Ashok Dilwali, Sondeep Shankar and Malkiat Singh have been featured.What makes this compendium particularly useful is the sheer breadth of work that has been collected in one place, and the expansion of the canvas from Guru Nanak to include his successors. A section on photographs that shows how the Sikhs celebrate their Guru’s legacy in various parts of the world gives vignettes of the diaspora and its expression of devotion.By turning the exhibition into a book, and inserting the text that gives it context and provides valuable information about the Gurus and the Sikhs, the Sadan has created a memorable volume. The colourful compendium is bound to find a place of pride in many libraries. It should.
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Apologise for brute force: Capt Amarinder to Haryana CM Khattar||Reacting to his Haryana counterpart ML Khattar’s “sponsored stir” charge, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh today said: “Some people are blind not to see the lakhs of farmers trying to enter Delhi from across the country.” On Khattar’s charge that he had tried calling him a number of times but in vain, Captain said : “Khattar is lying that I did not respond to his calls. After Haryana’s treatment of my farmers, I will not take his calls now. Unless he apologises and admits he has wronged the farmers of my state, I will not forgive him.”He urged the Centre to immediately hold talks with the kisan unions to defuse the situation “created by Haryana’s attempts” to forcibly stop the farmers’ march.“Why wait till December 3,” he asked. Urging the Centre to accept the farmers’ demand for assured MSP, the CM said, “I fail to understand why they can’t make it a legal obligation.” Expressing concern over the situation getting out of control due to the “use of force” by the Haryana Police, he said the farmers had the right to march to the Capital to air their grievances. — TNS
29-11-2020||---||Punjab relents, accepts borrowing option||New Delhi, November 28After months of resistance, the Punjab Government has accepted the Centre’s borrowing proposal (Option-1) to meet revenue shortfall arising out of GST implementation. The move will give the cash-strapped state access to over Rs 11,000 crore funds.Besides getting nod to borrow Rs 3,033 crore, Punjab will get Rs 8,359 crore through the special borrowing window.Earlier this week, two other Opposition-ruled states — Kerala and West Bengal — communicated their acceptance of Option-1 to the Centre, leaving Punjab with no option but to follow suit.The number of states which have chosen this option has now gone up to 26. All three UT legislative assemblies (Delhi, J&K and Puducherry) have also decided to go for Option-1.They will get the amount of shortfall arising out of GST implementation through a special borrowing window put in place by the Centre.The window has been operational since October 23 and the Centre has already borrowed Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of the states in four instalments and passed it on to the states and UTs, which chose Option-1.Joins 25 states
29-11-2020||Bathinda||Robbers’ gang busted, 5 held||Cash reward hikedFaridkot: Sports and Youth Services Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi on Saturday announced that the cash reward for Maharaja Ranjit Singh Award would be increased to Rs 5 lakh, said Rana Sodhi after presiding over meeting of the District Grievance Redressal Committee, Faridkot. OC‘Fake’ nambardar bookedFazilka: Harmesh Singh of Chack Arianwala village of Jalalabad subdivision has been booked for cheating and posing himself to be the nambardar of the village. He also withdrew money in name of salary by forging signature of the Tehsildar. OC
29-11-2020||Many politicians in Muktsar and their children||Youth leaders join farmers||Hry hoteliers waive chargeRanjit Singh, a farmer from Gurusar village in Gidderbaha, said a hotel owner on the national highway in Haryana offered them free stay in his hotel. “The hotel owner even asked us to stay while returning to Punjab. This is how people in Haryana are supporting us.”Custom-made tractorsMany farmers before leaving for Delhi have customised their tractor-trailers according to their needs. While all of them have covered their trailers with tarpaulin sheets, some of them even carried an inverter to charge mobile phones and light a lamp at night. TNS
29-11-2020||---||BKU rejects Amit Shah’s Burari protest site offer||Chandigarh, November 28Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday called up Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan and offered Burari Ground as protest site. However, the union rejected the offer and reasserted the right to protest at Jantar Mantar.Ugrahan announced to start indefinite protest at Jantar Mantar. He said the protest would continue till their demands were met.The union demanded immediate reconsideration of the application submitted by 500 farmers’ organizations for approval of the demonstration which was rejected by the Delhi Police.Ugrahan said the caravan of protesters includes a substantial number of women and youth. He said instead of choking the national capital, they planned to start indefinite protest at Jantar Mantar so that locals were not inconvenienced. He has given a call to farmers and farm workers from all over India to join the protest.Jhanda Singh Jekhuke, senior vice-president, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) gave a call to farmers of Punjab that they should not let the chain of caravan break. He extended the appeal to farm workers and urban poor to join the protest and speed up their preparations for it.He announced that scraping the farm laws was immediate demand but main demands were constitutional guarantee of procurement of all crops at MSP in all states and acknowledgement of legal sanctity to universal coverage of PDS.Harjinder Bindu, state president of women wing of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), said thousands of women activists were in high spirits and geared up for indefinite protest in Delhi. He appealed to women in Punjab that they should continue the protests against corporate houses and BJP leaders in the state. Indefinite protests outside the houses of BJP leaders in Punjab have been continuing for more than a month. Bindu asked women activists to shoulder the responsibility of continuing the protests in Punjab.Ugrahan turns down jyani’s invite for talks with Home Minister  The BKU said former BJP minister Surjit Kumar Jyani facilitated the telephonic conversation between Joginder Singh Ugrahan and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Once the offer for Burari Ground was rejected, Jyani called up Ugrahan, extending invite to a five-member panel for talks with Shah.Ugrahan told Jyani that the BKU was one of the three fronts leading the protest, others two being coordination committee of 30 organisations and Satnam Pannu-led Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee. He said the invitation should be extended to all three fronts with a concrete proposal.
29-11-2020||Moga||No talks till farm laws rolled back, says Sukhdev Singh Kokri||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri has announced that the farmers will enter Delhi and hold protest at Jantar Mantar. Thousands of supporters of the BKU (Ekta) are presently stationed on the Delhi border in Haryana.Kokri said they had given time to the Delhi Police till morning to grant permission to enter Delhi and hold protest in the Jantar Mantar area.“If the Delhi Police do not allow the farmers to go to Jantar Mantar, they will break the barriers and forcibly enter the national Capital. We will not sit on dharna on the premises of the dera of the Namdhari sect,” he said.Kokri, who suffered a fracture on his hand and arm today, said a convoy of thousands of farmers from Rajasthan would also join them by Sunday morning.Kokri said nothing less than rollback of the controversial farm laws was acceptable to them. He further claimed that thousands of farmers from western UP, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan would also join them in the protests by tomorrow evening.“If the Union Government does not accept our demands, we will lay siege to Delhi from all sides and block all highways,” he said. — TNS
29-11-2020||
||Punjabi MPs in Canada, UK flay use of force||Bathinda, November 28 NRIs and foreign politicians have condemned the use of force, including tear-gas and water cannons, by the Haryana and Delhi police on Punjab farmers peacefully marching towards Delhi. NDP MLA and parliament secretary of British Columbia in Canada Rachna Singh shared a video of The Tribune on Twitter criticising the use of force. Canadian MP Randeep Singh Sarai posted, “Farmers are the  backbone of Punjab and they deserve to be treated with respect. I stand in solidarity with Punjab farmers.” Another Punjabi Canadian MP Sukh Dhaliwal tweeted, “The right to peaceful protest is fundamental in any democracy. I am very disturbed by the treatment of Punjabi   farmers in India. I stand with Punjab farmers”. MP from UK Preet Kaur Gill has also posted a video along with a post stating “This is no way to treat citizens who are peacefully protesting over the controversial farmers’ laws in India”. Canadian MP Maninder Sidhu also posted, “Many of my constituents and I are deeply concerned about the safety of our family and friends in India. The right to peaceful protest is a constitutional right. Farmers in India should be able to voice their opinions and protest peacefully without fear for their safety”. Canadian MP Tim Uppal also posted, “India’s farmers deserve to be heard and respected. This is horrific”. MP from Brampton North in Canada Ruby Sahota also said, “The determination and resilience of the farmers is admirable. In a free and just society one should be able to advocate for their cause without the threat of force being used against them. The brutality being faced by Indian farmers is deplorable.” Jack Harris, Canadian MP, has tweeted, “We are shocked to see the Indian government’s suppression of farmers protesting new laws which will endanger their livelihood. Instead of using water cannons and tear-gas, the Indian government needs to engage in open dialogue with farmers”. Gurratan Singh, an  activist in Canada has posted: “The Indian government’s use of water cannons and tear gas on farmers is appalling.”
29-11-2020||---||Locals cancel travel plans via Haryana||Bathinda, November 28People planning to travel via Haryana to Delhi are a harassed lot nowadays. Many of them have either changed or cancelled their programme due to the farmers’ agitation.Locals are facing more problems as the passenger trains have so far not resumed from Bathinda though the ‘rail roko’ protest of farmers has ended. Hence, locals have only one way to commute and that is by road.Atul Garg, a resident of Bathinda, said, “My daughter had to travel to Rohtak in Haryana to attend her friend’s wedding tomorrow. Since we are not aware whether it is safe to travel or not, she cancelled her plan.”Naman Jolly, a resident of Meerut, had to travel to Ludhiana for an important business trip. He said, “Farmers are proceeding on the Panipat-Ambala National Highway and barricades have also been put up at many places, so he cancelled his meeting”.Robin Jindal , a resident of Bathinda, who has been living and working in Delhi, had come to Bathinda some days back to meet his parents. He said, “I had to go back to Delhi today, but now with farmers agitation going on along the borders, I have cancelled my plan for now. I will continue work from home for a few more days and assess the situation before going back.”Even taxi drivers have also been hit hard due to the stir.
29-11-2020||Parvesh Sharma
||Mechanics, doctors offer services for free||Tribune News Service Sangrur, November 28 After getting information that miscreants tried to puncture tyres of farmers’ tractors and create other faults in them, mechanics have started leaving for the national capital to keep the vehicles up and running. Punjab-based MBBS doctors have also started providing free medical aid to farmers at the Kundli border.  “I and three other mechanics have left for Delhi to repair tractors. Along with our phone numbers, we have flashed a message on social media that if any farmer faces any problem with his tractor, car or tempo, we would repair that for free,” Gurjant Singh, a mechanic, told The Tribune over the phone.  Farmer leaders also confirmed that they have got calls from some mechanics to provide free services. “Though there are already some mechanics with us, more are reaching here. We have got information that announcements have also been made through the public address system in various villages to send mechanics here. It has become the fight of all,” said Rajpal Singh,a BKU (Ugrahan) leader. Two doctors from Lehra and Barnala have started a medical camp for farmers at the Kundli border. “We have distributed medicines worth Rs 15,000 for free. Many farmers are complaining of irritation in their eyes caused by the tear-gas shells, while others have minor injuries,” said Dr Lavpreet, who along with Dr Parmeshwar, has been providing medical aid to farmers.
29-11-2020||Chandigarh November 28||SAD urges PM to intervene||The SAD today asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to put all other engagements on hold and personally address and resolve the genuine demands of the agitating “annadatas” of the country as top national priority.“The agitators’ demands on the three anti-farmer Acts are legitimate and constitutional. The Prime Minister and his colleagues have repeatedly maintained that the assured marketing of farmers’ produce at the MSP will be continued under all circumstances. That being so, there should be no objection to nor problem in giving a legal shape to the government’s commitments through necessary legislation.” A meeting of the core committee of the party which met here this afternoon, also came down heavily on Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar for his “highly provocative, dangerous and divisive statement against the farmers”.“It is not farmers, but the Haryana CM himself who is guilty of flouting the Constitution on the anniversary of the Adoption Day of the statute,” it said. — TNS
29-11-2020||new Delhi||Vijayinder Singla meets protesters, offers support||School Education Minister Vijayinder Singla today visited protesting farmers on the Haryana-Delhi border to express his solidarity and accused the Centre of attempting to crush dissent.“Looking at the maltreatment the Centre has meted out to food producing farmers, it appears their new slogan is ‘jaa jawan, maar kisan’,” said Singla.He was speaking to farmers agitating along the Haryana-Delhi border.Singla contributed to the community kitchen being run to support them.Singla said, “The entire Punjab state is with you. All sections of society will back you in getting these laws withdrawn.” — TNS
29-11-2020||---||Covid cases cross 1.5 lakh in Punjab||Chandigarh, November 28With 745 cases and 28 deaths reported in the past 24 hours, the state’s total number of cases has crossed 1.5 lakh.As per a government bulletin released on Saturday, the total number of cases has reached 1,50,805 and the number of deaths 4,765. At present, 164 patients are on oxygen support and 15 on ventilator support.As far as deaths are concerned, the state reported 28 deaths in the past 24 hours. In the district-wise breakup, Bathinda topped the chart with six deaths, followed by Ludhiana with five deaths, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur reported three deaths each, Jalandhar, Mansa, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur reported two deaths each, Fazilka, Pathankot and Sangrur reported one death each.
29-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Martyr cremated in Tarn Taran||The body of Sepoy Sukhbir  Singh Randhawa, who was martyred in Pak firing on Friday, was cremated at Khawaspur village today. A large number of  residents of the area attended the cremation. There was a great resentment among the family and villagers as the martyr was not given state honours during the cremation. The state honour is given by the Army by reversing the arms. However, Army officials, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh, Khadoor Sahib SDM Rohit Gupta were among those who laid wreaths on the body. — OC
29-11-2020||Saurabh Malik
||Show restraint while invoking contempt provisions, says High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 28 In a significant judgment liable to change the way contempt proceedings are initiated by the lower judiciary, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that due caution and judicial restraint are required to be exercised while invoking the penal provisions. The assertion came as Justice Arun Monga rapped a judicial magistrate, first class, for making observations that “flew in the face of the record” in a case where a contempt notice was issued to a Punjab-cadre IPS officer against the provisions of law. “The penal provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act have to be invoked with due circumspection, judicial restraint and sparingly. Their undue and indiscriminate use, particularly against public officers in connection with their official work, tends to unnecessarily embarrass, humiliate and demoralise them, thereby adversely affecting the discharge of their public functions without enhancing the dignity, respect and image of the courts,” Justice Monga asserted. The matter was brought to Justice Monga’s notice after IPS officer Nilambari Vijay Jagadale, through counsel Gautam Dutt, sought the setting aside of the magistrate’s order holding that she had committed civil contempt. Jagadale was asked to personally look into a case where supplementary challan was not presented despite eight years of FIR registration. But nothing happened. The magistrate referred the matter to the High Court for action for violation of his orders. Jagadale is currently posted as AIG, cyber crime-cum-director, Digital Investigation Training and Analysis Centre and State Crime Records Bureau of the Punjab Police. Justice Monga asserted the magistrate observed contrary to record that reply to the contempt petition was by the investigating officer, who was not facing contempt and was not even competent to file the reply. Justice Monga added the magistrate was not justified in commenting adversely against the petitioner’s conduct for not personally appearing and not filing separate reply in individual capacity as the impugned order did not reveal any such direction. Referring to a High Court order, Justice Monga asserted it showed implicit satisfaction with explanation for delay in supplementary challan. Judicial discipline and propriety required the magistrate to give due weightage and respect to the High Court’s view. But he ignored it by making observations contrary to the record. Setting aside the order, Justice Monga added even if significant part of delay was assumed to be attributable to the investigating officer, it would not be more than an administrative/superintendence lapse on petitioner’s part and she could not have been hauled up for contempt.
29-11-2020||---||NGOs protest arrest of thalassaemia society chief||Bathinda, November 28 The HIV-positive blood transfusion row took another turn on Saturday when city-based NGOs held a protest here at Fire Brigade Chowk, alleging that the FIR was registered against the Thalassaemia Welfare Society president and others to suppress the voices supporting the affected family members. On the other hand, doctors of the PCMS association said if the registered FIR was cancelled, they would tender their resignation as a mark of protest. The protesters raised slogans against the administration and the Health Department. After a verbal duel between the Thalassaemia Welfare Society and senior officials of the Health Department, the police on the complaint of the SMO, Civil Hospital, had booked three persons, including the president of the Thalassaemia Welfare Society, AAP district (urban) president Navdeep Jeeda and a Shiv Sena member for allegedly using foul language with senior officials of the Health Department recently. Members of the Naujwan Welfare Society, Sahara Welfare Society, Young Blood Club, Astha Welfare Society and Hanuman Sewa Society, among others NGOs, while addressing the gathering at the protest venue, said the cases registered against people speaking in favour of the affected parents, must be cancelled, otherwise they would intensify their stir. Meanwhile, as NGOs suspended their voluntary services on Saturday, cremation of patients, who had died due to Covid-19, got affected.  Later, a five-member committee, constituted by the district administration, led by Tehsildar Sukhvir Singh Brar, reached the venue and assured that they would work out a solution. Following this, the protest ended.
29-11-2020||Abohar||Abohar farmer shot at||A 35-year-old farmer and his mother were injured in Chuhariwala Dhanna village near Abohar, as another farmer and his accomplices from Katehra village allegedly attacked them over a land dispute today.  Amit Malhetia, who along with his mother Nirmala Devi, was escorted to the Civil Hospital here, said he was involved in a land dispute with Bhim Jyani for past six years. Today, Bhim reached Chuhariwala Dhanna and allegedly fired on Amit. The bullet bruised his stomach, causing a minor injury. When his mother, Nirmala, came to his rescue, she was allegedly beaten up by Bhim. — OC
29-11-2020||Amritsar||BSF jawan was in touch with ISI woman officer||Border Security Force jawan Kale Parkash, who has been arrested on the charges of espionage, was in contact with a woman intelligence officer of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).  Parkash came in contact with her through a social medial platform around three months ago, revealed sources. The State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) of the Punjab Police arrested him on Friday. He has been sent on a three-day police remand and various intelligence agencies are grilling him at the joint interrogation cell.  The sources said Parkash added name of the Pak woman to a social media group administered by him. After adding her in the group with a fake name, he was passing vital information to her through it. A police official privy to the investigation said the SSOC was assessing the damage caused by Parkash. He said the mobile phones of all jawans added to the social media group were being checked to ascertain the information being shared in the group. “The accused used to delete the message so that he could not caught for spying. We have sent his mobile phone for forensic examination to get further details into his activities,” he said. — TNS
