30-07-2020||---||Punjab Govt orders police transfers, including 12 SSPs||Chandigarh, July 30Twelve districts in Punjab have got new police chiefs in a major reshuffle of 33 officers in the state police and the Vigilance Bureau ordered late Thursday night.The notable among the newly posted Senior Superintendents of Police (SSPs) includes Surendra Lamba (IPS), who was been given the charge of Mansa district. He was earlier posted as staff officer with DGP Dinkar Gupta. Assistant Inspector General  (AIG) Jasdeep Singh Saini is the new staff officer to the DGP now.The other new SSPs and their districts include Vikramjit Duggal (Patiala), Jaspreet Singh Sidhu (Kapurthala), Dhruman H Nimbale (Tarn Taran), Dhruv Dahiya (Amritsar rural), Akhil Chaudhary (Ropar), Gulneet Singh Khurana (Pathankot), D Sudarvizhi (Muktsar), Bhupinderjit Singh Virk  (Bathinda), Satinder Singh (Jalandhar rural), Rachhpal Singh (Batala) and Navjot Singh (Hoshiarpur).The new SSPs include eight Indian Police Service (IPS) cadre and four state police cadre officers. Most of the IPS officers are of the 2012 or subsequent batch. The Vigilance Bureau postings of SSPs are Mandeep Singh Sidhu and Gursharandeep Singh (station not specified) and Narendra Bhargava  (Bathinda).Four of the 12 SSPs, including Vikramjeet Duggal, Dhruv Dahiya, Navjot Singh and Satinder Singh, were already commanding another police district. The administration has given them new districts.Four Police Commissonerates have also got new Joint Police Commissioner, including one woman police officer Kanwar Deep Kaur, who has been posted Joint CP (Ludhiana rural).The other three are Bhagirath Singh Meena, Joint CP (Ludhiana city); Charanjit Singh, Joint CP (Jalandhar city) and Rajbachan Singh Sandhu, Joint CP, Amritsar (headquarters).
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder asks panel to expedite probe into missing 5 crore tablets of de-addiction drug||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday directed the three-member committee constituted to probe the missing 5 crore tablets of de-addiction drug buprenorphine naloxone to expedite its investigation.The committee, set up on June 29, comprises Special Task Force chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu, Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Kahan Singh Pannu and Director, Health Services, Avneet Kaur, as per an official release here.Last year, 5 crore tablets of buprenorphine, a scheduled drug, had reportedly gone missing from the private drug de-addiction centres.Chairing a video conference meeting to review Drug De-addiction and Treatment Infrastructure, the CM asked the STF on drugs to expand the outreach of the outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) clinics in order to ensure timely and proper treatment and care to drug addicts.The state currently has 190 government OOAT centres, in addition to 119 private de-addiction centres and another nine centres in jails.A total of 5,50,907 patients were admitted to these centres from July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020.The months of April and May 2020 had witnessed a major spike in admissions as supply of drugs and other substances was cut off due to the lockdown.The CM underscored the importance of counselling for youth at these centres, pointing out that psychological support could prove vital to ensure their treatment and cure.Reiterating his commitment to the elimination of drugs into the state, the CM said while the backbone of the drugs mafia had been broken and many big fish also nabbed, the growing narco-terrorism from across the border was a matter of concern.Coupled with smuggling of drugs from other states into Punjab, this was becoming a major challenge, he said, calling for cohesive and collective efforts by all the concerned departments to crack down on the drugs problem. — PTI
30-07-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Balwant Singh Multani case: Former UT cops seek time to file reply against plea to cancel their bails||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 30Former UT inspectors Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh have sought time to file reply against the plea for cancellation of their bails in the Balwant Singh Multani missing case. The duo is accused in the case along with former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini.Additional District and Session Judge Rajnish Garg, after hearing their pleas on Thursday, adjourned the case till August 7.The prosecution had earlier filed an application seeking cancellation of bails granted to Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh.  The case is being investigated by the special investigation team (SIT) headed by Superintended of Police Harmandeep Singh Hans. Also read: Ex-cop arrested for threatening witness in Multani caseDefence counsel urged the court to grant his clients time till August 7 to file their reply. The defence counsel also informed the court that he would seek quashing of charges framed against his clients under section 302 of the IPC, following which the court placed the matter for hearing on next Friday.  Notably, Inspector Anokh Singh was arrested by the Mohali Police against a fresh FIR registered on July 27 at Kharar Sadar police station. Inspector Jagir Singh has also been named in the new FIR, however, he is yet to be caught.The two have been accused of fabricating evidences in the latest FIR.
30-07-2020||---||Capt Amarinder launches Milkfed’s immunity-boosting ‘Verka Haldi Dudh’||Chandigarh, July 30Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday launched a nutritional drink, ‘Verka Haldi Dudh’, produced by Milkfed to boost people’s immunity amid the COVID-19 pandemic, a press release by the state government read.Describing it as an appropriate time to launch this versatile product, packed with the rich medicinal properties of haldi (turmeric) as an immunity booster and a natural healer, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh hoped ‘haldi milk’ would soon emerge as a popular drink among consumers, who were now looking for alternative ways to stay healthy and boost their immunity in the fight against coronavirus.On the occasion, Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the ‘Verka Haldi Dudh’ had been prepared by using a unique haldi formulation that had been developed and patented by the Department of Biotechnology, Punjabi University, Patiala.Also read: Capt Amarinder seeks views of DCs on Unlock 3.0 relaxationsPlasma to be provided free of cost, no sale/purchase to be allowed, says Punjab CM“The milk offers 10 times higher absorption for the human body than normal haldi. Being completely soluble in milk, this formulation has given the product a very smooth texture. Verka has utilised its proven expertise, knowledge and experience spanning over 50 years to provide this delicious, healthy and immunity-boosting drink, offering the benefits of both curcumin as well as non-curcuminoids such as turmerones,” Randhawa added.‘Verka Haldi Dudh’ has been launched as part of Mission Fateh at a price of Rs 25 for 200 ml, which is within the reach of all sections of society and will be beneficial for the health of young and old alike.“The product will be available at all major retail outlets and Verka booths,” said Randhawa.Milkfed has, in fact, undertaken some exemplary initiatives to provide quality, safe and hygienic products to its consumers at their doorsteps amid the COVID-19 pandemic. At the same time, it has worked beyond its installed capacity to procure and process record quantity of milk in order to safeguard the interests of dairy farmers and consumers across the state.To maintain uninterrupted supplies of quality milk products during curfew/lockdown, Milkfed collaborated with Swiggy, Zomato and other local e-commerce firms for home delivery of Verka milk and milk products through e-commerce, the press release further read.Milkfed also initiated a door-to-door supply of Verka products. It has introduced direct sales to the consumers through e-rickshaws in Ludhiana which has been appreciated by the consumers. Due to these efforts and the changing preferences of consumers, the sale of long shelf-life products like UHT milk has more than doubled during the lockdown.
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Punjab reports 511 new cases and 10 deaths in last 24 hours||Punjab on Thursday reported 511 new cases of COVID-19 and 10 deaths due to the deadly virus in the last 24 hours.The total number of patients who have tested positive for coronavirus has reached 15,456.The number of active cases in the state stands at 4,577.As many as 10,509 people have recovered from the disease so far while the total deaths in the state have reached 370.A total of 135 patients are currently on oxygen support and 18 are critical and are on ventilator support.The total number of samples tested so far are 5,72,067 according the latest health bulletin released by the government.
30-07-2020||Ravneet Singh||Recently-appointed ex-IAS officer resigns as honorary adviser to Punjabi varsity VC||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 30Retired IAS officer Manjit Singh Narang, who was recently appointed as honorary adviser to Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Punjabi University, resigned from the post on Thursday.Blaming the VC Dr Bhura Singh Ghuman for the same, Narang said he was appointed by the VC at the post on July 1 but had not been called to join the office since.The retired IAS officer who is credited with pulling PRTC out of financial slump said the VC had been dilly-dallying on the matter of joining. In fact, the bureaucrat was appointed by the Vice Chancellor Dr Ghuman himself.Narang said the University has failed to utilise the benefits of his services which he agreed to provide free of cost. He said he feels helpless and thus hung his boots.“On July 24, I was asked to return home when I was going to the university to join at the post. It seems the University had appointed me out of some obligation,” he said.Interestingly, the University has not yet released the terms and conditions of his appointment and office work as well. He said he is no longer interested in joining on the post now.Rahul Bhandari, Secretary Higher Education, when contacted said, “I really don’t know the reason for his resignation. I have received the letter sent by Manjit Singh Narang. Only the VC can respond to why he had not joined Narang on the post.”Vice-Chancellor (VC) Dr BS Ghuman did not respond to repeated calls and messages made to him. The VC also failed to respond when contacted for a statement through the university’s public relations office.
30-07-2020||---||Plasma to be provided free of cost, no sale or purchase to be allowed, says Punjab CM||Chandigarh, July 30Amid spiralling COVID infections and deaths, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday said plasma would be provided free of cost by the state government to all those in need, a press release by the state government read.Captain Amarinder directed the Health Department to strictly ensure that COVID-19 patients were not charged for plasma therapy and that nobody was allowed to buy or sell plasma, which has proven a life-saver in many cases in the absence of any cure for COVID-19.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also appealed to the recovered COVID patients to come forward to save the lives of others. He urged DCs and health department officials, during a COVID management review video-conference meeting, to motivate such patients to donate plasma. Currently, there were around 10,000 recovered COVID patients in the state, he said, adding that his government’s priority was to save each and every life in Punjab.Also read: Capt Amarinder seeks views of DCs on Unlock 3.0 relaxationsCapt Amarinder launches Milkfed’s immunity-boosting ‘Verka Haldi Dudh’The Chief Minister asked the Health Department to expedite setting up of two new plasma banks at Amritsar and Faridkot, to supplement the one already operational in Patiala. He was informed by Minister OP Soni that the approvals for the new banks had already been received and tenders were being floated for procurement of equipment, the press release further read.Expressing concern over the increasing number of cases in the state, Captain Amarinder Singh also asked Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu to send a viable proposal for earmarking 10 beds in all district hospitals for treatment and care of mild/minor cases of infection. The Health Minister had earlier proposed such dedicated facility in all the civil hospitals of the state.The Chief Minister also asked the DCs to ensure proper coordination and care in the tertiary facilities for the very sick patients and also work closely with the dedicated nodal officers appointed in five districts with the highest caseload. These officers have been tasked with ensuring high-quality treatment in consultation with experts led by Dr KK Talwar.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan suggested that all field officers, including DCs and SSPs, should remain at their headquarter towns even at night for the next two months, as this was a critical period for Punjab, with a projected spike during this time. These officers are expected to be in command of the situation at all times, she added.
30-07-2020||---||Capt Amarinder seeks views of DCs on Unlock 3.0 relaxations||Chandigarh, July 30Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday sought views of DCs on the opening of gyms and coaching centres and said he would take the final decision on this and other relaxations in Unlock 3.0 after receiving their inputs, a press release by the state government said.At a video-conference review meeting with the DCs and health officials on COVID-19 containment and management arrangements, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said while the Central Government had announced certain relaxations, including permission for gyms and coaching centres, as per the Unlock 3.0 guidelines, he would decide on the same after an assessment of the ground situation.Also read: Plasma to be provided free of cost, no sale/purchase to be allowed, says Punjab CMCapt Amarinder launches Milkfed’s immunity-boosting ‘Verka Haldi Dudh’The Chief Minister has asked the DCs to think through and submit their views to Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, following which a final decision will be taken by the government after due deliberations, the press release further read.Underlining the need for strict enforcement in view of the increasing number of cases in the state, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said while there was a lot of demand from youngsters for the opening of both gyms and coaching centres, the modalities would have to be thought through and all options to be explored before the decision can be taken.Taking serious note of reports of violation of social distancing and other COVID-19 protocols by some shopkeepers, he directed the DCs to order shut-down of shops for three days in the case of the first offence and for a higher number of days on subsequent violations. He further asked the DCs to strictly enforce all safety protocols and norms, including wearing of masks and social distancing, to check the spread of the pandemic.Expressing grave concern over the increased mortality, the Chief Minister called for concerted efforts to bring down the fatality rate.Punjab has so far lost 361 lives to COVID-19, with 25 patients succumbing in the past 24 hours, he pointed out, adding that this was not acceptable. With early detection the only cure, the message of early treatment has to go do down more effectively, he said, directing the DCs to take all steps necessary to create awareness among people to go for testing at the first sign of illness.The DCs of some of the worst affected districts, namely Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Mohali, briefed the meeting on the situation in their respective regions and the measures being taken to monitor, track, test and treat people. Jalandhar SSP said given the social stigma attached to COVID-19, the district police have made it mandatory for all chemists to report those buying medicines for the treatment of fever and flu.The state currently has 64 micro-containment zones, of which 16 are in Jalandhar, which also has 20 clusters and one large outbreak. The maximum number of clusters, however, are in Amritsar, though it has only two micro containment zones. Ludhiana (City), Jalandhar (City), Sangrur, Barnala, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ferozepur Districts have seen the maximum surge in cases of police personnel testing positive in the past one week, the press release read.The Chief Minister asked the DCs to ensure that government offices, including their own, led by example in following social-distancing norms. He suggested the appointment of a dedicated COVID Prevention Monitor to ensure compliance at every private institution where a number of people are expected to come. He also asked the DCs to take steps for distribution of masks free of cost to the needy, and also make sanitisers and mask vending machines available at public places.
30-07-2020||---||Three tiger cubs named at Chhatbir Zoo||Zirakpur, July 29On the occasion of International Tiger Day, three tiger cubs were named as Dilnoor (female) and Amar and Arjun (both males) here at Chhatbir Zoo.Tigress Diya had delivered three cubs at Chhatbir Zoo in November last year.As per the Central Zoo Authority, New Delhi, guidelines, the name of the female cub must begin with the first letter of the mother’s name (Diya). The name of the male cub should start with the first letter of the father’s name (Aman).The names of the cubs were chosen and approved by Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh in an online ceremony here today. Earlier, the CM tweeted the pictures of tigress Diya with her cubs Amar, Arjun and Dilnoor at Chhatbir Zoo.
30-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Ahead of Raksha Bandhan, parcels for dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim decline||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 29With the Covid threat still looming large, women and girls have opted to send rakhis to their brothers via couriers. A testimony to this is the fact that the number of parcels received in post offices here has doubled when compared to the last year’s number.However, this time around, couriers addressed to jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh have witnessed a significant decline from 1,000 couriers per day last year to less than 60 this year. “The dera followers come from lower sections of the society, and a majority of them are either daily wagers or small shopkeepers. Hit hard by the pandemic, the followers are struggling to make ends meet amid the economic slowdown. Hence, they are not enthusiastic this time to spend on sending rakhis or raksha bandhan wishes to pitaji. I, too, have not sent him rakhi this time around,” said a dera follower, who runs a grocery shop in Jhajjar city.Another dera follower from Kalanaur town here said health safety amid the rising number of Covid cases was one of the major reasons why the followers were refraining from buying rakhis.“More than 25,000 parcels of rakhis were received for the jailed dera chief last year, and the average number of parcels received per day was over 1,000. However, this year, merely 200 rakhi parcels have come to date. Our employees had to work extra time to deliver the parcels in time last year, but this time there is no burden on us,” said Vikas, sub-postmaster at a post office in Sunaria Kalan village.On the other hand, the Department of Posts has been receiving around 1,000 rakhi parcels every day for the past one week, as against 500 parcels last year. Given the surge in the number of parcels, the department has decided to deliver the parcels even on weekends so that people could get rakhis in time, said DV Saini, superintendent of post office in Rohtak Division.
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Covid victims to be cremated within 48 hrs||Punjab has laid down a detailed procedure for the cremation of infected bodies. This includes cremation within 48 hours if the victims’ kin fail to claim these.As per the guidelines, if the victim’s kin fail to receive the body within 48 hours of death, the district administration, using powers enshrined under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, can declare the body as unclaimed and cremate it by following due rituals.Officials will ask kin to perform the last rites. No more than 20 members can attend the cremation. Besides, cremation grounds/graveyards can’t refuse to cremate/bury an infected body. Wood or other material will be provided by the administration. — TNS
30-07-2020||---||Sanaur locals booked for ‘flagging’ sand theft||Patiala, July 29Residents of Lalina village in Sanaur have alleged that a fake case of theft of sand had been registered against them on the directions of a DSP-level officer. The villagers said the case had been registered at the Sanaur police station on the complaint of village sarpanch, who himself was responsible for the act. Sanaur MLA Harinder Singh Chandumajra accompanied the villagers to the SSP office and sought action against the accused police officers.‘Cops under political pressure’We have already got a case registered against the sarpanch, Krishan Singh. But the police officials, instead, registered a fake case of theft of sand against five residents of the village on July 28 due to political pressure exerted by the sarpanch. — Harinder Singh, ComplainantThe villagers, in a complaint submitted to SSP Mandeep Singh, alleged that the sarpanch had extracted a huge amount of sand from the village pond on the pretext of cleaning it. The sand was then sold to private persons without permission of the government officials. Harinder Singh, one of the complainants, said: “We have already got a case registered against the sarpanch, Krishan Singh, and also submitted a complaint to the office of Sanaur BDPO on July 24. But the police officials, instead, registered a fake case of theft of sand against five residents of the village on July 28 due to political pressure exerted by the sarpanch.”Chandumajra said: “While this has brought to the fore that illegal mining is rampant in the Chief Minister’s own district, cases are being registered against whistleblowers.” He said he had met the SSP and urged him to inquire the matter.“The SSP has marked an inquiry to SP City, Varun Sharma,” the MLA added. Sanaur SHO Karamjit Singh and DSP (Rural) Ajaypal Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
30-07-2020||Sangrur||Land auction: 125 Dalits rounded up||The Bhawanigarh police today rounded up 125 Dalits who were planning a protest march at Gharachon village.The Dalits were demanding the cancellation of the auction of 30 acres of reserved village common land as they alleged that the administration had allotted the land to dummy candidates of the upper caste. On Wednesday, when they reached the land to start their protest march, the police took them into custody.“Local upper caste members, with the support of some Congress leaders, have divided Dalits into two groups. On May 27, the Panchayat Department had allotted 30 acres of the 48 acres reserved land, to five persons, who are working as dummy candidates for the upper caste. They ignored the bids of 174 families of Dalits. To harass us, officers are not allowing us to cultivate the 18 acres we had taken during the auction,” said Parmjit Kaur, senior leader of Zameen Prapati Sangharash Committee.Denying arresting 125 persons, Bhawanigarh SHO Ramandeep Singh said a case had been registered against only three persons.“As per the report of Panchayat Department officials, the auction was conducted as per norms. I will look into the matter, if there is any complaint,” said Sangrur ADC Rajinder Batra. — TNS
30-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||FIR by cop against husband backfires||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29An FIR alleging cruelty and breach of trust lodged by a head constable against her husband has virtually boomeranged. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the police to look into her source of funds.The direction came after the Bench was told that the head constable had two cars, one of which was plying without permanent registration for almost eight years. The fact was brought to Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa’s notice by the state counsel, who initially submitted that the petitioner-husband had surrendered before the investigating agency one of the cars, allegedly purchased by the complainant-wife.“It would be expected from the employer/police authorities concerned to even look into the aspect as to how a 2012-model car under the ownership of the complainant has been plied on the basis of a temporary number... It ought also to be looked into as to whether the complainant had taken prior permission from the employer as regards purchase of two motor vehicles as also her source of funds keeping in view that she is holding the post of a head constable,” Justice Dhindsa asserted.The husband, Bhagwan Dass, had moved the High Court, seeking anticipatory bail in the FIR dated June 15, 2019, registered for criminal breach of trust and subjecting a woman to cruelty under Sections 406 and 498-A of the IPC at women police station in Patiala district. His counsel contended that he had initially filed a complaint against his wife in January last year.
30-07-2020||---||Muktsar man ‘drowns’ in Canada||Muktsar, July 29Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Tharajwala village, who had gone to Canada, on a study visa in 2016 was feared drowned near Calgary. Manpreet, a relative of the youth said, “His body has not been recovered yet. We request the Centre and the state government to get in touch with the Canadian Government.” Canadian news portals claimed that a Sikh-Canadian man was presumed to have drowned after he fell into a raging river at Banff National Park in a freak accident. As per media reports “the victim and two others stopped for photo, beside the river while hiking when the incident occurred”.
30-07-2020||Surinder Bhardwaj||Administration halts work on shops at shrine complex, SGPC fumes||Fatehgarh Sahib, July 29A tug of war has started between the SGPC and district administration over the construction of temporary shops in the parking lot opposite the historic Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib.After the issue was raised by local MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, the administration recently stopped the construction. However, SGPC members and SAD activists have opposed the administration’s action.Condemning the administration for “interfering in the religious affairs” of the Sikhs, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the land belonged to the SGPC and it had been auctioning the site for shops every year.He said the SGPC would fight the “arbitrary” action both politically and legally.Refuting the charges, SDM Sanjeev Kumar said though the land belonged to the SGPC, the parking lot was developed by the state government at a cost of Rs 75 lakh and the committee could not misuse it for any commercial activity.He said the place was used as a VIP parking lot during the Shaheedi Jor Mela. He said if the SGPC wanted to use the land commercially, then it must apply for change of land use.The SDM said the Municipal Council had served a notice on the SGPC, but the committee did not reply to it.Nagra said the government was spending a huge amount of money on the beautification of Fatehgarh Sahib. He said a makeshift commercial complex, opposite the gurdwara, would be an eyesore.
30-07-2020||---||Dr Yog Raj is PSEB chief||Patiala, July 29Dr Yog Raj Sharma, a professor at Punjabi University, Patiala, has now been appointed the Chairman of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB). A notification in this regard was released by the office of the Special Secretary, Department of School Education, today.The professor at the Punjabi Languages Department was recently appointed as the university registrar as well. He is also functioning as the Director, Human Resource Development Centre at the university. He is a member of the Punjabi Sahit academy, Ludhiana, and Kendriya Lekhak Sabha, Jalandhar.Meanwhile, renowned academician and researcher Dr Buta Singh Sidhu joined as the registrar of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda.
30-07-2020||Rajmeet Singh||ITIs set to emerge as resource centres for skilled workforce||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29The government-run Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) in the state are all set to be the resource centres for providing industry-relevant skilled workforce to various trades, from tractor manufacturing units to the hospitality industry.The pilot project of the Department of Technical Education and Industrial Training to involve reputed names of the industry for the training of nearly 1,000 ITI students has yielded results.‘Training as per needs’ We have got a good response from the industry where the students were imparted training. They have been trained as per the requirements of the respective units. — Anurag Verma, Secretary, Department of Technical EducationBy the year-end, many such ITI trainees are looking forward to joining the units where they trained, as per the requirement of the respective industries.Sharing his experience, 20-year-old Arshdeep Singh, who hails from a lower income group family, said he had never dreamt of getting training at a five-star hotel as part of his one-year diploma in food production at the ITI, Amritsar.Though it was cut short due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the industry-relevant skill training has enthused confidence in the youngster, who has been assured a job at the hotel on the completion of his diploma. Arshdeep’s batchmate Jasnoor Singh is buoyed by the exposure during the training at a five-star hotel. “It has changed the way I thought about the hotel industry,” he said.“We have got a good response from the industry where the students were imparted training. They have been trained as per the requirements of the respective units. The students have got training in industry-relevant skills at reputed places, like Hero Cycles, Avon Cycles, Swaraj Engines Ltd, Mahindra & Mahindra, Federal-Mogul, Godrej & Boyce Ltd, Sonalika, Hotel Hyatt and Hotel Taj,” said Anurag Verma, Secretary, Department of Technical Education.Propelled by the success of the pilot project and response from the industry, the department now proposes to train nearly 10,000 students.Explaining the concept, Verma said it was a “dual system” that enabled an amalgamation of theoretical training imparted through the ITIs and practical training through the industry, removing the disconnect between the trainees and the industry requirement.
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Deputy Secretary ‘forcibly’ retired||Taking action on a complaint of sexual harassment, the Punjab Government forcibly retired Deputy Secretary Krishan Kumar Singla.Disclosing this here today, an official spokesperson said the officer was posted in the Civil Secretariat as Deputy Secretary (on probation). As per government instructions, his tenure was extended from September 1, 2019, after he attained 58 years of age.A complaint of sexual harassment was lodged against the officer by a senior woman assistant who was posted with him.Earlier, the secretariat administration had referred the matter to the internal complaint committee against sexual harassment of women for investigation. The spokesperson said the committee submitted a report on March 3, in which the allegations made by the woman senior assistant were substantiated.Taking a serious note of the report, the Chief Minister directed that the officer should be forcibly retired from his post with immediate effect. The administration today issued orders of forcible retirement. — TNS
30-07-2020||---||Ex-Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh seeks premature retirement for fresh assignment||Chandigarh, July 29Former Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh, who has been appointed as chairman of the Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority (PWRDA), has applied for premature retirement.The 1984-batch IAS officer, who was replaced by 1987-batch IAS officer Vini Mahajan as the Chief Secretary on June 26, is superannuating on August 31. He had proceeded on leave for two months after handing over the charge to Mahajan.“The former Chief Secretary was appointed as chairman of the authority on July 1. To enable him to join the new assignment, he has to take premature retirement,” said a senior government functionary.Karan Avtar was removed as Chief Secretary after his run-in with two Cabinet ministers at a meeting in May even though he had later apologised for his behaviour. The PWRDA chairman will get salary and perks on a par with a serving High Court judge.The government has appointed Sushil Gupta and Surinder Singh Kukal as members of the authority. Now, the government is all set to appoint a retired bureaucrat as the member-secretary.Though an advertisement to invite applications is being issued, retired bureaucrat AS Miglani, who has played a key role in drafting the rules and regulations of the authority and related issues, is said to be the frontrunner for the post.
30-07-2020||---||Seeking arms licence in Patiala? Plant 10 saplings||Patiala, July 29With a resolve to check land degradation and declining groundwater levels in the state and urge Patiala residents to lead the combat against deforestation, Chander Gaind, Commissioner, Patiala Division, has introduced a new condition for getting an arms licence.Terming the initiative ‘Trees For Gun’, the Commissioner said the idea was based on encouraging people to plant more trees and nurture them. Anyone desirous to get a new arms licence would have to plant 10 saplings and ones wanting to renew an existing one would have to plant five saplings.“People will have to submit a selfie with each planted sapling at the time of filing the licence application. After a period of one month, before marking the application for police clearance and dope test, the applicant will have to furnish the fresh status by submitting new selfies with the grown-up trees,” Gaind said.In this way, one would have to compulsorily plant saplings, which would contribute to an increased forest cover, he maintained. MP Preneet Kaur, while appreciating the idea, appealed to the other districts to follow suit.Meanwhile, applicants rued that the process to get an arms licence was already lengthy and cumbersome and officers were adding more conditions to make it stringent.
30-07-2020||---||Probe into swapping of bodies underway: Punjab to High Court||Chandigarh, July 29Just about 10 days after two brothers alleged that the body handed over to them after their father’s purported Covid death was actually that of a woman, a Subdivisional Magistrate (SDM) has been asked to hold an inquiry into the swapping of the bodies.As the case came up for resumed hearing before Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill’s Bench, the state counsel submitted that an SDM was conducting the inquiry into “the swapping of Pritam Singh’s body with that of Padma and the inquiry was handed over to the officer on July 19” even before the petition was taken up for the first time by the High Court.“Let the state inform this court regarding the proceedings initiated by the inquiry officer on the next date of hearing,” Justice Gill asserted, while fixing the case for August 7.The Bench, on the previous date of hearing, was told that the last remains of the deceased, Pritam Singh, were collected by the district administration and kept in safe custody at a crematorium.The Bench also took note of the fact that the counsels for both parties had sought time to explore the feasibility of DNA examination of the cremated remains to ascertain identity of the deceased.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after a petition was filed by Gurcharanjit Singh and another petitioner. Among other things, it was contended by the petitioners that their father Pritam Singh was diagnosed Covid-positive on July 1.The next day he was admitted to Rayat Bahra University (Covid Isolation Centre) at Hoshiarpur. But he was shifted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, on July 5. The Bench was also told that one of the brothers was also admitted to the same ward.“On July 18, a message was received that the petitioners’ father has breathed his last on July 17 on 11 pm. The petitioners received the mortal remains alleged to be that of their father at Mukerian, which was transported in an ambulance. However, the mortal remains were found to be that of a woman...” it was added.
30-07-2020||Balwant Garg||Punjab Education Department tells private schools to pay for lectures on DD||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 29Two months after the Education Department started telecasting lectures on Doordarshan for primary, middle, high and senior secondary students due to the lockdown, the department has now asked 8,623 private recognised schools to pay annual charges for the DTH services.A letter issued by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on Wednesday reads, “Punjab is fighting social and economic crisis due to Covid-19 outbreak. As a result, all private recognised schools need to pay annual lump sum fee as financial assistance to the Board.”Senior secondary private schools have been asked to deposit Rs 8,400 annually while high, middle and primary schools have been asked to shell out Rs 6,000, Rs 2,400 and Rs 1,200, respectively.Punjab has a total of 811 primary, 2,404 middle, 2,635 high and 2,773 senior secondary private schools, recognised by the department and affiliated to the PSEB.From May 19, the department has been telecasting lectures on DD Punjab (DTH) for all classes.These lectures, including videos, images, interactive exercise, quizzes, exercises and feedback, have been prepared by the Punjab Information and Communication Education Society (PICTES).These lectures were meant for over 26 lakh students in 19,103 government schools, 24 lakh students in 8,623 private recognised schools and around 60,000 students in 338 private unrecognised (affiliated) and unrecognised schools in the state.While the department had started online classes on YouTube and Whatsapp, after receiving complaints that a large number of students, particularly in rural areas, didn’t have access to smartphones, the department decided to start free-to-air DTH channel, said a senior official.“Preparing lectures is an economic burden on the PSEB and the department. To compensate it to some extent, the department is levying fee on private schools,” said the official.A management member of a private school said, “We were urging the PSEB to return exam fee, which it had collected as exams were not conducted. However, it has imposed another liability on us in the name of a DTH service.”Telecast since May 19
30-07-2020||---||No tag, family takes wrong body from Patiala hospital||Patiala, July 29In a major goof-up, the body of a Covid patient was allegely swapped at the mortuary of Government Rajindra Hospital today.The family members of a Ludhiana resident, who died of Covid on Tuesday, took the body in the ambulance today. When they reached Ludhiana, they realised that the body was not of their family member. Consequently, it was brought back to the hospital’s mortuary. In the evening, the family members identified the deceased and took the corpse.‘Attendant’s error’We have handed over the body to the family members. The son of the deceased mistakenly identified the wrong body and has admitted his mistake. — Dr Preetinder Chahal, CoordinatorIt has been learnt that the family had taken the body of a Sangrur resident, who was a suspected Covid patient.However, officials at the mortuary refuted any negligence on their part. They said the body sent to them did not have any identification tag. Moreover, the body was identified by the deceased’s son.Dr Preetinder Chahal, coordinator, dead body disposal department, said, “We have already handed over the right body to the family members. Moreover, the son of the deceased had identified the body and admitted his mistake.” The son had given in writing that due to stress, he could not recognise his father.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “The son of the deceased has apologised to the department. However, how come the body didn’t have a tag is a matter of concern.”
30-07-2020||---||High Court: Look into  violation of norms at political meets||Chandigarh, July 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the state government to consider issues raised in two petitions filed in public interest on holding of political meetings and congregations in contravention of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines and use of beacon lights on private vehicles by elected representatives. The orders came with a rider that the petitioner would first approach the respondent-authorities with a copy of the order and the petition.The directions by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came on the petitions filed by Simranjeet Singh against the state government and other respondents. In one of the petitions, he alleged violation of the MHA guidelines and government orders issued under the Disaster Management Act regarding preventive and precautionary measures required to be taken during the Covid-19 pandemic.It was alleged that political meetings and congregations were taking place in contravention of the MHA guidelines. In spite of the complaints, action was not taken by the respondent-authorities.In the other petition, he alleged misuse of powers by the elected representatives by modifying private vehicles fitted with red-blue beacon and siren, besides other violations of the Motor Vehicles Act and a Supreme Court judgment. The state counsel, in both cases, submitted that the petitioner’s representation would be looked into and decided by the respondent-authorities and action would be taken in accordance with the law.
30-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar lab samples sent for audit to PGI||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 29The district administration today sent 15 random samples from the local Patel Hospital lab to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, for an audit after an inquiry was sought into anomalies in Covid-positive test reports at the hospital.Isha Kalia, Special Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, sought an audit of Covid testing at Patel Hospital by the Director, PGIMER, citing an unusually high positivity rate of 26.34 per cent. The hospital authorities have, however, claimed that they wouldsubmit the “actual data” to the authorities so that the “error” could be corrected.The special secretary had asked the district administration to send 15 random samples (10 positive, five negative) for the audit. In her letter to Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, she wrote: “It is noticed that they (Patel Hospital authorities) are reporting 26.4 per cent positivity in samples tested by them. This is very high as compared to any other government/ private lab. It is requested that the PGIMER may conduct an audit of the lab. The district administration shall choose 10 random positive samples and five random negative samples for sending to you for the audit.”The development has come amidst an inquiry ordered by the Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, into the testing by Patel Hospital and its lab in Jalandhar. The inquiry was ordered on July 23 on a complaint filed by a resident who claimed that the hospital charged Rs 5,500 for an RT-PCR test, even though the price had been capped at Rs 2,400 by the state government. The report of inquiry into overcharging is still pending.In a detailed rebuttal issued by the hospital, it claimed: “The information regarding Patel Hospital having a positivity rate of 26.34 per cent is wrong. As per data submitted to the ICMR, the actual figure is 59 positive tests from a total of 413 tests, indicating a positivity of 14.28 per cent, which is half of the claimed value and comparable with other labs. This data will be submitted to local authorities as directed so that the error can be corrected.”‘Unusually high positivity rate’
30-07-2020||---||Covid-19: Toll spikes, 25 more succumb in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 29The state today reported record 25 Covid-19 deaths, taking the total death toll to 361. Of the 25 deaths, 10 were reported from Jalandhar, nine from Ludhiana, three from Amritsar, two from Gurdaspur and one from Patiala.Besides, as many as 568 fresh cases were also reported in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid count to 14,946 in the state. The worst-affected districts were Ludhiana (95 cases), followed by Patiala (86), Amritsar (77), Jalandhar (45), Barnala and Gurdaspur (35 each), SAS Nagar and Fatehgarh Sahib (31 each) and Sangrur (30).The deadly virus snuffed out the lives of three septuagenarians in Amritsar, following which the toll in the district increased to 75. The deceased have been identified as 79-year-old Anil Mehra, a resident of Jaj Nagar, and 75-year-old Vidyawati, a resident of Shakti Nagar. The details of the third death were not provided by the district health authorities as it had taken place in another district. The health authorities stated that both patients had co-morbidities.Among the new cases were five police personnel, a health official and 23 contacts of previously positive cases.In Jalandhar, 47 persons tested positive and four died today, taking the case count to 2,165. BJP leader Mahinder Bhagat was among those who tested Covid-positive.As many as 10 persons died in the district in the past 24 hours. With this, the number of the deceased in Jalandhar district has risen to 49. While four persons died yesterday, another passed away today. Among the deceased was a 46-year-old man from Jalandhar Heights society.Later, his wife was also tested positive for Covid. The other fresh cases were reported from Ashok Vihar, Mohalla Qadian, Hargobind Nagar, Phillaur, Apra, Saifabad, Ali Mohalla, Kila Road, Link Road, Garden Colony, Jyoti Nagar, among other areas.
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gets 15 more TruNaat test machines||In order to effectively handle the Covid-19 challenge, Punjab is using innovative methods for early detection and testing. Hence, the state government has procured 15 more TruNaat machines for testing so that patients are detected, tested and isolated early. Now, total 30 machines are functional in government hospitals.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Singh Sidhu said guidelines had already been issued to all government health facilities in the state for TruNaat testing. Suspected patients among Covid warriors like healthcare workers, doctors, policemen, administrative officials, pregnant women and emergency surgery patients shall be prioritised for this testing.Amritsar, SAS Nagar and Jalandhar have been allocated two machines each, Ludhiana three while other districts have been given one machine each in government hospitals, he said. — TNS
30-07-2020||---||Dhindsa acting at BJP’s behest, says Brahmpura||Amritsar, July 29Taking a dig at rebel Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, SAD (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura today alleged that the Dhindsa-led SAD was conceptualised at the behest of the BJP, which intended to snap its ties with the SAD in Punjab.He alleged: “The BJP does not want to bet on a sinking ship for the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections. Dhindsa, who has close ties with the BJP at the Centre, thus formed a parallel party to take on the Badals.”Brahmpura said he wanted to unite like-minded parties on one platform to offer the people of Punjab a third option.“I had even offered Dhindsa to lead SAD (Taksali), but he opted to float a new party and kept me in the dark. Nevertheless, we are conducting a membership drive. We are in alliance with some parties like the BSP, AAP and the Punjab Ekta Party,” he said.On Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, he said: “Once Sidhu quits the Congress, we will go barefoot to welcome him into the party fold.”Student body members join Dhindsa groupChandigarh: Satnam Singh Kahlon of the All India Sikh Student Federation and his supporters on Wednesday joined the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa camp. In a statement, Kahlon appealed to the youth to join hands to fight against those “who have worked against the Sikh community”. TNS
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Minister: No UAPA misuse, Akalis inciting youth||Taking strong exception to the so-called “warning” by Sukhbir Singh Badal on recent arrests under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said he would do everything under the law to protect the security and integrity of Punjab and of the nation. He said the SAD president’s “threats” could not deter him from ensuring the safety of his people.‘Baseless charge ’If there are any specific instances of wrongful arrests, Sukhbir should send me a list instead of making unnecessary noise. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterThere was no question of falsely implicating anyone, he said, urging the SAD chief to refrain from playing into the hands of separatists by trying to incite the state’s youth, especially Sikhs, against the police force.Sukhbir Badal , SAD Chief‘Don’t target sikhs’The CM’s reaction is a reproduction of the old Indira Gandhi narrative and statements against the community, describing every Sikh youth as a potential terrorist. Pointing out that UAPA had been in existence for long, the Chief Minister reminded Sukhbir that under the SAD-BJP regime, more than 60 cases under the Act were registered in Punjab. Of the 225 individuals arrested in these cases, 120 were acquitted or discharged, indicating that indiscriminate application of the UAPA had in fact been done by the Akalis, he alleged. — TNS
30-07-2020||Archit Watts||Locals on cloud nine as Muktsar pilot flies Rafale home||Tribune News ServiceGidderbaha/Muktsar, July 29Residents of Muktsar district had a reason to cheer today as one of the five Rafale fighter jets, which landed today in Ambala, was flown by Squadron Leader Ranjit Singh Sidhu, who belongs to Gidderbaha town here.Ranjit studied till Class XII at Malwa School in Gidderbaha. His teachers remember him as an all-rounder. “Ranjit was good in both studies and sports. Besides, he had leadership qualities as well. I interacted with him yesterday when he was in the UAE. I congratulated him for getting an opportunity to bring the fighter jet to our country. It is indeed a big achievement as the whole nation was glued to television screens to see the landing of fighter jets. We feel with his success, many others will get inspiration to join the armed forces,” said Jasbir Singh Brar, vice-principal, Malwa School, Gidderbaha.He said, “Ranjit did his Class XII in 1999 and got inspiration to join the Indian Air Force from the then principal Venu Gopal, a retired squadron leader himself. Ranjit cleared his NDA exam in 2000. Whenever he comes to Gidderbaha, he never forgets to visit the school. Ranjit’s father Gurmeet Singh has retired from the Revenue Department. His parents now reside in Gidderbaha, but they have gone to Canada to the meet their daughter, who is married there.”Notably, Malwa School is run by a trust formed by former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal’s family. The former CM himself is the chairman of the trust. Ranjit’s uncle Gurdarshan Singh said, “Ranjit had earlier gone to bring the Sukhoi jet. Now, he went to France to bring the Rafale. His love for the Air Force started when he was studying in Class X.”Meanwhile, Harvinder Singh, a resident of Gidderbaha, said, “It is a proud moment for Gidderbaha town and Muktsar district. Everyone is wishing for the bright future of Ranjit, who has already achieved a lot.”
