30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder announces ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh, job to family member of slain soldier||Punjab Chief Minister  Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced an ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh and a government job to a family member of Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh, who was killed in unprovoked firing by Pakistan troops along the LoC in Rajouri.The soldier of 1 Sikh Light Infantry unit was seriously injured in the firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. He later succumbed to the injuries.Paying homage to the slain soldier and extending his sympathy to the bereaved family, the chief minister in a statement said that Rajwinder Singh was a brave and highly motivated soldier.The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty, he said.Rajwinder Singh, whose father late Havildar Jagir Singh also served in the army, hailed from Goindwal village of Tarn Taran district near Amritsar.He is survived by his mother, wife Manpreet Kaur, son Jobanjeet Singh (16) and daughter Pawanpreet (15), a state government statement said. — PTI
30-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 240 COVID cases in new single-day high||Mohali reported 240 new coronavirus cases and two deaths---the highest single-day spike the district has seen yet in its infection tally---district officials said on Sunday.Two women---a 40-year-old from Bhagomajra and a 55-year-old from Baltana---died on Sunday. The victim from Bhagomajra died at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, the officials said. She was diabetic, and had liver problems and hypertension.The second person died at GMCH Patiala, officials said.    Mohali urban reported 92 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday---the highest number of cases it has seen thus far. Gharuan (56), Dhakoli (46), Kharar (31), Lalru (10), Dera Bassi (5) and Kurali (2) also added to the count.The development takes Mohali’s infection count to 3,666 cases, about 44 per cent of which are still active. Mohali’s death count now stands at 73.  Meanwhile, 104 people were released from hospitals after recovery, officials said.The development also comes on a day when Chandigarh reported seven deaths---the highest single-day rise in fatality count it has seen so far---and 170 new cases, and Panchukla saw 77 new infections.Tricity’s total single-day count on Sunday was 487.  Where Mohali stands  Total cases: 3666Active: 1627Cured:1966Deaths: 73
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports record 56 deaths; 1,689 fresh Covid cases||Punjab has reported a record 56 fatalities due to the coronavirus and the death toll in the state now stands at 1,404, according to a medical bulletin issued on Sunday.Earlier, the maximum deaths reported in a day was 51.The COVID-19 tally has increased to 52,526 after 1,689 cases were reported in the state on Sunday, it said.Fifteen deaths were reported from Ludhiana, eight from Patiala, seven from Jalandhar, five from Sangrur, four each from Bathinda and Kapurthala, three from Amritsar and two each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Hoshiarpur, and one each from Ferozepur, Pathankot, Muktsar, Mohali, Faridkot and Moga districts, as per the medical bulletin.Among the places which reported new cases were Ludhiana (273), Patiala (188), Jalandhar (150), Mohali (148), Gurdaspur (136), Amritsar (111), Fazilka (68) and Bathinda (65).A total of 1,656 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. So far 35,747 people have been cured of the infection, the bulletin said.There are 15,375 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.Seventy-seven critical patients are on ventilator support while 474 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.With a collection of 19,667 more samples for COVID-19 testing, the figure of total samples taken so far for testing has reached 10,46,132 in the state, it said. — PTI
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||AAP, SAD demand CBI probe into alleged multi-crore post-matric SC scholarship scam||The AAP and SAD in Punjab on Sunday demanded a CBI probe into the alleged multi-crore post-matric SC scholarship scam in which cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot’s name figures.Both the parties also questioned Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s decision of directing the chief secretary probe the case, asking how can the chief secretary conduct an unbiased probe against a cabinet minister.On Saturday, the chief minister had said anyone found guilty of complicity in the alleged scholarship scam would not be spared.His statement came amid the opposition’s demand for the resignation of Dharamsot over his alleged role in the case.The AAP demanded that the CBI investigate the case under the supervision of a high court judge.Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema alleged that the chief minister was trying to save his minister.“The process of getting a clean chit from the chief secretary has started. This is a double deception with Punjab, especially with several Dalit students whose bright future has been scuttled..,” Cheema said in a statement here.The AAP leader termed the chief secretary’s probe a futile exercise aimed at diverting people’s attention. He said his party rejects such a probe.Taking a dig at the chief minister for calling the Aam Aadmi Party a “rouge party”, Cheema said the AAP will go to any extent to protect the interest of the people of Punjab as well as the country.“The Aam Aadmi Party, which came into existence as a result of a mass movement against the corrupt system, does not need any certificate from Amarinder Singh,” he said.The Shiromani Akali Dal also rejected the chief secretary’s probe, saying this was nothing but an exercise “to secure a clean chit for Scheduled Caste and Backward Classes minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot”. It also demanded a CBI probe into the alleged scam.The SAD demanded that Dharamsot be sacked and a criminal case registered against him besides a separate case under the Prevention of Atrocities Act “for playing with the future of lakhs of Dalit students in the state”.The chief minister had on Saturday said nobody could be put on the mat without a fair probe and proper inquiry, which Dharamsot also deserved.“There is rule of law which needs to be followed,” he had said, adding that he would not succumb to opposition trial in the case.Some news reports claimed that a probe into the post-matric SC scholarship scheme by the additional chief secretary discovered a Rs 55.71-crore scam.The report also questioned the role of Social Justice Minister Dharamsot in allegedly shielding those involved in the scam. — PTI
30-08-2020||Amritsar||COVID-19 positive Amritsar civil hospital's medical officer dies at 53||A senior medical officer and the in-charge of the Amritsar Civil Hospital, who had tested positive for COVID-19 last week, died of a heart attack on Sunday, officials said.Arun Sharma, 53, was undergoing treatment in the city-based private hospital for the last 10 days.The officials said that he had also developed a severe lung infection.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoled the death of Sharma, saying he was saddened to lose "one of our hardworking corona warriors"."He passed away this morning of a heart attack & was also Covid19 positive. It's sad to lose such a brilliant & committed doctor. Heartfelt condolences to his family,” the chief minister tweeted.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who attended the cremation, said Sharma will always be remembered as a true corona warrior for his services.He said the doctor was put on a ventilator after developing complications."Intensivist from PGIMER was guiding his clinical management and the state was preparing to airlift him to PGI at Chandigarh or Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. Unfortunately, this morning he had a cardiac arrest and passed away," Sidhu said.Sharma is survived by his wife, daughter and son.He also served as a blood transfusion officer during which he also played a key role to establish a blood bank in Amritsar. --- PTI
30-08-2020||Barnala||SSP among 38 to test positive in Barnala||Barnala Senior Superintendent of Police was among 38 people to test positive for coronavirus on Sunday, Barnala district officials said. “Barnala SSP has tested Covid-19 positive today. He isolated himself at his official residence a few days ago as he is asymptomatic. We are checking whether he needs to be shifted to covid care centre,” Barnala Civil Surgeon GB Singh said.Twenty-nine of Sunday’s 38 cases were from Barnala health block, four were from Dhanaula, three from Mehal Kalan and two from Tapa.Besides, three people died of COVID-19 in Sangrur on Sunday, officials said.A 63-year-old man from Dhuri, a 66-year-old man from Bhawanigarh and 72-year-old woman from Sangrur died, officials said.
30-08-2020||---||Social media influencer arrested for spreading Covid-19 rumours in Patiala||Patiala, August 30A social media influencer, Greesh Bhatt, has been arrested by Patiala police for spreading rumours on social media.Bhatt had uploaded a video on his Instagram account on Saturday alleging that health and police authorities were deliberately turning people positive for Covid-19. Bhatt, who has also worked in movie 'Dangal', had alleged that doctors were stealing organs.In the video, he alleged it was a scam and made an appeal to people not to visit hospital at any cost.Police have booked Greesh Bhatt under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 54 of Disaster Management Act.The police said the accused has been arrested and further investigation was under way.The action came after health and police officials faced stiff resistance from people over coronavirus sampling. In fact, many villages have already passed resolution to boycott health officials.A 22-year-old youngster was also arrested by Patiala Police for spreading rumours. The accused has been identified as Sarabjot Singh.SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said residents should not pay any heed to rumours and cooperate with health officials and district administration to win fight against coronavirus.
30-08-2020||Kolkata||Sikh soldier on British Army homepage warms the hearts of Kolkata Sikhs||The featuring of a Sikh soldier on the homepage of the official website of the British Army has warmed the hearts of Kolkata-based Sikhs, many of whom are posting the link on their respective Facebook pages.“The Sikhs, wherever they go, leave a mark by their good work. Chamandeep’s story also shows how versatile the community members are,” said Jagmohan Singh Gill, Kolkata-based Sikh researcher and chief of the Punjabi Sahitya Sabha.“Sikhs have been an integral part of the British Army. It is good to see the story of a Sikh soldier on the homepage of the British Army,” said Bhupinder Singh, poet and executive with a city mall.My hubby has been promoted!!! So proud and bursting with joy. This man has worked so hard to get promoted and i couldn’t be happier! Hes a great role model. But super super talented. 🥰💪🏼 pic.twitter.com/UkxfCVlUEhCorporal Chamandeep Singh, a soldier in The Royal Logistic Corps of the British army, has become a Twitter sensation in the corps after his wife, Ceese Kaur Seera, tweeted of his recent promotion.According to the official website of the British Army (army.mod.uk), the tweet by Ceese, intended for family and friends, received 7,200 likes and over 500 retweets and comments. The British found the response “unexpected yet positive”.Chamandeep, whose father was with the Indian Army, was born in Punjab and attended a military school in India for 12 years. According to the piece on Chamandeep posted on British Army homepage, he read a good deal about Havildar Major Rajinder Singh Dhatt who participated in the Burma Campaign during WWII as a member of the British Indian Army. Dhatt's story inspired Chamandeep to move to the UK and join the British Army.Acknowledging the “fierce fighting ability, bravery and loyalty” of the Sikhs, the piece says Chamandeep “is extremely proud to be part of the 150 Sikhs serving in the Regular Army”.Ceese Kaur Seera works as a Forensic Scene Investigations Officer and is also the National Lead for The National Sikh Police Association.“We support each other by having a mutual understanding that is built on teamwork and trust. As a Sikh, it’s so wonderful for our community to see soldiers going up the ranks and achieving so much,” Ceese has been quoted to have said.Chamandeep was posted to 22 Signals Regiment in October 2017 where he now works as part of the Unit Spares Account providing first-line equipment support to the Light Aid Detachment.“I just couldn’t believe how many people from all around the world shared and commented on my wife’s tweet; it made me feel so proud to be a Sikh soldier and serve this country,” Chamandeep has been quoted to have said.In addition to his military role, Chamamdeep also thrives as an Engagement Representative for the Defence Sikh Network, of which he has been a part of for the last five years.Formerly known as the British Armed Forces Sikh Association, the Defence Sikh Network aims to unite and support Sikh personnel, veterans and MoD civil servants in Britain.
30-08-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Was busy maintaining my physique during lockdown, says Khali||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 29Jalandhar had been his training ground and launching pad for WWE wrestling. Having returned from the US about six years ago, the city is now a home and workplace both for The Great Khali aka Dalip Singh Rana.He runs his Continental Wrestling Entertainment Academy at Kangniwal village here since January 2015 that has over 400 trainees from across the country.“Thankfully, I was in Jalandhar with my wife Harminder Kaur and my daughter Avleen, when the lockdown was announced. In all these days, I could do nothing except maintaining my physique. I am following a long and rigorous schedule of exercise in the gym at my place. Nearly five-six family members, including my nephews, stay with me and we all have a great time,” says the ace wrestler, who turned 48 this Thursday.The seven feet one inch tall wrestler said: “The lockdown has slowed down everything for me. My trainees, who are from Mumbai, Madhya Pradesh, Chhatisgarh, UP and Haryana, had all gone back to their places. But now, the boys have started returning. I have 12-13 boys, who have resumed their training with me. My main trainers, who were from the US, have not been able to return. So far, I have been managing the academy with my local trainers and I, too, have been spending a lot of time with them. The boys organised my birthday celebration as well in the academy two days ago.”Having entered the wrestling career at the age of 26, he said: “I start taking boys of age 12 onwards. It is easier to train them as they are quick learners. They get lodging, diet and even attend school, college classes to continue with their education from here.”Now a millionaire, Khali makes a point sharing this as he had to drop from school in his early childhood for not having been able to pay Rs2.50 as fee. In his childhood, he even had to indulge in labour by crushing stones and doing gardening to support his family.A native of Himachal Pradesh, Khali, who got his name after the Goddess Kali, whom he worshipped, says some girls were also training under him, but had not yet returned because of the prevailing conditions. Asked if he intended to train his daughter as well, he replied: “She is too small as of now. No one from my family, including my nephews, has yet turned to join the game.”Asked if the former WWE wrestler, who had beaten the likes of internationally known WWE names like ‘The Undertaker’, Kane, Big Show, John Cena and Shawn Michaels, was playing tournaments and maintaining his diet even today, he shared: “I do participate in tournaments in between, but not the way I used to do earlier. I do go to WWE sometimes. I am trying to maintain the same diet, but may be it is not as rich now.”Khali is learnt to be concentrating on setting up a network of new academies in neighbouring states of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, too, as it is his birth place, for which he has now started travelling off and on. Khali recalls the days when he was picked by the Punjab Police for training him in sports after spotting him as a tall guy deployed as a security guard in Himachal. He was inducted in the Punjab Police in 1993, remained posted in the Punjab Armed Police headquarters in Jalandhar and last served as the ASI.“I left the job long ago,” he quips, but will continue to stay put here....Daughter too small to be trained in wrestling
30-08-2020||Renu Sud Sinha||How Vikas Khanna's tweet led to 30 million meals||In another two days, Feed India Initiative will have completed five months of its tenacious journey of feeding millions in more than 135 cities across India during the pandemic. The man spearheading this campaign is New York-based Vikas Khanna, a Michelin-starred chef for the world, but a humble man at heart from ‘Guru ki Nagri’ Amritsar.Read also: ‘What he is doing comes from that space – langar sewa’The campaign has crossed the 30 million-meal (cooked and dry ration) mark, but food is not the only thing Vikas and his team of volunteers are providing. Also on the list are 400,000 slippers, 3 million sanitary pads and 2 million masks. While he’s been too busy to calculate the overall cost, “on a rough estimate, it should be around $10 million”, says Vikas. The campaign, however, has zero-administrative cost, as it is being managed by a team of 60 volunteers, in India and the US.From his house in Manhattan, he shares an interesting anecdote that led to the foundation of this vast effort. In March-end, he received a mail from an old-age home in India, seeking donation for its inmates, stuck during the lockdown. He immediately transferred some money, but the mail turned out to be a spam. However, it set him thinking about the plight of the less fortunate during the pandemic. Having been associated with such endeavours before, he was aware that most orphanages, old-age homes, and other such institutes run from month to month in terms of rations, donations, etc, and would be hugely affected by the pandemic. And that’s how the idea of Feed India came into being.Feed India, or Barkat as he calls it, started with a single tweet on April 1. Vikas asked his 2.3 million followers on Twitter to go to their neighbourhood orphanages, old-age homes, leprosy centres and check if the inmates needed ration or food.Soon, the messages grew faster than the Covid cases across India, and he and his volunteers were quick to respond.A basic kit of essentials, including hygiene essentials, was put together. Each bag consisted of ration items, essential supplies, sanitisers, sanitary napkins, detergent and sometimes even chocolate, along with slippers, water bottles, etc.From institutes of destitution, his campaign soon extended to migrants walking home, street vendors, Mumbai’s dabbawalas, boatmen and craftsmen in Varanasi, inmates of widow ashrams, people with disabilities, transgenders, sex workers, AIDS patients, anyone and everyone in need.As Vikas was managing everything from the US, there were some logistical issues — unscrupulous vendors, dishonest suppliers, vanishing supply trucks, payments that had to be paid twice. He almost gave up but his mother — the anchor who keeps him rooted, as he puts it — reminded him how having achieved his dream of becoming a top chef despite odds, he could not be scared of these little singes.He reached out to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in mid-April. By then, the NDRF had already been working with the pandemic-affected in different states.But didn’t the NDRF find the proposal of a celebrity chef sitting across oceans a little farfetched? Says Satya Narayan Pradhan, Director-General of the NDRF, “His commitment, authenticity and straight-forwardness came across loud and clear. And this partnership has moved from strength to strength because of the synergy in sincerity from both sides.”Vikas has spent millions from his own funds to kickstart the campaign and keep it going. Collaborations, in both cash and kind, with brands came much later. India Gate rice management was the first to approach him in mid-April. Since then, there have more than 50 Indian and international collaborators, including Tata, Procter & Gamble, Paytm, Patanjali, etc. The latest on board is Crown Rice. It has committed 1 lakh kg of rice for Feed India’s Ganesh Chaturthi prasadam drive in Mumbai on September 1.Many individuals have also pitched in, including artist and architect Tarik Currimbhoy, Sandie Tillotson (NuSkin), Heather Ibrahim-Leathers (Global Fund for Widows), social entrepreneur Payal Tulsiyan, and of course, the man of the moment, Sonu Sood. The two Punjabi boys came together to help migrants reach home — Sonu was taking care of transportation and Vikas was providing them with meals on the way. For this initiative, Vikas had come up with an innovative plan. He reached out to Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and converted at least 100 fuel stations on the highways of UP, MP and Maharashtra into kitchens from where the weary migrants could have a hot meal on the go.The one lesson from the pandemic, says Vikas, has been the “resilience of mankind and its solidarity”.With the end of the pandemic nowhere in sight, how long can he sustain Feed India? “I signed two book deals last week, and the proceeds will go into funding the drive. More brands are coming forward. I tweeted about it last week and there were 16 mails within 30 minutes.”On what makes him go on, he says, “My faith in my Guru, Guru Nanak Dev, and my promise to my mother that I will see it through. She didn’t raise a quitter.” She did not.
30-08-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh orders probe into scholarship scam||Chandigarh, August 29Making it clear that nobody found guilty of complicity in the alleged scholarship scam would be spared, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today asked the Chief Secretary to conduct a thorough inquiry into the case.Sack minister: AAPReiterating his demand for immediate dismissal of Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, AAP state president Bhagwant Mann said if the ruling Congress did not sack the minister, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi would have to give an explanation on the issue during the monsoon session of Parliament.Rs 959 cr fraud: BJPThe BJP claimed the scholarship scam, said to be of Rs55 crore, was in fact not less than Rs959 crore. Meanwhile, Union Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday requested Union Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thawar Chand Gehlot to recommend a CBI inquiry into the scam.Dharamsot deserves fair probeNobody can be put on the mat without a fair investigation, which Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot also deserves. There is a rule of law which needs to be followed. - Capt Amarinder Singh, CM“Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan will look into all aspects of the case, and anyone found involved, whatever his position within or outside the government, will be penalised and punished in accordance with the legal provisions,” said the Chief Minister. Law will take its course, he added.Capt Amarinder said nobody could be put on the mat without a fair probe and proper inquiry, which Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot also deserved. “There is a rule of law, which needs to be followed,” said the Chief Minister, adding that he would not succumb to Opposition trial in the case.However, there was no question of protecting or shielding anyone, and action under the law would be taken against anyone found guilty of any involvement in the case, he added.The Chief Minister also lashed out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for behaving like a rogue party by baying for Dharamsot’s blood without a proper inquiry.“Are we living in a state of anarchy, with no rule of law?” Capt Amarinder asked, reacting strongly to the “completely unwarranted and uncalled demand” of AAP and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLAs, who had yesterday created a din in the Vidhan Sabha over the issue.
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||‘Partap Singh Bajwa behaving like opposition leader’||Ridiculing Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa for “trying to score political points” over the Rs 55.71 crore scholarship scam, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said if he believed in following “jungle raj”, he would have sacked Bajwa back in 2002-2007 when the then PWD minister was under the scanner in the bitumen scam and some other cases.Reacting to Bajwa’s demand for the resignation of Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Capt Amarinder said the Rajya Sabha MP was behaving like an Opposition leader whose only agenda was to attack the government on every issue. The Chief Minister took on Bajwa for jumping at every opportunity to criticise his own government, “like a two-bit Opposition leader who had no constructive issue to raise”. — TNS
30-08-2020||---||SAD used Covid excuse to avoid voting on ordinances, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, August 29Chief Minister Capt Amarinder today dismissed the Akali charge of running away from burning issues on the pretext of Covid. He said it was the SAD which had taken refuge in the pandemic to keep away from yesterday’s session, as it did not want to be a party to the resolution rejecting the anti-farmer ordinances of the Central government.Avoid protestsIf the Akalis are really concerned about the spread of Covid and heeded the advice to stay away from the House on this ground, then why are they continuing with their street protests? - Capt Amarinder Singh, CMHaving supported the ordinances as part of the NDA-ruled Central government, the Akalis could not afford to vote for the resolution, and yet did not want to appear to be anti-farmer, said the Chief Minister, adding that in the circumstances, they found an easy way out in the guise of the pandemic to stay out of the Vidhan Sabha completely.“The Speaker and I had only appealed to those MLAs who had come in contact with any infected legislators not to attend the session, but not a single Akali member turned up for the session,” said Capt Amarinder. It was clear that the Akalis were running away, he said, adding that at no point were Opposition MLAs asked not to attend the session and the appeal/advice was for all members, including the ruling party.“In any case, if the Akalis are really concerned about spreading the Covid and heeded the advice to stay away from the House on this ground, then why are they continuing with their street protests despite my repeated pleas to all political parties not to indulge in such activities, which endanger the lives of our people?” he asked.
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Book Congress MLAs for violations: Akalis to Speaker||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today asked the Vidhan Sabha Speaker, Rana KP Singh, to register a criminal case against Congress MLA Kulbir Singh Zira for putting Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the entire Assembly at risk.SAD leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said the party expected the Speaker to act in a totally unbiased manner keeping in view the rich traditions of the Vidhan Sabha.Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said, “If the Speaker does not act and plays a partisan role to justify the illegal acts of Zira as well as of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who was supposed to follow Covid-19 protocols, the SAD will be forced to seek removal of the Speaker.” The duo said Zira tested positive on August 26 in Ferozepur. — TNS
30-08-2020||Saurabh Malik---||High Court to examine if tweets by officials have authority or not||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 29 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made clear its intent to examine whether tweets by the government authorities — virtually considered analogous to official declarations — have administrative backing and governmental force. The decision by the Division Bench of Justices Rajan Gupta and Karamjit Singh to assess whether the tweets have their foundation in the official files came during the hearing of a petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents by Abhay Mohan through counsel Prateek Gupta. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Prateek contended that he was not able to apply for National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (UG), 2020, as he had secured admission to Carleton College in USA for the session commencing in September. However, the borders of various countries were sealed following the Covid pandemic. It was then the petitioner noticed a tweet by the “Education Minister of India” stating: “Students who dropped the idea to study abroad, here is your chance to pursue your studies in India. I have advised @ DG-NTA to give one more opportunity to students to submit new/complete online application form for JEE (Main) 2020. Hurry! Forms available till May 24.” Taking a note of the arguments, Justice Gupta asserted on behalf of the Bench that the petitioner had a legitimate expectation that the benefit promised in the tweet to the contenders for the engineering course would be extended to the aspiring students of the medical stream as well.  “Under normal circumstances, we would not have taken the tweet into consideration. But it is being noticed that tweets by the official authorities have now started occupying the importance of official declarations. We are not aware whether such declarations are backed by any official file in which the entire issue is dealt with,” Justice Gupta asserted. Faced with the situation, the counsel appearing for the Union of India and other respondents prayed for some time to seek instructions.
30-08-2020||---||Akal Takht to felicitate founder of radical outfit, may stoke row||Amritsar, August 29Akal Takht’s decision to felicitate 11 Sikhs, including the founder of a radical outfit, the Dal Khalsa, Bhai Gajinder Singh, who had hijacked an Indian aircraft in 1981, is likely to court a controversy. He would be conferred with the ‘Panth Sewak’ award.The decision was taken in a meeting of the five Sikh high priests on August 24. Four awards would be given posthumously.Earlier, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had courted a controversy by endorsing a separate Sikh state during the 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar on June 7.SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said the party was not aware of the decision taken by the Akal Takht. He said their outfit was dedicated to the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs (Akal Takht). It is pertinent to mention that Gajinder was allegedly involved in the hijacking of Indian Airlines (Boeing 737) to Lahore in 1981. The Pakistan Government had sentenced him to 14 years in jail. His name had figured in the list of most-wanted criminals, submitted by the Indian Government to Pakistan in 2002.
30-08-2020||GS Paul||Missing ‘saroops’: Regular audit could have avoided controversy, says SGPC member||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 29Resentment prevails over the action of the SGPC against its officials for their alleged involvement in the misappropriation of ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib.The SGPC neither clarified the grounds on which the officials were punished, nor did it tell about the whereabouts of the missing ‘saroops’.The members said deputy secretary Gurbachan Singh, who pointed out the discrepancies, was wrongly targeted.Senior SGPC member Kiranjot Kaur said the irregularities could have been avoided had the audit been done regularly and in a transparent manner.“When it was in the knowledge of the authorities, why didn’t they respond? Many officials are still enjoying immunity. A pick-and-choose policy was adopted,” she said.She said “like-minded” SGPC members would soon lodge their protest.On July 11, 2018, a government-appointed auditing firm had apprised the SGPC in writing about the “non-cooperative” behaviour of a deputy secretary and the internal audit firm hired by the committee in procuring reports and records.A representative of the firm confirmed that in a detailed letter addressed to the authorities, the irregularities were mentioned, but no action was taken.The Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), the foremost complainant of missing ‘saroops’, demanded information about the ‘saroops’ that skipped the records.SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh said criminal proceedings would be initiated against the guilty officials. He said a sealed report of the probe panel was received from Akal Takht, which was opened before the executive members and the punishment was decided unanimously against those who were held responsible in the report.
30-08-2020||Bathinda||Provide relief or face stir, hotel owners tell government||Irked over not getting any help from the Union and state governments during the Covid-19 pandemic, hoteliers in Bathinda have warned of starting a protest.Punjab Hotel Association president Satish Arora today said for the first time in the history, the hospitality sector was seeing a situation where many hotels had been shut and many others were on the verge of closure in the state. Moreover, around 10 lakh workers had become jobless.The owners of a large numbers of budget hotels in the state had to sack more than 80 per cent staff and were now staring at bankruptcy with unpaid bills running into lakhs of rupees, he added.He said if the Punjab Government did not agree to their demands, they would stage a protest. Srora demanded that lease, licence, rentals and excise fee as well as property tax should be suspended from March 11 till the end of the pandemic. — TNS
30-08-2020||---||Faridkot NGO moves green tribunal to prevent axing of 20,000 trees||Faridkot, August 29After an NGO came out strongly against the axing of over 20,000 trees for widening of a road here, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has taken up the issue for hearing on September 1.Opposing the axing of trees for widening of National Highway No. 54 (Bathinda-Dabwali road), the Society for Ecological and Environment Resources (SEER) in Faridkot approached the NGT, suggesting a way under which roads could be widened only on its one side so that over 10,000 trees could be saved.After the SEER raised the issue in October 2019, the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had asked the Principal Secretary (Forests), Punjab, to consider the NGO’s suggestion.“As the state government is not taking a serious note of our concern, we were forced to approach the NGT,” said Karamjit Singh, president, SEER.“Usually, when the government starts widening of roads, thousands of fully grown trees are axed. This can be avoided if the government widens the roads only on its one side so that trees on the other side can be saved. In the urban areas of the country, we are already seeing a rise in air pollution,” said Sandeep Arora, a senior functionary of the SEER.The efforts to save trees started after the process to acquire land for the four-laning of the Bathinda-Dabwali Road, NH-54, started on June 28, 2019.
30-08-2020||---||233 receive job letters||Chandigarh, August 29 In order to fill vacancies in Government Medical Colleges of Patiala and Amritsar, Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni yesterday issued appointment letters to 233 employees of various categories, including 219 staff nurses, five radiographers and nine lab technicians, at his residence in Chandigarh. Soni said the appointment letters had been issued to two staff nurses today as a token while the other letters had been sent to 217 staff nurses by post. He said the selection of staff had been done purely on merit and the written test was conducted by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences.
30-08-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||10 workers suffer burns in furnace blast||Ten workers suffered burns after a blast at a furnace unit in Mandi Gobindgarh today.The injured have been identified as Narinder Kumar, Arun Kumar, Moin, Imran, Gian Parkash, Sukhnandan, Angani, Sahotia, Surinder Kumar and Sahiyan Khan.Senior Medical Officer Dr Bhupinder Singh said six workers who had suffered 60 per cent to 90 per cent burns, were referred to the GMCH-32, Chandigarh, and four were admitted to the Civil Hospital. — OC
30-08-2020||Parvesh Sharma||In Sangrur, demand for biogas plants gathers steam||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 29Biogas plants are getting a good response as their number has reached 17,300 in Sangrur district. Residents of rural areas are keen to shun the traditional methods of cooking. During the current financial year, the authorities have set a target to install 600 plants in the district while last year, it was 400.Highly beneficialAll villages must get biogas plants installed. Apart from gas, they also produce good quality of fertilisers for various crops. Like us, many more want to get them installed and have contacted the authorities concerned. - Lavjeet Singh, Resident“All villages must get biogas plants installed. Apart from gas, they also produce good quality of fertilisers for various crops. Like us, many more want to get them installed and have contacted the authorities concerned,” said Lavjeet Singh, a resident of Mehlan Chownk village of Sangrur.Some area farmers said since farmers’ inclination for organic farming had been increasing, the use of organic fertilisers produced by the plant helped in growing crops more effectively.The Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) authorities have got trained a team of experts from the Punjab Agricultural University to install plants with good-quality material.“A plant with a capacity of 4 to 6 cubic metres produces around two cylinders of gas within a month. The total expense of installation of each plant is around Rs 35,000 while the government gives a subsidy of Rs 12,000 for each plant. The number of gas plants has been increasing in the district,” said Rajesh Bansal, senior manager of PEDA in Sangrur.Sangrur ADC (Development) Rajinder Singh Batra said with the rise in literacy rate in rural areas, the use of biogas plants was on an all-time high in the district.“The smoke produced by the traditional method of cooking is detrimental to health. Residents are switching to the latest techniques of cooking now,” Batra said.
30-08-2020||---||Punjab Covid count crosses 50K||Chandigarh, August 29There seems to be no respite from the onslaught of Covid-19 in the state as 1,474 cases and 41 deaths were reported today. With these fresh cases, the state count has reached 50,848 and deaths 1,348. At present, there are 15,409 active cases and 34,091 persons have recovered from the disease so far.Among the worst-affected districts, Ludhiana topped the chart with 272 cases, followed by SAS Nagar (137), Ferozepur (119), Amritsar (114), Pathankot (81), Jalandhar (69), and Hoshiarpur (67).Apart from this, 475 patients are on oxygen support and 69 are on ventilator support. As far as deaths are concerned, Ludhiana topped the chart with 17 deaths followed by Patiala with 10 deaths, Jalandhar three, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Moga two each, Faridkot, Fazilka and SAS Nagar one each.Muktsar villagers oppose testsMeanwhile, a large number of residents of Bhuttiwala village in Muktsar today opposed the Health Department’s team which had come to collect the samples for Covid-19 testing. The villagers, including some panchayat members and farmer leaders, passed a resolution that the team could not take the sample of those asymptomatic or unwilling.They even raised doubts over the authenticity of the testing. Lakhwinder Singh, a panchayat member, said, “We are against the testing of asymptomatic and unwilling people. However, we will not stop anyone willing to undergo a test. A number of residents of Bhuttiwala, Haraj, Sarainaga and Warring villages had gathered today in opposition.”
30-08-2020||Faridkot||Faridkot patient dies after falling into drainage shaft||In a horrifying incident, a Covid-19 patient died after falling into a shaft meant for drainage and water pipes in the newly constructed building of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here on Saturday.Avtar Singh, 45, stepped into the shaft, mistaking it for a washroom. The doors of all washrooms and the rectangular shaft are made of one size and painted in the same colour, thus creating confusion.One passes away in home isolationAbohar: A Covid patient, Dharam Chand (72), who was in home isolation died Friday night. His family, instead of taking the body to the Civil Hospital, cremated him in the morning. Senior Medical officer Dr Gagandeep Singh said he had submitted details of the incident to the Civil Surgeon for further investigation.Doctors and paramedical staff had to work hard for over 30 minutes in locating the way to the opening of the shaft on the ground floor of the newly constructed building to pull out the patient who was dead by then. Deputy Commissioner Vimal Setia said a magisterial inquiry had been ordered into the incident.Singh, a resident of Thathi Bhai village of Moga, was admitted to the isolation ward of the medical college on Thursday. Surinder Singh, the son of deceased, said he came to know about his missing father when another patient in the isolation ward informed him on phone. “The open door of the shaft grabbed our attention and we immediately raised our concern with the hospital to find our father dead,” he said. — TNS
30-08-2020||---||Despite probe, Education Department restores pact with association||Faridkot, August 29Three months after the state government cancelled an agreement with a private association for running three Government Adarsh Schools in Faridkot and Moga districts over graft allegations, the Director General School Education (DGSE) has now withdrawn the cancellation orders.After a judicial inquiry into the functioning of the schools found many financial and administrative irregularities, the DGSE had issued orders to cancel the 99-year lease with Ludhiana-based Sukh Sagar Avenue Welfare Association on June 4.Under the PPP mode, adarsh schools at Middumann and Pakka Kalan villages in Faridkot and at Ransain Kalan village in Moga were being run by the association for past four years. Private partners are spending 30 per cent of the total money and rest 70 per cent is contributed by the government to run the schools.Challenging the cancellation of the agreement, Narinder Singh Randhawa, chairman of the association, approached the High Court, claiming that the judicial inquiry report was never communicated to him. Submitting an undertaking in the court, the Education Department has declared that it is withdrawing the cancellation orders and will proceed further after providing the inquiry report to the association.
30-08-2020||Bathinda||No NOC, former SAD MLA Sarup Chand Singla’s marriage palace sealed||The Municipal Corporation Bathinda (MCB) today sealed a marriage resort (Jeet Palace) owned by former SAD MLA Sarup Chand Singla. The marriage palace had been operational without obtaining permissions from the departments concerned.Besides two more resorts, Skyland Resort located on Bir road, and Kingfigher Resort on Malout road, were sealed due to similar reasons.Bathinda MC Commissioner Bikramjit Singh Shergill said, “The building branch of the MCB has sealed three unauthorised marriage palaces in the city.” He said the government had brought a policy for regularisation of unauthorised marriage places, but owners of these three places failed to obtain no-objection certificates (NOCs) from various departments, including forests and national highway. —TNS
30-08-2020||Jaiswar||Tarn Taran farmers along border under cops’ watch||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 29Days after five Pakistani intruders were gunned down by BSF jawans, the Tarn Taran police have started ascertaining the antecedents of farmers and labourers who have land across the fence along the India-Pakistan border.Heroin worth Rs 74 cr recovered in FazilkaFazilka: BSF personnel on Saturday recovered 14.79 kg of heroin worth about Rs 74 crore near Border Outpost Khanpur in Fazilka sector. Officials said the BSF jawans during the search noticed 14 packets of contraband suspected to be heroin wrapped in a yellow adhesive tape and buried in cotton fields near the barbed wire fencing. OCBesides weapons and heroin, the BSF had recovered two mobile phones from the spot, indicating that the intruders might be in contact with their accomplices on this side of the border. The mobile phones were sent for forensic examinations and the report is expected in next couple of days.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said though investigation was underway to identify Indian contacts of the intruders, a drive had been launched to verify the credentials of those who go across the fence to work in their fields. A large number of farmers and labourers go across the fence for limited time to work in their agricultural land. A number of them collude with Pakistan-based smugglers to sneak in the contraband.“Smugglers active on both sides of the international border use different ways to sneak in contraband and weapons. Around six days ago, the BSF recovered eight pairs of slippers in which heroin was concealed. Sometimes special cavities are created in the tractor trolleys to sneak in the drug consignment,” said the SSP.He said after checking the background of farmers and labourers, an eagle eye would be kept on the black sheep.
30-08-2020||---||Celebrity fitness coach Satnam Khatra dies at 31||Patiala, August 29Bodybuilder, model and celebrity fitness coach Satnam Khatra died of a suspected brain haemorrhage here today. No post-mortem was conducted while the body was cremated at his ancestral village of Bhallmajra.According to his uncle Dr Kuldeep Khatra, Satnam had gone to Mohali on Thursday and returned on Friday after partying with his friends. “On Friday, he complained of uneasiness and vomited following which he was rushed to a private hospital in Sirhind,” he said.“His reports suggested an aggravated cell count. He was brought home after he felt better on Friday evening. However, today, he again complained of uneasiness. We rushed him to a hospital. We had hardly crossed the village when Satnam vomited blood inside the car and died,” his uncle said. The 31-year-old fitness trainer had made a name for himself in the Punjabi music industry by featuring in a few videos and had a huge fan following on the social media.Once addicted to drugs, Satnam was into physical fitness for the past eight years and had been training a number of young men in Patiala and other districts. His mentor Rohit Khera announced his demise on the social media. Owing to Satnam’s dedication to fitness, he was widely popular among the youth. His Instagram account has around 3.7 lakh followers.His fans and those associated with the fitness industry are in a shock. His fan pages on the social media are flooded with posts mourning his death. Following the recent lockdown, Satnam was giving online fitness classes and was planning to launch his own fitness brand.
30-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Two arrested for illegal sand mining in Fazilka||Fazilka, August 29The Fazilka police on Saturday claimed to have arrested two persons and booked two others for their involvement in illegal sand mining. The police confiscated three sand-laden tractor-trailers as well during the drive.Acting on a tip-off, policemen intercepted a tractor-trailer near Sanjeev Cinema crossing and nabbed Muni Ram, a resident of Karni Khera village, for ferrying illgal sand.In another case, the police personnel arrested Sajan Singh, a resident of Badal Ke Uttar village, and seized his tractor-trailer loaded with sand.Kala Singh, a resident of Chananwali village, and an unidentified person, were booked under the Mining Act for excavating sand from a seepage drain near Kerian village. A tractor-trailer loaded with sand was recovered from them.
30-08-2020||Bathinda||Bathinda hospitals short of ICU beds, ventilators||In view of shortage of ICU beds and ventilators in Bathinda hospitals, Covid-19 patients are being referred to Faridkot medical college, located 70 km from here.This has created an atmosphere of fear as Bathinda witnessed a huge spike in cases from 349 to 2,105 this month. Even the number of deaths has surged from five to 20.‘Making arrangements’We are making arrangements for 15 ICU beds in private hospitals. We are referring only critical patients to Faridkot. - B Srinivasan, Bathinda DCAs per COVA mobile app data, Bathinda has 500 beds at the Covid care centre out of which 128 are occupied and 372 vacant. Government hospitals have a total of 135 beds with or without oxygen out of which 45 are occupied and 90 vacant.Moreover, no government hospital in the district has any ICU bed with or without ventilator for the patients. Even private hospitals have also not offered any ICU beds.Dr Vikas Chhabra, president, IMA-Bathinda, said: “We have provided the list of eight hospitals, which are willing to give ventilators.”He said private hospitals were facing problems as doctors and staff feared treating Covid-19 patients. Moreover, there is no incentive. Hospitals have told the district administration that they will treat level 1 or 2 patients, but not level 3 patients. — TNS
30-08-2020||Sangrur||Dhuri resident duped of Rs 1.02 cr||A Dhuri resident was duped of Rs 1.02 crore after he was sold fake policies of insurance of various companies. The police have registered a case and started further investigation. The accused include Rajesh Kumar from New Delhi, Satya Parkash from Faridabad, Akash Singh from Delhi, and Subhash Chandar from UP.“Karmchand Kaka Ram purchased insurance policies of various companies online. However, the accused sold him fake policies and kept depositing money received from him in their bank accounts, In total, they duped him of Rs 1.02 crore, ” said Darshan Singh, SHO, Dhuri city police station. “We have started the investigation,” said SHO. — OC
30-08-2020||Chandigarh||Suresh Raina’s uncle killed by robbers in Pathankot||A 58-year-old uncle of cricketer Suresh Raina died while four members of his family sustained injuries allegedly in an attack by robbers in Pathankot district.The deceased has been identified as Ashok Kumar, a government contractor. According to police, the incident took place at Thariyal village in on the intervening night August 19 and August 20.Ashok’s elder brother Shyam Lal confirmed that the victim was the cricketer’s uncle. He said Raina is expected to visit the village.Earlier, a senior police official had said they can’t confirm the victim’s relationship with the cricketer.According to police, three to four members of the notorious “Kale Kachhewala” gang who had come with an intention to loot, attacked Ashok and his family members. — PTI
30-08-2020||Vishav Bharti||Pay more for treatment at Punjab Government hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 29The cash-strapped Punjab Government is out to squeeze more from patients amid the Covid pandemic, with the Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC) increasing user charges for more than 40 services in government-run hospitals.As per the order, ambulance charges have been increased to Rs 15 per km from Rs 5 per km that the government had been charging for many years. While OPD registration charges have been doubled to Rs 10, in case of general ward, admission charges have gone up from Rs 25 to Rs 40 and bed charges from Rs 30 to Rs 40. The common surgery charges for a minor surgery have been hiked from Rs 100 to Rs 250. If the surgery is done under general anaesthesia (GA), the new charges will be 400. In case of a major surgery with GA and spinal anaesthesia, patients will be charged Rs 1,200 against Rs 750 earlier. The charges for keeping a body in mortuary have been fixed at Rs 100 a day.Calls to PHSC Chairman Amardeep Singh Cheema for comment went unanswered. Principal Secretary (Health) Hussan Lal said he was “not aware of the decision”.The increase comes even as the Congress in its 2017 manifesto had promised rationalising the user charges.
