30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Damage to mobile towers: Punjab Governor to summon CS, DGP||Taking a note of damage to over 1,600 mobile towers during farmers’ protest against the Centre’s laws, Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore on Wednesday decided to summon the state’s chief secretary and director general of police (DGP) to seek a report on it.Meanwhile, Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) has written to Punjab CM, seeking his intervention into the matter.The industrial body further said the blockage of key highways linking neighbouring states is resulting in losses to the tune of thousands of crores daily.“Governor Punjab V P Singh Badnore took a serious note of the vandalism during the ongoing protest of farmers, where in the past a few days, more than 1,600 mobile towers have been damaged,” an official statement said here.He asked the state government to take immediate action to prevent such acts and protect communication infrastructure.“He has decided to summon the CS and DGP to Raj Bhavan to seek a report on these matters and to express his serious concerns on it,” the statement said.“This is a difficult time when education is taking place through online classes, for which such communication lines are vital. Damaging and disrupting communication lines will affect not only students but the whole society and economy also in many ways,” the governor said.The governor felt there has been a failure of law enforcement agencies in preventing such damages.Meanwhile, Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) sought intervention of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in this regard.ASSOCHAM president Vineet Agarwal urged the CM to step up the efforts to ensure that such incidents do not take place.At the same time, the ASSOCHAM complimented the CM for making “great efforts” to reach out to farmers, asking them not to damage public and private property.The blockade of important highways connecting Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and the NCR has been resulting in a daily loss of Rs 3,000-3500 crore, as per our earlier estimates, the ASSOCHAM said in a statement.The losses to the economic activities are mounting while the image of the state as an investment destination is taking a dent, Agarwal said.“Sir, more disturbingly, there are reports from the affected industries and service providers, particularly in telecom, that widespread damage has been caused to the key infrastructure like telecom towers. Such incidents not only result in a huge national loss but also severely dent the image of a progressive state,” he said.A prolonged and continuation of the agitation, especially with incidents of damage to the industrial and other infrastructure, would turn investors away from the state of Punjab, he said. PTI
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Heroin, pistols recovered from border outpost||The Punjab Police and the BSF on Wednesday recovered 7.31 kg of heroin and three China-made pistols from a border outpost in Dera Baba Nanak, officials said.The drugs and the pistols were pushed into the Indian territory by a notorious Pakistan-based smuggler, officials said. "A joint search of the area led to the recovery of 7.31 kg of heroin and three China-made .30 bore Norinco Pistols from near Border Pillar No. 38/3 of the Metla BOP," said the officials.As per initial inputs, the consignment had been pushed into the Indian territory by a notorious Pakistan-based smuggler Jagdish Singh, alias Bhura, who is presently settled in Belgium, they said.Bhura is an active terrorist and a proclaimed offender in three terrorism-related cases, officials said. Further intelligence inputs have established the role of a major drug smuggler, Ranjit Singh of Modhe village in Amritsar, who is currently lodged in a Ludhiana jail.Based on information by police, the Ludhiana jail authorities searched belongings of Ranjit Singh and a smartphone has been recovered from his possession.Ranjit Singh was recruited as a constable in the 80th Battalion of Punjab Armed Police, Jalandhar, in 1989 and rose to the rank of an assistant sub-inspector in 2011.But in 2011, he was booked for his involvement in an NDPS Act case.Thereafter, he was dismissed from service in 2012. Ranjit Singh has five criminal cases registered against him for smuggling of drugs and arms. While in Jail, Ranjit Singh developed close contacts with Pak-based smugglers for the smuggling of drugs into India, the officials said. A case has been registered in this connection and investigations are in progress. PTI
30-12-2020||---||Pay scales for fresh recruitments in Punjab Govt brought at par with 7th pay commission||Chandigarh, December 30The Captain Amarinder Singh-led Cabinet on Wednesday approved certain amendments to the Punjab Civil Services Rules for granting new pay scales (matrix), on the pattern of the 7th Central Pay Commission, for all fresh recruitments to state government and its entities.The decision to amend Volume-I, Part-1, Rule 4.1(1) to bring the pay scales for all prospective recruitments/appointments – direct recruitments/compassionate appointments – at par with the Central Government scales was taken during a virtual Cabinet meeting.It may be recalled that the Finance Department had on July 17 issued instructions that these pay scales in any cadre of any administrative department of the Punjab Government or its entities shall not be higher than the pay scales for the same cadre in the Government of India, as notified as per the recommendations of the 7th Central Pay Commission. As per the letter dated January 15, 2015 issued by the Finance Department, and letters issued in continuation thereof, grant of basic pay (minimum of the pay band) and allowances during the probation period are also applicable as per the same rule.According to a spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office, the amendment approved by the Cabinet stipulates that the expression "fixed monthly emoluments" for the employees, appointed to the service before the 17th day of July, 2020, means the amount drawn monthly by a government employee equal to the minimum of the pay band of the service or post to which he is appointed. The said amount shall not include grade pay, special pay, annual increment or any other allowance, except travelling allowance drawn with reference to the grade pay of the relevant service or post.Further, the amended rule states that the expression "fixed monthly emoluments" for the employees, appointed to the service against direct quota posts, on or after the 17th day of July, 2020 means the amount drawn monthly by the Government employee equal to the amount of relevant Level of Pay Matrix of service or post as notified by the administrative department concerned to which he is appointed, shall not include special pay, annual increment, or any other allowance, except travelling allowance drawn with reference to the relevant service or post.The amended rule shall also not include any other emoluments which may be specifically classed as part of pay by the competent authority, as provided in rule 2.44 (b), said the spokesperson.According to the spokesperson, the state’s Administrative Departments are now being advised by the Finance Department about the pay matrix for the new appointments to be made under the State Employment Plan.Further, the departments are in the process of direct recruitment by the recruiting agencies like Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC), Subordinate Service Selection Board (SSS Board) and the departmental committees, as the case may be.
30-12-2020||---||Punjab kickstarts process of recruitment to 50,000 govt posts||Chandigarh, December 30Kickstarting the process of recruitment to 50,000 government posts during the current fiscal, as promised by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday approved restructuring of 10 departments, thus also paving the way boosting their functional efficacy through fresh recruitments and technical upgradation.The Cabinet meeting, held through Video Conferencing under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister, decided to create new and more relevant posts where required in place of the existing non-essential or antiquated ones, many of which had been lying vacant for prolonged periods. The move also marks a major shift towards modernisation of government departments to equip them to meet the contemporary operational challenges.The Cabinet had on October 14 approved a State Employment Plan 2020-22, to fill vacant jobs in government departments, boards, corporations and agencies in a phased time-bound manner, in fulfillment of the Chief Minister’s promise of providing one lakh government jobs to youth in the remaining term of his government. With the restructuring process, as many of the vacant posts will be done away with.The 10 Departments to be restructured following the Cabinet decision are: Labour, Technical Education & Industrial Training, PWD (B&R), Animal Husbandry, Fisheries & Dairy Development, Tourism & Cultural Affairs, Local Government, Printing & Stationery, Sports & Youth Service Welfare, Defence Services Welfare, Cooperation Department.As many 2,375 posts will be abolished/surrendered in these departments, with another 785 to be created in the first go, as part of the restructuring exercise, an official spokesperson disclosed, adding that moving forward, more posts will be created as required.In the Labour Department, against 204 vacant/irrelevant old posts, 68 new posts will be created for various cadres, including IT, Accounts, Labour Inspector and Legal cadre. It was also decided by the Cabinet to consider all posts in Group-D as dying cadre.The Technical Education & Industrial Training department will see 84 new posts being created against 271 non-essential or vacant posts, while as many as 81 posts of Service Provider Trainers will be re-designated as Group Instructors in the same scale. Of these, 53 posts will be used as Assistant Apprenticeship Advisor (Junior) and the rest as Group Instructors. The posts of Group-D lying vacant since long would be filled by outsourcing.Under the restructuring proposal okayed for the PWD (B&R) department, the critical Design Cell will be now headed by a Chief Engineer, supported by Superintending Engineer (DRD), 4 XENs and 12 SDEs. The Design Cell would be responsible for designing of buildings, bridges and roads, to be constructed with latest techniques and technologies. Also, the existing system of Quality Control will be upgraded by increasing the three regional labs under the Deputy Director Research Lab Patiala. The Quality Assurance Mechanism Cell would consist of Chief Engineer (QA-cum-CVO), SE (QA-cum-SVO), 5 XENs-cum-VO, Deputy Director Research Lab and 10 SDEs.Apart from this, to handle the establishment cases efficiently amid the increased work load, in place of one Chief Engineer there will now be Chief Engineers duly supported by two Deputy Directors (Administration).The newly created Legal Cell will handle the manifold increase in litigation, with posts of Senior Law Officer, Law Superintendent, Law Officer, Sr. Assistant Law and Law Clerk approved for the purpose. Further, 35 posts of IT professionals have also been approved, each with a defined role and objective to support and run the IT applications in PWD (B&R).As a part of restructuring of Animal Husbandry, Fisheries & Dairy Development Department, the creation of 326 posts will help fill a large number of vacancies while doing away with some of the non-essential posts among the existing 625. Of this, 264 will be in Animal Husbandry, 19 in Fisheries and 43 in Dairy Development. Besides, all the vacant Group-D posts shall be considered as abolished.As per the restructuring plan of Tourism, Cultural Affairs, Archaeology, Museum & Archives department, in place of 53 posts, of which many are lying vacant, 20 new ones will be created, while 87 vacant posts, including 67 Group D posts, will be filled through outsourcing. As a part of its restructuring strategy, the Local Government department has been allowed by the Cabinet to create 23 posts against 49 earlier ones.The Cabinet also gave the go-ahead to create four new posts besides filling up 30 posts as a part of restructuring in the Printing and Stationery Department.Under the restructuring plan of Sports and Youth Services Department, the Cabinet gave concurrence to replace 69 non-essential posts with 42 new posts as per requirement, taking into cognisance the importance of coaches for improving the training of sportspersons in the state. The posts of Group-D lying vacant since long would also be filled by outsourcing.The Cabinet also gave the nod to the Defence Services Welfare Department to create 23 posts, while doing away with 49 posts, under its restructuring proposal to further improve its efficiency and delivery of services.As a part of restructuring of Cooperation Department, the Cabinet accorded approval to increase of 93 posts, including two audit officers, 75 senior auditors, six superintendent grade-2 and 10 senior assistants, for expediting the audit work, while cutting down 120 posts of Inspector Audit against the total sanctioned posts of 774 and one post of driver against three approved posts of drivers.
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet sanctions separate cadres for SCERT, DIET||The Punjab Cabinet led by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday gave approval for the creation of separate cadres for State Council of Educational Research & Training and District Institutes of Education Training (DIETs).It was been decided to notify separate rules for personnel of SCERT/DIETs, an official spokesperson said after the Cabinet meeting, which accepted the proposal mooted by the School Education department  in this regard.Currently, personnel for SCERT and DIET are deputed from Directorate of DPI (School Education).The decision will pave the way for notifying rules of the personnel of Group A, B & C Cadres of SCERT/DIETs in compliance with the undertaking given by the state government before the Government of India to have separate cadres of DIETs to further improve the quality of teacher training, with the overarching aim raising the bar of quality education for tstudents.Pertinently, a separate cadre is being pursued by the Government of India with almost all states in the country. With the launch of Learning Enhancement Programme of ‘Padho Punjab Padhao Punjab’ project, it has become essential that DIETs are strengthened to maintain close liaison with the classroom teaching going on in schools, and also to share the experiences of the teachers.Under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Teacher Education, DIETs are set up in every district as per GoI’s policy. At present, there are 17 DIETs in Punjab (one each in the old districts), while none exist in the newly created districts of Tarn Taran, Barnala, Pathankot, Fazilka and Mohali. Under the scheme, Central Government contributes 60% and remaining 40% is contributed by the State Government. The entire expenditure i.e. capital expenditure as well as salary of the teachers in a DIET is shared in the same ratio. Currently, DIETs are only providing pre-service training to ETT teachers i.e. the teachers posted in primary schools from Class 1 to 5.
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab withdraws night curfew from January 1||With decline in coronavirus cases, the Punjab government on Wednesday decided to lift the night curfew from January 1 but advised the public to follow Covid-19 protocols.A spokesperson for the government said that restrictions regarding night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am in all cities and towns and closing down of hotels, restaurants and marriage palaces by 9.30 pm in the state would remain effective till December 31.He said the ceiling of 100 and 250 persons in the indoor and outdoor social gatherings would be relaxed to 200 and 500 persons respectively from January 1. — IANS
30-12-2020||---||MC elections in Punjab should be held in conducive atmosphere: State BJP chief||Chandigarh, 30 DecemberThe law and order in the state was rapidly becoming unsafe and BJP demands that MC elections should be held only when the state has conducive peaceful atmosphere so that fair elections can be held, said state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma while calling on the Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore here on Wednesday.The high-powered delegation has demanded that the Congress should be held responsible for the “highly precarious violate situation” in the state. “We fear that some miscreant forces are at work and the peaceful atmosphere of this land of five rivers is being disturbed,” said Sharma.“However, we in the BJP party are being pragmatic and will always keep the harmony between the scared relationship of Hindus and Sikhs together. We have suffered considerably in the militancy phase and the dark forces could not finish our relationship then now again some forces are actively trying to destroy the harmonious fabric in the state,” said the BJP chief.The BJP has also brought to the notice of the State Governor that “Ravneet Singh Bittu should be booked under the law for making insensitive and highly provocative statements that the state will see ‘corpses’”. “It reflects the psyche of the Congress party . The 1984 riots are a wound on the entire nation, please do not make the humanity go through this tragedy again,” Sharma said.The BJP delegation in its memorandum has also said agitators parked outside the houses of the BJP leaders and workers should be removed and a place be designated to them to protest. “We believe and practise democratic rights. The voice of dissent is welcome but give the BJP also all the rights allowed in our country and not victimise its workers. The Congress government in the state led by Capt Amarinder Singh was out to destroy the economy and harmony in the state.”The delegation included Dinesh Kumar, Vijay Sampla, Madan Mohan Mittal, Iqbal Singh Lalpura, Manoranjan Kalia, Teekshan Sood, Dr Subhash Sharma and Bikramjeet Singh Cheema.
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt to check 5% of positive samples per week for new coronavirus variant||The Punjab government will send five per cent of the total positive samples per week to premier central units of epidemiology to check the prevalence of the mutated strain of coronavirus, an official said here on Wednesday.Medical Education and Research Principal Secretary D K Tiwari said the move was part of a state government master plan to contain the spread of the new strain of the deadly virus in Punjab.After the emergence of the new UK-linked coronavirus variant, which has high transmissibility, the Centre issued an advisory that it could also be circulating in India too, he said in a statement here."In order to check the mutation of new mutated strain (N501Y) SARS-CoV-2 virus in Punjab, the state government has decided to send five per cent positive samples per week to the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi and NCDC, Delhi- Division of Biotechnology, Epidemiology and Central Surveillance Unit," Tiwari stated.He said Punjab has already sent to NIV Pune random positive samples—80 from Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) GMC Patiala, 40 each from VRDL GMC Amritsar and VRDL GGMC Faridkot—to check the emergence of the mutated strain.The officer said that the samples were selected from September to December.He also said all the passengers who came from the United Kingdom were screened for COVID-19, and eight of them came positive for COVID-19 at VRDL GMC Amritsar and one at VRDL GMC Patiala.Tiwari said the samples of these nine patients have been sent to NIV Pune for genome sequencing to check if they had contracted the new strain of the virus.He said the state government has conducted 25.74 lakh tests since March and 78,666 people have been diagnosed positive so far. — PTI
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Hold talks with Modi, otherwise it's a futile exercise, Harsimrat and Jakhar tell farmers||The Shiromani Akali Dal and the Congress on Wednesday appealed to farmers protesting against the Centre's farm laws to hold direct talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, otherwise the dialogue would not yield any results.Commenting on farmer leaders' meeting with the Centre over the laws on Wednesday, former Union minister and Akali Dal's Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal said they shouldn't fall into the “trap” of extended meetings, “which yield nothing”.Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar also favoured direct talks with the PM, saying the involvement of the Prime Minister or Union Home Minister is a must for a successful dialogue.“Our farmers are on the cusp of victory. I appeal to them to hold direct talks with the PM to get these agri laws repealed," Badal said in a tweet. “They shouldn't fall into trap of extended meetings which yield nothing,” the Bathinda MP added. Badal, whose party had quit the BJP-led NDA due to differences over the issue earlier this year, said had the Centre listened to her warnings about repercussions of the laws, things could not have come to such a pass. People's will is supreme in a democracy, she said in another tweet tagged to Narendra Modi's Twitter handle.She urged the PM not to prolong the suffering of thousands of farmers sitting at Delhi borders against the laws.Meanwhile, Jakhar said for talks to be successful, involvement of Modi or Amit Shah is a must.“After Amit Shah's intervention failing to resolve the issue, next level of talks should have been with PM. Strangely these have been downgraded to previous levels. For talks to be successful, involvement of PM or HM is a must. Otherwise it's a futile exercise,” Jakhar tweeted. Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the Centre's farm laws at Delhi borders for over a month now.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Union government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the minimum support price (MSP) and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi system will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers. PTI
30-12-2020||---||Punjab Cabinet okays notification of rules to regulate cash transportation by pvt security agencies||Chandigarh, December 30The Punjab Government on Wednesday decided to strengthen the security mechanism for all cash transportation activities in the state by regulating all private security agencies engaged in such activities under the umbrella of the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act (PSARA), 2005, a press release by the state government read.The state cabinet, at a virtual meeting chaired by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, gave the go-ahead to notify the Punjab Private Security Agencies (Private Security to Cash Transportation Activities) Rules, 2020, in pursuance of PSAR Act, 2005, which did not specifically cover the activities of the cash transportation agencies.The new rules, drafted in line with similar rules issued by the Government of India in 2018, are aimed at facilitating secure and smooth transportation of cash in the state by bringing all Cash Transportation Agencies operating in Punjab under the regulation of PSAR Act, 2005.With the notification of the new rules, all Cash Transportation Agencies operating in Punjab would be governed by the PSAR Act, 2005. Resultantly, the cash transportation agencies would be now required to obtain license from the State Controlling Authority and the persons entrusted with the task for security of the cash in transit would be needed to be suitably recruited, verified and trained as per the rules/guidelines laid down under the PSAR Act 2005, and the Cash Transportation Rules, 2020, the press release further read.At present, the regulating Act for the private security sector in India is the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005.The Punjab government had in December 2007 notified the Punjab Private Security Agencies (PPSA) Rules under the enabling provisions of Section 25 of the 2005 Act. Since both, the PSAR Act, 2005, and the PPSA Rules, 2007, did not include cash transportation activities in its ambit, the decision has now been taken by the state government to notify a new set of rules to eliminate the existing gap.Notably, the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of Inida, has notified the Model Rules: “The Private Security Agencies (Private Security to Cash Transportation Activities) Rules, 2018, under Section 24 of the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, (PSARA) 2005. The same have been published in the official Gazette of India vide notification dated August 8, 2018, and the State Government/UTs administration have been requested to formulate their rules, under Section 25 of the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005, in line with the Model Rules already notified by the Government of India.”
30-12-2020||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Govt-farmers talks deadlocked over MSP, repeal of agri laws; consensus on 2 issues||The government and farm unions reached some common ground on Wednesday to resolve protesting farmers' concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP.Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar confirmed that the two sides have arrived at an agreement on Electricity Bill and Air Quality Management Ordinance.He said discussions on the three agriculture laws and the MSP as a guarantee for farmers will continue in the next meeting scheduled for January 4.Farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said the government has agreed to exclude farmers from air quality management ordinance and take back the electricity draft bill.After nearly five hours of the sixth round of negotiations between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of thousands farmers protesting on Delhi borders, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said at least 50 per cent resolution has been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4. READ: Hold talks with Modi, otherwise it's a futile exercise, Harsimrat and Jakhar tell farmersLandless octogenarian couple lends might to Tikri stirJoin protesters on New Year, people urged"Discussions on the three farm laws and MSP are continuing and will continue in the next round of talks on January 4," Tomar told reporters after the meeting ended.He said talks were held in a cordial atmosphere and the two sides reached an agreement on two issues -- one relating to the proposed electricity law and the other about an ordinance on penal provisions for stubble burning.He hailed the unions for maintaining peace and discipline during their protest, but urged them to send the elderly, women and children back to their homes due to the extreme cold weather.Tomar said the union leaders kept insisting on repeal of the three farm laws, but the government side tried to explain them the benefits of the Acts and sought to know specific problems faced by the farmers.On farmers' demand for a legal guarantee for procurement at Minimum Support Price (MSP), the minister said the government has already said it is ready to give a written assurance."Talks will continue on these two issues," Tomar said.After the meeting, Union leader Kalwant Singh Sandhu said Wednesday's talks mostly focussed on electricity and stubble burning, while the next meeting on January 4 would focus on the MSP guarantee and the three farm laws.Tomar was accompanied by Food and Railways Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash at the meeting.Meanwhile, three union ministers joined farm leaders on Wednesday to share ‘langar’ food arranged by protesting farmers during the talks to resolve the deadlock over new farm laws.The ‘langar’ (community kitchen) food arrived in a van at the meeting venue, Vigyan Bhawan, after around two hours of discussions had taken place and the two sides took a break for tea and snacks.Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Food and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash joined the farmer leaders to share their langar food during the break.Before start of the meeting, some union leaders had said farmers in some parts of the country are being forced to sell crops, including paddy, below the Minimum Support Price as market rates have fallen and asserted that the agitation will continue till the government agrees to their demands.“After new farm laws were implemented in Uttar Pradesh, prices of crops have fallen by 50 per cent. Crops are being bought at below MSP. Paddy is being sold at Rs 800 per quintal. We will raise these issues in the meeting,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters earlier.“We will not leave Delhi till our demands are met. We will celebrate New Year at borders,” he said.Punjab farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa came for the meeting carrying placards of media reports of fraudulent cases reported in Guna and Hosangabad after implementation of the new laws.“We don’t have any new agenda. The government is maligning us by saying farmers are not coming for talks. So we gave December 29 date for talks. We have given them our clear agenda but the government is insisting that laws are beneficial for farmers,” Sirsa said.Showing media reports, he said more fraudulent cases are being reported after the implementation of the new laws and these issues will be raised in the meeting.Tomar headed the government side, which also included Goyal and Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab.The sixth round of talks was originally scheduled for December 9 but it was called off after an informal meeting of Home Minister Shah with some union leaders failed to reach any breakthrough.The government had, however, followed up Shah’s meeting with a draft proposal sent to these farmer unions in which it had suggested 7-8 amendments to the new laws and written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against these three new laws.The government has presented these laws as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems. TNS/PTI
30-12-2020||New Delhi||Reliance Jio writes to Punjab CM, DGP seeking intervention against vandalism of Jio sites||Reliance Jio Infocomm has written to Punjab Chief Minister and Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) seeking their intervention into "incidents of sabotage and vandalism at Jio Network sites" in the state by unknown persons.The letter alleges that police personnel at local level are not taking action or filing FIRs against vandalsism and that is why such incidents are not stopping. Jio has requested the DGP to take action."With due respect we would like to bring to your kind notice that in your esteemed State of Punjab, the telecom intra structure and digital services of Reliance Jio are being sabotaged and vandalized for the past few weeks by inciting violence and our employees are not being allowed to work to provide the uninterrupted telecom services, which is an essential service for the people of Punjab," Reliance Jio Infocomm stated in its letter to the chief minister.A malicious campaign was going on since last week of September against Reliance Jio, which has got escalated to the acts of sabotage and vandalism in the last few weeks, the letter further read."We have brought it to the notice of Chief Secretary, DGP Punjab and CEO-PBIP on 28.10.2020 itself by submitting representation but unfortunately the situation on the ground has only got worsened. Copies of the representation are enclosed for your ready reference," said Reliance Jio Infocomm."Even during the Curfew and Lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, under your able leadership, Team Jio Punjab ensured near 100 per cent network availability to the people of Punjab," the company added.Almost 1500 plus sites have already been damaged and vandalised till yesterday and more incidents are being reported across Punjab. Estimated cost of damage is already to the tune of hundreds of crores, according to Reliance Jio Infocomm.Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday directed police to take action against those who were vandalising mobile towers in the state. — ANI
30-12-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Navjot Sidhu apologises for 'unintentionally' wearing shawl with Sikh symbols||Chandigarh, December 30Former Congress minister Navjot Singh Sidhu has offered an apology on Twitter for wearing a shawl having symbols of Sikhism made on it.Also read: Sidhu kicks up storm for draping cloth with Sikh religious symbols over shoulders"Sri Akal Takht Sahib is supreme. If I have unknowingly hurt the sentiments of even one Sikh, I apologise," the cricketer-turned-politician tweeted.Shri Akal Takht Sahib is Supreme, If I have unknowingly hurt the sentiments of even One Sikh, I apologise !! ... Millions wear the revered Symbols of Sikhism on there Turbans, Clothes and even carve Tattoos with Pride, I too as a humble Sikh wore the Shawl unintentionally 🙏🏼  The Amritsar legislator said millions wore the revered symbols of Sikhism on their turbans, clothes and even carved tattos with pride. He too as a Sikh wore the shawl unintentionally, he said.Sidhu landed in a controversy after he posted his photo with the shawl on Facebook.The photo, which showed Sidhu with a piece of cloth embossed with Sikh religious symbols around his shoulders, was soon widely circulated on social media, prompting Sikh Youth Power of Punjab, religious body, to take it up with Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh for strict action.The Sikh Youth Power of Punjab claimed it wasn't the first time Sidhu was involved in alleged desecration.The organisation said in its memorandum that the piece of cloth contained Sikh religious symbols like Ik Onkar and Khanda and Sidhu's act allegedly hurt the religious sentiments of the community.Sidhu had earlier drawn criticism from the community for having participated in a 'yajna' and wearing a sacred thread on his body in 2009.In 2013, the then Akal Takht Jathedar had issued a warning to Sidhu after he 'flippantly' quoted from Gurbani on a TV show.In 2017, he was accused of distorting a verse of Gurbani.
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Intense cold wave sweeps Punjab, Haryana||Cold wave conditions prevailed in most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Wednesday, even as a thick layer of fog enveloped the two states in the morning.The minimum temperatures hovered well below the normal limits at most places, even though there was a marginal increase as compared to Tuesday's temperatures.At a low of 1.8 degrees Celsius, Amritsar was the coldest place in Punjab.Bathinda, Faridkot and Adampur also shivered under intense cold, recording respective minimum temperatures of 2.2, 2.3 and 2.9 degrees Celsius, Meteorological Department officials said.Gurdaspur, Ludhiana, Pathankot and Patiala recorded respective lows of 4.7, 5.5, 5.1 and 6 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh also experienced a cold night at 4.6 degrees Celsius.Narnaul was the coldest place in Haryana recording a low of 2.4 degrees Celsius, while Hisar, Sirsa and Bhiwani also reeled under biting chill with respective minimum temperatures of 3.7, 3.6 and 3.9 degrees Celsius.Ambala and Karnal, too, experienced a cold night recording minimum temperatures of 4.2 and 4.4 degrees Celsius, respectively.According to the MeT department officials, barring Rohtak, a thick blanket of fog enveloped the two states in the morning, reducing visibility levels. PTI
30-12-2020||Ajay Joshi||Farmers’ stir fallout: Family yet to come to terms with 16-yr-old’s death||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 29Gurjinder Singh, a resident of Thana village, in Garhshankar, Hoshiarpur, is probably the youngest of the casualties that took place during the farmers’ protest at Singhu and Tikri borders.Recalling the day when Gurjinder left for the protest, his wailing mother Kulwinder Kaur said: “My son was excited to join the protest. As his father is settled in America, he felt it was his responsibility in the family to make their presence felt in the agitation against the diktats imposed upon farmers without their consent. Now, we are left with nothing. When he left for the protest sites with his friends, he said, ‘mummy, fatte chak ke aunde’ (will return after claiming our win). We kept waiting for him, but he never returned.”The 16-year-old school-going boy reportedly left for his heavenly abode on the night of December 15 after he fell from the tractor-trailer he was sitting in and was later crushed under the wheels of another vehicle while going to Delhi. Unable to come to terms with the death of her only son, Kulwinder has, however, appealed to conduct an inquiry into his accident, as both his expensive phones and the golden bracelet he was wearing were missing from his body and were still untraceable.A student of Class XI, Gurjinder often used to work in fields that his family has given on contract. He used to bring fodder for the cattle too!“It's been over 12 years since my husband left for America. Later, my brother-in-law also moved abroad. Gurjinder was the only male member in the house. He used to take care of all responsibilities. His father and I still regret the day we allowed him to join the protest. He will now rest in peace only when the government fulfils the demands of farmers and revokes the farm laws,” Kulwinder said.The deceased, was scheduled to visit his father next month. He was living here with his mother, an elder sister and grandmother. Raj Balwinder Singh, sarpanch of the Sahungra village, Hoshiarpur, was the first one who was informed about Gurjinder’s accident. He said it was unfortunate that a young boy lost his life in the struggle. He was keen to know more about the laws and the protest, he said.
30-12-2020||Sameer Singh---||After essential supplies, books pour in for protesters||Tribune News Service Bathinda, December 29 It’s not only ration and other essential items that people want to donate for protesting farmers, but also books.  Voluntary groups of youngsters have started campaigns to collect books and then sending these to the makeshift libraries at protest venues at Delhi borders. Groups such as The Punjab Club, Gur Shaahi and Project Punjab among others are making a good use of social media platforms to spread the word regarding voluntary book donations. They have also established different droppings points in the state where those interested can donate books. Subheg Singh, 23, from Amritsar, who is a member of The Punjab Club, says: “Apart from providing essential items, we have felt  that providing books at the protest sites would be a wise move. Books will help protesters utilise their time constructively and enhancing their knowledge. “We have been getting an overwhelming response from across the state. Even people from Haryana are contacting our co-ordinators to donate books. Many groups want to connect and contribute to the initiative.” Singh added, “Apart from using social media, we have been reaching out to academic institutions and student activists who have contributed immensely to the initiative. Volunteers are working at the grass-root level to collect books and dispatch them to the makeshift libraries at Delhi borders in an organised manner. Interested persons or groups can contact either on mobile number 8146467727 or our social networking handles to drop books at the dropping points established in Jalandhar, Amritsar, Bathinda, Chandigarh, Ferozepur, Patiala, Ludhiana and Ambala among other cities to the respective co-ordinators.” Initially, these groups had thought of organising a ‘book langar’, but dropped the idea believing that if they would distribute books randomly, these purpose might not be seved. Arpit, another volunteer from Ambala, along with others has established a book donation counter at a literary festival in Bathinda.  “We have been sending books to protest venues at Delhi borders. Apart from getting members connected to our initiative, we are visiting at different public events where we can spread the word so that those interested can contribute to the noble initiative,” says he.
30-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||150 Sangrur villages resolve to safeguard mobile towers||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, December 29Having faced difficulties after damage to mobile towers coupled with the appeals and warnings of CM Capt Amarinder Singh, 150 panchayats of various villages of Sangrur district have passed resolutions to protect their towers and other telecom infrastructure. They have also announced opposition to any such attempts and take the help of police immediately.Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni has directed all his officers to ensure round-the-clock patrolling in villages and convince residents against any damage to property and violence.“Our protest is going on peacefully across Punjab and at New Delhi borders. We should not damage mobile towers. If we lose connectivity, it is our loss only. Today we have passed a resolution that we would not allow any damage to any infrastructure in our village. The Sangrur SSP has assured us full support” said Satnam Singh, sarpanch of Maidewas village.Mardkhera, Kauhrian, Daula Singh Wala, Daulatpur, Hasanpur, Benra, Barhi, Badhesha, Model Town Mehlan-1, Khetla, Baghraul, Kakuwala, Safipur Kalan, Toorbanjara, Dhandoli Khurd, Kothe Aala Singh Wale, Gobindgarh Jejiya, Khanal Kalan, Sular and many other villages of district have passed resolutions.“All our farmer unions have already given a call for a peaceful agitation, but some miscreants are trying to damage towers. We would not allow it. We have passed a resolution for it today,” said Gurpreet Singh, sarpanch of Kauhrian village.Punjab Education and PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla has also been making personal calls to various panchayats to persuade them to thwart the attempts to damage the infrastructure. “I am thankful to panchayats that have been responding to our appeals and passing resolutions,” said Singla.Soni confirmed that SHOs in the district have received 150 resolutions passed by panchayats. “I have circulated my number among panchayats. Sarpanches can call me anytime directly, if they face any problem” he said.
30-12-2020||---||Cong behind damage to telecom infra, alleges BJP||Chandigarh, December 29BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh today accused the Congress of conspiring to break down the communication system in the border state, and demanded that the Central Government should respond to this firmly.He alleged the state government had been covertly supporting disruptive elements in the state, which in the garb of farmers’ agitation had brought about urban Naxalism in the state. Besides damaging more than 1,600 communication towers, such elements would block roads and rails, paralyse toll plazas, he added.Chugh said the Congress’ support to such elements was exposed today after senior Congress leader YB Srivasta, who is close to party former president Rahul Gandhi, has given a call that communication towers all over the country should be destroyed and paralysed on the pattern of Punjab. Srivasta has exposed the Congress’s mind to promote disrutpive elements in the border state, the BJP general secretary added.“Why has the Amarinder government not taken action against anyone involved in destroying communication towers in Punjab?” Chugh wondered. Meanwhile, state BJP president Ashwani Sharma today demanded registration of FIR against Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu for his alleged controversial statement that “there will be loads of dead bodies on roads, if the Central Government does not agree to the farmers’ demands”.He said Bittu must explain whose bodies he wanted to see on roads. He said the BJP would protest Bittu and the Congress, and would ensure a case was registered against him. He said the BJP would launch a protest in Ludhiana from January 2, adding that on Wednesday, effigies of Bittu would be burnt across the state. He also demanded criminal cases against those who allegedly attacked the BJP leaders.Don’t be govt’s stooge: Sharma to DGPState BJP president Ashwani Sharma on Tuesday asked DGP Dinkar Gupta to deliver justice by doing “his duty” and not play second fiddle to Capt Amarinder Singh n Alleging the law and order was deteriorating in the state, Sharma said: “We want a fair and just police force and not a ‘stooge’ which panders to the state government”FIR sought against Bittu over statement
30-12-2020||Fazilka||Hundreds bid adieu to lawyer who ended life in farmers' support||Jalalabad advocate Amarjit Singh Rai, who ended his life during the farmers’ protest at the Tikri border a few days ago, was cremated today. A large number of farmers and town residents participated in the funeral. Seeking  a compensation of Rs 5 lakh for the family, complete loan waiver and a government job for Rai’s son, a joint delegation of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), with which the deceased was associated, and advocates presented a memorandum of demands to the Fazilka Deputy Commissioner.  Jalalabad Bar Association president Rohit Dahuja said Rai had been practising in Jalalabad for the past 27 years. Dahuja demanded the martyr’s status for the advocate, who was concerned and pained by the farmers’ plight. — OC
30-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Rival telecom firms make hay out of farmers' stir||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 29Amid a large number of farmers applying for mobile number portability in protest against a particular telecom firm, major rival groups have started holding camps at several demonstration sites to attract customers.Farmers are alleging that the Narendra Modi government has enacted the new farm laws only to benefit big corporate houses. Irked, they have started switching from a particular telecom company to rival mobile networks.Speaking to The Tribune over the phone, Baljit Singh, IT wing head of the Kisan Ekta Morcha, said, “We gave a call to boycott a telecom company around 10 days ago. Since then, more than seven lakh connections have been ported to other networks.”He said the boycott call was getting a good response.Jagsir Singh Jhumba, BKU (Ugrahan) leader, said, “A large number of farmers has applied for portability. A mobile company organised a camp at the Jeeda toll plaza recently, where around 150 protesters changed their mobile connections.”Further, he said 31 farmers unions had now decided they would not damage mobile towers, as it was affecting their protest.
30-12-2020||Fazilka||Fazilka doctors leave for Tikri to take care of farmers||A team of four specialist doctors led by former MLA Dr Mohinder Kumar Rinwa left for the Tikri border today to take care of farmers protesting new agriculture laws.The team comprises Dr Rinwa, a retired medical officer, Dr DP Godara, a former Civil Surgeon, Dr Yudhisther and Dr SL Phutela. The former MLA said the team was carrying sufficient medicines to be distributed among the farmers. The medicines have been provided free of cost by arhtiyas’ association and the Indian Medical Association. The doctors also demanded the repeal of farm laws. — OC
30-12-2020||Chandigarh||Join protesters on New Year, people urged||The Dal Khalsa today urged people to join farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders on Thursday to mark the beginning of 2021 and pray for the success of their cause. Party leader Kanwar Pal Singh said the farm laws were a step towards facilitating monopoly of the corporates on the farm sector, therefore these must be repealed. — TNS
30-12-2020||Aparna Banerji---||‘Dafliwala’ walks to Singhu in solidarity||Tribune News Service  Singhu, December 29  The dusk has set in at the Singhu border and a group of farmers huddle around a bonfire on a chilly evening, chanting “Satnam Waheguru”. Among them is Mohammed Anwar (31) sporting a skull cap. He is a qawwali singer from Dilshaad Garden in New Delhi. But this is now he is known among protesting farmers. For them, he is the “dafliwala” who sings songs, giving out the message of brotherhood and humanity.  Anwar’s family doesn’t know that he is at Singhu. “I told them I was going to Mumbai. I came here on foot, driven by the sea of humanity,” Anwar says softly as he breaks from the group to talk to us.    “I swear on God, these people are not terrorists. My only request to the government of my country is that it must listen to farmers. Without them, we all will starve. They must get justice,” he says. Anwar, who sings at Nizamuuddin Auliya to earn a living, does not have money. “I had one 100 rupee note when I came here. Somehow, I lost it. Now, I am penniless.”  As he speaks, two farmers hand him Rs 300, and promise him food and blankets, while Bapu Hardeep Singh from Patiala’s Bahlakha village hands him Rs 200.  “Stay here as long as you want,” he assures Anwar.
30-12-2020||---||Defying all odds,15 specially abled persons reach Delhi border||Sangrur, December 29A group of specially abled persons has reached the Tikri border to offer support to farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws. Their high spirit astounded the protesters. Punjabi singers and actors welcomed them at the protest site.In all, 15 specially abled persons, including eight on wheelchairs, and their members of families left for the Tikri border from Sunam.Chamkaur Singh, president of the Azad Handicap Association of Punjab, said: “Many perceive our physical disability as a hurdle, but it is not so. It is our mind that takes the decision and not our body. By reaching Tikri, we want to give out a message to healthy persons, who have still not joined the farmers, to come forward and support farmers in their just cause.”He further said, “We know that we will face problems at Tikri as we will not get home-like comforts. But the agitation symbolises the struggle for survival for all. If we fail to oppose the laws, history will never forgive us.”Akali Dal spokesperson Winnerjit Goldy, who accompanied the specially abled persons and made all arrangements, said their presence would be a morale booster for the protesters.Rampal of the district’s Jakhepal village said, “No one asked us to visit Tikri. We came on our own. I appeal to all join farmers.”Punjabi singer Kanwar Grewal said he was left speechless by the spirit shown by specially abled persons. “If our warriors can come, I do not think that anyone will stay back,” he added.
30-12-2020||---||Covid vaccine dry run successful||Ludhiana/Nawanshahr, Dec 29The two-day dry run of the Covid vaccine ended successfully on Sunday in Ludhiana and Nawahshahr, official sources said here on Tuesday.At least 125 healthcare workers, including anganwadi staff and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA), underwent dummy vaccination at five designated places, also called session sites, in Jalandhar.The same number of workers took the test in Ludhiana district.Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the dry run was conducted at seven locations (one in each subdivision) — Civil Hospital and Dayanand Medical College and Hospital in Ludhiana, Raikot, Jagraon, Machhiwara, Khanna and Payal.With no hiccups found in the system during the mock drill, Ludhiana was officially declared ready for the massive immunisation drive.Sharma said, “The mock drill was aimed at testing the laid-out mechanisms for the roll out of the Covid vaccination in the system put in place for the purpose. During the dry run, the end-to-end testing of the Covid vaccination process was completed successfully. The primary objective of the dry run was to assess the operational feasibility of CoWIN application in the field environment and to test linkages between planning.”In Jalandhar, planning the entire dry run, preparing session sites, checking CoWIN app status, mapping the sites and uploading the data of healthcare workers on it was done on Monday . The Tuesday’s drill was about carrying vaccines to the sites, their distribution and constituting immunisation teams.Civil Surgeon Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia said, “The beneficiaries will get details of designated session sites through messages on the SMS.”
30-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Sidhu in soup again, this time  over pics with Sikh symbols||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 29Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has raked up a fresh controversy by posting some photographs on Facebook, showing him draped in a piece of cloth embossed with Sikh religious symbols around his shoulders.Soon after the pictures were uploaded, these were widely circulated on social media. The Sikh Youth Power of Punjab, a religious body, was quick to approach the office of Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, seeking strict action against the politician.In Jathedar’s absence, they handed over the memorandum to his assistant Jaspal Singh who assured them of initiating strict action after a probe.The religious body members, led by Parmjit Singh, Pardeep Singh, Tegdeep Singh, Pritpal Singh and Palwinder Singh, alleged it was not the first time Sidhu had been involved in such a controversy.In the communiqué, addressed to the Jathedar, they said the piece of cloth contained Sikh religious symbols such as “Ek Onkar” and “Khanda” that amounted to sacrilege.They said the politician had hurt the religious sentiments of the community by his actions and asked the Jathedar to take strict action against Sidhu. The Congress leader could not be reached for comment.
30-12-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Farmers’ agitation set to redefine parties’ poll narrative||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29The narrative against the central farm laws is set to drive Punjab’s political agenda in the New Year in the run-up to the Assembly elections due in March 2022.The din of the ongoing apolitical ‘kisan andolan’, at the gates of the Capital, is getting shriller by the day. Its ripples are bound to be felt in the political arena in the coming days.The farmers ‘andolan’ has given birth to a new political awakening. The New Year will see political parties re-strategise in the changed dynamics.While the ruling Congress will look to remind the farmers about party’s effort in sustaining the agitation before it reached Delhi, the Akali Dal will have to re-establish itself in the rural hinterland after parting ways with its long-standing ally, the BJP. Trying to play host to the protesting farmers at the Delhi border, the AAP is trying to strike a chord with farmers.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar says since the party has played an important role in awakening the farmers against the farm laws, it will carry forward its campaign to get the legislations repealed, finish pending works in urban areas and fulfil the remaining poll promises.On his part, senior Akali leader Dr Daljit Cheema says the main concern of the party will be to take along regional parties in strengthening the federal structure and involve farmers in making farming profitable.Leader of Opposition of AAP Harpal Cheema says though the farmers’ stir remains the key issue, they will highlight in the New Year poor governance, besides failure of the Congress government in curbing illegal mining, and transport and cable mafia.Key events: SAD, BJP part ways; scholarship scam rocks govt
30-12-2020||---||Handwritten papers  as per old pattern, students confused||Bathinda, December 29Handwritten question papers, typing errors, markings with black pen — this is how students of Punjabi University-affiliated colleges have been receiving question papers online.They say question papers are based on the old pattern, creating confusion.Because of Covid, the university had issued new guidelines for online examinations. As per the new rules, the exam duration is two hours, but question paper mentions it as three.The new guidelines also provide for attempting only 50 per cent of questions. But the question paper, as per the old pattern, has been divided into three sections with instructions to attempt three to four questions in each section.Sources say the handwritten question papers reiterate the fact that the financial condition of the university is bad.The university had collected around Rs 2,000 as examination fee from each student. More than 2 lakh college students of 17 courses are appearing for exams these days.Dr Jasvirinder Singh Khattar, professor in-charge (Examinations), Punjabi University, said: “The examination fee varies from class to class. The fee is for the complete process, including paper setting and checking. Some papers seem to have been framed before the new guidelines were issued.”He added said the examination department had streamlined the process and all papers were being typed and framed as per the new pattern.
30-12-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Turncoats fielded, old party workers ignored, says Congress leader||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, December 29Infighting in the Congress came to the fore ahead of the Bathinda Municipal Corporation elections on Tuesday, when a party worker wrote to PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar over tickets being given to turncoats.Congress worker Jatinder Kumar said, “I have stated in the letter that Congress workers of all 50 wards of the MC ensured Manpreet Badal’s win from Bathinda in the 2017 Assembly elections. As a reward, all old party workers deserve to get ticket for the MC elections.”“As per party norms, turncoats, who joined the Congress after 2017, need to serve the party for six years. Only then, they will be eligible for the Congress ticket,” Kumar said. He cited the example of former SAD councillor Raju Sra and BJP’s Assar Paswan, who joined the Congress two years ago.“Sra and Paswan had got cases registered against me and other Congress workers when the SAD was in power. Now, I get to hear that the Congress will field them in the MC poll. If this happens, my supporters and I will resign from the party, and field an Independent from ward 12,” Kumar said.Another Congress worker Rampal, meanwhile, announced his candidature from ward 33 as an Independent after Neha Jindal, whose family was earlier associated with the SAD, opened her election office. The Congress is yet to announce its candidate from ward 33, but sources say Jindal’s name has been cleared.Rampal, who has been associated with the Congress for long, told The Tribune, “I have got a whiff that the party has decided to field an ‘outsider’ who joined the Congress from the Akali Dal recently. This is wrong. My hard work has been ignored.”In the previous MC elections, he had unsuccessfully contested from ward 33.In another development, Congress leader Harmander Singh Jassi’s hoardings were removed within a few hours after being installed. The hoardings were carrying photos of the senior party leaders except for Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s. Jassi said he was disappointed. “I am a former MLA from Bathinda. If anybody had a problem, he should have contacted me.”Bikramjit Singh Shergill, MC Commissioner, said: “The hoardings were removed as these were illegal”.
30-12-2020||PK Jaiswar---||Cops’ plea for production warrant of 2 rejected||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 29 In a jolt to the Tarn Taran police investigating the Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh murder case, the court of metropolitan magistrate in New Delhi and Tihar jail authorities have refused to send two suspects, held by the Delhi Police, on production warrant in view of the Covid-19 pandemic guidelines. The police have, however, been told they can question the accused through video conferencing. The Delhi Police had arrested five members of banned terrorist group Babbar Khalsa, including two gangsters, after a brief exchange of fire in the Shakarpur area of the Capital on December 7. Besides the two suspects, Gurjeet Singh, alias Bhaa, and Sukhdeep Singh, alias Bhura, of Gurdaspur, the others in custody include Kashmir residents Shabbir Ahmad, Ayub Pathan and Riyaz. According to the Delhi Police, Gurjeet and Sukhdeep had gunned down Balwinder at the behest of another gangster Sukhmeet Singh, alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, who was arrested in Dubai. Though the Tarn Taran police had cited personal enmity of Balwinder’s son as the cause of the killing, the Delhi Police had claimed Pakistan was using Punjab-based gangsters for targeted killings. The family of the deceased had claimed the incident was the handiwork of a militant outfit. A senior official said they had brought the matter to the knowledge of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta and requested him to take up the matter at an appropriate level for handing over the two suspects for personal interrogation. “There are certain things that require personal interrogation of the two suspects such as recovery of weapon used for gunning down Balwinder,” he said. Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said efforts were on to bring them here on a production warrant for further interrogation. Balwinder was shot by two persons at his residence-cum-school on October 16. Bhaa and Bhura, who were arrested by a special cell of the Delhi Police along with three Kashmiri residents, had claimed they carried out the killing.
30-12-2020||---||Stuck in India since lockdown, 137 cross over to Pakistan||Amritsar, December 29 Shahin, a Pakistan national, was today elated to return to her country after undergoing treatment for a leg injury in India. Stuck here due to the Covid-19 lockdown and post-regulatory guidelines, she was among the 137 Pakistan and Indian nationals who crossed over to Pakistan from the Attari-Wagah joint check post. She, along with many of her compatriots who were stuck here in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, heaved a sigh on being able to travel to the neighbouring country. Muwasir Nabi, an Indian national, said the pandemic and its restrictions hampered his education in Peshawar, where he is pursuing BTech. He could not return to Pakistan to join his classes as he was visiting his hometown in Jammu and Kashmir when the lockdown was imposed. Abida, a Srinagar resident, said her family was visiting her parental house in Pakistan after three years.
30-12-2020||---||Minor girl held captive, abused; man arrested||Minor girl held captive, abused; man arrested Abohar, December 29 The police here today arrested Pargat Singh of Daulatpura village in connection with alleged kidnap and sexual abuse of a 17-year-old girl at Daulatpura village. In a complaint on the child helpline, the girl had alleged Pargat held her captive in his house at the village by promising her a job after her father went missing. Pargat sexually exploited her for over two and a half years, she alleged. The accused allegedly made pornographic videos of her with the help of three others and threatened to circulate these on the social media. Pargat, his brother Satnam Singh, Jyoti and Jassi have been named in the FIR. In another case, four persons — Raghubir Prasad, Akshay Kumar, Amit Kumar and Soma Devi — were booked after a woman on December 25 alleged Raghubir kidnapped her teenage daughter and forcibly married her with the help of three others. — OC
30-12-2020||Archit Watts ---||Six years on, Muktsar’s maiden railway overbridge incomplete||Tribune News Service Muktsar, December 29 The work on the maiden railway over bridge (RoB) of Muktsar town is going on at a snail’s pace, as the state government has allegedly not paid money to the private firm after paying the first instalment. The foundation stone of this RoB was laid in February, 2014 by the then Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal. Later, the groundbreaking ceremony was performed by PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla in January, 2019, who had said the Congress government would construct it at Rs 38.25 crore in the next 15 months (April, 2020). However, only the pillars have been erected on the ground, and a major portion of the work is still pending. Sources said many factors had delayed the work, including shortage of funds, some alterations in the design and labour crunch due to the pandemic. Sham Lal Goyal, an activist of the National Consumer Awareness Group, said, “I have talked to the construction contractor and the authorities concerned, who told me that shortage of funds was the major reason. The private construction firm is yet to get the payment of works done by it, amounting to nearly Rs 6 crore.” Kulbir Singh, Executive Engineer, PWD (B&R), said, “We are hopeful to complete the work by June 30, 2021. As of now, the construction firm has completed 35 per cent of the work. We have cleared the bills submitted to us, which are pending in the treasury office.” The railway crossing on the Jalalabad road has been closed for commuters from February 13, 2019. It is affecting the business of the traders. Subhash Khurana, a businessman, said, “Nearly six years have passed after the foundation stone of the RoB was laid, but the work is still incomplete. Our business has been badly hit, but the authorities concerned seem to be least bothered.”
30-12-2020||---||70 veterans of 1971 Indo-Pak War, ‘Veer Naris’ felicitated||Patiala, December 29 As part of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ celebrations, 25 ‘Veer Naris’ and 70 veterans from Patiala were today felicitated by the General Officer Commanding of the Airawat Division during an event at Yadavindra Services Officers Institute here. A Guard of Honour was given to the ‘Victory Flame’, which symbolises the valour and sacrifices of the Indian soldiers in the 1971 war, as it was brought to the venue. The veterans and ‘Veer Naris’ were presented with mementoes and shawls. The event was attended by representatives of all three armed forces and prominent civil dignitaries. The General Officer Commanding paid homage to all soldiers who had made the supreme sacrifice for the nation. He said the Army was always prepared to defend the nation and give a befitting reply to any adversary. The ‘Victory Flame’ was later handed over to a team of the Nabha military station, where similar commemorative events will be conducted.Abohar/Sriganganagar:  The Army today conducted an equipment and weapon display at the Lohgarh stadium in Bharatpur. The Victory Flame was also put on display and standing drills were conducted for the audience. — OC
30-12-2020||Anirudh Gupta||Spike in heroin seizure by BSF along border||Ferozepur, December 29The seizure of heroin witnessed a tremendous spurt this year, as almost 497 kg of heroin was recovered during various operations carried out by the BSF along the 550-km-long Punjab Frontier.This quantity does not include the contraband seized by other law enforcement agencies operating along the border, including the CIA, Narcotics Control Bureau, Punjab Police, Counter Intelligence, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, SSOC and newly formed STG.The seizure by the BSF alone is more than double as compared to last year when 227.55 kg heroin was seized.About 221 kg heroin was seized in 2018, 278.14 kg in 2017 and 230.53 kg in 2016. The last highest recovery during this decade was recorded in 2014 when 361.416 kg heroin was seized along the border.The record seizure indicates that despite the Covid lockdown, cross-border smuggling of drugs has been continuing unabated. Even the quantity of arms and ammunition seized by the BSF has seen a multifold rise this year.This year, 39 weapons of various calibre and make, including AK series assault rifles, Beretta pistols and Chinese-made small firearms, have has been seized by the BSF.Earlier, the cross-border smugglers were using “conceal and clear” strategy to push contraband. They have now started using water channels to execute their sinister designs. “On several occasions, cross-border smugglers had tried to push heroin filled in water bottles through the Sutlej. It used to be concealed in water hyacinth to escape BSF’s attention,” an official said.“Our forces have thwarted several attempts by anti-national elements to push consignments of contraband inside the Indian border. We are determined to ensure the sanctity of the borders at all times,” said a BSF official, admitting Pakistan smugglers had been desperate to push drugs into the Indian territory taking advantage of the standing crop during the lockdown.Man arrested with 1kg contrabandAbohar: The Border Security Force on Tuesday claimed to have seized two packets of contraband (weighing 1.06 kg), suspected to be heroin, and apprehended Sukhdev Singh in the area under 124 Battalion of the BSF in Abohar sector. The contraband is valued at Rs5 crore in the international market. The police also seized 75 gm heroin from five individuals in three separate incidents in Abohar. OC2020 — 497 kg2019 — 227.55 kg2018— 221 kg
30-12-2020||Raj Sadosh||Reconstruction of Abohar canals starts after 43 years||Abohar, December 29To provide water till the tail end and prevent breaches, the Irrigation Department has started reconstruction of Malukpura sub canal (14 km) and Daulatpura sub canal (15 km), which were initially constructed in 1977. On behalf of PPCC president Sunil Jakhar, his nephew and former district president of Youth Congress Sandeep Jakhar reached the spot recently with department officers and villagers to inspect the ongoing development work and review its progress.The state has released Rs 14.5 crore for this work. Jakhar said no one could understand the importance of irrigation water more than a farmer. “As a farmer, it is my endeavour that our brothers, especially those settled at the tail end of the irrigation system, get sufficient supply for sowing of crops. For this, the canals with brick lining are being reconstructed using cement and concrete material. Farmers are being motivated to monitor the quality of construction in their respective areas,” he said.Agriculture in Abohar was dependent totally on canal water, as groundwater was not fit for crop irrigation, he said. “Fruits can’t be grown in orchards if sufficient canal water is not made available at appropriate time,” Jakhar said.“Our economic system depends on agriculture. If the crop is good, then farmers, traders, small shopkeepers and labourers are able to meet their family needs. Farmers had to protest many times in the past 10 years under the previous government. Sunil Jakhar and other Congress MLAs had joined them in the sit-in and Captain Amarinder Singh had visited the tail-end villages to express solidarity with the affected farmers. Now, the present government is trying to solve the problem on priority and funds have been earmarked for renovating the canal,” Jakhar said.
30-12-2020||---||Covid scare keeps patients away from rehab centre||Covid scare keeps patients away from rehab centre  Abohar, December 29 The number of visitors at the outpatient opioid assisted treatment centre in the 100-bed subdivisional civil hospital came down to over 200 during the nationwide lockdown. Now, it has come down further to over 50. Around 700 patients are registered at the centre for rehabilitation. They have been taking regular medicines being provided free of cost. Regular functioning here suffered during the lockdown as Dr Mahesh, in charge of the centre, had to go to the Fazilka district hospital three days a week as no specialist was posted there.  During the Covid lockdown, the chain of drug supply was snapped, which saw many quitting drugs. Also, people avoided seeking indoor treatment in hospitals out of fear of infection. Dr Gagandeep Singh, senior medical officer, said due to Covid, neither the government nor NGOs could organise awareness campaigns. — OC
30-12-2020||Faridkot||Principal, admn officer of Adarsh school removed||The Department of School Education today ordered to remove the principal and the administration officer of Government Adarsh School, Pucca, in Faridkot district. The principal and the administration officer are siblings. A few days back, the Faridkot Police had registered a criminal case against the chairman and the principal of the school for misappropriation of funds.Harsimran Kaur Randhawa, principal, and Jasmeet Singh Randhawa, administration officer, are children of Narinder Singh Randhawa, chairman of the Sukh Sagar Welfare Association. The association manages three Government Adarsh Schools in Faridkot and Moga districts, under PPP mode. The private partners spend 30 per cent of the total money and the rest 70 per cent is contributed by the state government.After a complaint was received from a teacher, the Faridkot police had registered a criminal case against Narinder Singh Randhawa and his daughter Harsimran Kaur, earlier this month, for cheating. Allegedly, the accused faked some receipts to misappropriate the funds received from the Department of School Education to disburse among teachers as salary.The state government spends Rs 1,852 per student per month in 24 Adarsh schools in the state. These funds are provided to the management. Earlier, Narinder Randhawa and his son Jasmeet Singh were booked for allegedly raping a teacher. The Department of School Education had also found Randhawa guilty of making fake enrollment of 22 teachers in three Adarsh schools. — TNS
30-12-2020||Abohar||8 stolen bikes recovered||8 hurt in mishap due to fogMuktsar: Eight persons were injured on Tuesday after a head-on collision between a private bus and a car due to fog, near Sarainaga village on the Muktsar-Kotkapura highway. Sources said the three occupants of the car had a miraculous escape, while the five passengers of the bus suffered minor injuries. The bus was coming towards Muktsar, while the car was going towards Kotkapura. The bus, after colliding with the car, hit a tree on the roadside. The police reached the spot and started investigation. tns
30-12-2020||Arun Sharma||Punjab cops in spot over ‘illegal’ custody||Tribune News ServiceRopar, December 29The functioning of the district police has come under the scanner in an alleged case of illegal detention.A warrant officer of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, during a raid at the CIA office on December 27, found that Rajbir Singh, husband of Pirthipur village sarpanch Ranjit Kaur, was detained “illegally”.Recuperating at the Civil Hospital here, the victim alleged that he was detained for two days and subjected to third-degree torture by the CIA staff. He alleged that he was thrashed and given electric shocks. High Court issues noticeRefuting the charge, SSP Akhil Chaudhary said: “Rajbir was called for questioning with regard to the death of his friend Surinder Bhalla whose body was found in Bhakra canal on October 1. Rajbir is our prime suspect.”He claimed that there was a gap of more than two hours when he left the police station and took the medical test, which raised doubts over his claims. Besides, the injury marks did not suggest third degree torture, he added.Ajinder Singh, SP, claimed after questioning, Rajbir was sent home and was told to appear again on December 27. Meanwhile, on a plea filed by Rajbir’s wife, the High Court has issued a notice of motion for January 8 to the state government and the Ropar SSP.
30-12-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Landless octogenarian couple lends might to Tikri stir||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, December 29An 81-year-old man and his 80-year-old wife from Kattu village in Barnala have been inspiring many at Tikri, the epicentre of protests against the Centre’s farm laws.Landless and childless, the couple claims the fight is for the betterment of Punjab and to safeguard the interests of the future generations.While Jagir Kaur returned home last week owing to poor health after putting up at the Delhi border for a fortnight, Sukhdev Singh has been mobilising support in the village since Day One.“Ours is a selfless fight as we neither have children, nor do we own any land. How will farmers survive if corporates snatch away their land? The ‘black’ laws must go!” says Kaur, anxious about the protesters she had to leave behind in extreme cold.She plans to return to Tikri in a day or two. “The biting cold probably took a toll on me. But this time, I am determined to fight till the end,” says Kaur, asking her nephew Babu to show her a video from the protest site that has gone viral on social media.An enraged Sukhdev calls it a struggle to “save the motherland”. “Punjabis have won many a battle in the past. History is replete with examples. We will win this one too,” he says. The duo survives on meagre old age pension and the support of villagers and relatives.
30-12-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Talks today, farmers firm on 4 demands||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 29The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 protesting farmer unions, on Tuesday stressed it would hold talks with the Centre as per the four-point agenda decided by it.Formally accepting the invitation of the Union Government for the next round of talks, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha in a letter today to Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal said: “The farm unions will hold talks on the four-point agenda sent earlier to the government.”The farm leaders sent the four conditions again to the Centre while emphasising that for a logical solution to all relevant issues, it would be required that “our dialogue runs according to the agenda”.Harinder Lakhowal, BKU (Lakhowal) Gen SecyThreaten tractor marchWe are going for talks with an open mind, but the Centre’s intention is not clear. We will organise a tractor march on Dec 31 if the government doesn’t accept our demands. The agenda includes modalities to be adopted for the repeal of the three Central farm laws; mechanisms to be adopted to ensure MSP is a legally guaranteed entitlement; amendments to the Commission for the Air Quality Management ordinance to exclude farmers from the penal provisions; revocation of the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill to protect farmers’ interests.The unions also clarified that they had earlier sought “necessary changes” in the Electricity Amendment Bill draft but now they wanted it to be revoked.The Centre had yesterday invited 40 farm unions for the next round of talks on December 30 at 2 pm at Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi. Responding positively, the unions had accepted the invite.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary, meanwhile, said: “We are going for talks with the government with an open mind, but the latter’s intention is not clear. The Centre wants the impasse to continue and defame the protest.”“We will organise a tractor march on December 31 if the government doesn’t accept our demands,” he added.Dissociating from vandalisation of mobile towers, he said: “We only appealed to people to give up connection of a particular telecom company.” Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three agricultural laws for the past 33 days at the Delhi borders.
