31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab government allows provisional admission of ‘open school’ students in Class 11||Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said on Friday that the state government has decided to allow provisional admission of 31,022 open category candidates in Class 11 in schools as regular students.“However, such students will have to take the examinations of Class 10 when things become normal,” Singla said. The move comes in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation.He said the matriculation result of regular students was declared by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) recently on the basis of continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE).But the result of ‘open school’ students was withheld as these students are not covered under the CCE criteria, the minister said.“The open category candidates were in dilemma as they were not getting admission in schools as regular students. After reviewing the situation, we have decided to provide them a short-term relief. Now they will be able to get admission in Class 11 provisionally subject to the condition that as and when the things become normal (COVID-19 situation), they will have to take the matriculation examinations,” Singla said in an official release. --- PTI
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports highest single-day spike at 663 new coronavirus cases; 16 death||Punjab reported 663 new coronavirus cases and 16 deaths on Friday, the state’s medical bulletin said---the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases the state has seen yet.Ludhiana’s COVID-19 numbers continue to rise alarmingly---the district reported 248 new coronavirus cases and six of Friday’s 16 deaths, the highest of any of Punjab’s districts, Friday’s COVI bulletin showed.At 136 new coronavirus cases, Patiala also reported the highest single-day spike in infection.Amritsar (71), Pathankot (43), Barnala (32), Jalandhar (24), SAS Nagar (24), Sangrur (25), Hoshiarpur (11), Gurdaspur (1), Ferozepur (3), Tarn Taran (6),  Bathinda (5), Fatehgarh Sahib (15), Moga (1), SBS Nagar (9),  Kapurthala (2), Ropar (8) and Muktsar (1) all reported new cases.Punjab’s coronavirus cases now stand at 16,119---over 65 per cent (10,551) of the state’s cases being reported in July alone. For comparison, the state reported 3,305 cases in June and 1,788 cases in May.Five districts with over 1000 COVID-19 cases---Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Sangrur---account for over 62 per cent of the state’s cases.  About 47 per cent of the state’s COVID-19 cases are still active, the bulletin shows.The state’s case tally now stands thus: Ludhiana (3211), Jalandhar (2249), Amritsar (1863), Patiala (1719), Sangrur (1056), SAS Nagar (841), Hoshiarpur (532), Gurdaspur (505), Ferozepur (410), Pathankot (401), Tarn Taran (359), Bathinda (349), Fatehgarh Sahib (348), Moga (327), SBS Nagar (313), Faridkot (292), Fazilka (266), Kapurthala (255), Ropar (253), Muktsar (235), Barnala (223) and Mansa (112).The state’s death toll now stands at 386.
31-07-2020||New Delhi||5 Sikh Takhts to be invited for 'Bhumi Pujan' ceremony in Ayodhya||Among religious figures for the "Bhumi Pujan" ceremony in Ayodhya, representatives of all five "Takhts" of Sikh faith will be invited on August 5, regarding the construction of the Ram Temple.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi will take part in the ceremony. On account of the pandemic and social distancing norms, the "Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerath Kshetra Trust" has decided to keep the number of invitees of the ceremony to a minimum. About 211 people, including 50 saints and seer, will attend the ceremony. The head priest of Akal Takht, Amritsar, would be urged to represent Takht Anandpur Sahib, and the Takht Damdama Sahib—all three located in Punjab.The chiefs of Takht Hazur Sahib, Nanded, and Takht, Patna Sahib would be invited to attend the ceremony since the two religious places are located in different states. A source revealed that two more Sikh spiritual leaders representing the organisation would be also be invited.  The Trust has prepared a list if prospective invitees and forwarded it to Prime Minister Office (PMO) as part of the administration security protocol.  The clearance of the names is expected shortly by the PMO since the date of the ceremony is fast-approaching. Sikhism—its tenets and the "Guru-tradition"—and the teachings and values of the Sikh gurus are treasured by the Union government and leaders of the Hindu faith as a beacon of India's civilisation and cultural nationalism.Hence, the significance of the presence of representations Sikh faith at the Bhumi Pujan ceremony.The Golden Temple at Amritsar is among the various religious and pilgrimage sites that have been taken to Ramjanmabhoomi site to be put in a consecrated "Kalash" during the ceremony.The proposed Kalash will metaphorically bear witness to the ceremony, and blessings invoked to the "epic" endeavour of the temple construction.Meanwhile, the Trust's general secretary Champat Rao has appealed to Lord Ram's devotees and those who took part in the temple construction not be "impatient" to take part in the ceremony as the number of invitees will be kept low to ensure physical distancing norms.
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Gyms, yoga centres to open up on August 5 as Punjab issues Unlock 3 guidelines||The Punjab government issued ‘Unlock 3’ guidelines on Friday to open up a few sectors of the state’s stalled economy---a development that comes two days after the central government issued its own directives.Punjab allowed board and universities examinations to be held. Following the Centre’s lead, the state government also allowed gymnasiums and yoga institutes to open ‪from August 5.Night curfews however will remain in place from 11 pm to 5 am.The developments come two days after the central government issued similar directives to open up an economy that came to a complete halt on March 25, when it called for a nationwide lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus.
31-07-2020||Mohali||To curtail footfall in govt offices, Mohali district to adopt online Public Grievance Redressal System||In a bid to curtail the footfall in government offices amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Mohali district administration would be adopting an Online Public Grievance Redressal System.Deputy Commissioner, Girish Dayalan, stated this while chairing the core group meeting of officers.He said that it is in the best interest of the public, as well as public servants, that all avoidable influx of people to government offices be restrained. He said that Directorate of Governance Reforms (DGR), Punjab has developed a Public Grievance Redressal System (PGRS). It is an integrated system for grievance redressal pertaining to all government departments via a single technology interface. So, as far as possible, complaints would be entertained online through PGRS.Sharing the details of PGRS, Harkirat Channe, Assistant Commissioner (Grievances), said that PGRS is accessible to citizens via four modes – web, mobile, Sewa Kendra and a call centre. Using an online portal of PGRS, an aggrieved citizen can conveniently file a grievance and receive an assured response to his complaint.Channe said earlier every department had its own grievance redressal mechanism without a standardized workflow for redressal and no defined timeline for resolution and accountability. She said that in contrast, the PGRS has a clear, standardized workflow for grievance redressal. She added that it assigns timelines to each officer in the workflow for resolution of the grievance, enables citizens to submit their feedback on the resolution provided and allows for escalation of grievances to higher authorities.Channe said that the PGRS portal will provide a 24x7 platform to the public to communicate with the administration and added that people will be able to lodge their complaints without having to go to different offices amid the pandemic.
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||36 die after drinking spurious liquor in Punjab; CM orders magisterial probe||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has ordered a magisterial inquiry by Divisional Commissioner Jalandhar into the suspicious deaths of 36 people allegedly due to consumption of spurious liquor in Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran.Details of many of those killed are still awaited. On Friday, five more people died in Batala, taking the toll in the city to seven, while one person has been referred to Civil Hospital, Batala, in critical condition.However, the inquiry looks into the facts and circumstances leading to incidents, as well as into any other issues connected or relevant to the incidents and the circumstances leading to it.It will be conducted by Divisional Commissioner Jalandhar, along with Joint Excise & Taxation Commissioner Punjab, and SPs Investigation of the concerned districts, according to an official spokesperson.The Chief Minister has given Commissioner Jalandhar Division the liberty to co-opt any civil and police officer or any expert to facilitate the expeditious conduct of the inquiry.He has promised strict action against anyone found complicit in the case, in which a woman has so far been arrested.Taking immediate and serious note of the case, Captain Amarinder also directed the police to launch a search operation to crack down on any spurious liquor manufacturing units that may be operating in the state.Police have arrested Balwinder Kaur, resident of Muchhal, under the section 304 Indian Penal Code, 61/1/14 Excise Act at PS Tarsikka. Further investigations are in progress under the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by SSP Amritsar-Rural, from where the first cases were reported.Tarn Taran Police booked two people---Kashmir Singh and Angrej Singh from Pandori Gola village---in connection with the tragedy.The suspects were charged with culpable homicide, murder bid and  criminal conspiracy, besides other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code.The post-mortem of four people—Jaswinder Singh, Kashmir Singh, Kirpal Singh and Jaswant Singh—will be conducted on Friday to ascertain the exact cause of the deaths.Giving details of the case, DGP Punjab Dinkar Gupta said the first five deaths were reported from villages Mucchal and Tangra in PS Tarsikka in Amritsar Rural on the night of June 29.On the evening of July 30, two more persons died in suspicious circumstances in Muchhal, while one person was hospitalised in critical condition and later succumbed at Sri Guru Ramdas Hospital, from where he was referred by Dr. Sarabjit Kaur Hospital, Tangra.Later, two more deaths were from reported from village Mucchal, while another two people reportedly died in Batala city, also due to spurious liquor consumption.Four more similarly suspicious deaths have also been reported from Tarn Taran.The deceased have been identified as Mangal Singh, Balwinder Singh, Dalbir Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Kashmir Singh, Kaka Singh, Kirpal Singh, Jaswant Singh and Joga Singh all resident of village Muchhal, PS. Tarsikka, Amritsar Rural, Baldev Singh, resident of Tangra, PS.Tarsikka, Amritsar-R. Other deceased are Buta Ram, Bhinda, Riku Singh, Kala, Kalu, Billa and Jatinder, all residents of City Batala.Those who have died in Tarn Taran have been identified as Sahib Singh, Harban Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Dharam Singh.
31-07-2020||---||PAU Ludhiana cancels entrance exams for admission to graduate programmes||Ludhiana, July 31The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has cancelled the entrance exams for admission to graduate programmes for the academic session 2020-21 in view of COVID-19 pandemic.Giving detailed information, Dr RS Sidhu, Registrar, PAU, said the University had cancelled Common Entrance Test (CET) and Agriculture Aptitude Test (AAT) for admission to graduate programmes. In addition, entrance exam for MSc 5-year Integrated Programme has also been cancelled, he said, adding that the examination fee would be refunded to all the candidates. The admission to graduate programmes at PAU will be based on the evaluation of Classes 10 and 12 marks, he said. Dr Sidhu said the last date for applying with late fee had been extended to August 7 and the aspiring candidates would now have to pay Rs 2,120 for prospectus and Rs 1,000 as late fee.
31-07-2020||New Delhi||Punjab among 4 states not following SC orders on timely payment of salaries to medicos engaged in Covid, Centre tells SC||Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka and Tripura are yet to follow directives on timely payment of salaries to health care workers engaged in COVID-19, the Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court, which said it cannot be "helpless" in implementing the directions.The court directed the Centre to issue necessary directions for releasing salaries of doctors and frontline healthcare workers engaged in COVID-19 duty on time.A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah asked the Centre to also clarify on treating compulsory quarantine period of healthcare workers as leave and deduction of their salaries for the same period. “If the states are not complying with the directions and orders of the Central government, you are not helpless. You have to ensure that your order is implemented. You have got the power under the Disaster Management Act. You can take steps also," the Bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre.Mehta said that after the top court's directions on June 17, necessary orders were issued on June 18 to all the states, with regard to payment of salaries to healthcare workers. He said that many states have complied with the directions but some of them like Maharashtra, Punjab, Tripura and Karnataka have not paid salaries to the doctors and healthcare workers on time.Senior Advocate KV Vishwanathan, appearing for petitioner Arushi Jain, said the high risk and low risk classification made by the Centre has no basis and the government advisory of June 18 after the top court's order has no rationale basis.  He said that there is still non-payment of salaries to healthcare workers.The Bench was hearing a plea of Dr Arushi Jain, a private doctor, questioning the Centre's May 15 decision that 14-day quarantine was not mandatory for doctors.The top court also took note of an application filed by United Resident Doctors Association (URDA) through advocates Mithu Jain, Mohit Paul and Arnav Vidyarthi that salaries of doctors are being deducted for the period of compulsory quarantine treating it as leave period. To this, Mehta conceded that "the said period can't be treated as leave" and said that he would take necessary instructions on the issue. He said the Central government will take steps to ensure that the salaries of doctors and healthcare workers is paid on time.The top court posted the matter for further hearing on August 10. On June 17, the top court had directed the Centre to issue orders in 24 hours to all states and union territories for payment of salaries to doctors and healthcare workers as also for providing suitable quarantine facilities for those who are directly engaged in treatment of COVID-19 patients.It had said, “The Central Government shall issue appropriate direction to the Chief Secretary of the states/union territories to ensure that the orders are faithfully complied with, violation of which may be treated as an offence under the Disaster Management Act read with the Indian Penal Code."Dr Jain had also alleged in her plea that frontline healthcare workers engaged in the fight against COVID-19 are not being paid salaries or their wages are being cut or delayed.The Centre had earlier told the top court that the May 15 circular on Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will also be modified, doing away the clause for non-mandatory quarantine for healthcare workers engaged in COVID-19 duty, and they will not be denied the quarantine.On June 12, the top court had observed, “In war, you do not make soldiers unhappy. Travel an extra mile and channel some extra money to address their grievances”. It had said that the courts should not be involved in the issue of non-payment of salary to healthcare workers and the government should settle the issue. PTI
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM, Khattar pay tributes to Shaheed Udham Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday paid tributes to Shaheed Udham Singh on his death anniversary.“I join the nation in paying my humble tributes to our great freedom fighter Shaheed-e-Azam Sardar Udham Singh ji,” Amarinder said tweeted.I join the nation in paying humble tributes to our great freedom fighter Shaheed-E-Azam Sardar Udham Singh Ji. His patriotism & sacrifice will continue to inspire generations of Indians. Work on his Memorial at Sunam is underway & will be completed within a year. Jai Hind! 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/4nKRZGfs56  “His patriotism and sacrifice will continue to inspire generations of Indians. Work on his memorial at Sunam is underway and will be completed within a year,” he said."What greater honour could be bestowed on me than death for the sake of my motherland"मॉं भारती के वीर सपूत, महान क्रांतिकारी सरदार उधम सिंह जी के बलिदान दिवस पर उन्हें श्रद्धांजलि। यह देश उनके सर्वोच्च बलिदान को सदैव याद रखेगा। pic.twitter.com/jkCvwz2gk3  Khattar said quoting the revolutionary: “What greater honour could be bestowed on me than death for the sake of my motherland.”Udham Singh was a revolutionary belonging to the Ghadar Party. He shot dead Michael O’Dwyer, a former Lieutenant Governor of Punjab, in London on March 13, 1940 to avenge the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in Amritsar in 1919. Udham Singh was subsequently convicted of the murder and hanged on July 31, 1940. ­--IANS
31-07-2020||Vijay C Roy and Shivani Bhakoo||Orders aplenty, but labour crunch hits garment makers||tribune news serviceChandigarh/Ludhiana, July 30Dwindling exports continue to haunt garment exporters in the state. Despite demand from the major export markets of the United States and the European Union, the industry is not in a position to cash in on the opportunity. Reason: Acute shortage of labourers, mainly tailors. Some units are running with 25 to 30 per cent of the total workforce, and many are coping with even smaller percentage of labourers.Over 15 to 20 per cent of the nation’s total exports come from Punjab, with Ludhiana being the major hub.According to data, India exported garments worth $1.45 billion (10,955 crore in rupees) in the quarter ending June 2020, against $4.17 billion (29,008 crore in rupees) in the corresponding period last year.The exporters maintain there is no dearth of orders from countries like the US, European and Middle East countries. However, they are not taking fresh orders, as they fear their execution won’t be carried out within the stipulated time in the absence of labourers and adherence to the Covid-19 norms. For tailors, the industry is dependent on migrants from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Orissa.“The Indian exporters had started getting many queries from overseas buyers, who were keen to place the orders. However, since the labourers have returned to their native places, the industry is wary of accepting fresh orders. Besides, the workers seem to be in no mood to return in near future because of the Covid-19 scare, thus affecting the production,” said Narinder Chugh, managing director of Ludhiana-based Million Exporter (P) Ltd.Neeraj Arya, managing director, Different Garments Pvt Ld, said he was coping with 33 per cent of the total workforce. Similarly, Rohan Dheer, partner at Puneet Knitwear, said he was working on an export consignment with a 30 per cent workforce.Exporters opined the industry was going through a rough patch in the absence of skilled labourers. “We were facing a lot of difficulties, and had to shell out Rs 30,000 to call back four workers from UP and Bihar. We met with the DGM of Railways on Sunday, and have appealed to him to call back the labourers, as it is a crucial time for us. If we do not start manufacturing now, we will repent throughout the year,” said Mridula Jain from Shingora Shawls.One of the manufacturers had recently paid Rs 1 lakh to a private bus operator to ferry back 18 to 19 workers from their native places.
31-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court streamlines operations, taking up 1,000 cases/day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30More than four months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court went into restricted functioning mode following the Covid outbreak, it has further streamlined its working to hear about 1,000 cases daily with two-third of its strength functioning through video-conferencing.Reorganised systemThe HC has over a period of time restructured and reorganised the entire system, with more than 30 judges holding virtual courts daily, four Division Benches and about 29 Single Benches functioning on rotationAvailable information suggests, the High Court was hearing just about 10 cases a day through video-conferencing even after lapse of about 50 days from the time it imposed restrictions on its functioning. Even till the first week of May, the High Court was hearing just about 100 cases a day, virtually turning it into a “denial of justice” phase.It has over a period of time restructured and reorganised the entire system, with more than 30 judges holding virtual courts daily. As of now, four Division Benches and about 29 Single Benches are functioning on rotation.The number is significant considering the fact that Covid has hit the judiciary hard during the previous days. It is believed that more than 70 officers and staff members have been quarantined after July 13 across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.Prior to it more than 500 judicial officers, their families and staff in the two states and Chandigarh had been quarantined. Among the judicial officers tested positive for Covid-19 was a district and sessions judge. Three additional district and sessions Judges and judicial magistrates were also tested positive.The secretary of a High Court judge was also tested positive, sending waves of apprehensions among the technical and other staff involved in the process of virtual hearing. The judge and others in contact with the secretary were later tested negative. But the incident did bring to fore the impossibility of shifting from virtual to physical form of hearing.The High Court, as a result, is believed to be contemplating work from home for the judges. As a part of the novel arrangement, the judges will hear cases through video-conferencing only from the camp offices in their residences. As of now, some of the judges were working from their chambers in the High Court.
31-07-2020||---||No charge for plasma, 2 more banks to come up||Chandigarh, July 30Amid spiralling Covid infections and deaths, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday said plasma would be provided free of cost by the state government to all those in need. He directed the Health Department to strictly ensure that Covid patients were not charged for plasma therapy and that nobody was allowed to buy or sell plasma, which had proven a life-saver in many cases in the absence of any cure for Covid-19.‘Act against violators’Taking serious note of reports of violation of social distancing and other Covid protocols by some shopkeepers, the state government has directed the DCs to order shutting down of shops for three days for the first offence and for a higher number of days on subsequent violations.He also appealed to the recovered Covid patients to come forward to donate plasma. Currently, there were around 10,000 recovered Covid patients in the state, he said, adding that his government’s priority was to save each and every life in Punjab.The CM asked the Health Department to expedite setting up of two new plasma banks in Amritsar and Fardikot to supplement the one already operational in Patiala. He was informed by minister OP Soni that the approval for the new banks had already been received and tenders were being floated for procurement of equipment.Expressing grave concern over the increasing mortality, the CM called for concerted efforts to bring down the fatality rate.Taking serious note of reports of violation of physical distancing and other Covid protocols by some shopkeepers, the Chief Minister directed the DCs to order shutting down of shops for three days in the case of the first offence and for a higher number of days on subsequent violations.Chairing a review meeting on Covid, Capt asked the DCs to strictly enforce all safety protocols and norms.Dr KK Talwar, former PGI director, pointed out that scientific data showed that wearing of masks was as effective as lockdown, as it not only prevented spread of infection, but also lowered mortality.While the Centre had announced certain relaxations, including permission for opening gyms, the CM said he would decide on the same after an assessment of the ground situation.DGP Dinkar Gupta said 14,384 FIRs were registered, 19,850 arrested and 5,50,150 fined for violations from March 23 to July 29
31-07-2020||---||Covid count crosses 15,000 in Punjab||Chandigarh, July 30With 511 fresh cases, the state count of Covid cases has reached 15,456. Besides, the state reported 10 more deaths in the past 24 hours.Ludhiana again topped in terms of Covid casualities as four deaths were reported. Three deaths were reported from Jalandhar, one each from Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Patiala. Apart from that, 135 patients are on oxygen support and 18 are on ventilator support.In terms of cases too, Ludhiana continues to be the worst-affected district as it reported 143 cases, followed by Ferozepur (73), Amritsar (69), Jalandhar (67), Faridkot (24), SAS Nagar (18), Sangrur and Tarn Taran (15 each), Patiala and Bathinda (14 each).In Amritsar, a 67-year-old patient died of the Covid-19 pandemic, following which the death count in district has increased to 74.In Jalandhar, a 90-year-old resident of Bhargo Camp died at the Civil Hospital and a 76-year-old man died in Adampur.
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||1.37 lakh get Covid test results via SMS||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has tied up with the Department of Governance Reforms, under which once the labs update results on the ICMR portal, the results are communicated to people via SMS, informed Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.Till now, over 1.37 lakh people have received results through SMS. This has been done to ensure timely communication of the results to people. Besides, sero survey has been planned in five districts. — TNS
31-07-2020||---||Stop political theatrics over UAPA, Capt Amarinder Singh tells Sukhbir||Chandigarh, July 30Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday called upon SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal to “open his eyes to the secessionist threat of anti-Indian forces instead of indulging in political theatrics over the UAPA, which his own government had used extensively during its tenure”.CM’s stance Hypocritical, says sadIn reply to CM’s reaction, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal said it was an irony that Capt Amarinder Singh was talking about the people of his state in terms of “anti-India forces” at a time when the entire country was standing up to salute their sacrifices in defending the national borders. He alleged that the people of Punjab had seen through his (Capt Amarinder’s) hypocritical stance and his bid to divide the state on communal lines.After Canada, the United Kingdom has now come out with a categorical statement that it is not involved in any way in the unofficial and non-binding Rreferendum 2020.Welcoming UK’s statement, the Chief Minister alleged Sukhbir continued to turn a blind eye to the threat posed by Pakistan-backed Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) and other terrorist and radical forces working to destabilise India, particularly Punjab. “Can’t he (Sukhbir) see that the arrests under UAPA which he is opposing are part of the state government’s strategy to combat this threat?” he said.Capt Amarinder said it was unfortunate that instead of playing the role of a constructive Opposition in the state, the SAD was wasting its time with its baseless charges and comments. He reminded the SAD chief of his earlier offer to look into any case of misuse of the UAPA and wrongful arrest under the same, if Sukhbir would bring any such incident to his notice. “Why don’t you send me the list of cases which you claim the police have registered wrongfully?” he asked Sukhbir, while also seeking a list of the names of those arrested under the UAPA during the SAD-BJP rule.
31-07-2020||---||Moga braveheart cremated with military honours||Demru Khurd (Moga), July 30  Sepoy Lakhbir Singh (24) was cremated with military and state honours at Demru Khurd village in Moga district on Thursday. He died on July 22 while trying to rescue fellow jawans from an overflowing nullah along the China border in Arunachal Pradesh.  His father Swaran Singh and brother Jagsir Singh jointly lit the pyre in the presence of family members, relatives and officials of the Army and civil administration. A contingent of Army jawans gave a gun salute to Lakhbir, who had joined the 4 Sikh Light Infantry Unit about six years ago.  MLA Darshan Singh Brar, District Magistrate Sandeep Hans, SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill, SDM Swaranjit Kaur and Army officials paid floral tributes to the martyr. Brar announced to construct a park in the village in Lakhbir’s memory.  DM Sandeep Hans handed over a cheque of Rs 25,000 as immediate relief to the wife of the martyr and also promised to provide a government job to her as per the government policy. The martyr had got married last year.
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Govt hikes aid for martyrs’ kin||In an initiative aimed at providing financial assistance to the next of kin of martyrs and disabled soldiers during various operations, the Punjab Government has notified manifold increase in the ex gratia amount.A spokesperson for the Defence Services Welfare Department said the total amount for martyrs’ kin had been increased to Rs 50 lakh. For married martyrs, Rs 35 lakh would be paid as ex gratia, Rs 10 lakh as additional relief to parents and Rs 5 lakh as cash in lieu of plot. For unmarried ones, the kin would get Rs 45 lakh as ex gratia and Rs 5 lakh as cash in lieu of plot. Soldiers with 76% to 100% disability would be given Rs 20 lakh. For 51% to 75% disability Rs 10 lakh will be given and for 25% to 50% disability, Rs 5 lakh would be provided. — TNS
31-07-2020||---||Expedite probe into missing drugs: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, July 30Underlining the need to check unregulated distribution of medicines to check drug abuse, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today directed the three-member committee, set up to probe the missing five crore tablets of de-addiction drug buprenorphine naloxone, to expedite the investigation.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief Minister‘Narco-terror threat’The growing narco-terrorism across the border is a matter of grave concern.The panel comprises STF chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu, Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Kahan Singh Pannu and Director, Health Services, Dr Avneet Kaur.Chairing a video-conference to review the drug de-addiction and treatment infrastructure, the CM asked the STF on drugs to expand the outreach of OOAT clinics. The state currently has 190 government OOAT centres in addition to 119 private de-addiction centres and another nine centres in jails.Capt Amarinder said the backbone of the drug mafia had been broken and many big fish nabbed.
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||22 officers to keep track of patients||The state government has deputed 22 IAS, IFS and PCS officers as Covid patient tracking officers.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said the officers would ensure coordination and expeditious response by tracking patients from the time they test positive till their recovery. — TNS
31-07-2020||---||Former judge quits panel probing missing ‘saroops’||Amritsar, July 30Navita Singh, a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court appointed by Akal Takht to probe the 267 missing ‘saroops’ case, has withdrawn from the investigation.It is learnt that Justice Navita Singh has sent a letter to Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, expressing inability to spare time to probe the matter due to domestic reasons.After a section of the Sikh community expressed doubts over the fairness of the panel constituted by the SGPC to investigate the case, the latter asked Akal Takht to set up a probe panel. Giani Harpreet Singh then appointed Navita Singh on July 16 to probe the case. Telangana High Court advocate Ishar Singh was nominated to assist her in the investigation.Ishar Singh, along with his supporting staff, has already initiated the probe by taking possession of the records pertaining to the ‘saroops’ from the publication department of the SGPC. He has started the process of recording the statements of the stakeholders.After Navita Singh declared to quit the panel, Giani Harpreet Singh made Ishar Singh the chief investigator and appointed another High Court lawyer, Harpreet Kaur, and CA Harleen Kaur, as his assistants in the probe, which is to be completed within a month.“It will not affect the fairness of the probe. As and when the report is submitted to Akal Takht, action will be taken,” Giani Harpreet Singh said. On the other hand, the main complainant — activists of the Punjab Human Rights Organisation — expressed displeasure over the development.
31-07-2020||Amritsar||Train tragedy: Sidhu aide, 5 others get bail||A local court today granted bail to organisers of Dasehra celebrations that turned tragic after a train mishap near Jora Phatak in 2018.  Seven members of the organising committee, including former Cabinet Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s aide Saurav, alias Mithu Madaan, were booked by the special investigation team of the Government Railway Police (GRP).  Others booked in the case were Rahul Kalyan of Golden Avenue; Deepak Kumar, Karan Bhandari and Kabal Singh of Krishna Nagar; Deepak Gupta of Savan Nagar and Bhupinder Singh of Amarkot in Krishna Nagar. Except Kalyan, all the remaining suspects were granted bail today. Kalyan had not applied for the bail.  The GRP said the organisers had held the event without mandatory permissions and safety measures. The programme was held at Dhobi Ghat that lacked the space to accommodate a large crowd. — TNS
31-07-2020||Mohali||Defence yet to file reply on plea to cancel bail||The defence counsel of former Chandigarh inspectors Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh has sought time to file a reply against the application filed by the prosecution for cancellation of the bails granted to the two co-accused in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case.Multani case: Aug 7 Next hearingAdditional District and Sessions Judge Rajnish Garg, after hearing the pleas, adjourned the case till August 7. Advocate HS Dhanoa, defence counsel, said they would be opposing the cancellation of the bail as well as quashing of inclusion of Section 302 in the FIR.Additional District and Sessions Judge Rajnish Garg, after hearing the pleas, adjourned the case till August 7. Sartej Singh Narula, prosecution counsel and special public prosecutor, along with Sanjiv Batra, district attorney, Pardeep Virk, counsel for complainant and Palwinder Singh Multani, brother of former CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani, had filed an application seeking cancellation of the bails granted to the two former UT cops. The case is being investigated by a special investigation team (SIT) headed by Superintended of Police Harmandeep Singh Hans.Advocate HS Dhanoa, defence counsel, sought some more time to file the reply. Dhana said they would be opposing the cancellation of the bail as well as quashing of the inclusion of Section 302 in the FIR, and file their reply on August 7. Former UT cop Anokh Singh was arrested by the Mohali police over a fresh FIR registered on July 27 at the Kharar Sadar police station on the charge of fabricating evidence in the case. — TNS
31-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Two kids drown in Ferozepur village||Ferozepur, July 30In a freak mishap, two boys drowned in a sand pit on the outskirts of Megha Mahatam village in Guruharsahai subdivision on Wednesday night.As per information, Gurlal Singh (7), and Guljar Singh (5), were playing near a sand pit where rainwater had got accumulated. The duo slipped and drowned in the sand pit, which was being illegally operated.A passer-by spotted the bodies and informed the villagers. As soon as the news broke, a pall of gloom descended on the entire village.Jaswarinder Singh, SHO, said the post-mortem was not done on the request of the parents of the victims and the bodies had beenhanded over to the aggrieved families.
31-07-2020||---||MCI extends date to fill PG seats till Aug 31||Faridkot, July 30Keeping in view the Covid-19 outbreak, the Medical Council of India (MCI) today announced extension of the last date for admission to post-graduate (PG) medical courses (MD/MS) in all colleges from July 31 to August 31.Second extensionThis is the second time that the MCI has extended the last date for admissions. Earlier on June 12, it announced to extend the date from May 31 to July 31The MCI’s decision came after getting a nod from the Supreme Court. This is for the second time that the council has extended the date. Earlier on June 12, it announced to extend the last date for admissions from May 31 to July 31.As government and private medical colleges were facing problems in completing the admission process by July 31, the MCI extended it with the SC’s permission, said Dr RK Vats, secretary general, MCI.As per the schedule approved by the apex court in 2016, the last date for admissions to PG medical and dental courses is May 31.Meanwhile, in an attempt to meet the July 31 deadline, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, on Wednesday announced its counselling schedule for the mop-up round in a hush-hush manner. The candidates were asked to submit their applications by July 29 mid-night and preferences of college/specialty by 2 pm on July 30. The provisional merit list was to be displayed by the evening and the candidates were supposed to report at the allotted colleges by 11 am on July 31.The MCI, in its application to the apex court, had also sought last date extension for letter of permission (LoP) for MBBS from May 31 to August 31 and for issuance of LoP for super specialty courses from May 31 to July 15.
31-07-2020||---||Congress losing connect on ground, Dullo tells Sonia||Chandigarh, July 30Rajya Sabha Congress MP Shamsher Singh Dullo today said the families of traditional Congress leaders had been ignored at the cost of outsiders and the party was losing its connect at the grassroots level.Dullo, who was among the Rajya Sabha members who interacted with party president Sonia Gandhi through video-conferencing, said Congress leaders who had risen from the grassroots level had become irrelevant in the party.Talking in context of the Punjab Congress, the MP said many politicians having connections and interests with mafias had managed to get party tickets and had even become MLAs. In the Punjab Cabinet, people who had joined from other parties had managed to become ministers.He further said the party affairs incharge were not giving the true picture about the state of governance. Partap Singh Bajwa and Ambika Soni also participated in the interaction.
31-07-2020||---||Job fairs to resume in September, target to employ 50K youth||Chandigarh, July 30As nearly 2 lakh job seekers applied on the state government portal in the past two months due to loss of jobs amid the lockdown, the Punjab Government has decided to resume its ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana’ by organising the 6th State Level Mega Job Fair from September 24 to September 30, across the state.Due to Covid-19, the Department of Employment Generation, both physical and virtual platforms, would be used to hold the job fairs while following all precautionary guidelines. The government has set the target to provide employment to 50,000 youth, said Charanjit Channi, Employment Generation Minister.In case the situation deteriorates and conducting physical job fairs is found non-feasible, the process till the stage of initial online participation would be undertaken and final physical part would be conducted post Covid.Employers would be asked if they want to conduct virtual interviews/ group discussion/ online test etc or physical interview or combination of both. The candidates and employers who don’t have means/ technology to undertake such interviews etc will be facilitated at the DBEE office.Rahul Tiwari, Secretary, Employment Generation-cum-Commissioner ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yajana’, said jobseekers can apply from August 28 to September 15. All details of the job seekers and vacancies collected from the employers would be made available on the portal ww.pgrkam.com, he added.
31-07-2020||---||Officer quits Punjabi University before joining||Patiala, July 30 Retired IAS officer Manjit Singh Narang, who was recently appointed honorary adviser to the Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Punjabi University, Patiala, resigned on Thursday. Blaming VC Dr BS Ghuman for the same, Narang said he was appointed by the VC on July 1, but never got a call to join the office. Narang, who is credited with pulling the PRTC out of financial slump, said the VC had been dilly-dallying on his joining.  Narang said the university had failed to utilise the benefits of his services, which he agreed to provide free of cost. He said he felt helpless and thus hung his boots. “On July 24, I was asked to return when I was going to join the university. It seems the university had appointed me out of some obligation,” he said. When contacted, Rahul Bhandari, Secretary, Higher Education, said: “I don’t know the reason behind his resignation. I have received Manjit Singh Narang’s letter. Only the VC can tell about it.”
31-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Why blood sample of drug victim not collected, asks Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30More than three months after a youth died allegedly of drug overdose, the Punjab and Haryana High Court asked the Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) to determine why a blood sample was not gathered from a wall near the spot.Blood stain on wallThe petitioners’ counsel told the court that a “huge blood stain” was present on a wall at the spot where the victim allegedly took drugs or was administered the same in the presence of the accused-petitioners.“The DCP would determine as to why, if blood was present on the wall where the deceased is stated to have taken drugs, no sample was taken of that blood for comparison with the blood of the deceased by way of DNA sampling,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh stated.The order came after counsel for the complainant, Harsh Chopra, indicated the absence of scientific probe into the incident. Chopra told the court that a “huge blood stain” was present on a wall at the spot where the victim allegedly took drugs or was administered the same in the presence of the accused-petitioners. He said the post- mortem report did not reflect any wound on the victim’s body. Yet, the police also took photographs of the body showing “some wounds”.The matter was brought to the high court’s notice after Vishal and Sandeep Singh filed a petition against the state of Punjab and other respondents seeking concession of regular bail in the case.Justice Amol Rattan Singh fixed the case for further hearing in August third week and directed the forwarding of the bloodstain, if it could still be obtained from the wall, to the authorities concerned for forensic examination and comparison with any samples taken from the victim’s body.
31-07-2020||---||Booked under UAPA, Bholath man gets bail||Kapurthala, July 30 The court of Additional Sessions Judge, Kapurthala, Rajwinder Kaur today granted bail to a 65-year-old resident of Akala village of Bholath, identified as Joginder Singh Gujjar, alias Goga, who had been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) on July 2. Bholath DSP Jatinderjit Singh submitted that till today, no evidence had come to the light suggesting that the accused was a member of the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) or any other unlawful association. He also submitted that there was no evidence to prove that he had participated or propagated the activities of SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu. He said the reply to an application given to bank officials to know about Goga’s account details had not been received so far. The DSP had earlier submitted that he had come to know that Goga, based in Italy, had arrived in India  in February 2020 and that he was in regular contact with US-based Pannu.
31-07-2020||Bathinda||Long wait for wages for 4K Forest staff||Angrej Singh (50) of Pakka Kalan village has been buying groceries on credit from a shop in his vicinity. Unable to clear an outstanding bill of more than Rs 8, 000, he is now looking for another grocery shop for purchases on credit. Life for him has been tough. Since the past four months, Angrez Singh, among the 4,000 employees with the Forest Department, have not been paid wages.“My savings are all gone. My two sons, both farmhands, are without work. I had to borrow Rs 20,000 on an interest of Rs 400 per month to meet household expenses.The borrowers are now on my doorstep. I devoted 23 years of my life to my job for a meagre salary of Rs 8,700. Now, I am even deprived of that,” he says.Amrik Singh, president of Forest Workers’ Union, said, “Leave aside regularising our services, we have not been paid salaries for months. We have held protests to get our due but in vain. A meeting with senior officials at Chandigarh last week remained inconclusive. We are tired of hollow assurances. We are being pushed into stepping up our agitation.” Divisional Forest Officer Swarn Singh said the salaries would be paid as soon as they received funds. According to Jatinder Sharma, Principal Conservator of Forests, the salaries are likely to be released after a meeting on August 5.
