31-08-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 50 more deaths in Punjab, 1,541 more cases surface||The COVID-19 death toll in Punjab increased to 1,453 with 50 more deaths due to the disease, a health bulletin issued on Monday said.The state also reported 1,541 fresh cases of the coronavirus that took the infection tally to 53,992 on Monday, it said.Eighteen deaths were reported from Ludhiana, 10 from Mohali, five each from Amritsar and Hoshiarpur, four from Kapurthala, three from Jalandhar and one each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Moga and Patiala, as per the medical bulletin.One death which was reported from Tarn Taran was removed as it was counted twice, it said.Among the places which reported new cases were Bathinda (231), Ludhiana (210), Jalandhar (202), Patiala (156) Amritsar (118) and Mohali (102).The bulletin said a total of 1,280 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. So far 37,027 people have been cured of the infection.There are 15,512 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.Seventy-seven critical patients are on ventilator support while 474 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.With a collection of 16,535 more samples for COVID testing, the figure of total samples taken so far for testing has reached 10,62,667 in the state, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-50-more-deaths-in-punjab-1-541-more-cases-surface-134277
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Night curfew, weekend lockdown to continue in Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Monday that his government would continue to enforce restrictions on movement in the urban areas of the state---a development that came days after Punjab’s cases breached 50,000 cases.Punjab government said in its press release that weekend lockdowns would continue in all 167 municipal areas of the state until the end of September, as would night curfews from 7 pm to 5 am. This decision to continue night curfews continue despite the central government’s decision to lift its own orders.  “The decision has been taken in due consultation with the Centre, as required by the Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India,” an official spokesperson said.The Chief Minister has, however, ordered relaxation with respect to opening of shops in the five worst affected cities of Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali and Ludhiana. The condition of only 50 per cent of the non-essential shops being open on a given day in these cities has now been removed.The central government said in its Unlock 4 guidelines on Sunday that any decisions on further lockdowns and restrictions on movement should be take taken only after consulting it.All social, political, religious gatherings, protests and demonstrations will continue to be banned under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code.This is also unlike to the central government’s own guidelines, which allowed such gatherings from September 21. Social events like weddings and funerals will have a restriction on the number of attendees---30 for the first and 20 for the second.     There will be complete curfew on movement over weekends in the 167 municipal limits. Only essential activities will be permitted during the night curfew hours.  “Movement of students and others in connection with examinations, admission or entrance tests conducted by Universities, Boards, Public Service Commissions and other institutions has been excluded from the restrictions. Captain Amarinder has directed district authorities to facilitate the movement of such persons,” the official spokesperson said.Places of worship can stay open on all days until 6.30 pm, as can restaurants and liquor shops.These restrictions will not apply to hotels.“Captain Amarinder has directed district authorities to strictly comply with these guidelines,” the spokesperson said. “He has asked the police to ensure strict action against the organisers and main participants in case of any violation of orders u/S 144 of Cr.P.C.”There will be no restriction on essential services and activities, neither will there be any on movement of people and goods on national and state highways.“Inter-state and intra state movement of persons and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and aeroplanes will be permitted during the restrictive conditions,” the spokesperson saidThese essential services include those related to health, agricultural and related activities, dairying and fishery  activities, banks, ATMs, stock markets, insurance companies, on-line teaching, public utilities, public transport, industry in multiple-shifts, construction industry, offices both private and government, the spokesperson said.Malls and selling non-essential goods can operate until 6:30 pm on weekdays, but only essential activities will be allowed during weekends.Shops dealing in essentials could remain open until 6.30 pm on weekends.Existing restrictions on number of passengers in vehicles will continue---three people, including the driver, in a four wheeler, and buses and public transports can only carry half their seating capacity.  Staff strength for government and private offices cannot be more than 50 per cent.“The Heads of Offices would restrict public visitors in Government offices and encourage use of on-line Punjab grievance redressal system (PGRS) and other on-line tools so as to minimise person to person contact in offices, according to the directives issued on the Chief Minister’s orders,” the spokesperson said.The development came on a day when 1,453 new COVID-19 cases and 50 deaths took Punjab’s COVID-19 tally to 53,992 with 1453 fatalities.  Highlights of Unlock 4.0Night curfew to continueWeekend lockdowns to continue in 167 municipal areasWhat’s allowedWhat’s not allowedWhat are essential servicesThose related to health, agricultural and related activities, dairying and fishery  activities, banks, ATMs, stock markets, insurance companies, on-line teaching, public utilities, public transport, industry in multiple-shifts, construction industry, offices both private and government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/night-curfew-weekend-lockdown-to-continue-in-punjab-134259
31-08-2020||Vishav Bharti||Punjab govt rolls back hike in user charges at hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31The Punjab government has rolled back the decision to increase user charge in state-run hospitals.In a news report that appeared on Sunday, The Tribune had highlighted how the cash-strapped Punjab government was out to “fleece” patients by mindlessly increasing the user charges for more than 40 services.For many years, the state government had been charging ambulance charges Rs 5 per km, but increased it to Rs 15 recently. Admission and OPD registration charges were doubled to Rs 10.    Admission charges had been increased from Rs 25 in general ward to Rs 40.  The common surgery charges for minor surgery had risen to Rs 250 from Rs 100; for minor surgery under general anaesthesia (GA), Rs 400 were to be charged as per increased rates.Similarly, major surgery with GA and spinal anaesthesia had been increased from Rs 750 to Rs 1,200. And charges for special surgical operation were to be Rs 1,500. The charges had been increased despite the fact that the Congress had promised in its election manifesto in 2017 that if they come to power, they will rationalise the user charges. Last time the charges were increased in 2013. Some common charges had witnessed almost five to ten times increase in last one decade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-rolls-back-hike-in-user-charges-at-hospitals-134230
31-08-2020||Jalandhar||15-year-old girl fights snatchers to save her mobile phone in Jalandhar||Showing exemplary courage, a 15-year-old girl on Sunday fought off snatchers who tried to snatch her mobile phone in Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar near Jalandhar-Kapurthala road.Despite being attacked with a sharp-edged weapon, she managed to catch hold of one of the snatchers.While she fought with the snatchers for a few minutes, soon commuters jumped in to her rescue and thrashed the snatcher.The whole incident, which occurred around 2 pm, was recorded in a nearby CCTV. Kusum Kumari (15), a resident of Fatehpuri Mohalla, while narrating about the incident, said, “I was going home when two bike-borne men attempted to snatch my mobile phone. The accused sitting on the pillion seat grabbed my hand and took my phone. However, I resisted and held his hand. Following which I followed them on their bike and grabbed the pillion rider’s t-shirt. He later hit me and attacked my wrist with a datar. But I continued to follow him and later dragged him from his bike. Few minutes later passersby rescued me and held the snatcher. I got my phone later.” She has been admitted to a private hospital. The accused was later handed over to the police.SHO, police division two, said the accused was identified as Avinash Kumar (22) alias Ashu, a resident of Begumpura, Basti Danishmanda. While his associate is absconding, a case under Sections 389 B and 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC has been registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/15-year-old-girl-fights-snatchers-to-save-her-mobile-phone%C2%A0in-jalandhar-134229
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab rejects both GST payout options: Manpreet Badal writes to Revenue Secy||Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal has written a letter to the Revenue Secretary rejecting the two options given to the states to make up for the shortfall in GST compensation.Punjab was amongst the states that had been vocal against the delay in GST compensation. Compensation worth Rs 6,500 crore is due to the cash- strapped state, which is finding it difficult to meet its committed liabilities.Badal said that there was a clear violation of the GST Act, and compensation to states can neither be increased nor decreased.“This is a betrayal of the spirit of cooperative federalism,” he said in the letter.He recommended that a GOM may be constituted to deliberate on the matter and give its recommendations in ten days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-rejects-both-gst-payout-options-manpreet-badal-writes-to-revenue-secy-134203
31-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||2 drunk Punjab ASIs, cop deployed in CM security shoot dead woman excise inspector's relative in road rage||Tribune News ServiceBatala, August 31The Batala police have arrested six persons, including two ASIs and a policeman deployed with the CM security, for allegedly killing the relative of a woman excise inspector following a road rage brawl in Bhagwanpurai village late on Sunday.SSP Rachpal Singh, accompanied by senior officers, reached the spot and ordered the arrest of the accused after conducting a preliminary inquiry.Those nabbed have been identified as ASIs Ranjit Singh and Baljit Singh, both posted with the Amritsar city traffic staff, Head Constables Avtar Singh and Balkar Singh, both doing duty as gunmen with ADGP (retd) Parampal Singh Sidhu, Surinder Singh, a policeman deployed with CM security, and Simrat Singh.The accused were travelling in two cars and wanted to overtake the car of Amarpreet Kaur, an excise inspector. However, sources say, she did not give way to the cops because of the narrow road. After a 15-minute chase, Kaur swerved her car into a narrow alley of her native village of Bhagwanpur.The irate cops managed to stop her vehicle and the moment they did so, they started damaging it. She called her brother-in-law Gurmej Singh (husband's brother). Her father-in-law Amrik Singh is a former SAD sarpanch.In the ensuing altercation, one of the cops shot dead Gurmej Singh (28). The cops were surrounded by nearly 25 boys who were playing kabaddi under lights nearby. Gurmej himself was a kabaddi player.The SSP said a case under IPC Section 302 has been registered at Kotli Surat Malhi police station. A senior officer claimed the accused indulged in eve-teasing before they shot dead Gurmej.“Despite the fact that Amarpreet Kaur had disclosed her identity, the policemen started passing lewd remarks against her. This infuriated her following which she rang up Gurmej. However, the accused, who were heavily drunk, refused to listen to him and instead one of them took out his service revolver and gunned down Gurmej from point-blank range,” he added.The officer refused to reveal who was the policeman who actually shot the deceased.“We are still investigating and will reveal more details soon,” said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-drunk-punjab-asis-cop-deployed-in-cm-security-shoot-dead-woman-excise-inspectors-relative-in-road-rage-134141
31-08-2020||---||1984 anti-Sikh riot victims’ families rue delay in justice||Amritsar, August 30Disappointed over the delay in justice, a delegation of victim families of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots met Satnam Singh Gill, president, Minority Welfare Organisation, and members of its core committee here on Sunday.Representatives of the families of the riot victims also urged the organisation president to hold meetings with the affected families in villages and cities.The delegation members included Jathedar Harpal Singh Chabba, Mohan Singh Amritsar, Jassa Singh Johari, Kashmir Singh, Amrik Singh Cheema Bath, Sukhdev Singh, Gurmukh Singh Fattuwal, Balbir Kaur, Amarjit Kaur and Harjit Kaur. In a press statement, the delegation stated that the ruling parties of the country and the state had treated Sikhs as a criminal tribe by not paying heed to the 1984 massacre of community people.On the occasion, a 51-member committee was also constituted by the organization to play a wider role in representing the affected Sikh families living around the world. Resolutions were passed unanimously on the issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1984-anti-sikh-riot-victims-families-rue-delay-in-justice-134104
31-08-2020||Kolkata||Sikh lists on British Army homepage||“The Sikhs, wherever they go, leave a mark by their good work. Chamandeep’s story also shows how versatile the community members are,” said Jagmohan Singh Gill, Punjabi Sahitya Sabha chief. “Sikhs have been an integral part of the British Army. It is good to see the story of a Sikh soldier on the British Army homepage,” said Bhupinder Singh Bashar, a poet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-lists-on-british-army-homepage-134098
31-08-2020||Aditi Tandon||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar slams party dissenters||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 30Knives are out in the Congress over a section of dissenters making daily public statements against the leadership, with Punjab party president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday becoming the first Congress functionary to publicly demand action against the out of line people.“The Congress president will have to draw a line somewhere. Strong action must be taken against party persons, no matter how senior, who continue to needle the leadership daily even after our president Sonia Gandhi graciously told them she bore no ill-will against anyone. These dissenters are aware that the Congress is going through difficult times. They think they are untouchables and can continue to exploit the party’s predicament. They must be dealt with sternly,” said Jakhar days after another veteran Ambika Soni demanded disciplinary action against letter writers in the meeting of the Congress Working Committee.Jakhar also slammed the dissenters for talking inner party reforms and said their demands lacked credibility and conviction. “Some of these people who are asking for reforms have spent quarter of a century in the Rajya Sabha. Their attempt even today is not to cement the party, but to secure their personal positions. If they were so concerned about grooming others and strengthening the Congress, why didn’t they step back from the Rajya Sabha and vacate the seats for youngsters. Had they done so, maybe Jyotiraditya Scindia would not have left for the BJP,” said Jakhar.He also questioned Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, one of the signatories to the controversial letter, for seeking CWC elections now and recalled how Azad had in the 2018 AICC session moved a resolution authorising Congress chief to appoint CWC members.“What has changed in two years for Azad, except that his RS term is now expiring. Now, he says the CWC elections would ensure fixed tenure for a CWC member who can then speak his mind openly. I want to ask Azad, my senior, whether he needs a secure job to speak his mind. Well, if he does he should look for a government job. When in politics leaders need courage of conviction, not secure CWC tenures, to say what they have to say,” said Jakhar, attacking former Punjab CM Rajinder Bhattal for joining the letter writers.The Punjab Congress chief also said the party will have to bite the bullet one day and put its foot down against indiscipline by leaders.“Too many indiscretions have gone unpunished in Congress. We have seen this in Rajasthan, Punjab and now with this letter. The party will emerge stronger by telling people enough is enough,” Jakhar said.He also said the letter on the one hand seeks elections for party president’s post and CWC and on the other says NSUI and Youth Congress elections have weakened the cadre feeding organisations.“So, elections to IYC are bad and elections from block committee up to AICC are good? What’s this logic?” asked Jakhar, adding that those who never contested elections are seeking elections today.The Punjab Congress president also accused senior letter writers of betraying Sonia Gandhi and writing a “caustic” letter to her when she was ailing.“What these seniors did was no less than what Brutus did to Caesar,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-chief-sunil-jakhar-slams-party-dissenters-134090
31-08-2020||---||Clamour grows to make probe committee report public||Amritsar, August 30While the SGPC has initiated criminal proceedings against the officials indicted by the Akal Takht-appointed probe panel for misappropriation of ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib, voices demanding that the panel report be made public are getting shriller.Meanwhile, the SGPC has locked the portion of its premises that was offered to an audit firm. Its services were terminated for not doing the job properly. The committee has also announced to recover 75 per cent of the remuneration given to the firm.SAD (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura said: “In its ‘historic’ decision, the SGPC has dismissed ‘erring’ officials, with criminal proceedings to follow. If it was a transparent decision, then where is the hitch to disclose the report on the basis of which the action was taken? I demand a CBI inquiry. The ‘saroops’ were misappropriated at the behest of the Badals-led SAD. The issue had come to light in 2016, but it was suppressed for political gains.”Sources said in the inquiry report, the ‘guilty’ officials had disclosed the names of persons on whose behalf the ‘saroops’ were allotted off the records.Akal Purakh ki Fauj convener and former SGPC member Jaswinder Singh said he was afraid that the report was not put in public domain as the SGPC was shielding some bigwigs.“Why is the SGPC silent over the names of those on whose directions the ‘saroops’ were allotted and who else had received them? We are going to ask for a copy of the probe panel’s report through RTI on Monday. Moreover, the criminal proceedings against the ‘guilty’ officials too could face hiccups, as straightaway dismissal, without any notice or departmental inquiry, could be challenged on legal grounds,” he maintained.The Akal Takht appointed panel, headed by Telangana High Court advocate Ishar Singh, had pointed out a mismatch of 328 ‘saroops’ after scrutinising the ledgers of 2013-14 and 2014-15. Besides this, at least 125 ‘saroops’ were feared to be compiled in an unauthorised manner. “This practice was going on since August 18, 2015. There was a tempering with the ledgers and it has been also found that no audit was conducted since 2016,” said the sources.This audit firm, hired in January 2009, was supposed to computerise SGPC’s audit record and put them online, apart from maintaining internal audit up to date.Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had stated that the firm had never computerised data, nor put it online. That’s why, 75 per cent of money paid to the firm was asked to be realised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clamour-grows-to-make-probe-committee-report-public-133967
31-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers resent police ‘inaction’ in canal water theft cases||Fazilka, August 30The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Sidhupura) has expressed resentment over police “inaction” in canal water theft cases. The activists, led by its district president Pragat Singh, submitted a letter to the Fazilka SDM and said as many as 53 persons, most of them affluent farmers, had been booked from May 2018 till July 2020 for water theft from different canals but no action had been taken against them so far.The activists said the offenders had been enjoying patronisation of the officials and political masters concerned and the farmers whose land fell at the tail end of the canals had to suffer for want of desired water during the peak season.BKU leader Davinder Saharan said although there was no scarcity of water these days due to continuous rain but in the coming days, the farmers would need more water to irrigate their standing crops, particularly paddy and cotton, hence the habitual offenders should be prevented from stealing the canal water well in time.The farmers have alleged that they were being threatened by some persons for raising the issue.Meanwhile, Fazilka DSP Jasbir Singh said he was unaware of the matter but as soon as it would be brought to his knowledge, suitable action would be taken against the offenders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-resent-police-inaction-in-canal-water-theft-cases-133968
31-08-2020||Our Correspondent||2 held for carjacking, kidnapping in Abohar||Abohar, August 30The police have cracked a case in which an engineering student was kidnapped, robbed of his i20 car, assaulted and thrown into a canal on August 22 near the city bypass here.The police said clues were found from a similar crime registered at the Abohar police station in 2018, which helped them arrest Pawan (22) and Ajay Nayak (23) while their third accomplice Monu is still absconding. The duo has confessed to have committed the robbery after assaulting Arpit Mittal (28), son of Dr Manmohan Mittal and Dr Rashmi Mittal, residents of Ambica City colony on the Padampur Road.Arpit was kidnapped near Sukhwant Palace around 10:30 pm on August 22, when he was going to deliver food to a friend, Rajat Soni, by car. Suddenly, three youths stopped the car, entered it forcibly and took him to Abohar.When Arpit did not reach Rajat for about half an hour, the latter contacted him on phone. Arpit informed him that some youths had forcibly taken him to Abohar. Rajat informed Arpit’s family and the police. The family, along with ASI Mohinder Singh from the Purani Abadi police station, went to Abohar to search for Arpit. Later, Arpit called his mother to inform her that he was in Abohar.Arpit was later found injured outside a canal near the Kandhwala Road on the Abohar-Malout bypass here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-carjacking-kidnapping-in-abohar-133969
31-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Another Home Guard booked for seeking bribe||Abohar, August 30As investigations into alleged bribery at the Gumjal inter-state check post continued, one more Home Guard, Paramjeet, has been booked in the case.Earlier, Home Guard Subhash Chander was allegedly caught on camera taking money from a truck driver at a check post along Rajasthan border and was booked for corruption. A video of the incident had gone viral. SSP Harjit Singh had ordered an investigation by DSP Gurmeet Singh into the case.ASI Pritpal Singh, who was in charge of the police post, was also suspended and sent to the Police Lines.The police have set up special check posts near Punjab’s border along Rajasthan on the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway, Abohar-Hanumangarh state highway, Abohar-Hindumalkot Defence Road, and Abohar-Dabwali road. Equipped with high-powered CCTVs, these check posts are primarily aimed at preventing inter-state drug and liquor smuggling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-home-guard-booked-for-seeking-bribe-133970
31-08-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Stadium encroached upon, sportspersons cry foul||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 30Some residents of Bishanpura Khokhar village in Sangrur district had been using a stadium to prepare and store cow dung cakes while budding sportspersons had been forced to practise on the roads or in the fields.On August 27, a group of youth met the Moonak Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) to get the stadium free of encroachment.“We met the BDPO to get encroachments removed from the stadium. We have met officials concerned numerous times, but to no avail,” alleged Kuldeep Singh, a youth from the village.Villagers informed that the stadium was constructed on three acres in 2017, but some residents started preparing cow dung cakes in the stadium within a few days of its completion.“We have to practise on the roads and in the fields due to lack of space. The government must act to get the encroachments removed. Cow dung cakes should be shifted to another place,” said Maninder, another youth.Former sarpanch Gurjant Singh said in 2017, they had spent around Rs 8 lakh on the stadium, but the youth were not able to utilise the facility. “Officials are least bothered to remove the encroachments from the stadium,” he alleged.Moonak BDPO Savinder Singh confirmed that youth from Bishanpura Khokhar village had met him. He said he would soon get the encroachment removed from the stadium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stadium-encroached-upon-sportspersons-cry-foul-133971
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||'No sammelan on Beant death anniversary'||Khanna MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli today said the ‘Sarab Dharam Sammelan’ to mark the death anniversary of the late Chief Minister Beant Singh would not be held at his memorial here due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Urging the people to pay homage to their beloved leader by staying at home, Kotli said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had imposed some mandatory restrictions to protect the people from the growing threat of the pandemic. Thus, in the interest of the public, the family of Beant Singh appealed to the Chief Minister not to hold ‘Sarab Dharam Sammelan’, after which the decision was taken.On the occasion of the 25th death anniversary of Beant Singh on July 31, the people of Punjab should pay homage to the departed leader by staying at their homes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-sammelan-on-beant-death-anniversary-133972
31-08-2020||Sangrur||Watchman murdered in Sangrur||Around 10 to 15 unidentified persons allegedly murdered a watchman at the foodgrain godown on Saturday night near Bhawanigarh under mysterious circumstances. “As per the statement of watchman Attar Singh, around 10 to 15 unidentified persons entered a godown, where the FCI and Pungrain have jointly stored foodgrains, near Bhawanigarh.They locked Attar in a room and attacked his cousin Gurbinder Singh with sharp-edged weapons,” said Ramandeep Singh, SHO, Bhawanigarh. The SHO further said after the assailants fled, Attar broke the gate of the room and found his brother dead. “The assailants did not loot any stock and we are conducting investigation to ascertain the reason for the murder,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/watchman-murdered-in-sangrur-133973
31-08-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Rs8.47 cr loss to government as 9 private-run ITIs fail to pay lease amount||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 30The Department of Technical Education and Industrial Training has incurred a loss of Rs 8.47 crore owing to its failure to recover lease money from private societies operating nine Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) for the past 12 years from leased-out government buildings across the state.The revelation has been made during the audit by the office of Principal Accountant General (Audit), Punjab. Under the commercial public private partnership, an agreement was signed between the department and private educational societies during the previous tenure of Capt Amarinder Singh in 2004. The private players were to undertake the development, upgrade, operations and management of constructed or unconstructed ITIs.Each ITI had a strength of 300 students. The department allowed the private society to increase the academic fee in 2014, 2015 and 2016. The increased money charged from students, exceeding 300, had to be shared with the department. But it was not done, resulting in accumulation of Rs 8.47 crore till March 2020.Even though the connivance of officials with the promoters resulted in non-recovery of money, no action was taken against erring officials. In 2018, only notice of intention to terminate the agreement to liquidate the arrears was issued.Short of funds, the then Capt Amarinder Singh government had, in 2004, leased out nine government ITIs to private players for 33 years. As per the agreement signed between the government and private players, the lessees had to complete the infrastructure, get approval for courses as per their requirement and pay the lease money (termed as concession fee).Another point of contention is that two of the nine lessees — Shyama Shyam Society, Benarshi, and Guru Angad Dev Soceity, Khadoor Sahib — contested that because of the delay in completing the formalities, the lease money should be charged from August 2008 instead of August 2005. Based on a report of a departmental committee, then Technical Education Minister Anil Joshi had changed the date of operation of the agreement. The same benefit, however, was not given to seven other ITIs.Only notice to erring private players||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs8-47-cr-loss-to-government-as-9-private-run-itis-fail-to-pay-lease-amount-133974
31-08-2020|| 
||Police yet to receive viscera report of liquor tragedy victims||Amritsar, August 30 Even as the Punjab Police have arrested the prime accused in the spurious liquor tragedy case, it has been awaiting viscera and chemical examination reports in order to file a challan in the court.  Over 120 persons had lost their lives after consuming spurious liquor in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Batala last month. Tarn Taran alone witnessed 97 deaths. The Tarn Tarn police arrested 44 persons in the case while the Amritsar rural police nabbed eight persons.  Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said they had written to the forensic science laboratory in Kharar to provide viscera reports as soon as possible. “Though it will take long in compiling the viscera reports of all the deceased, we have requested the forensic lab authorities to send the reports of initial cases, which were sent to them for examination,” he said, adding that they were expecting reception of the reports this week.  He said the police had completed the paper work and documented the statements of doctors, the victims who recovered and the family members of the deceased.  Gaurav Toora, SP, Amritsar Rural police, said due to pendency of cases in the forensic lab, the viscera reports usually got delayed. “However, we have written to the lab authorities to take these cases on priority and provide viscera reports early so that we can complete the process on time,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-yet-to-receive-viscera-report-of-liquor-tragedy-victims-133975
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 50  lakh relief, government job for  martyr’s family||CM Capt Amarinder Singh today announced an ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh, along with a government job to a family member of Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh of 1 Sikh Light Infantry unit. The soldier was seriously injured as a result of the unprovoked firing by the Pakistan army in the Nowshera sector in Rajouri (J&K) and later succumbed to his injuries. Paying homage to the martyr and extending his sympathy to the bereaved family, the Chief Minister said Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh was a brave, and highly motivated soldier. The nation would always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty, he said. Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh hailed from Goindwal village of Tarn Taran district. He is survived by his mother, wife, son and daughter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-50-lakh-relief-government-job-for-martyrs-family-133976
31-08-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Cong, SAD in war of  words over bridge proposal||SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra today said Railway Minister Piyush Goyal had sanctioned an overbridge in front of the historical Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib on the condition that the state government had to share 50 per cent of the project cost.  However, Kuljit Singh Nagra, Congress MLA from Fatehgarh Sahib, had already got sanctioned an underbridge at the same location. Railways officials had visited the site on his request and had given approval to the project. This had led to a war of words between the two parties.  Chandumajra said he had briefed Goyal about the historical importance of the gurdwara. Opposing the Congress proposal, he said if an underbridge was constructed at the site, the main road would be divided into two parts and remain flooded during the rainy season. Bir Devinder Singh, former Deputy Speaker, said his party would not allow any bridge in front of the gurdwara as it would affect its beauty. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-sad-in-war-of-words-over-bridge-proposal-133977
31-08-2020||Bathinda||Power bill shocker for Bathinda residents||Residents of the district are up in arms after having allegedly received inflated electricity bills from the Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL). With many bills running into lakhs, consumers claimed these were way higher than the power units consumed by their households.Gurmeet Kaur, one of the complainants who hails from a poor family in the Goniana block, alleged that she had got a bill of Rs 1.71 lakh.She has been running from the pillar to post to get the bill corrected. However, PSPCL officials were threatening to disconnect electricity connection to her house, she claimed. Kaur said, “Ever since our meter was installed, we have been getting electricity bill on a regular basis. However, we did not receive a bill for the past eight months and we approached the PSPCL at the Goniana sub-division regarding it many times. Now, suddenly we have received a bill of Rs 1.71 lakh.”She said, “To our utter dismay, we found out that as per the bill, we have consumed only 7,704 electricity units and the actual bill comes to Rs 56,162. We barely have any proper source of income amid the Covid-19 pandemic. We don’t know where should we go to get it rectified?”Jagir Singh, another consumer, said, “I have received a bill of Rs 75,980 which is way higher than the unit consumption.” Gurdeep Singh Brar, a leader of BKU Sidhupur, threatened to launch an agitation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-bill-shocker-for-bathinda-residents-133978
31-08-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Lesson in harmony from Malerkotla||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, August 30The Khojgaan street of Muslim-dominated Malerkotla presents a perfect picture of communal harmony as a Hindu family here has been supplying idols of various deities to all districts of the state from the past many years with the help of their neighbours. The slogans of various deities fill the air whenever a group of devotees comes to take their idol from the street.This street has only four Hindu families, who are proud of the contribution of their neighbours make to their work. “My family has been staying here for the past three generations and our idol-making business is also very old. Our Muslim neighbours have always supported us,” said Yash, while sitting with his neighbours. He said the pandemic has multiplied the demand of small idols these days.Surjit, a Sangrur resident, said: “Earlier, we used to purchase big idols from Yash, but this year we have bought a small idol as due to Covid, we would not immerse a big idol. Many times, his neighbours help purchasers reach his house.” Iqbal, a neighbour of Yash, said their families have been supporting each other for three generations.Alamdar, another neighbor, said: “All religions teach us for brotherhood and our street is really proud of Yash and his family. In fact, we all live here like a family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lesson-in-harmony-from-malerkotla-133979
31-08-2020||
||CNG brick-kilns need of the hour, says Agri Secy||Chandigarh, August 30 In order to curb air pollution, most brick-kilns out of 2,200 units in the state have adopted zig-zag high draught technology, which uses less coal as compared to traditional brick-kilns firing system. KS Pannu, Director, Tandrust Punjab Mission and Agriculture Secretary, said technological advancement in combustion systems have made it possible to convert coal-based brick-kilns into compressed natural gas (CNG)-based brick-kilns without much change in the design of the unit.  Under the Tandrust Punjab Mission, we intend to explore the possibilities of shifting brick-kilns from coal to CNG, he said. “Shifting brick-kilns to CNG will not only help in reducing the cost of production of bricks, but it will also help to substantially reduce air pollution,” said Pannu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cng-brick-kilns-need-of-the-hour-says-agri-secy-133980
31-08-2020||Aparna Banerji||Despite drug seizures, pharma firm’s Doaba ‘links’ unexplored||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, August 30Right before the 2019 General Elections in the state, during a joint inspection by STF, Narcotics Control Bureau and Drug Department, Clovidol tablets were seized on May 1 from two chemists at Kishanpura and on May 6 from a chemist at Adampur. On August 27, a father-son duo, who runs the fake pharma firm Neutec Healthcare Private Limited were arrested by the Punjab Police.While Clovidol (the composition of which is 100 mg Tramadol) is manufactured by Neutech Healthcare, the firm’s Doaba operations lie unexplored for over a year, even as there were three Clovidol seizures last year, said sources.Additionally, during the Covid pandemic as well, the banned drug Tramadol continues to sell with impunity. The latest seizure of Tramadol is as recent as July 2, when two persons were arrested with 3,000 tablets at Basti Bawa Khel. However, no formal link has been drawn between the various chemists/ entities which continue to make these drugs available. Notably, the May 2019 seizures were part of an anti-drug action aimed at curbing circulation ahead of the elections. However, till date, the information regarding the supply chain hasn’t been made public. The arrest of the Neutec Healthcare duo, however, makes it clear that illegal medicines manufactured by the fake pharma firm were in circulation in Jalandhar as early as May 2019.Experts in the region said after a brief lull during the lockdown, Tramadol is freely available in the region. Dr Aman Sood of the De-Addiction Centre, Jalandhar, said: “During the lockdown, there was a break in the supply chain of all kinds of drugs. Addicts were not getting access to either Chitta or Tramadol. But since the lockdown was lifted, there has been an increase in the drop-out rate, which could be linked to easier availability. Earlier, the inaccessibility of Tramadol was a common complaint among addicts, but that is no more the case.”Pardeep Mattu, State Drug Controller-cum-Joint Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, said: “There are less than 100 wholesalers in the state who have sought permission to sell Tramadol. It is rarely available with chemists. The unauthorised sale of the drug might be preavalent but we are keeping a close check. We have developed a software through which one can check inventory of all chemists.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-drug-seizures-pharma-firms-doaba-links-unexplored-133981
31-08-2020||---||Amritsar SMO among 56 fatalities in Punjab||Amritsar/Chandigarh, Aug 30A senior medical officer (SMO) at the Civil Hospital here succumbed to Covid-19 today after battling for his life for 10 days. He is survived by his wife, daughter and son.An MD in transfusion, Dr Arun Sharma, 53, was instrumental in setting up a blood bank here. A video of him dancing to the tunes of Punjabi songs while sitting on his hospital bed was widely circulated three days ago. The medical fraternity and local residents had praised Dr Sharma for keeping his morale high despite being faced with an adversity.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, Medical Education Minister OP Soni, Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla along with senior officials from the civil and police administration attended his cremation.Sidhu said the state government was preparing to airlift Dr Sharma to PGI, Chandigarh, or Medanta. He said the deceased was a cardiac patient and on NIV, but was not responding to it and had developed ICU psychosis. Another retired government doctor, Dr Pradeep Aggarwal, succumbed to Covid. He was 63 years old.Meanwhile, the virus claimed 56 lives in the state in the past 24 hours. The state death toll has reached 1,404 and the number of cases has risen to 52,526.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-smo-among-56-fatalities-in-punjab-133982
31-08-2020||---||Residents ban entry of health staff in Sangrur village||Sangrur, August 30Residents of Kakra village in Sangrur district have banned the entry of the Health Department staff.Reason: Villagers do not want to share details of people showing symptoms of Covid-19.On Saturday, the villagers had passed a resolution stating that if anyone from the Health Department wanted to visit their village, he/she would needed to take permission from them. Residents also made arrangements to quarantine patients at their village gurdwara.SAD leader from Kakra village, Harvinder Singh, said they had passed a resolution to ban entry of the Health Department officials. “We have made arrangements to quarantine patients at the gurdwara. The entire village is united. We will not allow the authorities to collect samples or shift any patient from the village. The government has failed to make proper arrangements at the hospitals. Videos about lack of facilities at the hospitals are going viral. We do not want to send any villager to the government-run Covid care centres,” he said.Bhawanigarh Subdivisional Magistrate Dr Karmjit Singh said, “Officials are working round-the-clock to provide facilities to Covid-19 patients. People should cooperate with the Health Department.”He said, “Residents should not believe in rumours. Every patient should start his treatment after testing positive,” the SDM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/residents-ban-entry-of-health-staff-in-sangrur-village-133983
31-08-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||‘Told private hospitals to ramp up facilities: Vini Mahajan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh , August 30With a robust private healthcare sector, Punjab is exerting pressure on the private health institutions to ramp up critical Covid care facilities.Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said they were going in for a comprehensive approach to deal with the surging Covid cases in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar and Mohali. “Our focus is on increasing contact-tracing. We have also come up with separate strategies for urban and rural areas,” she said.The Chief Secretary agreed that Ludhiana had become a major hotspot with a high mortality rate and the highest cases. “Being a medical hub, a number of patients from other districts are being referred here, thus putting pressure on the industrial city’s medical infrastructure,” she said.Mahajan said the state government had been repeatedly urging the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to allow PGI, Sangrur, and AIIMS, Bathinda, to turn into Covid care centres. Asked about the complaints of poor facilities in government hospitals and the allegations of profiteering against private hospitals, the Chief Secretary said CCTV cameras were being installed to monitor the situation and facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/told-private-hospitals-to-ramp-up-facilities-vini-mahajan-133984
31-08-2020||---||No update of data on COVA app||Muktsar, August 30Though the state government has made it mandatory for travellers to download COVA app on their mobile phones and register themselves and every member travelling with them, the app provides outdated information to users.So far, Muktsar district has witnessed nine deaths, 874 Covid-positive patients, of which 584 recovered. However, the COVA app shows eight deaths and 812 positive patients, of which 522 recovered. A resident said he regulalry checked the app, but the figures were updated after a gap of two-three days.Notably, a 75-year-old person from Malout had passed away on Sunday. Two women from Muktsar had breathed their last on August 26.Dr Vikram Asija, district epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer, said, “There may be some problem. The data is updated at the head office. We send them our reports daily.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-update-of-data-on-cova-app-133985
31-08-2020||Manav Mander||Caution thrown to wind in Ludhiana containment zones||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, August 30The number of cases in Ludhiana district are rising and at present, there are 33 zones under curbs. Ideally, when any area is declared a containment or micro-containment zone, it has to be sealed, with nobody moving in and out while only the supply of essential goods being ensured. The police have to ensure restriction of movement.However, a visit to a few containment zones in the city showed a totally opposite picture. At present, there are five containment zones and 31 micro-containment zones, which also include some of the posh localities of the city.Block B of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar was declared a containment zone on August 28 after 25 cases were detected from the area. Since the block has gates all around it, the area residents took the initiative and got these closed. However, no cop was seen on duty and there were only a couple of barricades put in front of the closed gates.“Although the Sarabha Nagar police station is right in front of the block, nobody bothered to put a cop on duty. Sometimes, a cop is on duty on one gate but not always,” a resident of B Block said.Surprisingly, some people were not even aware about their area being declared a micro-containment zone.A stretch of Sham Singh Road, from Bhuri wala Mandir to Jain Mandir, was declared a micro-containment zone on August 10. But when residents were asked if they were aware of it, they denied.“We have heard that a few people have tested positive but we are not aware regarding their exact location. Home quarantine posters have not been pasted outside their houses. We got to know from you about the containment zone status,” an area resident said.At Rajguru Nagar, during the time it was declared a micro-containment zone, there was nothing except a rope attached to the trees barring the way, with ‘sealed area’ written on a plain paper. People could be seen moving out with their two wheelers and cars from under the rope.Meanwhile, Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “As soon as an area is declared a micro-containment zone, no movement is allowed and police need to be there 24X7. Only essential services are allowed within the perimeter.”However, despite repeated attempts, Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal could not be reached for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/caution-thrown-to-wind-in-ludhiana-containment-zones-133986
31-08-2020||Karam Prakash||Attendants allege valuables stolen, Rajindra Hospital denies||Tribune News ServicePatiala, August 30It is a double whammy for relatives of Covid-19 victims at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. Reason: Many times, when the bodies reach the mortuary, the valuables are missing.In several incidents, personal belongings of victims, such as mobile phones, gold jewellery and watches, were found to be missing. Family members of the deceased alleged that the valuables were stolen.Last week, family members of a victim had to hold a protest outside the hospital after they failed to get the valuables even after several requests. A relative of 52-year-old Hakam Singh, who succumbed to the virus at the hospital, said: “Its been a few days to his death but we have not received the valuables yet, including his mobile phone. This is an inhuman act.” As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), a consultant or senior resident has to make a list of the valuables and sanitise them after the death of a patient.Meanwhile, officials at the hospital mortuary claimed that they did not receive any valuables when bodies reached there.Lakhdeep Singh, son of deceased Ravinder Kaur, alleged that the hospital administration was not cooperating when they approached them for the belongings. He said, “Things are not running well. The grief-stricken families are being harassed by the staff. We couldn’t receive any belongings of our mother.”Surbhi Malik, incharge of Covid-19 ward at the hospital, said: “In some cases, there was a delay in handing over valuables to the family members, but there was no report of stealing. Anyways, I will look into the matter and help the family members.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attendants-allege-valuables-stolen-rajindra-hospital-denies-133987
31-08-2020||---||Punjab Chief Minister rejects Harsimrat’s CBI probe demand||Chandigarh, August 30Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today rejected Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s demand for a CBI investigation into the alleged scholarship scam.The Chief Minister said her demand for the CBI investigation into the scam reflected her lack of trust in the police force and the state administration. He said India’s legal and judicial principles empowered the state governments to seek a CBI probe only where they deemed necessary. He said Harsimrat had no locus standi in the matter and was merely trying to mislead the people of Punjab with her political stunts.Let Admn probe scholarship scamThe demand for a CBI probe reflects Harsimrat’s lack of trust in the administration. India’s judicial principles empower a state to seek a CBI probe only where it deems necessary. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterCiting the CBI’s poor track record in handling major cases in Punjab, the Chief Minister pointed out that the Central agency had not been able to solve even a single of the four cases of targeted killings, including that of RSS leader Brig Jagdish Kumar Gagneja (retd), that were handed over to them by the Akali regime.Capt Amarinder said even in the sacrilege cases that were handed over to the CBI, it was eventually left to the Punjab Police to solve them and the force was doing an excellent job in it. “Even now, the CBI is trying to scuttle the probe in the sacrilege cases, apparently at the behest of the BJP-led Central government,” the Chief Minister said.The Chief Minister asserted that his government was committed to a thorough and fair probe into the alleged scholarship scam, and bring those found guilty, irrespective of their position, to book.He pointed out that even in the matter of the post-matric SC scholarship, neither Harsimrat nor her party tried to stop the Central government from withdrawing the scheme, thus depriving lakhs of SC students the right to higher education. “Where was Harsimrat then? Why did she not comment then?” he asked, adding that instead of making unwarranted statements and unsubstantiated allegations, Harsimrat should get the scheme restored first.Two days back, a truncated session of the state Assembly had witnessed ruckus with Aam Aadmi Party and Lok Insaaf Party MLAs taking on Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for his alleged complicity in protecting those involved in the SC post-matric scholarship scam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-minister-rejects-harsimrats-cbi-probe-demand-133988
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Can’t compare scholarship, bitumen scams: Partap Singh Bajwa||Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa today hit out at Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for drawing parallels between the Rs 55-crore scholarship scam and the 16-year-old bitumen scam, which was reported when he was the PWD minister.Terming the CM’s statement a personal attack on him, he said in the post-matric scholarship scam, an Additional Chief Secretary had questioned his own minister. Bajwa said the bungling had been revealed in an internal report of the Social Welfare Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-compare-scholarship-bitumen-scams-partap-singh-bajwa-133989
31-08-2020||---||Chief Secretary probe futile exercise: AAP||Chandigarh, August 30Rejecting the decision of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to hand over the investigation of the scholarship scam to the Chief Secretary, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded a CBI probe under the supervision of a High Court judge.Order inquiry by High Court judge: SamplaUnion Cabinet Minister Vijay Sampla on Sunday said the Chief Secretary would not be able to hold a free and fair inquiry into the post-matric scholarship scheme scam. “The Chief Minister should hand over the probe to the CBI or a sitting judge of the High Court,” he added.In a statement issued from the party headquarters, Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the Capt Amarinder Singh government had been trying to save its corrupt minister and the process of getting a clean chit from the Chief Secretary had started. This amounted to double deception, especially with Dalit students whose bright future had been scuttled in nexus with “education mafia”.Questioning the decision, Cheema said how could a Chief Secretary conduct an unbiased investigation against a sitting Cabinet minister? The AAP termed it as a futile exercise aimed at diverting the attention of the public.Cheema said if the Chief Minister was not trusting the detailed investigation done by one of his Additional Chief Secretaries with documentary evidence, then the probe of the scam should be handed over to the CBI or any Central agency under the supervision of a sitting judge of the High Court. However, due to the reasons best known to him, the Chief Minister wanted to retain Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in his Cabinet despite the fact that many senior Congress leaders were demanding his sacking, Cheema added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chief-secretary-probe-futile-exercise-aap-133990
31-08-2020||---||Remove prohibited words from school names: Residents||Patiala, August 30“Calling a person ‘Harijan’ and ‘dhobi’ is offensive. It is basically used nowadays not to denote a caste but to intentionally insult and humiliate someone,” the Supreme court had said in a landmark order in 2017.Violating the order and the Central government’s directions in this regard, many government schools in the home district of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh have used the word ‘Harijan’ as a suffix or prefix in their names.One such school is Government Elementary Smart School Harijan Basti, Bhore. Ironically, the school is located in a village falling in the constituency of Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot.Residents of the area said there were two elementary schools in the village.Gursewak Singh, a resident of Bhore village, said, “The area we live in is called Harijan Basti. The government should immediately remove this from the name of the school.” Similarly, a government school in Bhadson, block-1, also has the caste indicative word ‘Harijan Basti’ in the name.Experts said there were hundreds of schools in the state which had been named after castes. “This is unfortunate and the government should take cognisance of this anomaly,” an expert said. In July, a teachers’ union had requested the Patiala Deputy Commissioner to rename schools that had names based on caste.SR Ladhar, a retired IAS officer of Punjab, who fights for the rights of Scheduled Caste people, said, “The use of the word ‘Harijan’ is banned. This is unconstitutional. The government should immediately change the names.”Amarjeet Singh, District Education Officer, said, “The name of the school is based on the names of the area. If the name of the area is Harijan Basti, the school will automatically be named after it. However, we are working on renaming them.”Kirpa Shankar Saroj, Additional Chief Secretary, Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities, said: “This is a serious issue. I will write to the Education Department to immediately rename these schools.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/remove-prohibited-words-from-school-names-residents-133991
31-08-2020||---||Bathinda man ends life||Bathinda, August 30A man allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a train on the Bathinda-Delhi section near the Bangi Nagar area late on Friday.After spotting the body on the railway tracks, local residents called a city-based NGO. Members of the NGO reached the spot and further informed the GRP about the incident.Later, a GRP team reached the spot for investigation.The deceased was identified as Harpreet Singh, who was a resident of the Amarpura Basti area. After conducting the initial investigation, the GRP team sent the body to the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, for post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-man-ends-life-133992
31-08-2020||Abohar||2 held for boy’s murder||The police have arrested two persons in connection with a case registered at Wahabwala police station under Section 302/34 of the IPC.The accused have been identified as Satish Kumar and a 15-yr-old minor boy.Complainant Satish Kumar said the accused took his son (Sanju) and allegedly threw him into a canal. Satish has been sent on two-day police remand and the minor has been to Juvenile House, Faridkot.In another incident, a 25-year-old man was killed Saturday night in Patrewala village, 20 km from here on Abohar-Hindumalkot road, reportedly over an election-related enmity. Witnesses said at least three persons in police uniforms along with 12 others wielding sharp-edged weapons and firearms barged into a house at 11 pm and allegedly killed Baba Khalsa aka Babbi. They also assaulted his mother Issar Kaur, brother Davinder Singh and cousin Angrej Singh who tried to intervene. The accused fled when some villagers responded to cries for help.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-boys-murder-133994
31-08-2020||Muktsar||Sewage washes tall claims||Connect with cops via WhatsAppPatiala: To make policing more effective, Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet has started a new WhatsApp helpline number 9646800112 for residents through which they can share pictures and videos with the police. “We encourage people to take a stand against violence and crime,” the SSP said, adding that the move would help rope in people for crime prevention. The helpline would enable people to provide information on all matters like crime, domestic violence, illicit liquor, gambling and even drinking at public places.Social distancing goes for a tossGurdaspur: Despite the Gurdaspur administration’s explicit order to ban the century-old ritual of Guru Nanak’s marriage anniversary celebrations, thousands crammed the streets of Batala, giving a headache to the police. DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur had to issue strict instructions to ensure that social distancing norms were followed. However, the devotees did not pay heed to her directions. Health experts kept fuming at the turn of events. “When the first of a series of lockdowns started, the fear of contracting the virus was more. The cases have increased manifold now, but the there is no fear,” said a doctor.Abohar village gets makeoverAbohar: Daulatpura, 15 km from Abohar, which has a total geographical area of 1,453 hectares, has once again come into the limelight for taking up several development works when the town is reeling under the impact of Covid. Having utilised Rs 15-lakh grant for a pound and an inn, the gram panchayat is planting 300 saplings in the village. The Sarpanch said under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme, more than Rs 53 lakh had been spent for welfare works. Interlocking is underway to give 18 streets a new look. The village inn is being turned into a marriage palace. A pipeline has also been laid to supply drinking water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sewage-washes-tall-claims-133996
31-08-2020||---||JCO dies in Pak shelling, hailed from Amritsar||Jammu, August 30A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) was today killed in fresh shelling by Pakistan troops along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Nowshera sector of Rajouri district.According to official sources, Pakistan resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation using small arms at Khanger, Kalsian and Bhawani along the LoC.“Our troops responded to the enemy fire. In the incident, a Naib Subedar was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries,” said Lt Col Devender Anand, PRO (Defence), Jammu.The deceased soldier was identified as Naib Subedar Rajwinder Singh, a resident of Goindwal Sahib village in Amritsar’s Khadoor Sahib tehsil. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter.This is the eighth casualty due to shelling in Poonch and Rajouri over the past three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jco-dies-in-pak-shelling-hailed-from-amritsar-134059
31-08-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Insurance fraud: 5 hospitals delisted in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, August 30Modus operandiMoney was charged from the beneficiary patients, whose e-cards were generated by these hospitalsTwo files were made — one for treatment on cash payment and the other for making claim under the schemeAlso, dummy entries were made to bungle fundsAfter Adesh Hospital, Bathinda, was delisted last week, five more hospitals have been de-empanelled for allegedly embezzling funds under the Ayushman Bharat insurance scheme. Even while charging patients, these hospitals had been wrongly claiming insurance from the government. Besides, dummy entries were made to bungle funds.The hospitals delisted are Astha Hospital (Bathinda), Akashdeep Hospital (Amritsar), Jindal Ortho Hospital (Mansa), Verma Hospital (Amritsar) and Garg Nursing Home (Moga). More hospitals are under the scanner, say sources.A notice issued to Adesh Hospital on August 22 said money was charged from a beneficiary patient, whose e-card was generated by the hospital. Two files were made — one for treatment on cash payment and the other for booking the package under the insurance scheme.Dr Gaurav Monga of Astha Hospital said he was on emergency duty and could not talk. An official of Jindal Ortho Hospital said: “Our hospital has been de-empanelled, but we don’t know the reasons. ”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/insurance-fraud-5-hospitals-delisted-in-punjab-134056
