04-04-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 51 more deaths, over 3,000 new cases in Punjab||Punjab on Sunday reported 51 coronavirus-related deaths and 3,019 fresh cases, pushing the infection tally to 2,51,460 and death toll to 7,083 in the state, the health department said in its bulletin.The number of active cases in the state stood at 25,314, it said.Ludhiana reported a maximum of 446 new cases followed by Jalandhar (387), Mohali (329) and Amritsar (271). Fresh deaths were reported from several districts including Amritsar, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, and Mohali. A total of 2,955 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,19,063, the bulletin said.There are 33 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 322 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 60,80,083 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh—the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana – reported 341 coronavirus cases, the highest single-day spike this year, pushing the total count to 28,194.On Saturday, the city had reported 310 maximum cases.A 52-year-old woman died of the infection, taking the toll to 383 in the city, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases was 3,150, it said.A total of 352 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 24,661, it said.A total of 3,21,189 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 2,91,960 have tested negative while reports of 251 samples were awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-51-more-deaths-over-3-000-new-cases-in-punjab-234615
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||SAD’s planned protests theatrics to revive its fortunes: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday attacked the Shiromani Akali Dal, terming its plan to hold state wide protests against his government as “theatrics”, aimed at reviving its fortunes following the loss of face over the farm laws issue.The opposition party has decided to hold protests across the state on Monday over high power tariffs, taxes on fuel and the law and order situation.Having lost its moral right to face people of the state due to their doublespeak on many vital issues, including the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the SAD is now trying hard to get back into their good books ahead of the upcoming assembly elections, said Amarinder Singh in a statement. Dubbing the planned protests as “theatrics by the Badals in their frustrated bid to revive the party’s devastated fortunes”, the CM said these desperate tactics would not work as the Akalis have completely lost face in the wake of their fiasco over the farm laws, which exposed their “shameless double standards”.The chief minister termed the Akali claims of rising power tariffs, higher taxes on fuel and law and order situation as ridiculous, maintaining that it was their party that had plunged Punjab into such a mess during their 10-year rule, in collusion with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).From the state’s law and order to its fiscal situation, the past four years of the Congress rule have witnessed a massive improvement across key parameters, in sharp contrast to the chaos and destruction that had prevailed under the Akalis, said the chief minister.Far from the law and order collapse under the Badal rule, when gangsters and goons were freely roaming the streets of the state, Punjabis are now finally heaving a sigh of relief, he claimed. Despite the COVID crisis, things were looking up on the financial front, with zero pendency achieved by the state treasury for the first time in 15 years, he added.Amarinder Singh said the false propaganda that the SAD is trying to spread through these political antics will not work with the people of Punjab, who had neither forgotten nor forgiven the Akali-BJP rulers for the sufferings to which they were subjected for 10 years.People here have seen through the double standards of these parties, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sads-planned-protests-theatrics-to-revive-its-fortunes-punjab-cm-234606
04-04-2021||Raj Sadosh||At Abohar kisan mahapanchayat, Rajewal describes PM Modi as ‘biggest liar’||Abohar, April 4At the “kisan mahapanchayat” organised at new grain market here on Sunday, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha senior leader Balbir Singh Rajewal launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bharatiya Janata Party for allegedly pursuing anti-people policies that carried a hidden agenda to benefit only a few Gujarat-based corporates.The conference started at 11 am and concluded by 5 pm. Rajewal was received at the Market Committee office by its chairman Surinder Bishnoi and Arhtiya Association president Anil Nagori. Some of the senior Akali Dal activists were also present on the dais. Jakhar family scion Sandeep Jakhar was found serving farmers with “pakoras” at a stall. “The “Apna Abohar, Apni Abha” team painted some of the trees on the route to the new grain market with pictures of farmers.Addressing a mammoth gathering of farmers, farm workers, mandi labourers, arhtiyas and traders, Rajewal said out of all Indian Prime Ministers, Modi has branded the image of the biggest liar and most unbelievable politician. “Modi boasted of having a 56-inch chest but dared not to face the media and was not ready to have a single meeting with leading farmer organisations to discuss the contentious farm laws. Modi was fast losing image and respect across the world for attempts to harm the federal structure and anti-constitution, anti-human attitude,” Rajewal said.He added that while the BJP has almost been wiped out of Punjab, the party was also losing ground in Haryana, and Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leaders will motivate people in all poll-bound states to vote against BJP.“The saffron party’s top brass had conspired to sabotage farmers’ peaceful stir by planting miscreants on the Republic Day in New Delhi but with people’s massive support, the agitation has emerged stronger and would continue till “black” laws are repealed. BJP leaders will have to repent for calling farmers of Punjab as Khalistanis, naxals and anti-nationals. Gujarat, to which Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah belong, has no comparison with Punjab in making supreme sacrifices for freedom of India and protecting its borders,” Rajewal added.He gave a call to farmers to stage dharnas outside Food Corporation of India offices on April 5 and warned the Central government will not be allowed to wind-up FCI.Besides Rajewal, another senior leader Ruldu Singh Mansa also mentioned the Malout incident in which Abohar BJP legislator Arun Narang was thrashed. Both senior leaders said that they have been requesting farmers to keep the agitation peaceful but if BJP leaders continue casting provocative aspersions about the farmers stir, reaction can’t be avoided.“It will be better if BJP leaders refrain from targeting farmers wildly and request the high-command to repeal farm laws, give up moves to benefit corporates through amendments in the Electricity Act, Food Security Act and other bills which were being drafted secretly,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-abohar-kisan-mahapanchayat-rajewal-describes-pm-modi-as-biggest-liar-234594
04-04-2021||---||Amarinder slams MHA for false propaganda on bonded labour against Punjab farmers||Chandigarh, April 4Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday slammed the central government for spreading misinformation about the state’s farmers with its grave and incorrect allegations of bonded labourers working in the fields.The Chief Minister termed it yet another conspiracy to defame Punjab’s farmers, whom the central government and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been persistently trying to malign by dubbing them terrorists, urban naxals, goons, etc, in a bid to derail their agitation against the Farm Laws.Amarinder castigated the BJP-led government at the Centre over its unwarranted charges of farmers using people as bonded labourers in Punjab, trashing the Union Home Ministry’s letter of March 17 in this regard as a bundle of lies, clearly aimed at undermining the farmers’ protest and denigrating the Congress government in the state.A careful analysis of the whole episode reveals that highly sensitive information pertaining to national security regarding the arrest of some suspicious persons, apprehended by BSF from close to the volatile Indo-Pak border, has been unscrupulously twisted on baseless conjectures to malign and tarnish the farmer community, said the Chief Minister. This reality has been further substantiated by the fact that “a selective leakage of the contents of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) letter to some leading newspapers and media houses has been done without waiting for an appropriate response from the state government,” he added.Asserting that his Government and Punjab Police are totally competent and committed to safeguard the human rights of the poor and the downtrodden, Amarinder said suitable action has already been initiated in each case and most of the persons are residing with their families. If anything comes to notice at any stage, a suitable legal action will be initiated against the culprits, he added.He was reacting to the Home Minister’s letter claiming that the Border Security Force (BSF) had apprehended 58 Indian nationals in the year 2019 and 2020 from the border areas of Punjab, and the detainees had purportedly revealed that they were working with farmers of Punjab as bonded labourers. “It has been further informed that illegal human trafficking syndicates exploit these gullible labourers and Punjabi farmers hook them to drugs to make them work for long hours in their fields,” the MHA had further said in the letter.Rejecting the letter as totally ‘unwarranted and factually incorrect’, the Chief Minister said neither the data nor the said reports submitted by the BSF authorities were in tune with the content of the letter. “The MHA letter talks of Abohar also, while the fact is that there is no case of Abohar or Fazilka districts,” he pointed out, adding that none of the conclusions of the Centre were borne out by facts. Further, it was not the job of the BSF to investigate such matters, and they were only responsible for detaining any person found to be roaming along the border in suspicious circumstances, and handing them over to the local police, he added.Before shooting out such a letter and making it public through the media, the MHA should have checked the facts and verified the information from the state government instead of making false accusations against farmers, and charging them with indulging in bonded labour and converting the labourers into drug addicts, he added. He was referring to the MHA statement that “illegal human trafficking syndicates exploit these gullible labourers and Punjabi farmers hook them to drugs to make them work for long hours in their fields.”“All the 58 cases alleged by the Centre have been investigated thoroughly and nothing of this kind has been found,” said Amarinder, lambasting MHA for spreading such vicious and false propaganda.Giving details, he said of the 58 detainees, four belong to different areas of Punjab and were found roaming near the Indo-Pak border by the BSF, while three were found to be intellectually disabled. One Paramjit Singh r/o Patiala, apprehended near Pathankot, was mentally disabled from the last more than 20 years and had left his home about two months before his detention, Roorh Singh r/o Gurdaspur had to be admitted to the Institute of Mental Health, Amritsar, on the day of his apprehension. Another person namely Sukhwinder Singh r/o SBS Nagar was also facing mental health issue. Subsequently, all these 3 persons were handed over to their family members on the same day, after verification by the local police.Further, 16 of the 58 detainees were found to be intellectually disabled, of whom four were suffering from this disorder since childhood. One Babu Singh r/o Buland Sher, UP was even having psychiatric treatment from Agra and was handed over to his family members on the production of his medical record. Even the identify of three persons apprehended by BSF could not be established due to their mental health conditions, said the Chief Minister, rejecting even the possibility of these men being kept as bonded labourers for farm activities.It has also come to light that 14 persons had come to Punjab only a few days/weeks prior to their apprehension, hence the conclusion that they were working as bonded labourers in farms since long “is totally refuted,” said the Chief Minister, adding that none of the persons apprehended has made any allegation of being forcibly kept as farm labourers under inhuman conditions even before the courts.Nothing on record suggests that these persons were forcibly infused drugs to keep them working for long hours, and moreover, it is incorrect to conclude that the intellectual disability of these person is drug induced, said Amarinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-slams-mha-for-false-propaganda-on-bonded-labour-against-punjab-farmers-234581
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt writes to Piyush Goyal seeking RDF at 3 per cent of MSP||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has written to the Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution seeking rural development fund (RDF) at 3 per cent of MSP (Rs 54.64/quintal) for KMS 2020-21, instead of at 1%, as per the revised provisional cost sheet issued by the Department of Food and Public Distribution (DFPD).Pointing out that the RDF at 1 per cent of MSP was contrary to the statutory provision as per section 5 of the Punjab Rural Development Act, 1987, the Chief Minister, in his letter to Piyush Goyal, said the notified RDF was also in conflict with the Department letter of 24, 2020, vide which the revised principles of procurement incidentals were formulated in consultation with the States. The letter allowed:“(a) market fee or any other fees / levy / cess recognised by this Department for a State or States in connection with procurement operations(b) Rates as notified by the States will be accepted both for PCS & FCS”.Any unilateral reduction in the rate of RDF is neither as per the principles of procurement incidentals nor is it as per the law passed by the Legislature of the State, and thus violates the very fabric of the federal structure of our nation, said the Chief Minister.Noting that the Market Fee and RDF levied by Punjab are duly notified under a law, and have been accepted by the Department of Food and Public Distribution, the Chief Minister said that the RDF has been disallowed for the first time, in the Provisional Cost Sheet issued by the DFPD.Captain Amarinder further pointed out that the Department of Food and Civil Supplies, Punjab, vide its letter Dated 31, 2020, had made a detailed representation, and thereafter, vide his D.O. letter Dated December 13, 2020, he had personally requested Goyal for early release of RDF, being a statutory admissible levy for the past many years.Subsequently, vide letter dated January 14, 2021, the state government had submitted requisite information sought by the DFPD, Government of India vide its letter Dated October 26th, 2020.   Further information sought by DFPD, regarding details of RDF receipt and expenditure during the years 2018-19 to 2020-21, has also been submitted in the prescribed proforma vide letter dated March 17, 2021.Captain Amarinder Singh also reiterated that there are statutory provisions for spending the levy collected under RDF Act, and it is hugely beneficial for the development of rural infrastructure, which in turn positively impacts agriculture production and marketing of food grains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-writes-to-piyush-goyal-seeking-rdf-at-3-per-cent-of-msp-234563
04-04-2021||New Delhi||COVID-19: Maharashtra, Punjab reporting highest daily cases||Maharashtra and Punjab are the two worst hit states in terms of their share in the total number of new cases and fatalities across the country in the last fortnight, according to official documents.The two states also top the charts among states or UTs that have crossed their ever-reported peaks for new cases and are followed by Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat in the top-five, shows a presentation made by the Union Health Ministry during the last review meeting held by the Cabinet Secretary with all states and union territories.The growth rate of last seven days for daily new cases till March 23 in Maharashtra was 3.6 per cent and in Punjab it was 3.2 per cent.Maharashtra has added 4,26,108 cases in last two weeks as on March 31, while Punjab has added 35,754 cases in the same period.Of all deaths which happened during the two weeks period ending March 31, Maharashtra and Punjab together reported around 60 per cent of India's fatalities.According to the health ministry, 11 states—Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Haryana have been categorised as "states of grave concern" on account of their high and rising daily case and higher daily deaths They have contributed 90 per cent of COVID cases, 90.5 per cent of deaths in 14 days till March 31, and have crossed or close to crossing their early reported peaks last year, it said.After detailed and comprehensive review of measures taken by states and UTs, the Cabinet Secretary on April 2 reiterated the necessity of meticulous and hard work regarding stringent enforcement of containment and surveillance measures, in conjunction with ramping up vaccination and strict enforcement of COVID appropriate behaviour. The states were specifically asked to increase testing continuously to ensure that positivity comes down to 5 per cent or less than that, focus on ensuring RT-PCR tests comprise 70 per cent of total tests, reduce waiting time of test results with regular review with testing labs, use Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) as screening test in densely populated areas and where fresh clusters are emerging and ensure that all symptomatic RAT negatives are mandatorily subjected to RT-PCR tests.They were also asked to ensure effective and prompt isolation of those infected in institutional facilities (COVID Care Centres) and that patients isolated at home are to be monitored daily. Isolated infected persons should be transferred immediately to health facilities, if required.  They were asked to ensure that 25 to 30 such close contacts are traced for each infected person. "Tracing of close contacts and their isolation to be done in 72 hours. Subsequent testing and follow up of all close contacts to be carried out. Setting up of Containment Zones/ Micro Containment Zones to break the chain of transmission" was also stressed.States were also asked to examine Case Fatality Rate hospital-wise, devise appropriate strategy and mitigate concerns regarding late admission in hospitals and non-adherence to National Clinical Management Protocol.  In order to minimize daily fatalities, the states were advised on strengthening of public and private healthcare resources.  They were specifically asked to increase the number of isolation beds, oxygen beds, ventilators/ICU beds as per requirement, plan for adequate oxygen supply, strengthen ambulance service and reduce response time and refusal rate with regular monitoring by local administration and ensure adequate number of contractual staff and optimum rostering of duties.Use of Police Act, Disaster Management Act and other legal/administrative provisions for imposing penalties on defaulters was underscored for immediate compliance by states and UTs.   Besides, use of local officials, political, cultural, sports, religious influencers to disseminate information proper wearing of masks and maintaining physical distance was also stressed. They were asked to focus on markets, fair/melas, social and religious congregation that could become superspreader events while enhancing awareness that COVID appropriate behaviour is equally important as vaccination, and this needs to be followed even after vaccination.In order to saturate vaccination for priority age groups in districting reporting surge in daily COVID cases, the states and UTs were advised to make time-bound plan of 100 per cent vaccination of eligible people and coordinate with the Union  Health Ministry to ensure adequate vaccine doses. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-maharashtra-punjab-reporting-highest-daily-cases-234529
04-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Hazuri Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh’s mortal remains immersed||The mortal remains of Padam Shri Bhai Nirmal Singh Hazuri Ragi were immersed in Gurdwara Patalpuri Sahib, Sri Goindwal Sahib, (River Beas) today with full state honours. Bhai Nirmal Singh died of Covid-19 last year. Besides, the family members, even the officials from the district administration, MLA Khadoor Sahib, Ramanjit Singh Sikki ,and a large number of residents were also present on the occasion. The contingent of the Punjab Police presented a Guard of Honour to the departed soul. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hazuri-ragi-bhai-nirmal-singhs-mortal-remains-immersed-234453
04-04-2021||---||Ludhiana girl Harleen crowned Kozenoor World Punjaban-2021||Ludhiana, April 3City-based Harleen Kaur won the title of Kozenoor World Punjaban-2021 in the finale of Kozenoor World Punjaban contest held at Panchkula.Finale jury team included Big Boss 13 fame actor Rana Jung Bahadur, Sonia Chhabran and Sharhan Singh. A total of 30 participants were selected in the final.“It was with the help and support of my family that I was able to win the competition. Last year has been very tough and we are still going through the pandemic. Winning the title amid the pandemic had a very positive effect on me,” said Harleen.The first talent round were held in Ludhiana, in the second round, photo and video shoots were held in Ludhiana only and the third grooming round was held in Patiala. The finale was held in Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-girl-harleen-crowned-kozenoor-world-punjaban-2021-234421
04-04-2021||---||Akal Takht: Growing communalism a matter of concern||Amritsar, April 3Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh today accused the Centre of suppressing minority communities and patronising communalism.He was addressing representatives of various Sikh organisations, societies and sects here to get their feedback for the 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib on May 1.Accusing the Centre of spreading hatred against minorities, Giani Harpreet Singh said those promoting communalism, like the one prevalent during the Mughal era, enjoyed patronage of the Centre.“It is a matter of concern. An atmosphere of communalism is being created in the country and minorities are being oppressed under the patronage of the government. Seeds of hatred are being sown in the minds of people of one religion against those of the other.”“I appeal to the entire Sikh panth to unite at this juncture. People have lost faith in the EVM mechanism being adopted for choosing the government,” he said.The officiating Jathedar said due to the ongoing farmers’ struggle, the Centre had backed out of the anniversary celebrations. “The Centre appeared to be taking farm protest as the struggle of Sikhs”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-growing-communalism-a-matter-of-concern-234306
04-04-2021||Bathinda||Lakha Sidhana: Will continue to be part of morcha||Clearing his position on the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) recognising him as part of the ‘kisan andolan’ and announcing his return, Lakhbir Singh Lakha Sidhana, who is on the run in connection with the Republic Day violence in Delhi, today said he had been fighting for the Punjabi language and interests of the state.In a statement, Sidhana said he became part of the farmers’ protest because the Union Government had “secretly” attacked the economy and future of farmers by introducing the three “black” farm laws. He said implementation of the laws would have a detrimental effect on the state’s economy.Sidhana clarified his decision to stand with the farmers’ organisations was taken with the intention of giving an impetus to the movement. He refuted one-sided “propaganda” on the social and print media and clarified the clamour for his apology was baseless. He would remain with the peasant struggle, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakha-sidhana-will-continue-to-be-part-of-morcha-234307
04-04-2021||Our Correspondent ---||No grain lifting till Rs131-cr arrears cleared: Arhtiyas||Abohar, April 3 The Arhtiya Association today slammed the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for not clearing Rs 131 crore arrears of wheat purchased in the past besides pending loading bills. At a meeting held at Arorvansh Dharamshala here, association president Anil Nagori said the FCI would not be allowed to purchase even a single grain from the markets if arrears were not paid before April 10.  The meeting was presided over by patron Gurbachan Singh Sran. Nearly 300 arhtiyas and Pesticide and Fertilizer Association president Rakesh Kalani, Gaushala Managing Committee president Fakir Chand Goyal and Girdhari Lal Doda, chief of the Accountants Welfare Association were present. Nagori said the Centre was pursuing policies that would harm arhtiyas and other traders, farmers and labourers. "The farm laws were enacted without consulting the stakeholders and most of the state governments were under pressure to implement the same despite a historic protest by farmers. Now, the Centre is making it mandatory for farmers to produce specific revenue records for sale of produce. It is wrong as 50 per cent of the farmers own less than 5 acres of land and some farmers are doing farming on contract basis. How can they produce the ownership documents," he said. He condemned the Centre for pressuring states to adopt direct payment for procurement to eliminate arhtiyas. The meeting gave a call to all to take part in "Kisan Mahapanchayat" on April 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-grain-lifting-till-rs131-cr-arrears-cleared-arhtiyas-234308
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||SAD dharnas in every constituency from tomorrow||The Shiromani Akali Dal today announced it would organise protests in every constituency on April 5 to protest against the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government.“The dharnas will focus on hike in domestic power tariff from Rs 5 to Rs 10 per unit, state taxes accounting for the bulk of the hike in the prices of diesel and petrol, denial of post-matric scholarship to Dalits and on the Amarinder-BJP collusion against farmers on DBT as a means to punish farmers for their peaceful struggle against the three farm laws. The protests will also focus on the breakdown of law and order machinery in the state,” said Harcharan Bains, principal adviser of party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal.A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the party core committee that met today. Bains said the meeting condemned “the attack on Rakesh Tikait by BJP activists last night” and demanded a high-level judicial probe to expose the forces behind the attack. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-dharnas-in-every-constituency-from-tomorrow-234309
04-04-2021||Jalandhar||Covid: Congress objects to SAD rallies||Congress leader and Bholath constituency in charge Ranjit Singh Rana today objected to SAD’s plans to hold rallies across the state on April 5. He demanded action against the organisers of SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur’s Nadala rally on April 5 if the Covid protocol was not followed.He said he would approach the HC if protocol was not followed during rallies. “The SAD is jeopardising people’s health amid rising Covid cases. It would spread the virus. It is ironic Sukhbir held rallies despite being infected.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-congress-objects-to-sad-rallies-234310
04-04-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Take Mukhtar Ansari back by April 8, UP Police told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3Clearing the decks for the transfer of Uttar Pradesh gangster-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari from the Ropar jail, the Punjab Home Department has asked the UP Police to shift him by April 8.In a letter to the UP Home Department, it said in pursuance of the Supreme Court’s orders to transfer Ansari to Banda Jail in UP by April 8, the police should, however, make necessary arrangements keeping in view his medical condition.It asked the UP Government to ensure Ansari’s presence before a Mohali court via video conferencing on April 12, the next date of hearing in a criminal case. The Mohali police had booked Ansari for allegedly threatening a Punjab businessman over the phone for ransom.Punjab had not allowed Ansari’s transfer to UP for almost two years citing his medical condition. Apart from doctors at the Ropar jail, a Board of Doctors at the PGI, Chandigarh, had also said Ansari had a heart ailment and severe backache.Two days ago, a Mohali court declined Ansari’s plea for his fresh medical examination from the board as he was in medical distress.Ansari’s case had brought Punjab and UP police at loggerheads. Ansari was brought to the Ropar jail on production remand for investigation. However, when the UP Police later sought his transfer back, the Jail Department declined, saying doctors had advised bed rest for Ansari due to ailment and hence could not be allowed to travel.The UP Police had sought his transfer back due to pending cases against him in the state. The UP Government alleged Punjab was protecting Ansari due to his connection with top Congress leaders.Opposition parties in Punjab alleged Ansari was kept as a state guest in the jail where he was provided all facilities. The matter reached the Supreme Court, which on March 26 ordered Ansari’s transfer to the UP jail in two weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/take-mukhtar-ansari-back-by-april-8-up-police-told-234311
04-04-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal---||Talks fail as oustees seek job letters||Tribune News Service Pathankot, April 3 Hectic parleys between protesters and the district administration, police and dam officials have failed to break the ice even as the protest of two octogenarians, who climbed atop a communication tower demanding government jobs for oustees, entered the fifth day today. Despite the fact that politicians have been asked by the Dam Oustees Sangharsh Committee (DOSC) to stay away from the protest, former Deputy Speaker and Sujanpur MLA Dinesh Singh Babbu spoke to Shahpur Kandi dam officials and urged them to find out a solution at the earliest. Dam’s Chief Engineer Sandeep Kumar Saluja said he was trying to ensure the two protesters — Saram Singh (82) and Kulwinder Singh (84) — climbed down safely. Sources say the Chief Engineer and protesters came close to finding a solution today. “The decks had been cleared for the two to come down. However, the DOSC threw a spanner into the works by coming up with more demands, including issuing appointment letters to the displaced. This was not acceptable to the dam officials, following which the talks broke down. The situation is back to square one,” said a police officer. DC Sanyam Aggarwal and SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana were in touch with the protesters. “It is a dicey situation. However, I am trying to diffuse it,” he said. Daya Singh, DOSC president, shifted the blame on the dam officials. “The two men atop the tower are carrying suicide notes naming a top functionary. It is better if the dam officials implement the Khaira report at the earliest,” he said. The previous DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira had prepared a rehabilitation report, which heavily favours the DOSC. Officials, however, claim when they told the DOSC they were prepared to implement the report, they again raised their demands. The DC has again written to the Chief Engineer asking him to resolve the dispute. Eatables and water bottles are regularly being sent to Saram and Kulwinder using ropes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/talks-fail-as-oustees-seek-job-letters-234312
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bill to amend MTP Act passed by House, HC told||More than 50 years after the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act came into being, a Bill for termination of advanced-stage pregnancies in view of medical opinion has been passed by both Houses of Parliament. The Bill was pending for almost a year.As the matter came up for resumed hearing before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Arun Monga’s Bench was told requisite amendments to the 1971 Act, introduced by way of a Bill, had been passed and formal assent had been accorded by the President of India. Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain also submitted only the notification was required to be issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The matter was brought to Justice Monga’s notice by a pregnant woman through counsel Ranjan Lakhanpal. Referring to the Bill and other aspects related to termination of pregnancies in advanced stages, Justice Monga had asserted the legal and moral predicament of the court, yet again, was whether to permit a pregnant mother to abort the life of a foetus aged 23 weeks plus five days, before completion of gestation period.Medical reports to terminate pregnancy were in the mother’s favour. But, legal impediment in view of the statutory mandate envisaged under the provisions of the 1971 Act did not allow the doctors to implement their medical recommendation.Justice Monga had asserted this was not the first time such a case had come before the court. Past instances were aplenty and, perhaps, becoming a routine, but only where a litigant had the means to approach the court.Justice Monga, on a previous date of hearing, asserted a uniform policy was required to be formulated to deal with all such cases. Jain was also asked to apprise the court of the steps being taken or contemplated to frame a uniform policy on legal termination of pregnancies, where medical opinion was strongly in its favour. Apart from easier access to justice, such a policy would also ensure the deserved dignity and confidentiality to the women, confronted with such legal impediments, Justice Monga had added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bill-to-amend-mtp-act-passed-by-house-hc-told-234313
04-04-2021||Jalandhar||Dubai returnee dies by suicide||A 22-year-old man reportedly hanged himself at Bhogpur after finding it hard get a well paying job here. He had returned from Dubai this year owing to the pandemic.Investigation officer SI Sukhjit Singh Bains they had received information about the alleged suicide on Saturday evening from Kala Bakra Civil Hospital.“After enquiring from the family members, it was established the deceased, Karanjit Singh Saroa, was suffering from depression. After returning from Dubai, he was jobless. However, to contribute to his family’s income, he was working as water tank motor operator at his village,” said Bains. Karanjit was the second of five siblings in the family. After completing studies, he had gone to Dubai in 2019. Due to the Covid outbreak, he lost his job there and all his savings dried up. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dubai-returnee-dies-by-suicide-234314
04-04-2021||---||Reopen schools: Bus operators||Bathinda, April 3Members of the School Vans Association, Bathinda, carried out a protest march in the city, demanding opening of schools. Protesters drove in school vans and buses from the Rose Garden and after moving through different parts of the city, reached Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s office, where they submitted a memorandum of demands.2,705 cases, 49 deaths in 24 hoursDavinder Pal Singh, president of the association, said, “We are facing problems as schools have not been opened and school vans have remained unused for over a year. Owners, drivers and conductors are hit by the government’s decision of not opening schools. We demand that the government should either open schools or provide relief to us by exempting us from taxes. With buses not plying, there is no source of income for us and paying monthly instalments has become difficult.”“If not to the full capacity, the government must start schools with less strength, with Covid-19 guidelines in place, otherwise we will intensify our stir in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reopen-schools-bus-operators-234315
04-04-2021||Sangrur||Jobless teachers disrupt Vijay Inder Singla's event, ‘assaulted’||Members of the unemployed ETT and TET Pass Union today raised slogans against the Punjab Government during a function of Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla in the Sunami gate area here. The protesters claimed Congress workers assaulted them, a charge denied by the party leaders.Union members have been protesting in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office since January 4, demanding recruitment by the Education Department.“We are seeking government jobs and it’s not a crime. But Congress workers assaulted our members, including Jaskarn Singh and Gursangat Singh, when they raised slogans against the government during a minister’s event. We will intensify our agitation in the coming days,” said Deep Banarasi, press secretary of the union.As per sources, on getting information about the minister’s presence in the town, six union members, led by Kuldeep Singh, tried breach security at the event, but were stopped by the police. However, two members entered the venue and raised slogans.“We were protesting peacefully, but Congress leaders attacked us,” claimed Gursangat Singh. Sangrur Market Committee chairman Anil Kicha, however, said Congress workers had only asked the protesters to leave the venue. “The allegations are baseless as no one from the Congress attacked them,” said Kicha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-disrupt-vijay-inder-singlas-event-assaulted-234316
04-04-2021||Ludhiana||Kisan morcha flays Centre, plans to intensify stir||Members of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today criticised the central government for levelling “false” allegations on the Punjab farmers to defame them.Demanding that the government should revoke its letter to the Punjab Chief Secretary, they said the Centre wanted to divide them but its “conspiracy” would not succeed.The SKM leaders conducted a meeting with trade unions, employees and students organisations at Punjab Agricultural University here today to plan the next strategy to strengthen the “kisan andolan”.SKM leader Dr Darshan Pal said: “The central government is making various attempts to defame the farmers of Punjab. We have unions in border areas and they never received any complaint regarding bonded labourers or drugs being given to them. The allegations levelled by the central government are false. It should revoke its false letter.”Another SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said: “It is a conspiracy of the central government to defame farmers. There are no bonded labourers here and there will never be.”SMK leaders said they would gherao the Food Corporation of India offices on April 5 across the country against the “wrong” policies of the central government.Balbir Singh Rajewal said the Centre wanted to disband the FCI but they would not tolerate it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kisan-morcha-flays-centre-plans-to-intensify-stir-234319
04-04-2021||Amritsar||Two held with illicit liquor, pilfered ENA||The Amritsar rural police in a joint operation with the Excise Department arrested two bootleggers during a raid at Jethuwal village today. Illicit liquor and extra neutral alcohol (ENA) besides lahan were recovered from the spot.The teams busted two illegal stills from the village. Those arrested were identified as Tarsem Singh and his brother Kuljit Singh. The police recovered 2,500 litres of illicit liquor, 300 litres of ENA and 400-kg lahan from the spot.The team was headed by DSP (Special Branch) Sukhrak Singh, DSP (Headquarter) Baldev Singh and Excise and Taxation officer Sukhjit Singh. SSP Amritsar rural Dhruv Dahiya said investigation was on to unearth the racket involving pilferage of ENA. During investigations into last year’s hooch tragedy in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala, the bootleggers were found mixing ENA with water.The seizure of ENA showed its pilferage from trucks had not ceased. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-held-with-illicit-liquor-pilfered-ena-234320
04-04-2021||---||DSGMC to see 3-way contest||New Delhi, April 3The upcoming elections to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) will see a three-cornered contest. A total of 46 elected members from across the national capital comprise the DSGMC. The polls are slated for April 25.The Sukhbir Singh Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal announced its first list of 20 names yesterday. Party MP Balvinder Singh Bhunder said the agenda would be to showcase the work done in the past tenure. SAD leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who is the MLA from Rajouri Garden, heads the DSGMC.The Jag Aasra Guru Ott (JAGO) party led by Manjit Singh GK, announced its first list a few days ago. GK, a former president of the DSGMC, left the SAD to form his own outfit. He is contesting all 46 seats. He has the blessings of former Union Minister Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa.The other important players are the Sarna brothers — Paramjit and Harvinder. They have entered into a seat sharing understanding with Bhai Ranjit Singh, a former jathedar of the Akal Takht.“We plan to contest 35-36 seats. The rest will be left for Bhai Ranjit Singh,” said Harvinder. Paramjit is the former president of the DSGMC.There was a move among the opponents of the Badal family to get Manjit Singh GK and Sarna brothers join hands. “That has not worked out,” said a senior Sikh leader.Both GK and Sarna brothers have been raising the issues of dipping finances of the DSGMC, including pending payments for educational institutions.Sirsa will bank upon recent initiatives such as free dialysis centre and new hospital, besides the DSGMC efforts to get bail for farmers arrested for the January 26 violence. Further, the DSGMC ensured langar did not stop during the Covid-19 pandemic.The process of filing of nominations is till April 7. Scrutiny of nomination papers will be conducted on April 8 and the last date for withdrawal of candidature is April 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dsgmc-to-see-3-way-contest-234321
04-04-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Bonded labourers: Report a farce, says Tarn Taran SSP||Tarn Taran, April 3Most of the sources in the border area of the district, including farmers, rejected reports that farmers in the state brought mentally challenged people from Bihar and UP and forced them into farm labour.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said not even a single such incident had been reported from the border areas of Khalra, Sarai Amanat Khan, Patti, Bhikhiwind, Valtoha and Khemkaran.MHA letter attempt to ‘defame’ farmers“The report prepared by the BSF is far from facts. Seven such cases were brought to our notice and the district police conducted a detailed inquiry. Four of them were even medically examined and none was detected as a drug addict. Just one person was physically challenged and he was handed over to his parents,” Nimbale said.The SSP said the BSF report was a farce as two of the seven persons apprehended were from Punjab, one from Maharashtra, one from Assam and three from UP. Two others were found to be suspicious and sent to jail.He said there was no report of keeping them as bonded labourers or giving them drugs to make them work longer.Daljit Singh Dialpur of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, also a resident of border area village Dialpur, said the BSF report were incorrect and just aimed at defaming the farmers’ agitation as it was being spearheaded by the leaders of Punjab.Questioning the BSF report, he said it was neither a social organisation nor entrusted with the responsibility of conducting such a study. “I have never seen such a case anywhere. But if anybody is seen indulging in such human trafficking, he must be dealt with seriously according to the law,” he said.Despite several attempts, Ferozepur range DIG Surinder Mehta could not be contacted for comment. Amritsar DIG Bhupinder Singh also refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bonded-labourers-report-a-farce-says-tarn-taran-ssp-234323
04-04-2021||---||BSF: Rescued, they’re forced to work again||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 3The practice of engaging “mentally challenged” people belonging to UP and Bihar in farm activities as “bonded labourers” in the border districts of Punjab has been in vogue for quite some time, but the issue could never become a matter of administrative concern till the Centre flagged it by writing a letter to the state Chief Secretary, said a senior BSF official.No such case in Fazilka: SSPThe Centre has written to the state government on the basis of information provided by the Border Security Force (BSF), which in its communication to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has claimed that it has so far rescued 58 such persons, who are generally being drugged and forced to work in the fields of farmers as “bonded labourers” in the border areas.“We could rescue these helpless people within a 50 metre area from the fence and that, too, particularly during the daily restriction period of human movement between 5 pm and 5 am. After apprehending them near the fence, we conduct preliminary questioning to know about their antecedents and then hand them over to the local police for further action,” said a BSF commandant posted at one of the border posts in Amritsar on phone.He, however, contended that on several occasions the BSF personnel spotted the same person handed over to the police again in the area. “On specific enquiry with the villagers, it was found out that the farming family who engage such persons get them released from the nearby police station.”Narrating the enormity of the problem, another senior BSF official said it was common to spot such people in villages near the border fence. “We know for sure that these people are from eastern UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. There are two ways of their coming and getting trapped into this kind of exploitation. First, they come on their own to look for jobs in Punjab and end up hitting India’s border. Secondly, since such a workforce is beneficial for the farming community here, there are a few small syndicates who bring them by luring them with good money,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-rescued-theyre-forced-to-work-again-234324
04-04-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Bonded labourers: MHA letter attempt to ‘defame’ farmers||Ferozepur, April 3Though the Centre today issued a clarification regarding the letter written by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to the state Chief Secretary regarding the issue of bonded labourers and human trafficking allegedly afoot in border villages of Punjab, the issue has triggered a controversy among farmers and political parties who are terming it an attempt to defame the farm sector, which is already at loggerheads with the Centre.Report a farce, says Tarn Taran SSPThe issue has also set the alarm bells ringing for the security agencies operating along the “zero” line in the state. The MHA wrote to the Chief Secretary following a report submitted by the BSF stating that it had already rescued 58 such migrant labourers who had been allegedly drugged and made to work for long hours against their wish.An intelligence official said there had been shortage of labour in Punjab post implementation of MNREGA and other such schemes for the past few years, but the issue of bonded labour or human trafficking had never surfaced. “There have been instances when building contractors or other such contractors offered them drugs to increase their productivity, but these cases are generally not reported,” he said.“During the pandemic the migrant labourers were treated so well that they refused to go back to their native place even after the government arranged buses and trains for them,” said another official.Satnam Singh Pannu, state president, Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Committee, said it was a conspiracy of the Centre to malign the image of farmers and dent their relations with labourers.“Farmers consider labourers their family members and treat them accordingly,” he said, adding: “If a farmer is found ill-treating any labourer, he should be strictly punished, but the attempt in the present scenario is different.”Darshan Singh Karma, district in-charge, Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Dakonda), said in Punjab, the farmers paid the labourers in advance. “The labourers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh come to Punjab willingly, not by force because they are treated well here,” he added.Senior BSF officials said there had been instances when Indian nationals were apprehended from border areas, adding that many of them were not in healthy state of mind due to reasons beyond their comprehension.As per information, the BSF had last year apprehended 104 Indian nationals roaming under suspicious circumstances along the India-Pakistan border in the state, while this number was 83 in 2019 and 66 in 2018.The data indicates that the number of apprehensions of had seen constant spurt in the last decade from 21 in 2013 to 104 in 2020.“Many of these apprehended persons were involved in drug peddling. Many of them were either insane or “deaf and dumb” or feeble-minded. We generally hand them over to the police,” said an official, pleading anonymity.In its official statement today, the MHA said the matter was erroneously reported in a section of media and the government had no intention of levelling such charges against the farmers of the state. Sources in the MHA said the media reports were misleading and distorted and the letter was written on the basis of simple observation about a socio-economic problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bonded-labourers-mha-letter-attempt-to-defame-farmers-234325
04-04-2021||---||AAP: Attempt to divide unity of farmers, workers||Chandigarh, April 3Flaying the timing of the report on bonded labour in Punjab, the AAP today said it was BJP government’s conspiracy to divide the unity of workers and farmers.Talking to The Tribune, AAP leader and Leader of Opposition in Vidhan Sabha Harpal Singh Cheema said Punjab had a long history of unity between workers and farmers. During every paddy sowing season, farmers wait for migrant workers and treat them like guests. “What can be a bigger example than this of unity between farmers and workers,” he said.Cheema said during the farmers’ movement, the unity between workers and farmers reached new heights. “Now, adopting its old policy of divide and rule, the BJP is trying to divide farmers and worker,” he said.Targeting the Congress government, he said before the last elections, Capt Amarinder Singh had announced drug menace would be wiped out within four weeks. The Centre’s report, which talked of bonded labourers being given drugs, was a testimony to the fact that the government had failed to curtail the menace, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-attempt-to-divide-unity-of-farmers-workers-234327
04-04-2021||Fazilka||JE booked for ‘negligence’||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/je-booked-for-negligence-234352
04-04-2021||New Delhi||Wrong to link letter with farm stir: MHA||Noting that it has nothing against the farmers of Punjab, the Centre today issued a clarification saying the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) letter to the state Chief Secretary was only intended to highlight the issue of bonded labourers in border villages and to seek appropriate action against human trafficking syndicates.Also read: In an official statement, the MHA said, “A section of the media has erroneously reported that this ministry has written to the Punjab Government allegedly levelling grave charges against the farmers of state. These news reports present a distorted and highly editorialised opinion of a simple observation about a socio-economic problem emerging from four sensitive border districts of Punjab over a period of two years, which has been brought to the attention of this ministry by the CAPF concerned.”“Some news reports about the letter have juxtaposed in a totally unrelated context to conclude that the MHA has framed grave charges against the farmers of Punjab and has also connected this with the ongoing farmers’ agitation,” it said.“This letter only states that “human trafficking syndicates” hire such labourers and they are “exploited, paid poorly and given inhuman treatment” besides luring them with drugs to get more work, it noted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wrong-to-link-letter-with-farm-stir-mha-234257
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Put DBT on hold, consensus must, Capt writes to PM||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking continuance of the existing system of payment to farmers till a consensus was evolved on the issue of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).Asserting that the arhtiyas were not middlemen but service providers, he urged the PM to ensure that the livelihood of farmers and others involved in the procurement of grain was not jeorpardised. He sought a meeting with the PM to apprise him of the concerns raised by various stakeholders “before the situation gets out of hand,” assuring his complete support to evolving a consensus for long-term reforms.Expressing concern over the efforts to “rock” the well-established institutional and social arrangements, the CM said he could see a pattern in some of the one-sided decisions and steps taken by the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/put-dbt-on-hold-consensus-must-capt-writes-to-pm-234261
04-04-2021||Jhajjar||Punjab protester assaulted at Tikri, dies||Gurpreet Singh (26), a farmer from Barnala district, who was injured in a scuffle with someone at the Tikri border, died on Friday. A case of murder has been registered against Gurpreet’s fellow villager Satta Singh.Gurpreet had come to Tikri three days ago. Jai Bhagwan, investigation officer, said Satta, according to a complaint, thrashed Gurpreet badly on Thursday evening. Next day, Gurpreet’s relatives took him to the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh town where he was declared brought dead. The assailant would be arrested soon, he added.It is the second such incident at the Tikri border. On March 25, 61-year-old Hakum Singh of Patti Fuddu village in Bathinda was found murdered with his throat slit near the new bus stand in Bahadurgarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-protester-assaulted-at-tikri-dies-234281
