06-04-2021||Chandigarh||2,924 new COVID cases, 62 deaths in Punjab||Sixty-two more people died from coronavirus in Punjab, while there were over 2,900 new cases, the Health Department said on Tuesday.The active cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) rose to 25,913 and 2,350 patients recuperated, taking the number of recoveries to 2.24 lakh, according to a bulletin.    The 62 new fatalities took the toll to 7,216, while the infection tally rose to 2,57,057 with 2,924 cases, the bulletin said.Mohali reported a maximum of 521 cases, followed by 401 in Ludhiana, 307 in Jalandhar, 290 in Patiala and 248 in Amritsar. Nine people succumbed to the infection in Amritsar, seven in Hoshiarpur, six in Jalandhar, five each in Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Mohali and Ludhiana, among others, it said.There are 29 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 357 are on oxygen support. A total of 61,45,532 samples have been collected for testing so far, it said.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-924-new-covid-cases-62-deaths-in-punjab-235487
06-04-2021||---||Major fire at Trident’s textile plant in MP’s Budhni||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 6Cotton stock worth Rs 100 crore destroyed in a major fire that broke out on Monday in the cotton warehouse of Ludhiana-based Trident Ltd’s manufacturing facility at Budhni, Madhya Pradesh. No loss of life has been reported yet.Company spokesperson Kanchan Sondhi said the fire cause major damage of stocks of cotton, lying in the warehouse resulting in losses of approximately Rs 100 crore. Major losses occurred due to strong dry winds and inclement weather.The cause for the fire has not been ascertained yet. “We are proactively monitoring the situation and taking further necessary steps for the safety and well-being of the manpower. The company also informed that damage is adequately covered by Insurance and we have already informed the Insurance Company about the fire Incident,” company said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/major-fire-at-tridents-textile-plant-in-mps-budhni-235440
06-04-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab ministers visit roof collapse site which left 4 dead in Ludhiana; assure strict action||Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora and Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Tuesday visited the factory site where the roof collapsed on Monday that left four dead and nine seriously injured. About 35 people were rescued alive in the incident.  Both the ministers assured strict action against all those found guilty, and responsible for the mishap. They informed that the factory owner has been arrested while the contractor was still on the run. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal, and MC Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal were also present during the visit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ministers-visit-roof-collapse-site-which-left-4-dead-in-ludhiana-assure-strict-action-235410
06-04-2021||Hyderabad||Why Telugu star Adivi Sesh understands Punjabi easily||Telugu actor Adivi Sesh surprises you with his Punjabi accent.The actor further stumps you by saying that, not only the accent, he can actually fully understand the Punjabi language, although he never lived in northern India.The reason is his move to California from Hyderabad during the formative years, he reveals. "I grew up in California, San Francisco, and there were no Telugu folks (around). In the 1990s you didn't find any Telugu folks (in California). All my friends were Gujarati and Punjabi. These guys had come from smaller towns of India and they would struggle with English and I wanted a sense of being an Indian while growing up. It would be a lot of back and forth if I spoke in English and they spoke in Hindi. So, I picked up their accent from them!" the 35-year-old actor tells IANS.He adds on a lighter note: "I do understand Punjabi, by the way. If I see people scolding me in Punjabi, I would easily understand what they are saying." The actor will soon be seen in "Major", which is inspired by the life of 26/11 martyr Sandeep Unnikrishnan. He announced on Monday that besides Telugu and Hindi, the film will also release in Malayalam. Interestingly, besides acting in the film, he is also the writer of the project. He has earlier scripted his hit films such as "Kshanam", "Goodachari" and "Kiss".Does being a writer affect his choices as an actor?"In the beginning of my career, writing was a compulsion because when we like a story, we want to see ourselves in it on the screen, though I was not getting those kinds of films. I am an outsider in the movies and didn't know anyone. In many ways, writing became my weapon with which I could go into the battle but ultimately it was in service of my acting career," says the actor. He adds: "It does help me, when I am hearing a story or watching a film and something feels tonally off or disingenuous. However, I don't want to be limited to the stories I write because then I will end up doing the same character written by me in every film because. It happens because a certain kind of comfort creeps in. I am ultimately one person and I try not to let the writer in me restrict the actor in me." — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-telugu-star-adivi-sesh-understands-punjabi-easily-235408
06-04-2021||New Delhi||Mukhtar Ansari's wife moves SC for his security as he's moved from Punjab to UP||Apprehending a fake encounter, BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari's wife on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court seeking security and protection for her husband while he's shifted from Punjab's Ropar jail to Banda jail in Uttar Pradesh.She urged the top court to pass necessary directions for Ansari's security in prison and when he's produced before courts. She also wanted the court to ensure a free and fair trial.A 150-member team of UP Police had on Monday left for Punjab to bring back the gangster-turned-politician who is facing trial in several cases.Around seven vehicles of the Uttar Pradesh Police reached the Rupnagar District Police Lines around 4:30 am Tuesday, it was reported.The Police Lines is around four kilometres away from the Rupnagar jail, where Ansari has been lodged since January 2019 in connection with an extortion case.Earlier, Punjab Government Home Department had written to the Uttar Pradesh Government to take custody of Ansari on or before April 8 from the Ropar Jail.It had written to the Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary (Home) following an order passed by the Supreme Court directing the Punjab Government to transfer Ansari to Banda Jail in Uttar Pradesh in two weeks from the Rupnagar prison.A BSP MLA from Mau Sadar assembly constituency in Banda district of UP, he was lodged in a jail in UP as undertrial when the Punjab Police obtained a production warrant against him on a complaint of extortion and criminal intimidation took him to Punjab where he has been lodged in Ropar jail.Allowing the State of Uttar Pradesh government’s petition seeking transfer of the alleged gangster, a Bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan had on March 26 directed that Ansari’s custody should be handed over Uttar Pradesh authorities in two weeks.“It is open for the Special Court, constituted for MPs/MLAs at Allahabad to continue him either in the District Jail at Banda or shift to any other Jail in the State of Uttar Pradesh, if any need arises,” it had said, while using its plenary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution.While dismissing Ansari’s plea to transfer the cases pending against him in Uttar Pradesh to Delhi, the top court had said that he shall be lodged in Banda Jail where the Jail Superintendent will extend him necessary medical facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mukhtar-ansaris-wife-moves-sc-for-his-security-as-hes-moved-from-punjab-to-up-235396
06-04-2021||Patiala||NIS Patiala turns COVID hotspot as 9 more test positive; tally rises to 35||Nine people — including national-level boxers, coaches and support staff — tested positive for coronavirus at the National Institute of Sports (NIS) on Tuesday morning.Those who have tested positive include national boxing coaches Khimanand Belwal and Narjeet Singh and boxers Kavinder Singh Bisht and Ananta.With this development, 35 people have already tested positive for Coronavirus at NIS Patiala.Notably, 26 national-level athletes, coaches and support staff had tested positive for coronavirus at the institute last week.Ironically, the Health Department has not declared NIS as a containment zone — despite the high number of positive cases in the institute.National campers and coaches were said to be disregarding the COVID norms at the institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nis-patiala-turns-covid-hotspot-as-9-more-test-positive-tally-rises-to-35-235391
06-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'Bas', says Shehnaaz Gill as paparazzi surround her after she returns to Mumbai from Canada; watch||After wrapping up Honsla Rakh's shooting in Vancouver, actress Shehnaaz Gill is back in India.The former Bigg Boss 13-star plays a pivotal role in the Punjabi rom-com, led by Diljit Dosanjh and co-starring Sonam Bajwa.On Sunday, the actress was spotted at the Mumbai airport wearing an all-black outfit.A video from the airport surfaced, that showed Shehnaaz preferred to limit her interactions with the paparazzi as she made her way to her car.The paparazzi asked her about her experience of working with Diljit. To this, Shehanaaz gave a thumbs up.The cameras continued to follow her as she approached the parking lot.A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)Shehnaaz turned towards the paparazzi, and said "bas (enough)".The actress jumped into her car, and pulled down her mask for a moment and flashed her smile as she zoomed off.Earlier this week, Shehnaaz and Diljit shared pictures of their Honsla Rakh wrap-up party."#HonslaRakh Shooting DONE," Diljit captioned the photos, tagging the team behind the movie.A post shared by DILJIT DOSANJH (@diljitdosanjh)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bas-says-shehnaaz-gill-as-paparazzi-surround-her-after-she-returns-to-mumbai-from-canada-watch-235386
06-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kapil Sharma reveals his newborn baby boy's name thanks to singer Neeti Mohan; check it out||Thanks to singer Neeti Mohan's request, comedian Kapil Sharma has finally revealed the name of his newborn baby. The comedian has been trying to maintain a low profile and spend quality time with his family. On April 2, the comedian celebrated his birthday. His social media account was flooded with birthday wishes. Taking out time on Sunday (April 4) to reply to all the heartfelt wishes, one wish from Neeti stood out. “Happy birthday dearest @KapilSharmaK9 Pahji. Lots of love to you and your family. Ab to baby boy ka naam bata do,” Neeti wrote. Happy birthday dearest @KapilSharmaK9 Pahji. Lots of love to you and your family. Ab to baby boy ka naam bata do 😄And surprisingly, Kapil actually revealed the name. Kapil and his wife Ginni Chatrath’s baby boy has been named, Trishaan.In a tweet, Kapil wrote: "Thank you Neeti. Hope you are taking well care of yourself. We named him Trishaan (sic)"Quickly responding to his tweet, Neeti congratulated him on revealing his name. Thank you neeti 🤗❤️ hope ur taking well care of urself 🤗 we named him trishaan 😍🥳🥳🥳 https://t.co/776HlHVm0f“What a beautiful name TRISHAAN Congratulations Pahji @KapilSharmaK9 Trishaan Kapil Sharma sounds so good! God bless him,” she wrote. What a beautiful name TRISHAAN Congratulations Pahji @KapilSharmaK9 Trishaan Kapil Sharma sounds so good! God bless him 😇 https://t.co/5Ly3QkV4ljAfter becoming parents to their adorable little girl Anayra, Kapil and his wife Ginni Chatrath were blessed with their second child, a baby boy on February 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapil-sharma-reveals-his-newborn-baby-boys-name-thanks-to-singer-neeti-mohan-check-it-out-235379
06-04-2021||Ferozepur||2 STF officials booked for ‘assault’||The police booked two officials of the Special Task Force (STF), Ferozepur unit, including its in charge, for allegedly manhandling an accused.Complainant Lovepreet Singh, a resident of Rau ke Hithar village in the Mamdot block was booked under the NDPS Act and Arms Act on August 3 last year. The accused was evading the police till now. On March 22, the accused appeared before STF in charge Jaswinder Singh, and produced his interim bail papers which he had brought from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. As per the complainant, Inspector Jaswinder Singh along with ASI Harjit Singh and other unidentified persons allegedly assaulted him and kept him in police custody. Lovepreet also alleged the STF officials forced him to give a witness against some people. A case under Sections 325, 326 and 34 of the IPC was registered against the officials at the Cantonment police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-stf-officials-booked-for-assault-235046
06-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||25-yr-old sarpanch gets her village two national awards||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 5Sheshandeep Kaur Sidhu, a 25-year-old sarpanch of Manak Khana village in Bathinda district, has brought glory to the state with her efforts as her village gram panchayat has been selected for two national awards announced by the Union Government on Sunday.The awards will be presented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion of National Panchayati Raj Day on April 21 in Delhi.The panchayat has been given the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Empowerment Award for the all-round development of the village and work done in rainwater harvesting and arrangement for waste disposal. The village has also got the Nana Ji Deshmukh Gaurav Gram Sabha Award for regularly convening gram sabhas to discuss the developmental works.While talking to The Tribune, Sheshandeep Kaur Sidhu, who is graduate in BSc (agriculture), said, “After becoming the sarpanch, the two major works I have undertaken in the village are making recharge pits for rainwater harvesting and creating a waste disposal mechanism. The awards have been possible due to cooperation of the villagers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/25-yr-old-sarpanch-gets-her-village-two-national-awards-235047
06-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Doctor couple booked under PNDT Act||A Health Department team from Sirsa in Haryana raided a nursing home and surgical clinic on the Railway Road in Sirhind and caught a doctor-couple conducting sex determination in violation of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PNDT) Act. The team seized a laptop and DVR from the clinic.Dr Budh Ram, PNDT officer, Sirsa, said the CMO, Sirsa, had information that a tout was taking pregnant women to nursing homes for sex determination by charging hefty fee. The SMO formed a four-member team for investigation. The informer gave the contact number of Sonia, who deals on behalf of nursing homes.On contacting her, she demanded Rs 38, 000 for sex determination. A sum of Rs 20,000 was paid in advance, he said. “Sonia fixed an appointment with the doctor and called us near Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib in Patiala,” said the officer.Dr Karan Sagar, District Family Welfare Officer, Fatehgarh Sahib, said the health department had lodged an FIR against the two doctors in this regard. Dr Anil Kumar of Nath Nursing Home claimed they did not conduct any such test and had been falsely implicated. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctor-couple-booked-under-pndt-act-235048
06-04-2021||---||2 held for Bathinda farmer’s murder on Tikri border||Jhajjar, April 5Hakam Singh (61) of Bathinda district was allegedly murdered by truck driver Kulwant Singh of Moga district (Punjab), at the Tikri border on March 25, the police said.Kulwant (48) allegedly had an illicit relationship with Hakam’s “bhabhi” (wife of younger brother) Karamjeet Kaur (47), who was also involved in the crime. She pressurised Kulwant to commit the crime, said the police.Both accused have been arrested. Hakam was found murdered behind the new bus-stand in Bahadurgarh.“Kulwant and Kaur hatched a plot to kill Hakam who kept a watch on Kulwant when he visited their house. Kulwant, along with Hakam, came to Tikri on March 25 to join the agitation. He killed Hakam at the behest of Kaur,” said Vijay Kumar, SHO, City Police Station, Bahadurgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-held-for-bathinda-farmers-murder-on-tikri-border-235174
06-04-2021||Sushil Manav||Antibody cocktail cured Punjab leader:  Gurugram hospital||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5Monoclonal antibody cocktail, a combination of two neutralising antibody drugs casirivimab and imdevimab, which has the potential of reducing hospitalisation in Covid-19 and also shortening the duration of symptoms, has been administered to only one person, a senior Punjab politician, at a private hospital in Gurugram.Tocilizumab, an anti-IL-6 receptor monoclonal antibodies drug, has been administered to 42 patients, including Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij, so far at the PGIMS, Rohtak.The monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment is now available in the US.“The US government has so far not allowed its export to other countries. When a senior politician from Punjab was admitted to a private hospital in Gurugram, his family was intimated about all treatment options, including that of antibody cocktail, if they could manage its import. They were successful in their attempt and the antibody cocktail was given to the politician. Despite his health issues the politician recovered from the infection within a few days without any complications,” said a senior doctor of the state.“To my knowledge, this Punjab politician is the only person in the country to have received a dose of monoclonal antibody cocktail so far.”Meanwhile, as far as tocilizumab, an immunosuppressive medicine that belongs to a class of monoclonal antibodies, was administered under trial to 183 patients in several top hospitals in the country, including 42 in the PGIMS, Rohtak, by a team of doctors who published their findings in reputed medical journal Lancet in its March 4, 2021 issue.Among those who received tocilizumab is Home and Health Minister Anil Vij, according to Dr Dhruv Choudhary, nodal officer for Covid in Haryana, who was part of the trials. Among others who were part of the trials was Dr Sushila Kataria from Medanta Medicity, Gurugram.“No significant difference was observed between the group that was given tocilizumab and the other which was put on standard care. Thus, our study did not support the routine use of tocilizumab in adults with Covid. However, there might be a role for it in patientswith severe Covid that should be defined further,” said Dr Chaudhary.US ex-PREz took this treatmentAs per a doctor, one-time injection of the antibody cocktail prevented 100% of Covid illness, 100% of high SARS-CoV-2 viral loads, and cut length of asymptomatic infection to one week. The treatment was given to Donald Trump, former President of the US, after he got infected in October 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/antibody-cocktail-cured-punjab-leader-gurugram-hospital-235182
06-04-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Illegal mining unabated on Sutlej riverbed in Moga||Tribune News ServiceMoga, April 5Even as administration has banned mining on the Sutlej riverbed till May 30, illegal quarrying is still going on in the area. However, the mining mafia has changed tactics. Earlier, heavy machinery was being used to quarry sand, but, now sand is directly moved to the user, in light of the restrictions imposed by the district administration.A visit to Sanghera village in Dharamkot subdivision revealed that the mining mafia had hired local cart owners to transport sand from the riverbed during the night to yards in the nearby villages on the pretext of “own use”. Actually, this sand is stored and supplied to consumers from there.Mafia adopts new modus operandiA team of the Mining Department led by District Mining Officer Gursimran Singh Gill and Dharamkot DSP Subeg Singh raided a few such yards at Sanghera and adjoining villages in the past couple of days and found huge quantities of stocked sand. However, no legal action was taken against the owners of the houses and the big fish involved in illegal mining activities.Gill admitted that he went to Sanghera and its adjoining villages and found sand dumped in many houses. During a checking of the records, it was found that the sand was bought by the residents from the authorised contractors. However, locals alleged that the mining sites authorised by the government had not been operational for past many months.District Magistrate Sandeep Hans confirmed that he had banned the movement/plying of JCB machines, trucks and tractor-trailers on the riverbed and within 500 metre radius of the river embankments.Jaspinder Kaur, sarpanch of Takhtuwala village, alleged that illegal mining on the riverbed had been going on unabated for the past many years. There were also reports of excessive sand mining even from the approved quarries. The mining beyond permitted depth with the help of heavy machinery has led to extensive damage, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-mining-unabated-on-sutlej-riverbed-in-moga-235041
06-04-2021||---||RBI clears Rs 21K cr CCL for rabi season||Chandigarh, April 5The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday cleared a sum of Rs 21,658.73 crore towards Cash Credit Limit (CCL) up to April 2021 for the procurement of wheat in Punjab during the ensuing rabi marketing season.With this, the bulk of CCL sought by the state government for the purchase of 105.60 lakh tonne of wheat for this season has been released by the central bank.The release of CCL would facilitate the stategovernment in making timely payments to farmers against purchase of foodgrain in the current season, which would begin from April 10 and culminate on May 31, according to an official spokesperson.The central government has fixed the minimum support price (MSP) of wheat at Rs 1,975 per quintal, hiking it by Rs 50 from last year’s Rs 1,925 per quintal.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh directed the Food and Civil Supplies Department to ensure that farmers did not face any hassles in the procurement of their produce, especially amid the Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rbi-clears-rs-21k-cr-ccl-for-rabi-season-235036
06-04-2021||---||Rs 28-cr assets of drug smugglers attached||Moga, April 5The Punjab Police have attached moveable and immovable properties of Rs 32.27 crore belonging to smugglers and fugitives convicted in cases of drug trafficking in the district.A spokesperson for the district administration told The Tribune properties of 83 drug smugglers worth Rs 27.8 crore were attached after the local police received clearance from the Union Government’s revenue department to freeze all movable and immovable assets of smugglers.The assets have been attached under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, and the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the spokesperson added.Assets worth Rs 23.37 lakh owned by convict Inderjit Singh, a resident of Daala village, have also been attached. He was sentenced to 10-year RI and imposed Rs 1 lakh fine by the sessions court.Also, properties of five fugitives worth Rs 4.96 crore had been frozen by the competent authority under Sections 82/83 of the CrPC. These include assets worth Rs 3.70 crore of Guriqbal Singh; property worth Rs 12.82 lakh of Jasveer Singh; assets worth Rs 50.18 lakh of Pippal Singh, property worth Rs 18.72 lakh of Sukhmander Singh, and assets worth Rs 44 lakh of Jaskaran Singh and Balkaranjeet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-28-cr-assets-of-drug-smugglers-attached-235037
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Fix black spots on highways, says Chief Secy Vini Mahajan||Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan today directed the departments concerned and the NHAI to rectify all accident-prone areas on the highways so that the precious human lives, being lost in road accidents, could be saved.Besides, she also asked the Principal Secretary, Finance, to explore the modalities to procure hand-held e-challaning machines for the traffic police to issue e-challans to the traffic violators.The Chief Secretary issued these directions, while chairing a meeting of the high-powered committee for identification and rectification of black spots on the national highways and other state roads.Director General, Road Safety, R Venkat Ratnam said 391 accident-prone spots had been identified in 12 districts after a scientific study. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fix-black-spots-on-highways-says-chief-secy-vini-mahajan-235038
06-04-2021||Amritsar||Wanted criminal Rajan Mehta dies in Bengaluru, cops unaware||One of the most-wanted criminals of Amritsar, Rajan Mehta, alias Baba, has died due to Covid-19 in Bengaluru. A message regarding his death has gone viral on the social media.Though the police have expressed ignorance over his death, Baba was at number three of the most-wanted list displayed on the official website of the Amritsar police.According to the website, he has 18 criminal cases against him. The last FIR was registered against him in 2009. Since then he has been evading arrest. Among the cases registered against him include attempt to murder, extortion, fraud, theft and under the NDPS Act.Sources said Baba was living with his family in Bengaluru and running a jewellery business. He had also visited foreign countries. — TNSWill verify: PoliceDeputy Commissioner of Police (Investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said he was not aware about Rajan Mehta, alias Baba’s death and it would be verified. He added Baba’s record would be scrutinised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wanted-criminal-rajan-mehta-dies-in-bengaluru-cops-unaware-235039
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab trails Haryana by 5.5L jabs||In spite of various initiatives, Punjab lags behind its neighbours when it comes to Covid vaccination. So far, 12.5 lakh doses of the vaccine have been administered in the state, in stark contrast to 18 lakh jabs given in Haryana in the same period.In all, 6.51 lakh persons over 45 years of age have received the first dose with 6,536 getting the second dose. Around 4.12 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have been administered the first dose, while 1,15,290 have received the second shot.To further ramp up the vaccination drive among high-risk groups, the state government has set district-wise vaccination and testing targets as per high positivity and low testing rates, respectively.72 deaths in 24 hoursHealth and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today directed Civil Surgeons to ensure vaccination and sampling/testing as per the district-wise weekly target.Sidhu said besides vaccination centres at hospitals, mobile camps are also being organised at pre-determined locations, for which captive beneficiary data has made available by managements of industries, residential societies, organisations, etc.Steep surge in positivity ratePointing out the need for reducing turnaround time between sampling and test results, he said as time lag led to the spread of infection within this window, all districts must send samples at least three times a day to the designated labs.There was a need to review the status and performance of private labs. Covid testing must be increased to ensure adherence to the guidelines, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-trails-haryana-by-5-5l-jabs-235040
06-04-2021||---||UP cops on way to take back Mukhtar Ansari||Ropar, April 5A team of Uttar Pradesh Police left Banda by road today to take custody of gangster-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari from the Ropar jail authorities.The police team, which was scheduled to leave Banda at 5 am, got delayed and was expected to reach here tomorrow, after covering nearly 900 km.A medical team with an ambulance is accompanying the police since Ansari is suffering from multiple health complications.Meanwhile, another team of the Uttar Pradesh Police, which arrived here from Barabanki yesterday, began probe into use of fake documents to get an ambulance, used by Ansari, registered.Need for inquiryThe entire case should be probed. Punjabis want answers as to why Mukhtar Ansari was allowed the use of a private ambulance and why no impartial medical board was established to ascertain his medical condition. —Daljit S Cheema, SAD spokespersonOn March 31, Ansari was taken to a Mohali court from the Ropar jail in a private ambulance. When the media highlighted the matter, the UP Police started a search for its owner, only to find that the ambulance was registered at Barabanki using fake Aadhaar and PAN cards.Last evening, some unidentified persons abandoned the ambulance at a roadside eatery, 10 km from Ropar, on the Anandpur Sahib road. The local police impounded the vehicle and started investigations.UP Police official Naveen Kumar said they would move court to take possession of the ambulance, as it had become a case property with the Punjab Police registering a first information report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/up-cops-on-way-to-take-back-mukhtar-ansari-235042
06-04-2021||---||Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s key aide held in Himachal||Chandigarh, April 5The Punjab Police, in a joint operation with the Himachal Pradesh Police, arrested a close aide of jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who played a key role in the planning, execution as well as providing shelter to killers of Youth Congress leader Gurlal Singh Bhalwan on the directions of Bishnoi and Canada-based Goldy Brar.The suspect has been identified as Gagandeep Singh, alias Padda, alias Gagan Brar, alias Labh Singh Labhu, alias Gogi, of Panjgarai Kalan village in Kotkapura. He used to work as a bouncer in clubs and hotels of Chandigarh.Was bouncer in Chandigarh clubsDGP Dinkar Gupta, in a press communiqué, said the killing was organised by Goldy Brar, with help of Bishnoi, to avenge the murder of his cousin Gurlal Brar.A few hours after the murder, a Facebook post purportedly by Bishnoi, currently lodged in Rajasthan’s Ajmer jail, linked the crime to the death of Gurlal Brar.On February 21, the Delhi Police arrested three men — Gurvinder Pal, alias Gora, Sukhwinder Dhillon, and Saurabh Verma — involved in the murder. The next day, Punjab Police nabbed Gurpinder Singh, a resident of Ghania Wala village, in the murder case for providing weapons to the assailants. Investigations revealed Gora shared a flat with Gagan Brar in Kharar and the conspiracy was hatched in the rented accommodation. Gagan, being a close associate of Goldy Brar, was wanted by the Delhi Special Cell and Faridkot Police for his involvement in the murder. The Delhi Police had raided the Kharar accommodation, but Gagan gave them the slip. The DGP said based on inputs, teams of the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) and Counter Intelligence Units of the Punjab Police were tasked with arresting the accused under the supervision of Additional DGP (ADGP) Internal Security RN Dhoke. The teams tracked Gagan’s location to Kasol and apprehended him in a joint operation with the Himachal Police. Gagan revealed he was working as a bouncer in night clubs in Chandigarh and was friends with Gora and Gurlal Brar for over five years. He had got the job through Gurlal Brar’s reference. The DGP said Gora introduced Gagan to Goldy Brar. On the instructions of Goldy, Gagan handed over a bagful of arms and ammunition to an unidentified person in Kharar, a day before the murder. This bag was brought by Gora and kept in his room’s wardrobe.After the Delhi Police raided the accommodation, he took shelter in a friend’s flat in Kharar for two days and then went to Golden Temple in Amritsar, from where he went to McLeodganj before reaching Kasol. During his escape, Gagan remained in contact with Goldy through OTT apps and Goldy also sent him money via Google pay for expenses, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-lawrence-bishnois-key-aide-held-in-himachal-235043
06-04-2021||---||Won’t purchase wheat, warn arhtiyas||Baghapurana (Moga), April 5Up in arms against the Centre over the direct payment to farmers on purchase of foodgrain, arhtiyas in association with the farmer unions have decided to intensify their stir against the three farm laws.Addressing the “mandi bachao mahasammelan” in Moga on Monday, arhtiyas’ association state president Vijay Kalra declared that the arhtiyas in Punjab would completely boycott the markets from April 10, if the balance of Rs 131 crore was not paid to them by the Food Corporation of India (FCI). “We won’t lift the wheat from the markets until the balance payment is cleared,” he said.Labourers will lose jobs, govt revenueThere are four lakh laboures in the mandis. They will lose their jobs. The state government will lose mandi fee and rural development funds. It will impact the development in the rural areas. —Balbir Singh Rajewal , BKU (Rajewal) PresidentKeeping in view the agitation mood of farmers and arhtiyas, the Punjab Government has already deferred the wheat procurement from April 1 to April 10. A total of 130-lakh tonnes of wheat is expected to arrive in mandis, which is purchased at the minimum support price (MSP). The entire procurement is done through arhtiyas and in return they get 2.5 per cent commission.Arhtiyas stand to lose a foothold as earlier farmers got money from them after deduction of loan amount. Arhtiyas feel if farmers get money directly into their accounts, they will have to visit them to get back the loan.Lashing out at the FCI’s directive to farmers giving details of their land, Kalra urged peasants not to give jambandi (land registry) to any food procurement agency.Association vice-president Amarjit Singh said it was practically impossible for the farmers to provide land records because nearly 50 per cent of them do contract farming on land owned by NRIs settled abroad. “The problem is that the online payment will go into the accounts of the original land holders and not the farmers,” he said.Ruldu Singh Mansa state president of Punjab Kisan Union said that the bond between arhtiyas and the farmers was very strong. “The social and economic relationship between them is the basis of the very existence of the poor and marginal farmers; therefore, we cannot afford to lose it at any cost,” he said. Dr Satnam Singh Ajnala, president, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha; Paramjeet Kaur, leader, Mazdoor Mukti Morcha; Gurnam Singh Chaduni, president of BKU (Haryana); and Nirbhai Singh Dhudike, president, Kirti Kisan Union among others supported the arhtiyas' demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-purchase-wheat-warn-arhtiyas-235055
06-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court sets aside order imposing Rs 2 lakh costs on Punjab Principal Secretary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5A Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has set aside an order imposing Rs 2 lakh costs on the Punjab Principal Secretary, Department of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs. The amount was directed to be paid from Principal Secretary’s “personal pocket” by a Single Bench of the High Court.The order by the Division Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came on an appeal filed by the state of Punjab through Advocate General Atul Nanda. Rapping the state officers for being “totally callous and indifferent towards the court proceedings”, a Single Bench had adjourned the hearing of a case subject to payment of Rs 2 lakh costs by the Principal Secretary.Taking up the petition filed against Punjab and other respondents by Himanshu Kukkar and other petitioners, the Single Bench had asserted that the state counsel was seeking adjournment, after the counsel for the petitioners had addressed substantial part of his arguments. It was further pointed out by the state counsel that nobody had assisted her from the department with regard to the case before the Bench.“Having heard counsels for the parties and perused the record, we do not wish to delve into the merits any further and in the given situation consider it just and appropriate to set aside the order under challenge as regards imposition of costs of Rs 2 lakh upon the appellant personally. And, it so ordered. We are sanguine that the parties shall render the required assistance to the judge to enable him to proceed further with the matter,” the Bench concluded while disposing of the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-sets-aside-order-imposing-rs-2-lakh-costs-on-punjab-principal-secretary-235045
06-04-2021||---||Farmer unions protest outside FCI offices in Bathinda and Mansa||Bathinda, April 5Farmer unions staged protests outside FCI offices against new procurement norms and quality specification announced by the government in Bathinda and Mansa districts. Protesters also raised slogans against the central government for its move regarding the direct transfer of payment for procurement of crops into farmers’ bank accounts.Scores of farmers, under the banner of Ugrahan, Sidhupur, Dakonda and Lakhowal factions of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) and other organisations owing allegiance to Samyukt Kisan Morcha, particpated in the protest.BKU (Sidhupur) general secretary Baldev Singh Sandoha said: “We strongly condemn the Centre’s new procurement norms. These will affect many farmers as a large quantity of wheat would not fall under the moisture content limits fixed by the government. They, therefore, would be coerced to sell it to private agencies on low rates. These are devious plans of the government that is trying to give reins of agriculture sector in the hand of private players. If the decision is not revoked, protests would be intensified in the coming days.”BKU (Ugrahan) president Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha said: “With such moves, the Centre wants to weaken the government procurement agencies and end the public distribution system (PDS) and APMC mandis. This is being done to help private players enter the market to not only fix the prices as per their business interests, but also exploit the agriculture sector at the expense of farmers. If the decision with regard to DBT and revised procurement norms for wheat are not revoked, we will start the gherao of government procurement agencies’ officials in the coming days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-unions-protest-outside-fci-offices-in-bathinda-and-mansa-235028
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Congress, Centre playing fixed match, alleges SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today held dharnas in all constituencies of the state, alleging a fixed match was being played by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh with the Centre to the detriment of the farming community. The party also also alleged betrayal by AAP by giving its assent to the Essential Commodities Amendment Act in the Standing Committee on Food and Consumer Affairs.Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal led the dharna in Bathinda and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia in Majitha. Likewise, senior SAD leaders led protests across the state.They alleged Capt Amarinder was playing a fixed match with the central government and only pretending to support the farmers. They claimed the CM was part of the committee which finalised the three agricultural ordinances and even amended the APMC Act to include the very provisions of the farm laws against which the farmers were protesting.Resign for farmers’ sake: Harsimrat to CMWhat is stopping Capt Amarinder Singh from resigning to express solidarity with the farmers… the fact is the Congress government is playing a fixed match with the Centre and undermining the interests of the farming community. —Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Bathinda MPThey also said the Chief Minister had agreed to the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme which aimed at bypassing arhtiyas. The dharnas also targeted AAP convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. SAD leaders alleged Kejriwal was the first to notify the three agricultural laws and his government had refused to support the Sikh youth who were put in jail under false charges in Delhi.Akalis also highlighted the hike in domestic power tariff from Rs 5 to Rs 10 a unit and denial of the post-matric scholarship to SC students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-centre-playing-fixed-match-alleges-sad-235029
06-04-2021||Abohar||e-procurement system opposed||Traders and farmers staged a sit-in outside the Food Corporation of India (FCI) office in Sriganganagar, 40 km from Abohar, today to oppose the online registration system for the procurement of foodgrain at the MSP.FCI officials were given a memorandum demanding that the purchase of wheat at MSP be kept offline.Traders Association president Dharamvir Dudeja and All-India Kisan Sabha national committee member Sheopat Ram Meghwal said farmers did not have a system of storing wheat in their houses. Most of them might not be able to avail the limited availability of online registration and were unlikely to follow the scheduled dates. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/e-procurement-system-opposed-235030
06-04-2021||Ludhiana||Withdraw land record term for purchase: BKU||In response to a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, activists of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) today laid siege to a FCI godown in Malaud village.BKU general secretary Sudagar Singh Ghudani said they wanted the government to withdraw the condition of producing jamabandi (of land) for the purchase of wheat. Stressing the need for purchase of all crops at MSP, farmers demanded that provisions be made for strict legal action against those purchasing wheat, paddy and other crops below decided prices.They also urged the government to ensure all purchase centres, including FCI, remained operational and adequate funding be provided to all procurement agencies. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/withdraw-land-record-term-for-purchase-bku-235031
06-04-2021||---||Punjab CM reiterates support to farmers, arhtiyas||Ludhiana, April 5Reiterating his full support to farmers and arhtiyas, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday flayed the central government for “encroaching upon the rights of the states in its bid to dominate them” and castigated it over forcible imposition of the farm laws and the direct benefit transfer (DBT).“States never faced such problems earlier,” he said, slamming the Centre for allegedly trying to destroy the existing relations and systems that have worked well for more than 100 years in the name of so-called reforms.Punjab’s farmers and arhtiyas have age-old cordial ties, which the Centre was hell bent on damaging, he said, terming its tough posturing and ill-conceived decisions against the basic spirit of federalism. He said during his earlier tenure, he enjoyed the full confidence of Late PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Dr Manmohan Singh in all major policy decisions and development issues related to Punjab.Centre not sincereHad the Centre been sincere about finding a workable solution to the problem, it would have either consulted the Punjab Government or farmers. —Capt Amarinder Singh, CMVirtually launching the two-day kisan mela organised by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, the Chief Minister expressed his solidarity with the farmers against the farm laws and stressed the Centre should have taken them into confidence before their enactment.The Chief Minister categorically said Punjab, which was initially not even a part of the deliberations on the agricultural reforms, was included in the high-powered committee only after he wrote to the Centre. Even after that, there was no mention of these laws at the committee’s meetings.Pointing out that 144 farmers have died so far during the agitation, he said his government was giving Rs 5 lakh and a job to the next of kin of the deceased farmer, while the Centre continued to be insensitive.On the growing problem of scarcity of surface as well as underground water, he urged the farmers to go for drip irrigation in a big way to save the state from becoming a desert in the near future. “The fast depleting water table is a major challenge for the state and the only solution is to get out of the paddy-wheat cycle to save this precious resource,” he said. He further stressed efforts should be made to adapt to horticultural crops which have a global market with chances of enormous profitability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-reiterates-support-to-farmers-arhtiyas-235032
06-04-2021||---||5 more court arrest in BJP MLA Arun Narang assault case||Muktsar, April 5Five more farmers today courted arrest in connection with the Abohar BJP MLA Arun Narang assault case. Narang was allegedly thrashed, inked and stripped near the BJP office in Malout town on March 27.Those who courted arrest included Lakhanpal Sharma ‘Lakha’ from Alamwala village, who had gone to the farmers’ protest in Delhi after the Malout incident. A senior BJP leader in Chandigarh had recently claimed Lakha was an AAP leader.Lakha today said: “I was linked to AAP before I joined the BKU (Sidhupur) seven months ago. During this period, I have never gone to any programme of the AAP.”On April 1, 21 farmers had courted arrest in Malout town after the police arrested four farmers.Don’t harass innocentAll farmers wanted in the case have courted arrest. If police harass any innocent farmer, they will have to face our protest. —Jagjit Singh Dallewal, BKU (sidhupur) state chiefEarlier in the day, a large number of farmers gathered at Bathinda chowk in Malout. Jagjit Singh Dallewal, state president, BKU (Sidhupur) said: “All farmers wanted in the case have courted arrest. If the police harass any innocent farmer, they will have to face our protest.”The Malout City police have registered a case against three farmers by name and nearly 300 unidentified persons on various charges, including attempt to murder.The police said as of now, 30 farmers had been arrested, three of whom had got bail.Muktsar SSP D Sudarvizhi said Lakhanpal Sharma, block president of BKU (Sidhupur), was the main leader and organiser of the protest in Malout on March 27. “Apart from arresting Sharma, union district president Sukhdev Singh, secretary Nirmal Singh and treasurer Nanak Singh, have already been arrested,” she said.Baljit Singh, accused of splashing black ink on the MLA, Kuldeep Singh and Mandeep Singh, who tore off the MLA’s clothes, and Kulwinder Singh, Sandeep, Jasmail Singh, who thrashed the MLA in the video, too had been arrested, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-more-court-arrest-in-bjp-mla-arun-narang-assault-case-235033
06-04-2021||Sangrur||Kin in Delhi, teenagers keep farmers' stir alive at villages||As their father, grandfather and uncles are protesting against the farm laws on Delhi borders, many teenagers are keeping the stir alive back home. “I have been coming here regularly as my schools are closed. My family has not missed a single day of the protest,” said Gulneet Kaur (14) while sitting on the Badbar toll plaza.Another teenager Sabinder Singh (15) said his father had been busy in the protest since its beginning while his other family members had also been participating in the agitations.“I know the farm laws are against us and will kill farming. My son keeps sharing latest updates with me after getting information from his phone. Our kids are making the best use of technology,” said Gurpal Kaur, a woman protesting in Barnala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-in-delhi-teenagers-keep-farmers-stir-alive-at-villages-235034
06-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||4 killed in Ludhiana unit roof collapse||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 5Four persons were killed and nine injured when the roof of an auto spares unit collapsed at Baba Mukand Singh Nagar on the Daba Road here this morning. Rescue operations were on as some persons were feared trapped under the debris.According to the district administration, 40 workers were present in the factory — Jasmail Singh and Sons — when its roof collapsed. As many as 37 persons were rescued and the injured were shifted to various hospitals.One of workers was declared brought dead, another died during treatment at a hospital, while one body was recovered from the debris. The deceased have been identified as Mustakeen and Sagar Kumar, both residents of Bihar, and Peechu and Imtiaz from Ludhiana. Six injured are undergoing treatment at city hospitals, while the rest were discharged after first aid.No lessons learntIt is learned the level of the roof slab (lintel) of the top floor of multi-storey building was being raised without permission from the Municipal Corporation when the incident occurred around 9.40 am.The debris fell on two adjoining buildings, killing one and injuring some. A portion of the two factories suffered damaged. Two commercial vehicles were also crushed, injuring an occupant.After the incident, workers from nearby factories and locals tried to rescue those trapped. The Fire Brigade was joined by teams of the National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Fund in the rescue operation.Kanwaldeep Singh, owner of an adjoining factory, said: “The labourers at our factory were unaware of the construction work in the neighbouring unit. The debris fell on our factory, killing one worker. The condition of another is critical.”DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said a probe would be carried out later, but their foremost priority was to save lives. He said the factory owner had not sought permission for the construction work. CP Rakesh Agrawal said a case had been registered against the factory owner and contractor.CM marks inquiryCM Capt Amarinder Singh has ordered a magisterial probe by the Divisional Commissioner, Patiala. He announced Rs2 lakh compensation for the next of kin of those killed and free treatment for the injured||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-killed-in-ludhiana-unit-roof-collapse-235035
06-04-2021||New Delhi||COVID surge: 50 central teams sent to Punjab, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh||The central government rushed 50 high-level multi-disciplinary public health teams to 50 districts across Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab on Monday in view of the recent very large numbers of daily new COVID-19 cases and daily mortality being consistently reported by these states.The teams were sent to 30 districts of Maharashtra, 11 districts of Chhattisgarh and nine districts of Punjab to assist the states in COVID-19 surveillance, control and containment measures.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in a recent review of COVID status said teams be sent to these three states showing highest cases and deaths over 14 days.The two-member high level team consists of a clinician epidemiologist and a public health expert.The teams will visit the States immediately and monitor the overall implementation of COVID-19 management, especially in testing, including surveillance and containment operations; COVID Appropriate Behavior and its enforcement; availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics including ambulances, ventilators, medical oxygen, etc., and the progress of a vaccination drive against the virus.Three senior officers from Government of India have been appointed as nodal officers for the three states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab.Additional Secretary Textiles Vijoy Kumar Singh is the nodal officer for Punjab.The high-level teams will report to and coordinate with the nodal officers for the three states. They will submit daily reports on five aspects including testing; contact tracing including surveillance and containment; hospital infrastructure including ICU, ventilator and oxygen beds; enforcement of COVID appropriate behavior; and COVID vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-surge-50-central-teams-sent-to-punjab-maharashtra-chhattisgarh-235024
06-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Punjab farmer was murdered at Tikri border by sister-in-law, paramour: Police||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 5Hakam Singh (61), a farmer of Patti Fuddu village in Bathinda district (Punjab), was murdered by a truck driver, Kulwant Singh, of Lopo village in Moga district at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on March 25, police have said.Kulwant (48) was allegedly having an illicit relationship with Karamjeet Kaur (47), wife of Hakam’s younger brother, who was also involved in the crime. She allegedly pressured Kulwant to perpetrate the crime, the police said.The Bahadurgarh police arrested both the accused and produced them before a court which sent them to judicial custody.Hakam was found murdered with his throat slit behind new bus stand in Bahadurgarh town.“Kulwant and Karamjeet Kaur hatched a plan to kill Hakam who kept a watch on Kulwant when he visited their house. To execute the plan at the behest of Kaur, Kulwant came to Tikri on March 25 to join the ongoing farmers’ agitation along with Hakam. On reaching here, Kulwant offered liquor to Hakam and slit his throat with a sharp-edged weapon when he became unconscious,” said Vijay Kumar, SHO, City Police Station, Bahadurgarh.He added that Kulwant kept staying at Tikri after perpetrating the crime, even as a case of murder was registered against unknown persons on the complaint of Karamjeet Kaur. Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal then formed a joint team of Cyber Cell, CIA, City Police and Sector-9 Police Post to investigate the case.  “Kulwant was arrested from the Railway Station in Bahadurgarh two days ago when he was trying to escape. During interrogation, he spilled the beans and confessed to the crime. Later, Kaur was arrested from Punjab,” said Vijay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmer-was-murdered-at-tikri-border-by-sister-in-law-paramour-police-235021
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers in Punjab, Haryana ‘gherao’ FCI offices||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana on Monday held protests outside Food Corporation of India (FCI) offices and raised various demands, including a legal guarantee for the minimum support price.The protesters expressed anguish over the central government’s decision to seek farmers’ land records for online payments to their accounts and demanded its immediate rollback.Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said his organisation ‘gheraoed’ 34 FCI offices in 15 districts of Punjab.Protests were also held outside the central procurement agency at Chandigarh, Amritsar, Sangrur and Haryana’s Kurukshetra and Sonepat.The protesters asked the Centre to give a legal guarantee on the MSP for their produce.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher asked the Centre to postpone its decision of direct payment to farmers for the time being, saying if it is implemented, then those who cultivate land under tenancy will face problems in getting payment.The farmers also demanded that the procurement process be completed in a minimum time.The government should ensure that farmers do not face any problem due to lack of wheat bags and other facilities, the protesters said.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, with their main demand being complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price on their crops.So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and government, but the deadlock has continued as both sides have stuck to their stand.In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-in-punjab-haryana-gherao-fci-offices-235001
06-04-2021||New Delhi||India records all-time high of 1.03 lakh Covid cases in a day||Coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high since the the outbreak of the pandemic with 1,03,558 new infections pushing the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,25,89,067, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday.The single-day rise in cases surpassed the earlier peak of 97,894 infections reported on September 17, last year, making it the highest so far. The death toll increased to 1,65,101 with 478 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.Also read: COVID-19: Daily cases rise from 20,000 to one lakh in just 25 daysLast year, it took 76 days for the single-day rise in coronavirus cases in India to reach the then peak of 97,894 from 20,000. However, this time the daily rise in cases have galloped at a much faster pace taking just 25 days (March 10 to April 4)  to cross the grim milestone of one-lakh infections.Registering a steady increase for the 26th day in row, the active cases have increased to 7,41,830 comprising 5.89 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 92.80 per cent, the data stated.       The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections.              The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,16,82,136, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.31 per cent, the data stated.India’s COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.According to the ICMR, 24,90,19,657 samples have been tested up to April 4 with  8,93,749 samples being tested on Sunday.The 478 new fatalities include 222 from Maharashtra, 51 from Punjab, 36 from Chhattisgarh, 31 from Uttar Pradesh, 15 from Karnataka, 14 each from Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, 11 from Madhya Pradesh and 10 each from Himachal Pradesh  and Kerala.A total of 1,65,101 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 55,878 from Maharashtra, 12,778 from Tamil Nadu, 12,625 from Karnataka, 11,081 from Delhi, 10,344 from West Bengal, 8,881 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,239 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,083 from Punjab.The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.“Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/india-records-all-time-high-of-1-03-lakh-covid-cases-in-a-day-234914
