09-04-2021||Chandigarh||56 deaths, 3,459 fresh coronavirus cases in Punjab||Fifty-six more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Friday as the state reported its highest daily spike of 3,459 cases, pushing its infection count to 2,66,494, according to a medical bulletin. The state had reported 3,187 infections on April 1. So far, the disease has killed 7,390 people in the state.The number of active cases jumped from 26,389 on Thursday to 27,219 on Friday.  Mohali reported the maximum 629 cases, followed by 502 in Jalandhar, 438 in Ludhiana, 329 in Amritsar and 245 in Patiala.  Nine people died in Amritsar, six each in Hoshiarpur and Patiala and four each in Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Mohali.A total of 2,518 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,31,885, the bulletin said.There are 43 critical patients who are on ventilator while 406 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.  A total of 62,70,878 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.  Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported four deaths and 422 infections, its highest single-day spike this year, which pushed the infection tally to 29,943 in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana.On April 4, the city had seen 341 cases. Till now, the infection has claimed 393 lives in the state, according to a medical bulletin.  The number of active cases stood at 3,213.A total of 320 patients were discharged, taking the number of cured persons to 26,337, as per the bulletin.  A total of 3,34,548 samples have been taken for testing so far, of which 3,03,559 tested negative while reports of 105 samples are awaited, the bulletin said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/56-deaths-3-459-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-punjab-236923
09-04-2021||Mohali||At 630, Mohali records COVID pandemic's highest single-day surge||Mohali reported the second-highest daily number of COVID-19 cases since the global pandemic struck. With 630 fresh COVID positive cases on Friday, the total number of cases in the district stands at 30,604. Meanwhile, two more succumbed to the deadly disease. The death total touched 469. About 447 infections have been cured and discharged from the hospital.  Of the 630 cases, 163 cases recorded from Mohali (Urban), one from Banur, five from Lalru, six from Kurali, six from Boothgarh, 27 from Kurali, 36 from Dera Bassi, 38 from Gharuan, 131 from Kharar while the highest number of 223 cases surfaced from Dhakoli area of Zirakpur. As of now, there are 30,604 positive cases out of which 25,490 patients have been cured. There are 4,645 active cases with 469 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-630-mohali-records-covid-pandemics-highest-single-day-surge-236913
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC quashes investigation in Kotkapura firing case||Allowing a writ petition, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday quashed the investigation carried out by the state in the Kotkapura firing case.The High Court also directed the state to reconstitute the special investigating team without IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh.The directions by Justice Rajbir Sehrawat came on a petition filed by Gurdeep Singh and another police official seeking the quashing of “subsequent” FIR registered in the Kotkapura firing case.Directions were also sought for removal of IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh from the investigation of the case.The Bench was told that the subsequent FIR dated August 7, 2018, for attempt to murder and other offences under Sections 307, 326, 324, 323, 341, 201, 218, 120-B and 34 of the IPC registered at Kotkapura city police station was illegal.Elaborating, senior advocate RS Cheema and Arshdeep Singh Cheema submitted that an FIR for the “same transaction” already stood registered on October 14, 2015, following incidents of sacrilege in the state.The petitioners also prayed for directions to the investigating agency to carry out probe into the initial FIR. The petitioners added a declaration was, in fact, required to be issued that the investigation in the subsequent FIR by the special investigating agency was illegal and impermissible and consequently the final investigation report, too, was required to be quashed.It was added that the subsequent FIR was registered after a gap of nearly three years with regard to an occurrence which took place on October 14, 2015, on the statement of respondent—Ajit Singh—recorded in August last year, who admittedly never filed any complaint before any authority till he was actually summoned on the directions of the high-ranking police officers to give his statement leading to registration of the impugned FIR.The petition added that the registration of the impugned FIR was against the settled principles of law. Besides the manner in which investigation was conducted in the impugned FIR by the SIT by completely brushing aside the FIR registered in 2015 and also ignoring the injuries received by more than 50 policemen while on official duty spoke volumes about the probe conducted.The final investigation report under Section 173 CrPC itself was legally not maintainable as it was not signed by an officer legally empowered to do so. It was added Kuwar Vijay Pratap Singh was not an SIT member on May 23, when the report was signed by him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-hc-quashes-investigation-in-kotkapura-firing-case-236909
09-04-2021||---||Another Punjab farmer dies at Tikri border||Jhajjar, April 9Another Punjab farmer, agitating against the new farm laws, died reportedly of cardiac arrest at the Tikri border on Friday.He was identified as Jaspal Singh (55), a resident of Joganand village in Bathinda district.Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, said Jaspal’s body was brought to the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh town in the evening. Exact cause of death would be ascertained after the autopsy, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-punjab-farmer-dies-at-tikri-border-236907
09-04-2021||Sangrur||Wanted for Republic Day violence, Lakha Sidhana says not running away from arrest||Gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted in connection with the Republic Day violence in the national capital, resurfaced again on Friday, telling reporters if the government wants to arrest him, he is not running away.Sidhana moved in an open vehicle with his supporters, telling TV journalist here that he is going to join the farmers blocking the Haryana's Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway in protest against Centre's farm laws on Saturday.Farmers have threatened to block the expressway for 24 hours from 8 am on April 10.When asked if he fears his arrest, Sidhana said, "The government often registers false cases whenever there is a big agitation. They use such tactics to weaken the agitation. There is nothing new in this." "If the government wants to arrest me, I am not running away. But the main thing is that this agitation has to succeed," he added.Sidhana said the agitation against the farm laws is a matter of saving farmers of the country. "All states are united in the fight for the farmers' cause," he said.He also accused the Centre of attempting to end the age-old relationship between farmers and "arhtiyas" (commission agents) through its direct benefit transfer scheme.“More anti-farmer things are on the anvil, including a seed bill,” he alleged. Lakha Sidhana is wanted in connection with the Republic Day violence in New Delhi during which thousands of protesters had clashed with police during a tractor parade. Many protesters reached the Red Fort and hoisted religious flags on its domes.In February, Sidhana had addressed a farmers' rally in Bathinda, warning the Punjab Police against cooperating with the Delhi Police.Sidhana had earlier denied involvement in the Republic Day violence. He had several cases registered against him in Punjab and was jailed many times. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 state assembly polls. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wanted-for-republic-day-violence-lakha-sidhana-says-not-running-away-from-arrest-236901
09-04-2021||Chandigarh/Khanna||ED Mining launches crackdown against illegal mining; one held with illegal weapons, ammunition||Launching a crackdown against illegal mining in the state, Khanna police on the directions of Enforcement Director (Mining) RN Dhoke, Punjab, have arrested a Samrala resident over his involvement in illegal sand mining in Sutlej area.The accused has been identified as Gurinder Singh alias Ginda of Bhorla village in Samrala and cops have seized four illegal country-made weapons, ammunition and a Swift Dzire car from his possession.Disclosing further details, Enforcement Director (Mining) RN Dhoke said they had received a tip-off about some unscrupulous elements involved in illegal mining in Rahon area of SBS Nagar district following which the information was later shared with SSP Khanna Gursharandeep Singh Grewal to take stern action against the violators.He said that acting swiftly on inputs, the SSP formed a team led by Inspector Rajesh Thakur, SHO, Machhiwara Sahib, who along with a police party set up barricades near Rahon river bridge in Machhiwara Sahib and apprehended Gurinder Singh with illegal weapons and car.On his frisking, two pistols of .32 bore, two magazines, 10 live cartridges and two pistols of .315 bore, two live cartridges were recovered by cops, he added.He further revealed Gurinder is kingpin of the gang operating in Rahon area along with his accomplices.Gurinder Singh is a hardcore criminal and wanted in many cases of murder and robbery in Punjab and Gujarat, he said and added that a case under sections of 379 IPC and Arms Act has been registered against him at Machhiwara Sahib police station.Dhoke added that while questioning, Gurinder revealed that he was doing illegal mining with Raju Gujjar, Karanvir Singh and others in the river bed of Sutlej in Rahon area.Further, he said that Gurinder is wanted in a high-profile murder case in Gujarat when he along with two others killed Ashish Maharaj with whom local dhaba owners had a property dispute.Gurinder is being questioned for his links with other criminals in the region and with the suppliers of illegal weapons in MP and UP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-mining-launches-crackdown-against-illegal-mining-one-held-with-illegal-weapons-ammunition-236870
09-04-2021||New Delhi||Most Bollywood songs now use Punjabi lyrics: Punjabi singer Deep Money||Punjabi pop music artiste Amandeep Singh, better known by his industry name Deep Money, says that Punjabi music is making waves and is well-accepted in Bollywood and among Bollywood lovers."In fact, we see most of the Bollywood songs using Punjabi lyrics nowadays," he tells IANS.Deep Money debuted in 2011 with Yo Yo Honey Singh with the single 'Dope Shope' and says he has had a challenging music career. He is known for his work on 'Race 3' (2018) and 'Veerey Ki Wedding' (2018), among others."With god's grace, I achieved big things after my first single. These days Punjabi music is hitting the charts globally. In every Bollywood movie, there is at least one Punjabi song. In the coming days, Punjabi music will break more records," says the 'Heeriye' singer.Singh recently released a new party song titled "De-Daaru" by Indian music label Bullman Records. The party song rejoices friendship and living moments of happiness, says the music label. Directed by Ashish Rai, AD Deepak Taggar and produced by Sabby Airy and Aishwary Tripathi, it was released late March and is gaining popularity.Says Deep Money: "I hope the song comes up with the new party wave as its a hip groove along to number." "The pandemic continues and we have seen people stuck inside their homes for months now and people are getting frustrated with the same boring life, not able to go out or party or have fun. Luckily we've got a vaccine and everyone is aware of all the precautions to be taken. So, we have come up with the new party song as a gift to help them groove through the months to come. Though people are facing so much tensions, they should relax and enjoy their life following all the guidelines imposed by the government," he said.Punjabi pop music is often accused of glorifying alcohol consumption and the objectification of women. When asked his thoughts on it, the Punjabi singer who has recently worked with Isabelle Kaif says: "Punjabis are fun-loving and believe in making people happy. If we talk about glorifying alcohol in Punjabi music, we intentionally indicate that when life gives you lemons, make lemonade, which means to always cheer your life no matter what you're going through." — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/most-bollywood-songs-now-use-punjabi-lyrics-punjabi-singer-deep-money-236855
09-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Dharmendra, Shatrughan Sinha grace 'Dance Deewane' sets'; Deol reveals he had 'huge crush' on this yesteryear actress||'Dance Deewane' Season 3 was recently graced by yesteryear superstars Dharmendra and Shatrughan Sinha. The promo of the upcoming episode of the dance reality show was shared by the channel on their Instagram account. In the video, Dharmendra was seen confessing that he had a "huge crush" on veteran actress Waheeda Rehman after watching "Chaudhvin Ka Chand". Apart from this, in the clip, one of the contestants was seen dancing to a song requested by Dharmendra. The song was from his grandson Karan Deol's debut movie 'Pal Pal Dil Ke Pass'. During this, Dharmendra revealed how special this song was to him. He went on to share that romance comes very naturally to him and that he doesn't have to act. Shatrughan Sinha also called Dharmendra the original He-man of Bollywood.A post shared by ColorsTV (@colorstv)The host, Raghav, quickly displayed a video from one of the previous episodes where Waheeda Rehman called Dharmendra a "big flirt". Reacting to this, Dharmendra was heard saying, that he was used to such allegations, and couldn't stop laughing. Raghav, Shatrughan, Madhuri Dixit, and others also couldn't control their laughter. Dharmendra continued to share, that after watching "Chaudhvin Ka Chand", he was completely smitten by Waheeda Rehman.The 85-year-old revealed that—in one of the reality shows—when Waheeda was shown pictures of few actors and asked about her crush, she took his name. A post shared by ColorsTV (@colorstv)"Toh main sochta hoon jab hum fida the tab kya hua tha" (I always think when I was mad about her, then why she never mentioned), joked Dharemdnra.Everyone present on the set burst out laughing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-shatrughan-sinha-grace-dance-deewane-sets-deol-reveals-he-had-huge-crush-on-this-yesteryear-actress-236851
09-04-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht gives clean chit to Charanjit Singh Chadha||The Akal Takht has issued a ‘clean chit’ to the former president of the 118-year-old Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD), Charanjit Singh Chadha, and lifted the order banning him from attending public events for two years that was enforced due to charges of ‘immoral' activities.A video purportedly showing Chadha making sexual advances towards a woman principal of a CKD-run school had gone viral in December 2017. Following the incident, Chadha has tendered his resignation.On January 23, 2018, the Sikh clergy, headed by the former Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh, had barred Chadha from addressing any religious, social, political or educational function for two years. However, he could attend events as a commoner. Akal Takht had issued directions to watch his conduct during the period.In response to Chadha’s repeated pleas of absolving him of the bar, the Sikh clergy, headed by Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, reviewed his case in a recent meeting and zeroed in on lifting the ban on him.Confirming this, Kulwinder Singh, PA to Akal Takht officiating Jathedar, said that Chadha has been intimated through an official letter dated April 5, 2021.Chadha showed his gratitude towards the Sikh clergy. He claimed that he was absolved of all the charges legally too. “I am thankful to the Sikh clergy to allow me to participate in public gatherings. As per the directions of Akal Takht officiating Jathedar an Akhand Path would be initiated in a local gurdwara and ardas would be performed on Monday,” he said.On January 4, 2018, Chadha had lost his son Inderpreet Singh Chadha, who was the then CKD vice-president. He had committed suicide with his licenced weapon since his name also cropped up in the controversy after the principal alleged that he was issuing threats to withdraw the complaint against his father.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akal-takht-gives-clean-chit-to-charanjit-singh-chadha-236826
09-04-2021||New Delhi||Sikh spirit of service must be researched, documented: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called for research and documentation of the Sikh spirit of service and the evolution of Gurdwaras as living centres of public service.Centre will give fitting tributeThe Centre will give a fitting tribute to the ninth Sikh Guru whose life is an example of sacrifice and wisdom. We are blessed to have the opportunity to contribute to this historical occasion. — Narendra Modi, PMAddressing a high-level committee meeting to plan the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur virtually today, the PM said the government will give a fitting tribute to the ninth Sikh Guru whose life was an example of sacrifice and wisdom.He sought written suggestions from committee members on yearlong celebrations the government plans.The PM said no segment of Indian history in the last four centuries was such as could be imagined without the impact of Guru Teg Bahadur.“He gave us the mantra of equality, simplicity and sacrifice. It is our duty to take this lesson to everyone,” he saidStressing the use of digital technologies to spread the message of the Guru, the PM said, “ We must research how Sikhs are following the path of service. We must document this spirit of service.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-spirit-of-service-must-be-researched-documented-pm-236516
09-04-2021||---||Active cases over 25K, Punjab sixth in country||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8The growing number of active Covid-19 cases is a matter of concern for the state government, with the active cases’ figure crossing the 25,000 mark.56 dead in 24 hrs, Bhattal tests +veChandigarh: The state reported 3,119 fresh cases in the past 24 hours, including former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal. As many as 56 persons died during the period. In terms of deaths, Hoshiarpur topped with 12, followed by Jalandhar (8); Amritsar (7); Patiala (6); Ludhiana (4); Kapurthala and Sangrur (3 each); Barnala, Bathinda; SAS Nagar, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur (2 each); Gurdaspur, Faridkot, and Fazilka (1 each). TNSPunjab is now among the six worst-affected states in the country when it comes to active cases. Till mid February, the number was around 2,000.As per the latest health bulletin, Punjab’s active caseload stands at 26,389. At present, the country has 9.38 lakh active cases. Maharashtra tops with 5.01 lakh active cases, followed by Chhattisgarh (58,883), Karnataka (49,254), Kerala (33,619), Tamil Nadu (30,131).Though all neighbouring states have witnesseda spike in active Covidcases, their caseload has remained much lower than that of Punjab. In Haryana, the number of activecases stands at 17,129, followed by Jammu and Kashmir (5,623), Himachal Pradesh (4,513) and Chandigarh (3,115).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/active-cases-over-25k-punjab-sixth-in-country-236522
09-04-2021||Sriganganagar||On Covid duty, doc ‘attempts’ suicide||The police today started an investigation into alleged suicide attempt by a government doctor who was put on prolonged Covid-19 duty.Dr Prince Bhatia (35) was taken to the Civil Hospital after he reportedly consumed some intoxicating substance at his residence on Wednesday. He was in the intensive care unit and his condition was stable, hospital sources said.Hindumalkot police station in-charge Ram Pratap Verma said said Pankaj Verma, a clerk in the the Chief Medical Health Officer (CMHO) office, had been summoned for questioning after it was alleged he had been harassing him by threatening to issue his transfer orders.Dr Bhatia had been serving at the Primary Health Centre, Fatuhi (Shivpur) village, near the Pakistan border, in the Hindumalkot area. Since the virus outbreak last year, he had reportedly been on deputation in the test lab at the district hospital. Later, he was told to bring Covid vaccine from Jaipur and Bikaner and distribute these to health centres in remote Rawla and Gharsana segments.The doctor accused Verma of harassing him by ordering deputation at different places. CMHO Dr Girdhari Lal Mehrada denied harassment by his office and claimed Dr Bhatia was upset due to migraine. No case had been registered so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-covid-duty-doc-attempts-suicide-236527
09-04-2021||Abohar||Theft accused dies of Covid||A theft accused, 28, succumbed to Covid-19 last night. A Health Department team cremated the body with the help of members of the Nar Sewa Narayan Sewa Samiti.Vinod Kumar of Waryamnagar was arrested on the charges of theft of vehicles and mobile phones. A bike allegedly stolen by him was also recovered.Before sending him to jail, his Covid test was conducted. His report came positive on March 31. He was sent to the Jalalabad Corona Care Centre. After his health deteriorated, he was referred to Faridkot. He succumbed to the infection last night. The body was brought here today and cremated by following all Covid protocols. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/theft-accused-dies-of-covid-236534
09-04-2021||Muktsar||Infected undertrial flees in Muktsar, 3 cops booked||The Sadar police have booked a head constable and two home guard jawans after an undertrial, who was found positive for Covid-19, escaped from the local Civil Hospital there on Tuesday. The accused, Gurdev Kumar of Ludhiana, has earlier been booked in a fraud case registered at the Lambi police station. He was later rearrested, claimed the police.A case against Gurdev, head constable Balraj Singh, and home guard jawans Gurmeet Singh and Jagroop Singh had been registered under Sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant), 224 (obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension), 188 (disobedience to order), 269 and 27o (negligent act likely to spread infection) of the IPC, said the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/infected-undertrial-flees-in-muktsar-3-cops-booked-236538
09-04-2021||Karam Prakash||‘I don’t want to continue’, says doctor after assault by villagers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 8“I don’t want to continue with my job,” said a medical officer of the Patiala Health Department after he was assaulted by villagers for following the Covid protocol.Extremely traumatised, disappointedI am extremely traumatised. If this is what I have to face while doing my duty, then I better call it a day. I am also disappointed that no action had been taken so far in the incident. — Medical officer, Patiala Health DepartmentReopen schools or face stir, govt toldSangrur: Members of various organisations on Thursday organised a march here demanding reopening of schools and colleges. “All have decided to launch an agitation if the Punjab Government fails to reopen schools and colleges” said Raman Kalajhar, a leader of PSU (Randhawa). TNSThe medical officer, posted in the Dhudhan Sadhan block, was allegedly beaten up during the cremation of a Covid victim at Chahut village on Tuesday afternoon. “I am extremely traumatised. If this is what I have to face while doing my duty, then I better call it a day,” said the 39-year-old doctor. Sources said the doctor managed to flee the cremation ground only after some people from the village intervened.The doctor added he was disappointed that no action had been taken so far in the incident despite a complaint to his seniors. Dr Kiran Verma, Senior Medical Officer, Dudhan Sadhan, said, “The officer was beaten up after he objected to taking of photos of the dead Covid victim because it is against the protocol.”When asked about filing a complaint with the police, Dr Verma said, “I have verbally informed the Station House Officer who assured me of action.” The Julkan SHO said he was not aware of the incident, but he could take action only after a complaint. Villagers were reportedly upset at the death of 55-year-old Charu Kaur.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said, “The SMO told me he had already filed a complaint.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/i-dont-want-to-continue-says-doctor-after-assault-by-villagers-236559
09-04-2021||---||Monitor erection of mobile towers in state: HC to panel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8Just over a month after the Punjab and Haryana High Court sent alarm bells ringing among mobile service providers by staying the installation of towers atop residential buildings in the state of Punjab, it today ordered the setting up of a high-powered committee for detailed examination of the issue.Detailed study neededThe Bench asserted it felt that the matter required a detailed examination. The question whether alternative mode without using the buildings roofs, particularly residential in nature, was required to be answered.The Division Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh directed that the panel, comprising senior IAS officer KAP Sinha, IPS officer Parbodh Kumar and Punjab Legal Remembrance, would monitor all the activities pertaining to the erection of towers in Punjab during the petition’s pendency.The panel was also directed to submit a status report, in sealed cover if required, by May last week. “The committee shall ensure that no activity which is violative of the Indian Telegraph Right of Way Rules, 2016, or instructions laid down (by the Punjab Government) there under is undertaken,” the Bench asserted.The committee was also given the liberty to point out any deficiencies, which came to their notice and any suggestions for improvement/innovation required to be incorporated in the instructions. The Bench also directed keeping in abeyance the stay order dated March 3 till the next date of hearing.The directions came after Punjab Additional Advocate-General Anu Chatrath did not express hesitation regarding the setting up of the high-powered committee for monitoring further erection of towers, laying down optical fibre on the buildings, checking violation of rules or haphazard manner of erection.Referring to the application seeking vacation of stay, the Bench added it was required to be noticed that the prayer was neither opposed by the Centre or the state. Their only plea was that the applicant service provider should act within the four comers of the law, the 2016-Rules framed by the Government of India and instructions issued by the Government of Punjab.Appearing for one of the parties, senior advocate Chetan Mittal during the course of hearing submitted that the importance of mobile phones had increased manifold following the Covid outbreak. Even schools and other institutions were functioning due to such connectivity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/monitor-erection-of-mobile-towers-in-state-hc-to-panel-236567
09-04-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Love-stricken woman headed to Pakistan nabbed||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak, April 8The botched love story of a Odisha-based woman has become the talk of the town with the Batala police earning kudos for handing over the girl to her family along with Rs 25-lakh jewellery she was carrying with her.A few months ago, Himandari Tanya Tripathi (25), married to a businessman and the mother of a five-year-old daughter, got in touch with Islamabad-based youth Mohammad Wasim through a social media site. Cupid struck following which the boy asked her to come to the Kartarpur gurdwara in Pakistan using the corridor at Dera Baba Nanak.On Tuesday, she took a bus from Delhi for Jalandhar. She arrived in Amritsar at night.Early on Wednesday, she boarded a bus to Dera Baba Nanak and landed at the corridor which, in any case, has been lying inoperative since March last year. Once there, she asked a man how she could reach Pakistan using the corridor. The man, who turned out to be a cop in civvies, intimated Batala SSP Rachpal Singh who asked DSP Kanwalpreet Singh and SHO Anil Pawar to question her. The cops initially did not believe her love story. Later, when she spoke to Wasim in their presence, they realised that she was telling the truth.Pawar got in touch with the girl’s father and husband who reached here last night and took her back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/love-stricken-woman-headed-to-pakistan-nabbed-236569
09-04-2021||---||Govt okays 12 IOC outlets on jail dept land||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today approved the Punjab Prisons Development Board’s (PPDB) proposal to set up 12 retail outlets of Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) on the land owned by the Prison Department.Chairing the first meeting of the PPDB, Captain Amarinder was informed that this project, besides giving employment to 400 released prisoners, would generate a revenue of Rs 40 lakh per month. Briefing the CM, the board’s member-secretary, ADGP (Prisons) Praveen Sinha, said prisoners with good conduct would also be employed at the retail outlets.The CM also okayed the brand name, Ujala Punjab, for all products manufactured by jail inmates for marketing purposes. Approval was also accorded to the board for taking over all factories established in jails and existing projects being run in prisons under the PPP mode.Briefing the CM about some of the commercial activities, Sinha said products like bedsheets, towels, mops, furniture, stationery, soaps, phenyl and sanitisers would be manufactured in prison factories under the board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-okays-12-ioc-outlets-on-jail-dept-land-236570
09-04-2021||---||Dhindsa likely to join AAP, says Cheema||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8Reacting to reports of an alliance between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), senior AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema on Thursday said a meeting of party’s Punjab affairs co-in charge Raghav Chadha and SAD (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa had taken place.However, instead of an alliance, the discussion focused on inviting leaders of the SAD (Democratic) to join AAP. He said AAP would not form any alliance with the SAD (Democratic) but all its leaders, including Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, would join AAP soon.Cheema said both AAP and SAD (Democratic) were working to save Punjab and they would come together on a platform to raise the voice of people. Cheema said Dhindsa was affirmative about joining AAP and he would soon take a decision on it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dhindsa-likely-to-join-aap-says-cheema-236571
09-04-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Govt appoints special  nominees in 28 colleges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8Citing a huge drop in student enrolment and discrepancies in campus management, the office of the Director, Public Instructions (DPI) (Colleges) has appointed special nominees on the management committees of as many as 28 colleges in the state which are availing the benefits of grant-in-aid from the Punjab Government.The communication said: “Any resolution passed by the college management committee in the absence of the government nominee will not be implemented.” The state has total 136 private colleges availing the grant-in-aid from the government. The letter from the DPI (Colleges) said the department received a number of complaints against the college managements. The nominees have been given the task of maintaining the standard of education and proper utilistion of grants.The colleges on the list compiled by the DPI office include Guru Nanak College (Ludhiana), Arya College (Ludhiana), Khalsa College (Amritsar), Khalsa College (Patiala), MM Modi College (Patiala), DAV College (Bathinda), DAV College (Jalandhar), DAV College (Amritsar), DM College (Moga), Lyalpur Khalsa College (Jalandhar) and SD College (Barnala), besides others.Reacting to the development, Officiating Principal of DAV College, Bathinda, Prof Parveen K Garg said, “The drop in the number of students is not limited to only the colleges on the list. This is a widespread phenomenon in the wake of students going abroad and many going in for alternative courses in professional colleges of the state. The decision is arbitrary and we will take it up with our management.”Principal of Khalsa College, Amritsar, Dr Mehal Singh said, “The development looks very odd. Colleges are already getting a reduced grant share of just 75 per cent of the budget against the original provision of 95 per cent. Colleges are facing a new set of challenges in a changed ground situation. We were not even getting new teachers and had to approach the court. In fact, the funding of college education needs to be reworked entirely. I will be able to communicate our reaction only after a discussion with the management.”DPI (Colleges) Paramjit Singh said the decision had been taken as per the provisions of a government decision in 1979. “Majority of these are big colleges. We were getting numerous complaints regarding the college administrations and falling standards of education. There were also complaints from teachers,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-appoints-special-nominees-in-28-colleges-236572
09-04-2021||Parvesh Sharma||6 health cards issued in Amritsar on Sangrur family’s data: Probe||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 8Acting on The Tribune news item, the Sangrur Deputy Commissioner (DC) ordered an inquiry and found that six Amritsar residents had got issued Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (SSBY) health cards on a ration card of Kadial village in Sangrur without the verification of data.Issue seriousIt’s a serious issue. We have written to the state authorities for a high-level inquiry into data misuse. — Ramvir, Sangrur DC“After reading the news, we started a scrutiny of cards and found that six health cards have been issued in Amritsar on the basis of a ration card of a Sangrur family,” said DC Ramvir.During the preliminary inquiry, it has come to light that Sartaj Singh, Warun, Simarjit Kaur, Navdeep Kaur, Prabhjot Kaur and Raj have got issued SSBY health cards in Amritsar on the ration card issued in Kadial village. But since Aadhaar cards are linked with the ration card and fingerprints along with other details are uploaded on the portal, the misuse of the Sangrur ration card in Amritsar has put the process under the scanner.The Tribune had highlighted that only Balwinder Kaur had got her SSBY card while the remaining family members, including her elder son Amritpal Singh, had not received cards as the portal showed data already verified without their fingerprints being taken. “The authorities called me to the Dirba office and promised that we will get our cards in the coming days,” Amritpal Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-health-cards-issued-in-amritsar-on-sangrur-familys-data-probe-236574
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Keep Lokpal order in abeyance, rules HC||Acting on a petition filed by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered keeping in abeyance further proceedings in pursuance to an order passed by Punjab Lokpal.In her petition filed through counsel R Kartikeya, Bibi Jagir Kaur had challenged January 8 order passed by the Lokpal, in terms of which a regular inquiry was directed under the provisions of the Punjab Lokpal Act pertaining to a complaint dated August 24, 2011.Referring to the order, Kartikeya argued it was noticed by the Lokpal that the complaint was regarding nagar panchayat land being in possession of a school set up on common land and how the land changed hands to come to vest with the society running the school. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/keep-lokpal-order-in-abeyance-rules-hc-236575
09-04-2021||Bathinda||Doctors block road over cop’s ‘misbehaviour’||Doctors from the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, under the banner of the PCMS Association, blocked the Bathinda-Mansa road for two hours alleging that a policeman allegedly misbehaved with a woman doctor on duty at the emergency unit of the hospital on Wednesday evening.Raising slogans against the police, the protesting doctors demanded that punitive action must be taken against the cop. The doctors ended the protest after senior police officers assured them that required action would be taken in the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-block-road-over-cops-misbehaviour-236576
09-04-2021||---||Farmers protest ‘black’ water in canal||Our CorrespondentAbohar, April 8Upset over the supply of contaminated water through the Gang canal, farmers recently held a protest at the Gang canal terminal in Sadhuwali village on the Punjab-Rajasthan border.The protesters said the canal, which originated from Ferozepur headworks and passed through Fazilka, had to be closed for reconstruction work from March 30 to April 25. The Water Resources Department had decided to store water for drinking in between Khakha and Dabli headworks, and no water was to be released to fields during the closure. “However, from Sunday, the canal started releasing contaminated black water, which had been stored for water works. The water carried along with it dead fish as well,” they said.Kisan Sangharsh Samiti spokesperson Subhash Sehgal said the Centre and the state had been approached many times in the past 20 years over the unchecked release of chemical waste and sewerage water into the Sutlej and the Beas. The National Green Tribunal had fined the Punjab Government. Meetings were held with the Punjab Pollution Control Board. Rajasthan CMs had spoken to their Punjab counterparts but the problem was not solved.Superintending Engineer Bal Ram Sharma said samples of water had been sent to the state lab in Jaipur. Experts will examine the chemical parameters, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-black-water-in-canal-236578
09-04-2021||Amritsar||Block hate tweets, SGPC asks Twitter||Taking cognisance of hate comments, the SGPC has asked Twitter to block the gateway through which remarks against the Sikh community were being posted. In a letter to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur has equated the “direct and deleterious hate-filled” tweets against the Sikhs with the anti-Jew propaganda of the Nazis. She has asked him to instruct his India team to monitor, flag and remove hate-filled tweets and block such Twitter handles.Kaur said tweets against the Sikhs were the result of farmers’ agitation against the central farm laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/block-hate-tweets-sgpc-asks-twitter-236579
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Open museum on Guru Teg Bahadur,  SAD urges Centre||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today requested that a world-class museum be established in Delhi to showcase the life of Guru Teg Bahadur on the occasion of his 400th birth anniversary.He also called for withdrawing all cases against farmers as well as youths which had been registered in connection with the ‘kisan andolan’ in the spirit of ‘sarbat da bhala’.Participating in the high-level committee meeting, he said the proposed museum should be on the lines of the Virasat-i-Khalsa. Sukhbir also urged that the birth anniversary of Guru Sahib on May 1 should be observed as National Integration Day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/open-museum-on-guru-teg-bahadur-sad-urges-centre-236580
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ashu: Token system for wheat procurement||The procurement of wheat will begin in Punjab from April 10. All necessary arrangement have been made. This was stated by Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today.He said during the current season, the procurement agencies as well as the FCI would procure wheat on the fixed MSP of Rs 1,975. The Agriculture and Farmer Welfare Department of the state had expressed the possibility of the arrival of 130 lakh metric tonne of wheat in view of which the targets of procurement had been fixed between various agencies such as Pungrain (8.5 lakh MT) while around 121.5 lakh MT wheat will be purchased by Markfed, Punsup, Warehouse and FCI under the central pool.Ashu said during the rabi season 2020-21, the state government had made arrangements for the new jute/HDAP/PP sacks of 50 kg with regard to procurement of wheat for the central pool. The Pungrain had arranged for the sacks with 30 kg capacity for filling the wheat to be distributed under the National Food Security Act.He said due to Covid-19, a token system had been introduced so as to enable farmers systematically bring their wheat to mandis. Social distancing norms would be enforced in mandis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ashu-token-system-for-wheat-procurement-236582
09-04-2021||---||Let states devise vaccine strategy: Punjab CM to PM||Chandigarh, April 8Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today urged the Centre to allow states to devise their local strategies for Covid vaccination, within the broad parameters of the Centre’s approach, while seeking a review of the strategy to allow all adults in high-risk areas to be immunised, along with patients with liver and kidney disease below the age of 45.The Chief Minister made these suggestions in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, immediately after the latter’s meeting with chief ministers of all states to review the Covid and vaccination situation.Wants more beds at PGI for stateDuring the meeting, the Chief Minister apprised the PM of the situation in the state, and the steps taken by his government to control and manage the disease. He stressed that the UK variant, which is dominating the second wave in the state, was reported by experts to be more virulent and affecting the youth disproportionately.In his letter, the CM said his suggestions, some of which had been submitted on March 17 to the PM, were based on the state government’s interaction with independent experts.Amid reports of some states facing vaccine shortage, Capt Amarinder urged the Union Health Ministry to share the schedule for supply of vaccines with the states over the next quarter.Given that over 80% positive cases found in Punjab were of the UK variant, he sought strengthening of viral sequencing in the state, which had been reporting around 3,000 cases per day for the past 15 days, with around 8% positivity.The state currently had around 26,000 active cases with recovery rate of 87.3%, 50-60 deaths a day and around 2% case fatality rate (CFR) in the second surge, which struck the state in the latter half of February this year.The CM reiterated his earlier request for covering all teachers and staff in educational institutions for vaccination to allow resumption of physical classes once the surge abates. Also, occupation-based immunisation for judges and judicial officers, bus drivers and conductors, elected representatives at all levels, etc. should be allowed to take the vaccination, he stressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/let-states-devise-vaccine-strategy-punjab-cm-to-pm-236439
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt urges PM to clear Rs937-cr projects to mark Prakash Purb||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh today urged PM Narendra Modi to clear the state’s proposal for Rs 937-crore projects, including the development of Anandpur Sahib as Smart City, to pay befitting tribute to 9th Guru Sri Guru Teg Bahadur whose 400th Prakash Purb is being celebrated this year.Participating virtually in the national committee meeting convened by the PM to finalise plans for the celebrations, the CM said, “I urge PM Modi to ensure the event is commemorated not only at the national, but also at the global level.”Need to document Sikh spirit of serviceWe must research how Sikhs are following the path of service, how gurdwaras have become the living examples of public service. We must document this spirit. —Narendra Modi, PMHe said the proposal included projects in and around Anandpur Sahib, Amritsar and Baba Bakala; rejuvenation of ponds in 78 Punjab villages visited by the Guru; setting up Sri Guru Teg Bahadur School of Textile Technology and Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Institute of Handicrafts. Besides Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, ex-PM Manmohan Singh, Speaker Om Birla, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and LoP Mallikarjun Kharge participated in the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-urges-pm-to-clear-rs937-cr-projects-to-mark-prakash-purb-236442
09-04-2021||New Delhi||Centre refuses DBT exemption to Punjab||Punjab farmers are all set to get direct payment for their crop this procurement season after the Centre on Thursday rejected the state’s demand for continuation of payment through arhtiyas and exemption from the direct benefit transfer (DBT) system.The Centre, however, agreed to give the state six-month extension to integrate land records with the national e-procurement portal.Left with no choiceThe Centre argues that the food stocks belong to it and the state is just an agent. We have no other choice. We will find a mechanism to ensure some protection to arhtiyas. —Manpreet Badal, Punjab Finance MinisterAfter a two-hour meeting with Food Minister Piyush Goyal today, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal said the state had no choice but to adopt the DBT system as the Centre declined to give exemption.State Food Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said: “Direct online payment will be made to the farmers. We will take arhtiyas into the loop. The Chief Minister has called them for a meeting tomorrow.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-refuses-dbt-exemption-to-punjab-236443
09-04-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||In Punjab, 2.33 lakh apply for 1,152 posts of patwari||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8In what reflects the desperation for a government job among the youth, Punjab has received over 200 times the number of applications than the advertised posts of patwari, which offers a mere Rs 5,000 as stipend during the 18-month training.Against 1,152 posts, 2,33,181 applications have been received, meaning there are over 200 contenders for every post. While the basic qualification is graduation, among the applicants are M.Phil degree holders, postgraduates and PhD students.Lure of government jobAfter the successful completion of training, the patwari gets nearly Rs 20,000 for the first three years before being given the full pay scale. The post of patwari was once considered lucrative as the official has access to revenue records. With most of the records now available online, the role of patwaris is said to be diminishing.Some patwaris, however, claim their job is still relevant as it becomes difficult to get a correction made if there are errors in online revenue record. Given the huge rush of applicants, the Services Selection Board (SSB), which is conducting the recruitment, has scheduled two tests.Raman Behal, Chairman, SSB, said the first test would be a preliminary exam to be held next month across 550 centres. “We will hold the second test for 11,520 shortlisted candidates. It is going to be a challenging task for us,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-punjab-2-33-lakh-apply-for-1-152-posts-of-patwari-236444
09-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||5 High Court advocates on list forwarded for elevation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8Forty-five names forwarded to the Supreme Court by the Centre for appointment as high court judges include five Punjab and Haryana High Court advocates.Available information suggests the Punjab and Haryana High Court is also among 14 of 25 HCs across the country to have supported the Supreme Court’s proposition to appoint ad hoc judges for prevailing over the vacancy crisis.Both developments are significant as the Punjab and Haryana High Court is currently working at nearly half its strength. It has 46 judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. The crisis is expected to deepen with the retirement of three more judges later this year.As of now, the Allahabad High Court has the highest number of pending cases at 7,83,952. It is followed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which is facing a pendency of 6,69,944 cases. As many as 2,31,637 cases are pending between one and three years. In the absence of new appointments of judges and the physical hearing of cases, the problem is expected to worsen in the coming months.It is believed the names forwarded by the government are yet to be placed before the collegium. As such, it was yet to take a decision on recommending the names for elevation. The entire process, under the circumstances, is likely to take time.The High Court collegium had nine months back recommended to the Centre the names of five advocates — Jasjit Singh Bedi, Pankaj Jain, Vikas Suri, Sandeep Moudgil and Vinod Bhardwaj — for elevation. The file was cleared by both governments of Punjab and Haryana, but the list was pending with the Centre. It is believed the 45 names were forwarded following the SC observations that a reasonable time frame was required to be fixed for the government to respond to the collegium resolution. The observations by the Bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde, Justice SK Kaul and Justice Surya Kant were made on March 25 during the hearing of a matter related to vacancies in 25 high courts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-high-court-advocates-on-list-forwarded-for-elevation-236445
09-04-2021||New Delhi||Red Fort violence: Was exercising my ‘fundamental right’ to protest, Deep Sidhu tells court||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu, arrested in connection with the Red Fort violence on the Republic Day, on Thursday told a Delhi court that he did not instigate anyone to cause violence and was only exercising his ‘fundamental right’ to protest.Sidhu was arrested on February 9 in connection with the Red Fort violence on the Republic Day during farmers’ tractor parade against the Centre’s three new agri laws.His counsel told Special Judge Neelofer Abida Perveen that Sidhu was rather helping police to pacify the crowd and asking people to come down from the Red Fort.“There’s no question of conspiracy. I (Sidhu) am a popular face, that’s why this case. I was at a wrong place at a wrong time. I was there for peaceful protest. “Right to protest is a fundamental right, that’s why I was there. Neither I indulged in violence, nor did I urge anyone to indulge in the violence,” Sidhu’s counsel said.The counsel told the court that the protest was called by various farmers’ union and that he did not urge anyone to go to the Red Fort.“I (accused) am not a member of any farmers’ union. No call was given by me for any tractor rally or to go to Red Fort. There is no evidence that I mobilised people.“I came much later to the Red Fort. I was not present at any of the sites to break the barricade,” the counsel for the accused claimed.The counsel claimed that the accused reached Red Fort only at 12 noon.“I was at a ‘dhaba’ at Murthal till around 12 pm, and I reached at the Red Fort only at 2:05 pm. Huge crowd had already gathered at the Red Fort when I reached there.“Entire thing—mobile location, route etc.—have been verified. I have not indulged in a single act of violence. I left before the violence broke out,” he claimed.The counsel told the court that Sidhu’s implication was a classic case of trial by media and added that the accused left before the violence started.He also said the accused should be granted the relief on the ground of parity, since several other accused in the case has already been granted bail.      “I am the only bread earner in the family,” he said.Prosecution opposed the bail application, alleging that the accused instigated others for violence. “Hundreds of policemen were injured. Sword, sticks etc. were used. Protesters tried to crush policemen under tractors. All this started only after hoisting of ‘Nishan Sahib’ at the Red Fort, for which the accused had instigated. It was only to defame the country in the entire world that the accused persons went to Red Fort. In the name of fundamental rights, they created violence,” the police said.The court, however, asked the police to produce the evidence to show that the accused instigated the mob.The court adjourned the matter for April 12 for further arguments and directed both the parties to file various documents, including transcripts of the videos cited by Delhi Police as evidence.The police had announced a cash reward of Rs one lakh for information leading to Sidhu’s arrest.After the January 26 violence that had left over 500 security personnel injured and one protester dead, Sidhu was posting videos on social media, police said.“Sidhu was in contact with a woman friend who lives in California. He used to make videos and send it to her, and she used to upload them on his Facebook account,” it said.On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police, the agency claimed in its FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, adding that many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted.In the FIR, police said two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protesters who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/red-fort-violence-was-exercising-my-fundamental-right-to-protest-deep-sidhu-tells-court-236407
09-04-2021||Aditi Tandon||‘Have no choice’: Punjab to make direct MSP payment to farmers as Centre rejects plea for exemption||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 8Punjab farmers can look forward to direct online MSP payment from the upcoming procurement season after the Centre on Thursday rejected the state’s demand for yet another exemption from the DBT route.“We have no option and choice,” Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said after a nearly two-hour meeting with Food minister Piyush Goyal who categorically told the state that the Centre will make procurements and reimburse related costs only if the state pays directly to farmers and not through arhtiyas.“The minister has rejected our requests for exemption from the DBT route and we are now left with no choice. The minister said the state would have to make its own procurement arrangements if it wishes to pay farmers through arhtiyas. So we have no choice,” Badal said.Punjab food minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the state will find a way to pay directly to farmers and will ensure some protection for arhtiyas.He said the CM has called a meeting with arhtiyas tomorrow.Meanwhile, the Centre has agreed to grant Punjab six month extension to link land record to the national e-procurement portal.The Centre today said 15 procuring states had started DBT payments to farmers and no further exemption was possible for Punjab which had already got three exemptions in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/have-no-choice-punjab-to-make-direct-msp-payment-to-farmers-as-centre-rejects-plea-for-exemption-236402
09-04-2021||New Delhi||Sikh spirit of service must be researched and documented: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called for extensive research and documentation of the Sikh spirit of service worldwide and the evolution of Gurdwaras as the living centres of community service.Addressing the high-level committee meeting to plan the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur virtually on Thursday, the PM said the government will give a fitting tribute to the ninth Sikh Guru whose life was an example of supreme sacrifice and wisdom.“The occasion to mark the Parkash Purab of Guru Tegh Bahadur is a spiritual privilege and national duty. We have been blessed by the Gurus to be able to contribute to this historical occasion,” the PM said seeking detailed written suggestions from the committee members on the various aspects of the year-long celebrations the government plans.The PM said no segment of Indian history in the last four centuries has been such as can be imagined without the impact of Guru Tegh Bahadur.“We all take inspiration from the life of Guru Tegh Bahadur and must take his life lessons to the younger generation too. Guru Nanak to Guru Tegh Bahadur to Guru Gobind Singh, the Sikh Guru tradition has been a complete life philosophy in itself and we must celebrate it across the world,” said the PM at a meeting attended by former PM Manmohan Singh, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh and Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar.Purposiveness of life can be learnt from the lives of the gurus that have been a lesson in "supreme sacrifice, spiritual loftiness and intellectual depth".550 birth anniversary Guru NanakQuoting Guru Tegh Bahadur the PM said, “Guru Tegh Bahadur gave us the lesson of equanimity in happiness and grief and of national and individual service. He gave us the mantra of equality, simplicity and sacrifice. Ut is our duty to take this lesson to everyone.”The PM said yearlong celebrations of Parkash Purab must connect as many people as possible with Sikh religious shrines aiding the journey.Stressing the use of digital technologies to spread the message of Guru Tegh Bahadur and his shabads, the PM said, “We have to connect more and more people with us. The Sikh guru tradition must be taken to the world. We must research how Sikhs and other followers of the Gurus are following the path of service, how gurdwaras have become living examples of public service. We must document this spirit of service of the Sikhs,” noted the PM.The meeting was attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah; Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla; Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh; Leader of Opposition, Rajya Sabha, MallikarjunKharge; Haryana CM Manohar Lal; Punjab CM Amarinder Singh; Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot; President, Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee, Amritsar, Bibi Jagir Kaur; MPs Sukhbir Singh Badal and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa; Former MP Tarlochan Singh; MD Amul Shri R S Sodhi; Eminent Scholar Amarjit Singh Grewal, among others.Amit Shah as home minister is the chairman of the national implementation committee for Guru Tegh Bahadur’s Parkash Purab celebrations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-spirit-of-service-must-be-researched-and-documented-pm-236349
