10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 58 more COVID-19 deaths, 3,294 fresh cases||Fifty-eight more people succumbed to COVID-19 in Punjab, taking the death toll to 7,448 on Saturday, while the infection tally mounted to 2,69,733 with 3,294 fresh cases, a bulletin stated.The number of active cases rose from 27,219 on Friday to 28,015 on Saturday.Ten people died in Hoshiarpur, seven in Gurdaspur and six each in Ludhiana and Jalandhar, among others.Of the fresh cases, Mohali registered 413 infections, followed by Jalandhar 407, Ludhiana 389, Amritsar 306 and Patiala 282, among others.A total of 2,385 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,34,270 in the state, the bulletin added.There are 35 critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 371 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 63,08,652 samples have been tested for COVID-19 so far in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-58-more-covid-19-deaths-3-294-fresh-cases-237353
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab government asks private hospitals to brace for COVID cases||Punjab government has asked private hospitals to put off all elective surgeries at least until April 30 to help accommodate COVID patients—a development that comes as the state braces for an already raging second wave of infections. Punjab’s Principal Secretary Health and Family Welfare Hussan Lal, who chaired a virtual meeting with private hospitals in the state on Saturday, told the hospitals they should stick to government charges for treatment to avoid overcharging.Some 213 private hospitals in the state are currently equipped to deal with COVID-19 cases. The state government has provided 230 ventilators to private hospitals.The government had provided a stock of 20,000 doses Remdisivir to government and private hospitals, he said. This is significant especially in the light of reports of short supply of the drug in states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.  Hussan Lal also asked hospitals in the state to ensure they refer patients who needed higher care to other care centres suitably and in time.Any demands for oxygen supply must be promptly communicated to the district civil surgeon, he said.Principal Secretary for Medical Education and Research DK Tiwari meanwhile urged vaccination centres to intensify inoculation, and ensure there’s no wastage of the vaccines.Punjab is among the states reporting the highest COVID-19 cases in the country. The state reported 3,459  cases and 56 deaths on Friday, the highest number of infections  since the pandemic began last March.There are worries about vaccines being in short supply in the state—the state government under Chief Minister Amarinder Singh says the state is likely to run out of vaccines in five days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-asks-private-hospitals-to-brace-for-covid-cases-237336
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder compromised interests of Punjab: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh should resign for compromising the interests of the state by being hand in glove with the BJP-led Centre in punishing the farmers protesting against the three agricultural laws.The SAD president, who was addressing the media here, said the Punjab and Haryana High Court order quashing the Special Investigating Team (SIT) formed by the Congress government in the Kotkapura police firing case had made it clear that the Chief Minister was not interested in finding the guilty but was using the case to implicate the Badal family.He said it was now clear that the SIT was formed to indulge in political vendetta."What we have been maintaining since day one that the entire investigation is being done with malicious intent has been proved. Amarinder took an oath to take action against those responsible for sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib but has played with the sentiments of the people by indulging in a political investigation and has wasted four years in this process." Stating that the Chief Minister had sold off the interests of the state to the BJP, Badal said "forget fighting for the rights of the state, Amarinder does not even raise the issues affecting the people of the state with the central government." He said the Chief Minister had time and again agreed with all the anti-farmer steps taken by the Centre.Asserting that the Chief Minister as afraid of the central government, Badal said the Kisan Andolan would not have started if Amarinder had taken prompt action when the agricultural Ordinances were being framed.He said at that time the Chief Minister was part of the committee in which the Ordinances were discussed."Later when an opportunity arose to repeal the three agricultural Acts in the Punjab Assembly the Chief Minister proposed amendments in the Acts instead of rejecting them altogether," he added.Badal also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold a meeting with the farmer organisations and resolve all their grievances including repealing the three agricultural laws."The PM has not sent a good signal to the farmers by taking anti-farmer measures, including imposing direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme on farmers despite the fact that they don't want it and also giving the nod for increasing fertiliser prices by more than 50 per cent. Both measures should be withdrawn," the junior Badal said.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-compromised-interests-of-punjab-sukhbir-badal-237330
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||'Staunch votary of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat': CM Amarinder Singh condoles Satish Kaul's demise||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday condoled the death of veteran Punjabi actor Satish Kaul, who passed away at a private hospital at Ludhiana.  Kaul, who featured in several Hindi films and shows, including "Mahabharat", died on Saturday due to coronavirus-related complications.In a condolence message, the CM described Kaul (74) as a versatile actor, who played a pivotal role in the promotion of the Punjabi cinema, art and culture.  Being a staunch votary of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat, Satish Kaul will be remembered by one and all for his enormous contribution to making Punjabi cinema popular amongst people, the CM said.  Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also expressed grief over the demise of Kaul.  “Saddened to know about the demise of actor #SatishKaul, perhaps the first superstar of Punjabi film industry, who was afflicted with #COVID19. I offer deep condolences to the near ones of the award-winning actor. May the Almighty rest his soul in peace,' tweeted Sukhbir. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/staunch-votary-of-punjab-punjabi-and-punjabiyat-cm-amarinder-singh-condoles-satish-kauls-demise-237327
10-04-2021||New Delhi||SC asks Centre, Punjab, 3 other states to respond on plea seeking repeal of provisions criminalising begging||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre and four states, including Maharashtra and Punjab, to file their response within three weeks on a plea seeking a direction to repeal the provisions criminalising begging.A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy noted in its order that though a notice was issued on the plea on February 10 this year, only Bihar has so far filed its response in the matter.“Although notice has been issued on February 10, 2021, a reply has been filed by the respondent - state of Bihar - only and other respondents have not yet filed their reply. Let reply be filed within three weeks,” the bench said in its order passed on Friday.The apex court has posted the matter for hearing after three weeks.The top court had in February sought a response from the Centre, and the states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Bihar on the plea which has claimed that the sections of the statute criminalising begging are violative of constitutional rights.The plea filed by Meerut resident Vishal Pathak has referred to the August 2018 verdict of the Delhi High Court which had decriminalised begging in the national capital and said that provisions of the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959 which treats begging as an offence cannot sustain constitutional scrutiny.“The provisions of the statutes criminalising the act of begging put people in a situation to make an unreasonable choice between committing a crime or not committing one and starving, which goes against the very spirit of the Constitution and violates Article 21 i.e. Right to Life,” said the plea, filed through advocate H K Chaturvedi.Referring to the Census 2011, the plea has said that the total number of beggars in India is 4,13,670 and the number has increased from the last census.It said that the government has the mandate to provide social security to everyone and ensure that all have basic facilities, as embedded in the Directives Principles of State Policy in the Constitution.“However, the presence of beggars is evidence that the State has failed to provide these basic facilities to all its citizens, thus instead of working on its failure and examining what made people beg, criminalising the act of beggary is irrational and against the approach of a socialist nation as embedded in the preamble of our Constitution,” the plea has claimed.It said that a person, who is compelled to beg due to certain circumstances, cannot be faulted for his actions.The plea has claimed that ‘The Abolition of Begging and Rehabilitation of Beggars Bill 2018’ was introduced in Lok Sabha but “till date, this bill is not passed and is wedged in length parliamentary procedures, that has resulted in thousands of poor facing more hardships because of present arbitrary statutes”.The petition has sought directions to declare as “illegal and void” all provisions, except some sections, of the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959, Punjab Prevention of Beggary Act, 1971, Haryana Prevention of Begging Act, 1971 and Bihar Prevention of Begging Act 1951.It has also sought to declare all other similar Acts prevailing in any part of the country as illegal. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-asks-centre-punjab-3-other-states-to-respond-on-plea-seeking-repeal-of-provisions-criminalising-begging-237314
10-04-2021||Ludhiana||Punjabi actor Satish Kaul dies in Ludhiana||Veteran Punjabi actor Satish Kaul, who featured in several Hindi films and shows including "Mahabharat", died on Saturday due to COVID-19 related complications. He was 74. According to Kaul's sister Satya Devi, the actor, popular for playing the role of Lord Indra in BR Chopra's "Mahabharat'', was admitted to a city hospital after he developed fever six days ago. "He died today morning due to COVID-19 at the hospital. He had fever and wasn't keeping well. We admitted him to the hospital on Thursday and got him tested, where it turned out that he was COVID-19 positive," Satya Devi told PTI. Kaul is survived by his sister. The actor worked in over 300 Punjabi and Hindi films including "Pyaar Toh Hona Hi Tha", "Aunty No 1" and the TV show "Vikram Aur Betaal".Also read:'Staunch votary of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat': CM Amarinder Singh condoles Satish Kaul's demiseKaul moved to Punjab from Mumbai and started an acting school around 2011, which wasn't a success. He fractured his hip bone in 2015 and remained bedridden for two and a half years. He later checked-in to an old age home, where he stayed till 2019, before moving in to a rented house.In an interview with PTI in May last year, Kaul had said he was struggling for medicines, groceries and basic needs during the nationwide lockdown and had appealed to the film industry for help. Kaul had expressed his wish to buy a house of his own in the city and had hoped to act more."The fire to act is still alive in me. It isn't over. I wish someone gives me a role even today, any role, and I would do it. I'm raring to act again," he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-actor-satish-kaul-dies-in-ludhiana-237301
10-04-2021||Mumbai||'Mujhse shaadi karogi': Mika Singh proposes to Bhoomi Trivedi; read her response||Singer Mika Singh has 'proposed' to singer Bhoomi Trivedi, that too on national television! In an upcoming episode of the music reality show "Indian Pro Music League" (IPML), the Punjab Lions trio of Mika Singh, Asees Kaur and Rupali Jagga perform Sajid-Wajid's popular title song of the film "Mujhse Shaadi Karogi".During the act, Mika left everyone surprised by walking over to Bhoomi and leading her to the stage even as he continued singing the song.At one point he asked Bhoomi: "Mujhse shaadi karogi (will you marry me)?"Following this, host Karan Wahi asked Bhoomi and Mika to dance together, and that's when Mika went down on his knees and asked her the question once again!"Bhoomi, ab toh bata do, mujhse shaadi karogi? Sab log Bhoomi se jude hain, maine socha main bhi Bhoomi se jud jaaoon (Bhoomi tell me now, will you marry me? Everyone is connected to Bhoomi, I thought I should, too). What do you guys think about Bhoomi Singh?" Mika said.Bhoomi replied: "What do you think about Mika Trivedi? But to be honest, I have come here to find a bride for you, it would be injustice to them."The episode airs on Zee TV on Saturday evening.Recently on the show, Mika Singh had declared that he would get married only after Bollywood's "most eligible bachelor" Salman Khan ties the knot. — IANS#IPML ki agli Super Match mein @SajidMusicKhan aur unke parivar ne Wajid ko kiya dil se yaad, apni bhavnao ko kiya music ke through bayan! ❤️Dekhiye #IndianProMusicLeague, aaj raat 8 baje, sirf @ZeeTV aur @ZEE5India pe. pic.twitter.com/DzSpo2Sb2E||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mujhse-shaadi-karogi-mika-singh-proposes-to-bhoomi-trivedi-read-her-response-237297
10-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chris Gayle plays 'dhol' while grooving to Tunak Tunak Tun; Punjab Kings share clip||Video of Cricketer Chris Gayle grooving to Daler Mehndi’s Tunak Tunak Tun has surfaced online. The clip was part of a shoot for Punjab Kings. The batsman is playing for Punjab Kings in the ongoing season of Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021.“Opening day of the #IPL2021 and Boss is ready to perform,” Punjab Kings wrote while sharing the video on March 9 – the day IPL 2021 started.The season kicked off with a match between Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bangalore where the latter won by 2 wickets. Punjab Kings will go against Rajasthan Royals on April 12.Take a look: A post shared by Punjab Kings (@punjabkingsipl)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chris-gayle-plays-dhol-while-grooving-to-tunak-tunak-tun-punjab-kings-share-clip-237292
10-04-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Morning Amritsar-Delhi Shatabdi back on tracks from tomorrow||Ludhiana, April 9The second pair of the New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express (02013/14) will resume its regular run after almost a year from tomorrow.The train was discontinued during the Covid-induced lockdown.The 02013 train will leave New Delhi at 4.30 pm and arrive at Amritsar at 10.30 pm with a three-minute halt at Ludhiana (8.16 pm) while the 02014 will start operating on April 11, leaving Amritsar at 4.55 am to reach New Delhi at 11.02 am with a five-minute stop at Ludhiana (6.57 am).In order to fill the gap left by the other pair of Swarn Shatabdi (02029/30) Express train on this trunk route, Northern Railways has announced to run 04053/54 New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express Weekly Special train from April 15. The existing 02029/30 Swarn Shatabdi Express runs on this route on all days except Thursday.The 04053 Shatabdi train will leave New Delhi (on Thursdays only) at 7.20 am and reach Amritsar at 1.30 pm with a three-minute stoppage at Ludhiana (11.08 am) while the 04054 train will commence its return journey from Amritsar at 4.50 pm to reach New Delhi at 10.50 pm with a five-minute halt at Ludhiana (6.50 pm).According to the railway officials, another summer special train, the 02265/66 Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Jammu Tawi-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Duronto Tri-weekly Special train, was also scheduled to run from Delhi Sarai Rohilla from April 11 and from Jammu Tawi from April 12. The train will have a single halt at Ludhiana in both directions.The 02265 will leave Delhi Sarai Rohilla at 10.20 pm on every Tuesday, Friday and Sunday and reach Jammu Tawi at 7.15 the next morning. On return journey, the train 02066 will depart from Jammu Tawi at 7.15 pm on every Wednesday, Saturday and Monday to arrive Delhi Saraai Rohilla at 3.55 am the next day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/morning-amritsar-delhi-shatabdi-back-on-tracks-from-tomorrow-237166
10-04-2021||---||Farmers, labourers to celebrate birth anniv of  Ambedkar jointly in Delhi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 9On the call given by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, farmers and farm labourer unions decided to celebrate Dr BR Amebdkar’s birth anniversary  on April 14.It’s for the first time in the state that Ambedkarites and farmers shall jointly celebrate the event. Across districts, several events would be held to observe the occasion. Jathas of farmers and labourers would also be heading to Delhi.In a joint meeting, leaders of various unions said the Centre was trying to steal away constitutional rights of people. They said in response to these attempts by the government, April 14 this year would be celebrated both at Delhi borders and across the state as an assertion of constitutional rights.They said three agri laws, the Electricity Amendment Act 2020 and the New Education Policy were all a part of an attempt to steal away the rights. They said Dalits would be most intensely affected as they depend on agriculture, landless and poor peasants shall also be left without livelihoods.Members said the New Education Policy would impact their right to education and the Electricity Amendment Act would rob them of provision of exemption from paying electricity bills. They said farmers and labourers were united against the passing of these laws and bills.Dehati Madoor Sabha general secretary Gurnam Daud, Pendu Mazdoor Union chief Tarsem Peter, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union general secretary Gulzar Gaurian, Mazdoor Mukti Morcha chief Bhagwant Samrao, Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union head Balwant Makkhu, Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee’s Mukesh Malout among others, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-labourers-to-celebrate-birth-anniv-of-ambedkar-jointly-in-delhi-237227
10-04-2021||---||Canadian Punjabi diaspora seeks direct flights to Amritsar||Amritsar, April 9Punjabi diaspora in Canada and NGOs in India have urged to introduce direct air connectivity from Vancouver and Toronto to Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International (SGRDJI) Airport, Amritsar, to facilitate travel keeping in view the year-long celebrations of the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the Ninth Sikh Guru who was born in Amritsar.Seeking direct connectivity with Amritsar ahead of the historic occasion, Sameep Singh Gumtala, convener of the Fly Amritsar Initiative, said direct flights to SGRDJI Airport had been a long-pending demand of thousands of Punjabis across Canada and Punjab.Gumtala said Amritsar would be the hub of celebrations of the 400th Prakash Purab, with the Punjab and Central Governments already announcing many programmes in India and abroad for the centennial celebrations. Lakhs of devotees from India and abroad were also expected to travel to the country for the year-long celebrations and members of the Punjabi community were reaching out to the Prime Minister of Canada, their parliamentary representatives, and Government of India for direct flights.“We have sent a written representation to the Prime Minister of Canada, many MPs, including the ones in the Greater Toronto area, Vancouver, Surrey, Abbotsford, Calgary, Edmonton, Winnipeg, and ministers concerned, seeking the fulfilment of this long-pending demand. Last year in March 2020, thousands of Canadian families were stranded in India due to the pandemic-induced shutdown of air travel. It was estimated that the highest number of them among any other region (over 40,000) were stuck in Punjab at that time, said Gumtala.A petition has also been started by FlyAmritsar Initiative with the support of many Canadians to submit to MPs all over Canada.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/canadian-punjabi-diaspora-seeks-direct-flights-to-amritsar-237211
10-04-2021||---||GNDU’s offline exams to restart from April 11||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 9Just as schools and colleges remain closed due to the surge in the Covid-19 cases, Guru Nanak Dev University has released an updated date sheet for remaining examinations (offline mode) of its affiliated and constituent colleges.Exams which were postponed after the government asked the educational institutes to shut in the wake of the second wave of infections, will now be held as per new schedule.Earlier, the university had postponed the exams till April 10, but now rescheduled them for convenience of students. New dates of exams are available on the university’s web portal. Timings and centres will remain the same.Prof Manoj Kumar, in charge, Examinations, said exams will commence from April 11 onwards. “All candidates are instructed to contact principals of colleges/head of departments concerned. College principals should ensure that Covid-19 protocols issued by the state government are strictly followed during examinations,” he said.While exams will be held offline, students are also demanding resumption of regular classes. Various student organisations protested in this regard. The entire exercise of conducting exams by GNDU under the Covid-19 situation has been prone to controversies.The university first announced offline exams for odd courses from February 15 onwards. The decision was met with heavy criticism by students who demanded that given the pandemic, exams must be conducted online. After deliberations and multiple meetings with students, the university went ahead with its decision to conduct offline exams as per guidelines issued by the state government.While the exams were being conducted, the state government announced to shut down universities, colleges and schools, once again on March 19, which incited angry reactions from students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gndus-offline-exams-to-restart-from-april-11-237170
10-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Wheat from other states smuggled into Punjab for MSP, 3 trucks seized||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 9Even as wheat procurement is to start in Punjab from Saturday, smuggling of grain from states where no MSP is paid has already begun. At least 24 wheat trucks from other states reportedly arrived here last night.Traders make Rs 2L per truckSources say traders buy wheat at Rs 1,100 per quintal from other states and sell it in Punjab at the MSP of Rs 1,925 per quintal. Even after paying Rs 225 per quintal transportation and other costs, the traders make over Rs 2 lakh per truck carrying 400 quintals of wheat.The matter came to light after acting on a tip-off, local BJP leader Sukhpal Sra and his supporters reached the grain market late last night and found wheat-laden trucks parked there. They called the police. Sra alleged many drivers fled with their trucks, but three of them were nabbed.Inderjit Singh, a truck driver, said: “I had brought 380 quintal of wheat from Darbhanga (Bihar). I was told to unload it at a chemical factory here.” Following the incident, farmers under the banner of BKU Sidhupur started a protest at the grain market, demanding a probe into the illegal practice. Kuldeep Singh Brar, DGM (Ferozepur Division), Punjab Mandi Board, said: “Around 20 trucks laden with wheat were brought here from Bihar and Rajasthan. Unscrupulous traders were trying to sell the low-priced grain at MSP here.” Daljit Brar, SHO, Kotwali police station, said three trucks were seized and an FIR was registered against two firms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wheat-from-other-states-smuggled-into-punjab-for-msp-3-trucks-seized-237119
10-04-2021||Amritsar||Jallianwala Bagh unveiling hit by Covid restrictions||Amid the Covid-19 restrictions, the plan to reopen the ‘facelifted’ Jallianwala Bagh has been put on hold yet again. After skipping many deadlines, the unveiling was proposed on April 13. PM Narendra Modi, who is also the chairman of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, was slated to inaugurate the monument virtually.Trust member and former MP Tarlochan Singh said: “The PM was scheduled to inaugurate it online on April 13 at 4 pm, but after consulting with the CMO, the programme was deferred due to the Covid restrictions till April 30,” he said. The memorial was shut on February 15 last year for renovation. The project was to be completed by the first week of April 2020, ahead of the commemoration of 101th year of Jallianwala Bagh massacre on April 13, 2020. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jallianwala-bagh-unveiling-hit-by-covid-restrictions-236937
10-04-2021||Ropar||Farmers protest wheat import by mill owner||Protesting import of wheat from Uttar Pradesh by local flour mill owner, farmers blocked the Ropar-Kharar national highway here today.They said the move would hurt those whose crop was yet to be procured by the government. The mill owner, however, avoiding confrontation, agreed to return the imported wheat and announced Rs 2.5 lakh contribution to the farmer agitation. Last night, 40 truckloads of wheat from UP arrived at a mill near Solakhian. On getting the information, farmers reached the spot and protested.Officials from the police and district marketing office arrived at the scene and promised to look into the matter. Around 11.30 am today, farmers assembled on the Ropar-Kharar highway demanding action against the mill owner.Farmer leader Gurmail Singh Barra said it was a conspiracy to weaken the farmers of Punjab financially. Two hours later, the police and marketing board officials effected a compromise between farmers and the mill owner, following which it was decided that the imported wheat would be returned and the mill owner would contribute towards the farmer agitation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-wheat-import-by-mill-owner-236938
10-04-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa: No plan to join Aam Aadmi Party||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 9Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa today ruled out any plans to join the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). He was reacting to a statement by senior AAP leader Harpal Cheema yesterday, claiming his party leaders had met Dhindsa, inviting SAD (D) leaders to join them. Cheema had claimed SAD (D) leaders, including Dhindsa, would join the AAP.Reacting to the statement, Dhindsa said: “A few AAP leaders from Delhi did meet me but there was no talk of anyone joining the party. We are in fact getting messages from the SAD, but there is no chance of joining anyone. We are trying to revive the traditional and pure house of the Akalis.”Cheap tacticsA few AAP leaders from Delhi did meet me but there was no talk of anyone joining the party. I wonder why they are resorting to such cheap tactics. —Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, SAD (D) leaderRefuting the development following a meeting between senior Dhindsa and AAP leaders, Parminder Dhindsa said: “Ours is a panthic party and there is no question of joining the AAP. Yes, we can work together in the interest of the welfare of the state with like-minded people, including AAP. As a political entity, we have a distinct set of goals that are different from others. We will definitely not change our original entity just for selfish political gains.”Denying formal talks with the SAD (D), Cheema said: “We are only working on possible alliances with parties who will like to get out of the mould of traditional political work for reviving the glory of Punjab.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhdev-singh-dhindsa-no-plan-to-join-aam-aadmi-party-236939
10-04-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Agents ‘placated’, call on strike today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 9For the first time, farmers in Punjab will get the payment for their produce directly in their bank accounts as the state is all set to procure 130 lakh metric tonne of wheat from Saturday.Wheat arrivals in mandis have started with over 3,000 metric tonne coming in the mandis of seven Malwa districts today.Though the commission agents (arhtiyas) have reiterated their threat to go on a strike from tomorrow in protest against the new directive of the Government of India, sources in the Food and Civil Supplies Department as well as commission agents have confirmed to The Tribune that a consensus has been reached, and only the modalities need to be finalised.Capt kept state in dark on DBT: akalisThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to explain why he had kept the farmers and the arhtiyas in the dark on the direct benefit transfer (DBT), even as it accused him of playing a fixed match with the central government on the issue. The SAD also asked why the Chief Minister was not opposing the hike in fertiliser prices and demanded its immediate rollback.Rs 1,400 hike in DAP price ‘anti-farmer’Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Friday flayed the BJP-led NDA government for exorbitant hike in the price of DAP from Rs2,400 to Rs3,800. Randhawa described this steep hike of Rs1,400 per quintal as arbitrary and illogical. Randhawa asked the Centre to immediately roll back this anti-farmer decision. TNSIt is learnt that in lieu of ensuring smooth rollout of the direct bank transfer (DBT) to farmers, the agents are likely to get their Rs 131 crore commission that has been held back by the Punjab Government for the 2019 paddy purchase and another Rs 200 crore that the Food Corporation of India (FCI) owes them. A meeting of commission agents from across Punjab will be convened in Ludhiana on Saturday to discuss the proposal, following which they will take a final call on their strike.Punjab Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu told The Tribune that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was supportive of the arhtiyas’ demands and wanted to ensure their relevance in the foodgrain procurement system. “He has asked us to work out a system where they remain relevant, while Punjab can go ahead with the Centre’s directive of DBT to farmers,” he said, adding that all options in this regard had been shared with the arhtiyas, who would discuss these amongst themselves.Yesterday, the BJP-led central government had rejected the Punjab Government’s request for making payments at Rs 1,975 per quintal) through the arhtiyas, and insisted that payments to farmers would be made directly. Official sources say details of farmers’ bank accounts are provided by the commission agents in the J-form that is filled by them and uploaded on the Anaaj Kharid portal.“Till now, the portal was used only by the Punjab Mandi Board, but now, it has been integrated with the Food and Supplies Department. The J-form will be stored in a DigiLocker. Based on the information of bank accounts provided in the form, payments will be made directly in the bank accounts of the farmers,” said a senior government official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agents-placated-call-on-strike-today-236940
10-04-2021||Amritsar||Expelled for ‘immorality’, CKD ex-chief Charanjit Singh Chadha gets Takht clean chit||The Akal Takht has issued a “clean chit” to the former president of the 118-year-old Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD), Charanjit Singh Chadha, and lifted the ban on him that prevented him from attending public events for two years, enforced due to charges of “immoral” activities.A video purportedly showing Chadha making sexual advances towards a woman principal of a CKD-run school had gone viral in December 2017. Following the incident, Chadha had tendered his resignation.Sleazy videoIn December 2017, a video purportedly showing Charanjit Singh Chadha making sexual advances towards a woman principal of a CKD-run school had gone viralOn January 23, 2018, the Sikh clergy, headed by former Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh, had barred Chadha from addressing any religious, social, political or educational function for two years. Akal Takht had issued directions to watch his conduct during the period.In response to Chadha’s repeated pleas of absolving him of the bar, the Sikh clergy, headed by Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, reviewed his case in a recent meeting and decided to lift the ban on him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expelled-for-immorality-ckd-ex-chief-charanjit-singh-chadha-gets-takht-clean-chit-236941
10-04-2021||Sangrur||Lakha Sidhana starts march for Delhi border||Throwing another open challenge to security agencies, Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, today along with his supporters, started a march for Delhi border from Mastuana Sahib Gurdwara of Sangrur.“If cops arrest me, I request all youngsters not to sit at home, and take the protest to its logical conclusion. I and my supporters are going to New Delhi to support the agitation,” said Sidhana onboard a truck part of a cavalcade leaving for New Delhi.On his call, youngsters with posters of Sidhana and Deep Sidhu on their cars had started reaching the gurdwara in the morning from various parts of the state. But all were unaware about the whereabouts of Lakha and waited until his arrival. “We have come from here to support Sidhana. We would accompany him to New Delhi,” said a group of youngsters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakha-sidhana-starts-march-for-delhi-border-236942
10-04-2021||Muktsar||Rs 10L Punjab Govt aid for athlete Kamalpreet Kaur||The state government today handed over a cheque for Rs 10 lakh to athlete Kamalpreet Kaur, who broke the nine-year-old national record in discus throw on March 19 and qualified for the Tokyo Olympics.Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring visited her house at Kabarwala village and handed over the cheque. He said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had sent the financial assistance to ensure she didn’t face inconvenience during her practice.He said the state government would soon construct a ground and gymnasium at the village. Her appeal for help was carried out in these columns on March 23. Thereafter, officials of the district administration and politicians had offered her financial help. She had also been appointed the district ambassador of the “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” scheme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-10l-punjab-govt-aid-for-athlete-kamalpreet-kaur-236943
10-04-2021||Bathinda||School fee hike sparks protest in Bathinda||Parents of LKG students of St Xavier’s School here protested outside the campus today against hike in fee and charges of books.They alleged instead of lowering the fee in the wake of Covid-19 that has hit everyone financially, the school authorities had hiked the fee by 100 per cent this academic session. They submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner.Harpreet Dhaliwal, a protester, said: “The school management could have hiked the fee by 10 to 15 per cent as done in the past. We will not be able to bear such steep fee hike, especially when Covid has affected our income drastically. ”School principal Father Cidloy Furtado said: “In the wake of Covid. So, we had to raise the fee, which is only for students of LKG. We won’t revoke the decision and if some parents are not comfortable with it, they can withdraw admission.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/school-fee-hike-sparks-protest-in-bathinda-236944
10-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Fearing curbs, migrants head back home||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 9The rising Covid-19 cases have triggered the fear of last year-like lockdown among migrants. Labourers, daily wagers, kiln labourers among others have begun heading back to their states. They say if a lockdown is imposed, they will have to either shell out thousands for a journey back home or remain stranded. Lesser wages during the pandemic has also triggered the return.“Five to six of my fellow labourers have headed back to UP and Bihar in recent days amid the fears they would be stranded if a lockdown is implemented. Memories of the last year are fresh. Reports from other states of lockdowns have also motivated many to head back,” says Santosh Kumar, a UP resident and daily wage labourer.150 have leftAt our four kilns in Jalandhar, there are 700 to 800 labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar as well as Punjab. Of these, 100 to 150 have already gone back to their states. Lockdowns in other states have compounded their fears. —Rakesh Kumar, Labour contractorIqbal Chand Mattu, member, All-Mazdoor Shakti Sangh and Punjab Mazdoor Union, says, “The fear of uncertainty looms. Everyone is fearing another lockdown. Some labourers last year paid Rs 6,000 to 7,000 to reach their native places. Wages are already minimal. Many are contemplating to move out before further restrictions are imposed.” Mattu said 70 per cent of kiln labourers in Punjab were from other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fearing-curbs-migrants-head-back-home-236945
10-04-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar jeweller raided by NIA||A National Investigation agency (NIA) team raided the shop and residence besides a hotel of a prominent jeweller in the city on Friday. The raid continued till the filing of this report. The jeweller, identified as Rajesh, alias Pinki Mehra, has ancestral business in Amritsar.He also has an import and export business. He runs a jewellery shop in the world-famous Guru Bazaar market in the walled city. He also runs a money exchange business.A 12-member team raided ‘Manak Jewellers’ in the Guru Bazaar area at 5 am besides conducting a raid at his residence located on the Race Course Road in Basant Avenue locality. The NIA is investigating into several suspicious hawala transactions made across the border when the name of Mehra figured. However, the agency is still probing his role. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-jeweller-raided-by-nia-236946
10-04-2021||Faridkot||Faridkot: Newborn dumped in septic tank, mom held||A woman allegedly dumped her one-month-old girl into an unpaved toilet septic tank of a brick kiln at Kaler village of the district today. The parents of the child, whose body was found by labourers working in the area, belonged to UP and had been working at the brick kiln for the past many years. Faridkot DSP Satvinder Singh Virk said the incident came to light after the girl’s father Sajju told his co-workers that his newborn had gone missing. The investigation reveals that the couple had three children — two daughters and a son — and the mother hoped of bearing another son, but the birth of a daughter “saddened” her. The police have arrested the girl’s mother, Saina (29), after registering a case against her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-newborn-dumped-in-septic-tank-mom-held-236947
10-04-2021||Patiala||4 booked for assaulting doctor in Patiala village||The Patiala Police on Friday booked four relatives of a deceased Covid patient for assaulting a medical officer.The police said they had booked four unidentified relatives of the deceased under Sections 353, 186, 148, 149, 323 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. A medical officer posted in the Dhudhan Sadhan block was allegedly beaten up by the relatives of the Covid deceased during the cremation at Chahut village on Tuesday.Julkan SHO Pardeep Singh Bajwa said: “We have registered a case on the complaint of SMO Dudhan Sadhan. We will identify the accused after recording the statement of the medical officer who was thrashed. As he is still traumatised, he did not come to the police station.”Meanwhile, Dr Kiran Verma, SMO, Dudhan Sadhan, said it was a shameful incident and strict action was warranted. “Our doctor is still in fear and reluctant to talk to anyone. We want strict action against the accused so that such incidents are not repeated.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-booked-for-assaulting-doctor-in-patiala-village-236948
10-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala: Short on ‘Fateh’ kits, dept recycles oximeters||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 9Amid a shortage of ‘Fateh’ kits, health officials have reportedly started asking Covid survivors to return the oximeters provided to them.Notably, the pulse oximeter is one of many items in the ‘Fateh’ kit, which is being provided to patients under home isolation. The Health Department, owing to the ongoing shortage, is said to be recycling the pulse oximeter.A Covid survivor said an ANM of the Jujaar Nagar health centre had come to his residence to take the oximeter. He said, “I have already returned the oximeter to the nearest health centre. However, it is not good thing to recycle a medical device that has already been used by a positive patient.”However, health officials said there was no harm in recycling the equipment. They said they properly sanitised the oximeters before providing them to other patients.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said there was a shortage of the device due to a sudden surge in cases. However, they had now received sufficient kits. “There is no harm in recycling oximeters after sanitisation. We have to recycle whenever there is some delay in procuring kits from the head office in Chandigarh. We try to make sure that everyone gets a pulse oximeter to monitor the oxygen level,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-short-on-fateh-kits-dept-recycles-oximeters-236950
10-04-2021||Moga||2 cops sacked for aiding gangster Sukhdool Singh||SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill has dismissed from service ASI Prabhdial Singh and Constable Gurwinder Singhfor allegedly clearing the name of a gangster during passport verification in 2017 despite several criminal cases being registered against him at the time.Gangster Sukhdool Singh, a resident of Duneke village, had gone to Canada after obtaining the passport. He was also a proclaimed offender in at least two cases at the time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-cops-sacked-for-aiding-gangster-sukhdool-singh-236951
10-04-2021||Ludhiana||Singer Karan Aujla flouts rules during jail visit, probe on||Superintendent of the Central Jail Rajeev Arora is in the thick of controversy after Punjabi singer Karan Aujla visited the prison in violation of the security and Covid protocols. Jail Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has ordered an inquiry into the episode and asked ADGP Prisons PK Sinha to submit a report.Escorted by a police Gypsy, Aujla’s cavalcade of over half a dozen vehicles entered the jail premises yesterday, with the singer’s car stopping right outside the jail’s main gate, where private vehicles are not allowed.Aujla along with friends then entered the jail without undergoing security checks. Most were not wearing masks and even the jail security staff didn’t ask them to deposit their mobile phones.After spending some time at the Jail Superintendent’s office, Aujla went to the latter’s residence. The singer had reportedly come to meet drug kingpin Gurdeep Rano of Khanna, who was recently nabbed with drugs worth crores, 13 luxury cars and drug money. The singer has been using Rano’s bungalow in Khanna for shooting songs.“The singer did not meet any inmate. Rano is lodged in a separate high-security cell. It is an attempt to malign my image,” claimed Arora. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/singer-karan-aujla-flouts-rules-during-jail-visit-probe-on-236952
10-04-2021||---||2L daily jabs to arrest fatality surge in Punjab||Chandigarh, April 9In a bid to arrest the Covid fatality rate, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan today directed the Health Department to ramp up the ongoing vaccination drive so as to achieve the target of vaccinating 2 lakh persons a day.She announced a special fund of Rs 2 crore to every district for effective Covid management. “There is no constraint of funds to fight the pandemic,” she asserted, while chairing a meeting to review the current Covid situation in the state.She directed the Health Department to observe two days (Tuesday and Friday) every week as mega vaccination days to cover maximum people to defeat the virus. She also set the state’s weekly inoculation target at more than 16 lakh beneficiaries for April.Record 3,459 cases in a dayUrging eligible persons to get vaccinated at the earliest, she said the higher authorities could authorise vulnerable employees from essential workers’ list for vaccination registration. The Chief Secretary directed the officials to increase the sampling to 50,000 per day, besides actively pursuing contact tracing.The meeting was informed that 16 lakh persons had been vaccinated in the state so far and vaccination and adherence to Covid norms was the only way to prevent the further spread of the virus.She directed the departments concerned to address the issue of vaccination hesitancy by undertaking well-planned media campaigns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2l-daily-jabs-to-arrest-fatality-surge-in-punjab-236953
10-04-2021||Bathinda||Day before procurement starts, trucks carrying illegal wheat from Bihar found in Bathinda||The wheat procurement is set to start from April 10, but on Thursday night around two dozen trucks laden with illegal wheat reached Bathinda from other states.BJP leader Sukhpal Sra got input about this, after which he reached Bathinda’s grain market and claimed that about 25 trucks loaded with wheat parked in Dana Mandi had come from Bihar and other states.Also readHe alleged that wheat procured from there at cheaper rates would now be sold in Punjab as per MSP.As per the information, wheat is purchased at the rate of Rs 1,100 per quintal in Bihar and other states and sold in Punjab at around Rs 1,925 per quintal as MSP.Even transportation cost is around Rs 225 per quintal and in one truck around 400 quintals of wheat is transported. This means a trader is minting Rs 2 lakh per truck in this illegal business.Inderjit Singh, a truck driver, said, “I have brought 41 tonnes (380 quintal) of wheat from Darbhanga in Bihar in my truck and I was told to leave it at a chemical factory in Bathinda but when I reached near Bathinda, I was told to reach grain market at Bathinda.”After getting this information, the farmers under the banner of BKU Sidhupur had started a protest where wheat was lying dumped at the grain market.The protesters shouted slogans against the state government and alleged that the government along with traders is exploiting the farmers by doing this illegal business during the procurement.Punjab Mandi Board, DGM, Ferozepur Division, Kuldeep Singh Brar said, “Around 20 trucks laden with wheat have come here from Darbhanga in Bihar and Rajasthan. They have brought wheat at a price of Rs 1,100 and they are fleecing the government by selling it here at MSP price. We seized the wheat lying here.”He also said three loaded trucks have been standing here while wheat from many trucks has been lying dumped here. “We have informed the Deputy Commissioner and food supply department officials about this,” he said.Brar also stated that they along with vigilance and police officials have conducted raids at two godowns in the grain market, where large number of unaccounted wheat has been found, which is illegal as if anyone keeps stock of wheat in its godowns, then the trader is bound to inform the Mandi board about the same but here it is found that Mandi board had no news about this, due to which entire stock has been seized.SHO, Kotwali police station, Daljit Brar said, “We have received a complaint from market committee Bathinda, in which it was stated that one truck of M/s Babbu Ram Ashok Kumar firm, two trucks of Lakshmi oil chemicals and around 7000-8000 bags of wheat have been lying dumped in open at grain market, which have been brought from the other states so we have seized the stock and registered an FIR against both the firms.”Even during paddy procurement last year, several traders were also booked by the Bathinda police but later no further action was taken by the police.In the preliminary investigation, it was learnt that traders purchased paddy at lower rates in other states to sell it at a much higher price in grain markets across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-before-procurement-starts-trucks-carrying-illegal-wheat-from-bihar-found-in-bathinda-236889
