12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Proprietary rights to be granted to 3,245 slum households in Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered that proprietary rights be granted to 3,245 slum households in three districts under the state government’s ‘Basera’ scheme, an official statement issued here said.Chairing the second meeting of the empowered committee under the Chief Minister’s Slum Development Programme -- ‘Basera’, Singh asked the concerned department to expedite the process of verification and granting of proprietary rights in order to benefit the maximum number of slum dwellers in the state, it said.The chief minister also reviewed the progress made so far by various districts under the scheme.The 3,245 households that will be granted proprietary rights are located in 12 slum sites in Faridkot, Sangrur and Fazilka districts, according to the government statement.Till date, 186 slums having 21,431 households have been identified in 20 districts, wherein the verification process is being carried out, Singh was informed during the virtual meeting.He was further informed that the verification of 25,000 households shall be completed within the next two months and the process of granting proprietary rights to eligible slum dwellers shall be initiated simultaneously, the statement said.It was decided during the meeting that the verification of 40,000 households shall be completed by September 2021, it added.The empowered committee, at the two meetings held so far, has given approval for granting proprietary rights to 4,705 households in 21 slums spread across Moga, Bathinda, Fazilka, Patiala, Sangrur and Faridkot districts.The identification of another approximately 22,000 households in 186 slums is currently underway.The ‘Basera’ scheme, aimed at helping slum dwellers realise their dream of owning a home, was launched in January this year by Singh.Under this scheme, proprietary rights will be granted to every household occupying state government land in a slum in any urban area on the date of notification of ‘The Punjab Slum Dwellers (Proprietary Rights) Act, 2020’, which is April 1, 2020.However, the beneficiaries will not be permitted to alienate the transferred land for 30 years. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/proprietary-rights-to-be-granted-to-3-245-slum-households-in-punjab-238201
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees record single-day spike of 3,477 COVID cases||Punjab on Monday reported 3,477 fresh COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day spike so far, which took the tally to 2,76,223 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.The state had earlier seen the highest daily cases at 3,459 on April 9.The death of 52 people took the toll to 7,559 in the state, the bulletin stated. The number of active cases is 27,866.Eight people each died in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur and five each in Gurdaspur, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala, among the fresh COVID-related fatalities.Mohali saw the highest of 662 infections, followed by 523 in Ludhiana, 366 in Jalandhar, 305 in Amritsar and 281 in Patiala, among districts which are seeing a rise in cases, the bulletin stated.It said 3,407 coronavirus patients have been discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,40,798 in the state.There are 45 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 360 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.It said 63,68,902 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-record-single-day-spike-of-3-477-covid-cases-238197
12-04-2021||GS Paul||‘Jatha’ comprising 815 pilgrims reaches Pakistan for Baisakhi||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 12A jatha comprising 815 pilgrims under different banners on Monday left for Pakistan on the occasion of Khalsa Sajna Divas (Baisakhi) through Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post.The main event has been scheduled at Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Hasan Abdal on April 14.The Pakistan High Commission had issued visa to 1,100 pilgrims for the occasion. In the wake of the Covid threat, the National Command Operation Centre of Pakistan has put a ban on large religious gatherings. The Pak Sikh families were told to avoid their physical presence at Gurdwara Sri Panja Sahib.Many Indian pilgrims too were disappointed after they were denied visa by the Ministry of External Affairs. SGPC had submitted 793 applications out of which 437 got visa.As per protocol in the wake of the pandemic, they all underwent Covid testing 72 hours before their departure. SGPC executive committee member Baba Charanjit Singh Jassowal, secretary Mahinder Singh Ahli, and SGPC officials flagged off the jatha after honouring members with siropas (robe of honour). The jatha was led by its member Harpal Singh Jallah, assisted by his colleague Gurmeet Singh Booh and Amarjit Singh Bhalaipur.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur told that for the gurdwaras in Pakistan, the Santhiya Sanchis (lesson volumes) of Gurbani, kakaars (five symbols of Sikh faith) for Amrit Sanchar besides cholas (traditional Sikh attire), khandas, harmonium sets, turbans, loyis (woolen shawls), etc. have  also been despatched.Once they crossed over to Wagah border, the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Satwant Singh and other office-bearers and members received them warmly and offered them ‘langar’. Later, after furnishing formalities, they were ferried directly to Gurdwara Panja Sahib through special buses.Satwant Singh said that with precautionary measures the occasion would be celebrated with religious zeal and enthusiasm.“Elaborate arrangements for their stay as per standard operative procedure (SOP) guidelines, keeping social distancing, sanitisation, and proper hygiene, have been made. The Pakistan Sikh families have been conveyed to cooperate and celebrate the event in their homes so that the Indian Sikh pilgrims could be attended properly”, he said.Other Sikh shrines on the itineraryIf everything goes according to the plans, the pilgrims will have an opportunity to visit other Sikh shrines during the 10-day trip. From Gurdwara Panja Sahib, they will go to Nankana Sahib on April 14. The jatha will go to Gurdwara Sacha Sauda, Sheikhupura, on April 16, Gurdwara Dehra Sahib, Lahore, from April 17-18, Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib on April 19, where it will have night stay. The jatha will also visit Gurdwara Rori Sahib on April 20 and Gurdwara Dehra Sahib, Lahore, on April 21, before returning on April 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jatha-comprising-815-pilgrims-reaches-pakistan-for-baisakhi-238168
12-04-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Police deny they had 'illegally' detained Lakha Sidhana's cousin in Punjab||Delhi Police on Monday refuted allegations that they had "illegally" detained gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana's cousin Gurdeep Singh in Punjab, even as a team of its Special Cell questioned him.Sidhana is wanted by Delhi Police in connection with the Republic Day violence in the national capital, when thousands of protesting farmers, who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border, clashed with the police. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured in the violence.In a statement, the police said it is learnt that allegations and misinformation are being propagated on the social media regarding the detention of one Gurdeep Singh alias Mundi by a Delhi Police team in Punjab.Several cases were registered by Delhi Police in connection with the Republic Day violence, a large number of suspects have been examined and about 160 accused belonging to Delhi and several other states arrested. Sidhana is wanted in some of these cases and is deliberately evading arrest, the statement said.According to the police, on April 8, a Special Cell team that was moving in the vicinity of Patiala in search of Sidhana, questioned Singh. He was asked about the presence and movements of Sidhana and thereafter, he was relieved with a direction to appear and join investigation as and when required."The investigation is being conducted as per law and in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is relevant to note that no allegation of assault or mistreatment has been made by any of the 160 accused arrested by Delhi Police in these cases so far," the statement said."The allegations pertaining to illegal detention and physical assault are strongly denied as being false, baseless and an afterthought to put pressure on the investigating teams," it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-police-deny-they-had-illegally-detained-lakha-sidhanas-cousin-in-punjab-238119
12-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Surinder Kumar elected Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation mayor||Councillor Surinder Kumar was on Monday elected Mayor of Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation while Councillors Praveen Lata and Ranjeet Kaur have been elected Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/surinder-kumar-elected-hoshiarpur-municipal-corporation-mayor-238106
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt gets 2nd dose of COVID-19 vaccine||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh took the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine on Monday. He appealed to all those who were eligible to come forward to get themselves vaccinated for their "own protection and that of their families and the society".||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-gets-2nd-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-238099
12-04-2021||Anandpur Sahib||3 killed, 2 injured as bus rams into them in Ropar||Three people were crushed to death while another was seriously injured when a bus rammed into them near Bhanupali village in Rupnagar district on Monday. The injured has been admitted to the local civil hospital.SHO Harkirat Singh said that a CTU bus was on its way from Nangal to Chandigarh around 7.30 a.m. when it rammed into four people standing on the side of the road. Three people, including a woman, died while the person who was critically injured was admitted to a local civil hospital, he said.According to the SHO, the bus driver was trying to overtake another vehicle when he lost control resulting in the tragedy. The identity of victims was being verified, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-killed-2-injured-as-bus-rams-into-them-in-ropar-238081
12-04-2021||Contract Farming||Create a sustainable pathway for farmers||Baldev Singh Dhillon and Kamal VattaLast year, Parliament enacted the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. It is supposed to empower farmers to get engaged with upgraded value chain partners in a fair, transparent, mutually agreeable and remunerative manner to enhance their income by reducing marketing risks. It is assumed that the private sector will directly enter into contracts with the farmers, ensure better prices, encourage diversification to high value crops and raise farmers’ incomes substantially.The passage of this Act has generated intensive discussions. The supporters claim that contract farming has been successfully going on since long in Punjab, and this Act will give further fillip to it. Others are of the view that these claims are exaggerated except in those cases where the government and/or the cooperatives are playing an important role. The story of contracts involving corporates is dismal, which indicates that the positive assumptions on which the Act is based will not hold good on the ground.In a broader sense, we may say that there is contract farming for paddy and wheat. The contract is between farmers and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) on behalf of the government, and it has worked with the highest degree of effectiveness. Of the total production of around 365 lakh tonnes of paddy and wheat, almost 80 per cent is procured at the pre-determined Minimum Support Price (MSP) without any discrimination among farm-size categories. There is a similar mechanism in cotton, wherein the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), on behalf of the government, enters the market as a buyer whenever the prices fall below the MSP. The procurement by the CCI helps to restore the prices and thereby checks to a large extent farmers’ exploitation by private players.An interesting case is of milk production, where public procurement through milk cooperatives is functioning effectively. In Punjab, there are almost 6,500 milk cooperatives under Milkfed with about 3.65 lakh milk producer (farm size neutral) members procuring more than 26 lakh litres of milk daily. Even during the first wave of the pandemic, when milk supply chains were disrupted and milk producers were incurring heavy losses, the cooperatives increased procurement by almost 25 per cent and helped milk producers cope with Covid-induced distress in Punjab. At the national level, milk cooperatives under the brands Verka, Amul, Mother Dairy, etc., have created a competitive environment for contracting with private undertakings. The daily milk procurement by the cooperatives has surpassed 5 crore litres, which is almost 10 per cent of the average daily milk production in India.In sugarcane, there is a provision of State Advised Price (SAP), which is fixed by the government. All sugar mills are legally bound to pay SAP to the farmers. Further, there are sugar mills in cooperative as well as private sectors which create competition. Despite issues of overdue payments to be made to the farmers, this contractual arrangement has worked reasonably well.Tall claimsContract farming by corporates was started in Punjab in the 1990s with PepsiCo India Ltd for potato and chilli. Other noted private players have been Nijjer Agro Food Ltd, United Breweries Ltd, Satnam Overseas, Amira India Food Ltd and Sukhjit Starch dealing with crops like tomato, chilli, barley and basmati. It is noteworthy that the area under contracts with these companies is limited and has not shown any significant improvement over time. Thus, the claims about effective contract farming involving the private sector are not tenable.Contracts involving the government and/or cooperatives are working effectively on quite a large scale, are more inclusive and have ensured relatively better prices to the farmers for their produce. Private companies have never reached such a scale of contracting in any crop or commodity. Farmers are initially lured by the high prices of the produce. But once they opt for an expansion of area under the contracted crop leading to enhanced production, the farmers are offered, on many occasions, lower than the agreed prices by raising quality concerns without realising that not only quality but also the yield of agricultural produce are dependent on unpredictable environmental factors over which the farmer has no control. Often, the promise of higher profitability to the farmer falls flat, discouraging him from continuing the partnership with the contracting companies. Contract farming by the private sector is also accused of mostly favouring the medium and large farmers and being far from being inclusive.Diversification a challengeThere is no doubt that Punjab is stuck in the paddy-wheat cycle and urgently needs to diversify its cropping pattern to conserve natural resources, most importantly water, and ensure sustainable development of agriculture. But this must not be done at the cost of the livelihood of farmers, who already fall in the lower stratum of society. The paddy-wheat cropping system is more remunerative than alternative field crops. Besides assured marketing at remunerative MSP, paddy and wheat have higher yield potential, better stability of performance under climate volatility and their cultivation is mechanised.The Act on contract farming will perhaps not be able to deliver significant results as are being promised. For creating a sustainable pathway to contract farming on a scale required for replacing paddy and wheat by more profitable crop options, the government-supported mechanism like the one for cotton, if not as in the case of paddy and wheat, and/or cooperatives as for milk and sugarcane are a must. This has to be aided by large-scale involvement of farmers’ aggregators like farmer producer organisations or companies. There is also a need to legally ward off the apprehensions of the farming community that big corporates may demolish the established input and output market channels in the long run and start dictating terms to the poor farmers who have little bargaining power in the market. Thus, while attracting private capital investments in production, processing and marketing of high-value agriculture, the associated adverse socio-economic implications must be avoided. On the whole, a more comprehensive strategy consisting of enhancing public expenditure on agricultural research and education, processing, marketing infrastructure including cold chains, market intelligence and capacity-building of farmers is required.The authors are Vice Chancellor and Head, Dept of Economics and Sociology, respectively, PAU, LudhianaSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/create-a-sustainable-pathway-for-farmers-238028
12-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Farmers' protest: Labourer dies of heart attack||A worker of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, who experienced chest pain on his way home after taking part in the Delhi protest for two weeks, died during treatment at a Amritsar hospital here on Saturday. The deceased, identified as Barkat (80) (see pic) of Bhojian village, was a farm labourer. He along with his associates left his village on March 20 to take part in the protest. He was returning home on April 7 when he experienced chest pain near Karnal (Haryana). He was admitted to the Civil Hospital from where doctors referred him to GNDH, Amritsar. He died in the hospital. The body was kept at the local mortuary where the postmortem will be conducted on Monday. Mohinder Singh, leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, has demanded compensation for the victim’s family. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-labourer-dies-of-heart-attack-237958
12-04-2021||---||“Fake” encounter: SIT records statements of family of victim||Amritsar, April 11An SIT under IG Border Range has started inquiry into the toll plaza “fake” encounter case. On Saturday, the SIT recorded the statements of wife and brother of the deceased, Inderjit Singh of Hoshiarpur. The SIT was constituted after the victim’s family moved the High Court. The court has asked the police and SDM, who was conducting the magisterial probe, to submit report. The court has also asked from the police as to why an FIR was not registered in the matter?The family also told the SIT that the police officers who gunned down Inderjeet gave them “compensation” of Rs15 lakh from their pocket. Sarabjit Singh Verka, principal investigator of an NGO, PHRO, asked if the encounter wasn’t fake, then why did the police give cash to the victim family?“There are several flaws in the previous magisterial probe. The CCTV footage of the incident was deleted but the DVRs were not seized during probe. The FIR was not registered after the incident. Now, everything is in the notice of the court,” he said.Inderjit Singh of Hoshiarpur was gunned down by the police under mysterious circumstances on December 8. Initially, a magisterial probe was ordered. SDM Vikas Heera is conducting the probe.On December 8, the CIA staff was holding a naka at Jandiala Guru toll plaza following snatching of a car from a DSP-rank officer in the Putlighar area, when they reportedly received the information from the Ambala police that a person had snatched an SUV and was heading towards Amritsar via Ludhiana and Jalandhar.Meanwhile, Inderjit reached and he was shot dead by the CIA staff. Fingers were raised over the police theory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-encounter-sit-records-statements-of-family-of-victim-237959
12-04-2021||GS Paul||SGPC prepares logo dedicated to 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 11A special logo dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur has been designed by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC).This logo would also be embossed on the commemorative gold and silver coins dedicated to the centenary.The logo depicts the structure of Guru ka Mahal, the birthplace of Guru located in Amritsar. Beneath it is an inscription of the 400-year-old Prakash Purb and the verse of gurbani relating to the Guru at the top. This logo will be used by the SGPC during the centenary celebrations.SGPC spokesperson and deputy secretary Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said a special panel was constituted in this regard, which has designed this logo and dedicated it to the occasion.A separate panel has also been constituted to decide upon the commemorative coins. These commemorative coins will be of gold and silver. Of these, gold coins will weigh 5 grams and 10 grams, whereas the silver coins will weigh 25 grams and 50 grams.Simarjit Singh, deputy secretary, Dharam Prachar Committee, said the work was underway and these coins would be readied soon and offered to devotees who intend to purchase these.On one side of the coin will be a picture of Gurdwara Guru ka Mahal and on the other that of Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib located in Delhi.Gold and silver commemorative coins were also released on the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, which were purchased by a large number of devotees as a centenary commemoration.Recently, a proposal has been prepared by the Centre for releasing special commemorative stamps, postal envelopes and commemorative coins dedicated to the occasion. The SGPC had already submitted designing quotient to the Centre’s panel, as desired. The outline of the centenary celebrations has been curtailed due to Covid threat. The main function is being held on May 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-prepares-logo-dedicated-to-400th-birth-anniversary-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-237961
12-04-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Farmers' protest: To beat the heat, bamboo huts come up at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, April 11With temperature heading north, bamboo huts and sheds with green nets replaced tractor-trailers at Singhu. Over 110 huts have been set up with facilities such as refrigerators, air coolers and fans to give farmers respite from the scorching heat.The farmers are spending Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh on such hut. Migrant labourers are working overtime to meet the growing demand.The rising temperature has taken a toll on gathering at Singhu, the epicentre of the farmers’ protest, although farmer leaders claim it is due to the ongoing harvest season.Ravinder Singh Phagwara of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar said they had been putting up at the Delhi border since November 26 last year. “It was easy during the winter months.Although staying in the open in scorching heat is difficult, we will not give up,” he said.“Bamboo huts covered with tarpaulin and mosquito nets have been set up. A well-equipped hut costs around Rs 1.5 lakh and it can house now 40-45 people at one time,” he said.Sharanpreet Singh, Ranjeet Singh and Amritpal Singh of Jalandhar have equipped their tractor-trailer with an air conditioner. They said they won’t step back till the laws were repealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-to-beat-the-heat-bamboo-huts-come-up-at-singhu-border-237968
12-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Going door-to-door to spread Covid awareness||Elated at proper postal addressFatehgarh Sahib: The decision to divide Sirhind-Fatehgarh into sectors has been heartily welcomed by residents. The idea of MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra was executed by SDM Sanjeev Sharma. As per the notification, Sirhind-Fatehgarh town has been divided into 27 sectors. Earlier, the town was divided into ‘mohallas’, streets and wards. The house numbers will not change and it will be easy for the residents to give their postal address to the outsiders. The location will be easily identified and the problems faced by visitors, earlier, will be eliminated.Cong adopts ‘please-all’ policyAbohar: Eyeing the next Vidhan Sabha election, the Congress has adopted a ‘please-all’ policy in the election of the Municipal Corporation officials and given representation to all communities. Five-time councillor Vimal Thatai was elected the Mayor. He belongs to the Arora community. Ganpat Rai from the SC community and Raj Kumar Nirania from the OBC community were elected as Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor, respectively. Mangat Rai Bathla was elected the chairman of the finance committee, which will have two members — Vaisakha Goyal and Jasbir Kaur.Contributed by Surinder Bhardwaj, Raj Sadosh & Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/going-door-to-door-to-spread-covid-awareness-237794
12-04-2021||Abohar||One held for minor’s rape||The local police have arrested Bagicha Singh of Tootwala village, who had allegedly kidnapped and raped a 16-year-old girl, when she was returning from her school on April 5.A friend of the accused, Amandeep Singh, had also been held for helping in abduction. A case was registered under Sections 363 and 366A of the IPC on the complaint of the victim’s family. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/one-held-for-minors-rape-237795
12-04-2021||Fazilka||Cong ex-minister Hans Raj Josan to join SAD||Two-time Congress MLA from Jalalabad and former minister Hans Raj Josan is set to join the SAD soon. He is likely to make the move during SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s visit to the Jalalabad segment on April 14, it is learnt.Josan said he was disillusioned with the Congress as he was ignored and humiliated for years, adding he would take the final call on Monday.Josan, who enjoys a considerable clout in the Kamboj community, was elected to the Assembly in 1992 and 2022 on the Congress ticket. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-ex-minister-hans-raj-josan-to-join-sad-237796
12-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Cops, excise officials attacked during raid||Abohar, April 11A team comprising police and Excise Department officials was allegedly attacked during a raid at Dhani Chiragh on the periphery of the town today.The miscreants reportedly damaged police vehicles and caused minor injuries to some policemen. The team included DSP (Crime against Women) Mohan Dass, City-1 police in charge Tejinder Singh. The team had gone to the area after reports were received that some persons were illegally running liquor business.A case had been registered against Lakhwinder Singh, Gurjit Kaur, Vasso Bai, Shamsher Singh, Yadvinder Singh, Rachhpal Singh and others under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 341 (wrongful restraint), 427 (mischief causing damage), 148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC. The SHO said the suspects would be arrested soon.In a recent statement, BJP legislator Arun Narang had alleged liquor was being marketed and sold through unlicensed shops in residential colonies here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cops-excise-officials-attacked-during-raid-237797
12-04-2021||Vishav Bharti||Concern over poor contact tracing in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11Poor contact tracing of patients has emerged as a major hurdle in Punjab’s Covid control efforts. Contact tracing is vital as it helps in early diagnosis and checking the spread.At present, the state has tracing rate of 13.4 contacts per case, although as per norms, it should be 25-30. In a recent communication, the Centre asked the state to focus on contact tracing, particularly in Patiala and Ludhiana districts. Sources say shortage of manpower is hampering the surveillance efforts. The government now is making efforts to test at least 20 persons per positive patient. Till September last year, at 4.4 against the national norm of 10, Punjab’s contact tracing was one of the poorest in the country.Punjab Working on it||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/concern-over-poor-contact-tracing-in-punjab-237946
12-04-2021||---||Himachal makes RT-PCR test mandatory for visitors from 7 states||Shimla, April 11The government has made the RT-PCR test mandatory for tourists from seven high-load states of Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh from April 16.The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today. The visitors from these states will be permitted to Himachal only if they have a 72-hour prior RT-PCR negative test report. In view of the sharp rise in Covid cases, the government had extended the closure of all educational institutions till April 21 for students as well as teaching and non-teaching staff two days back.The CM said all SOPs and guidelines issued by the Centre and state government to check the spread of coronavirus must be enforced strictly. Himachal recorded the highest-ever figure of 941 cases in a single day, during the second wave, besides 12 deaths, yesterday, forcing the government to take the steps.As of now, the government had decided to allow tourists to visit the state, but, at the same time, hotel owners and tourists should strictly adhere to the SOPs. While laying stress on the strategy for testing, tracing and treatment with effective surveillance of micro-containment zones, he said greater emphasis must also be laid on doing RT-PCR tests. “The Health Department must take steps to increase the bed capacity to meet any eventuality,” he said.570 fresh cases reportedShimla: The Covid situation continued to remain grim with 570 cases being reported on Sunday, though there was no death in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases shot up to 5,369, with positive cases being 69,686. The highest number of 128 cases were reported in Kangra, 105 in Solan, 92 in Shimla, 59 in Mandi, 53 in Una, 46 in Sirmaur, 26 in Hamirpur, 21 each in Bilaspur and Chamba, 10 in Kullu, seven in Lahaul-Spiti and two in KinnaurNGO donates Rs 51K for Covid fundHamirpur: Youth Empowerment and Social Service (YESS), an NGO, has donated Rs 51,000 for the PM Covid Care Fund to mark the birthday of Prem Kumar Dhumal. Narender Attri, president, YESS, handed over the cheque to the former Chief Minister at his home at Sameerpur. Attri said over 400 people contributed the money for the PM Care Fund and the cheque was given to the former CM for forwarding it to the Prime Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/himachal-makes-rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-visitors-from-7-states-237869
12-04-2021||---||Will improve vaccine supply, govt assures Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab||New Delhi, April 11A day after several non-NDA ruled states flagged Covid vaccine shortages, the Centre on Sunday assured Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra that the issue of expansion of supplies was being considered.In a letter to the principal secretaries (health) of the three states, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, “The government has taken note of the issues related to vaccine availability and will take the required action to augment the supplies based on the available stock.”27.69 lakh doses on Day 1 of ‘Tika Utsav’ The assurance came along with the Centre taking up with the above states several gaps in Covid response strategy of test, track and treat. The secretary quoted findings of the central teams stationed in 50 districts of Punjab, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. PM Narendra Modi launched ‘Tika Utsav’, a vaccination drive between April 11 and 14, describing the event as the “beginning of the second major war against Covid”.“In this war we have to pay special attention to personal and social hygiene,” the PM said, pushing for micro-containment zones.As the daily Covid cases crossed a new peak of 1,52,879 cases today and active cases reached 11,08,987 mark, the PM appealed on Tika Utsav, “Our success will depend on our awareness regarding micro-containment zones, our ability to avoid unnecessary venturing out of home, our zeal to ensure that all eligible people are vaccinated and our respect for masks and other protocols.”The PM used the occasion (Tika Utsav will be marked from today, the birth anniversary of Jyotiba Phule, until April 14, the birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar) to stress three messages for people – each one vaccinate one, each one treat one and each one save one.“Let us help the older people with vaccination; let us aid the lesser privileged with Covid treatment; let us wear masks and save ourselves and others,” said the PM.Even as the Utsav was launched, vaccine shortage continued to bog the inoculation drive with reports of 900 session sites closing down in Odisha due to the supplies running out.The government, meanwhile, said it was considering the financial aid request from the Serum Institute of India which has sought help of Rs 3,000 crore to expand production. Currently, the SII produces around 21 lakh vaccine doses daily out of India’s daily production capacity of 23.2 lakh doses. As the daily vaccine administration swells (35,19,987 doses were administered in the last 24 hours), the supply will get stressed further. Top government sources said funding mechanisms for augmenting vaccine stocks were being studied.Meanwhile SII chief executive officer Adar Poonaawala has said production is likely to be up by June.Ten states contributing 80.92 pc of the over 1.52 lakh daily cases today are Maharashtra (55,411), Chhattisgarh (14,098), UP (12,798), Delhi (7,897) Karnataka (6,955), Kerala (6,194), Tamil Nadu (5,989), Gujarat (5,011), Madhya Pradesh (4,986), Rajasthan (4,401).So far as 11,08,087 active cases go, these now make up 8.29 pc of the total 1,33,58,805 cases in India.Govt to consider SII grant requestThe Centre said it was considering the financial aid request from the Serum Institute of India, which has sought Rs3,000 cr to expand production. Currently, the SII produces 21 lakh vaccine doses daily out of the country’s daily production capacity of 23.2 lakh doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-improve-vaccine-supply-govt-assures-maharashtra-chhattisgarh-punjab-237926
12-04-2021||Patiala||11 trucks with other states’ wheat seized in Patiala||A Patiala Police team today confiscated 11 trucks allegedly bringing wheat from other states to be sold at MSP in Punjab. In collaboration with the Market Committee, Patiala, the police are analysing the crop produce that is coming from other states to the district.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said directions for protecting crop markets and crop produce had been given to all DSPs and SHOs. A Ghanaur police team identified 11 trucks which were bringing wheat from other states. These trucks were sent to the Market Committee for verification. Further investigation would be carried out as per the Market Committee’s reports.“Information was received that a few miscreants had been supplying and selling wheat from other states in the markets of Punjab. Following this, a team was deputed to supervise the checkpoints to ensure that no one could bring the wheat from other states to Punjab for the purpose of selling it in the markets,” said the SSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-trucks-with-other-states-wheat-seized-in-patiala-237798
12-04-2021||Bathinda||Police fail to arrest Lakha Sidhana at hospital||Lakha Sidhana, one of the accused in the R-Day violence case, remained for an hour inside the premises of Civil Hospital where his cousin Gurdeep Singh has been admitted after being allegedly beaten up by the Delhi Police, but the Bathinda police failed to arrest him.Navjot Singh Sidhu, Congress leaderState underminedIt’s shameful that the Delhi Police are allowed to torture Punjabis in our territory. It violates Punjab Govt’s authority. With whose connivance was it done?Bathinda SSP Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said: “A team led by the SP (City) went there to arrest him, but he had fled by then.” Meanwhile, in a statement to the police, Sidhana’s cousin Gurdeep Singh has claimed that the Delhi Police forcibly took him to the Janakpuri police station where he was tortured.Sources said Gurdeep in his statement stated on April 8, he had boarded a train at 4.30 pm from the Rampura railway station as he had to appear for a law exam. He reached Patiala at 7.15 pm and was picked up by his friend.On their way to Punjabi University, Patiala, they were stopped near Urban Estate by the Delhi Police’s special cell and forcibly took him to the Capital. He was tortured there and dropped at the Ambala bus stand. He somehow reached his village where the panchayat got him admitted to the Civil Hospital on Saturday night. Gurdeep has suffered injuries from a blunt weapon as per the MLR report.“The police have recorded the statement of Gurdeep Singh. Further action will be taken on the completion of the probe,” said SSP Virk. Sidhana asked the Punjab Government to register a case against the Delhi Police. Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Surjit Phul has held the Punjab Government and the police responsible for the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-fail-to-arrest-lakha-sidhana-at-hospital-237799
12-04-2021||Bathinda||NHAI team gheraoed over land acquisition on Bathinda-Dabwali road||Farmers affiliated with BKU Ugrahan and Dakonda gheraoed a team of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on the Bathinda-Dabwali road over land acquisition today.The team was taking measurement of the Bathinda-Sangaria National Highway-54 to start the widening work. The farmers had been sitting on a dharna against land acquisition for the project for past 18 days.Around 110 acres at Jodhpur Romana, Gehri Butter, Gurusar Sainiwala, Sangat Kalan, Machhana, Pathrala, Chak Ruldu Singhwala and Kuti among other villages would be acquired as part of the project. Harvinder Singh, a BKU Dakonda leader, said: “The district administration has fixed a very low price for the agricultural land located in a prime location.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nhai-team-gheraoed-over-land-acquisition-on-bathinda-dabwali-road-237800
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Control room in all 22 districts of Punjab for wheat procurement||To facilitate farmers and arhtiyas during the rabi marketing season, the Punjab Mandi Board issued contact numbers of the state control room at Mandi Board headquarters in Mohali. The numbers have been made operational for all 22 districts to promptly address the issues related to procurement operations in the wake of Covid-19.Reiterating the resolve of the Punjab Government to procure every single grain of the farmers’ produce, Mandi Board Chairman Lal Singh said elaborate arrangements were in place and all necessary health protocols would be followed in the right earnest to keep the spread of Covid-19 under check.A Mandi Board spokesperson said farmers should download ‘epmb mobile app’ to get the latest information on mandi activities as well as e-passes for procurement. — TNS66,321 MT boughtChandigarh: Government agencies on Sunday purchased 66,321 metric tonnes of wheat in the state on day two of procurement. This included 15,788 metric tonnes by Pungrain, 19,859 MT by Markfed, 14,855 MT by Punsup and 9,639 MT by the Punjab State Warehousing Corporation. FCI procured 170 MT wheat, besides 6,010 MT by Pungrain. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/control-room-in-all-22-districts-of-punjab-for-wheat-procurement-237801
12-04-2021||---||Centre flags gaps in Punjab health infrastructure||New Delhi, April 11The central teams visiting Punjab to help the state contain the surge in Covid-19 cases have flagged the fast exhausting ICU bed capacity in most of the eight red districts witnessing a rise in infections.The team in its report to the Health Ministry said while ICU bed occupancy rate in the state was high (see box), availability of isolation beds with oxygen was shrinking.Second surge: Central team findingsAs of today, the occupancy rate of isolation beds with oxygen is — Hoshiarpur 98 per cent, SAS Nagar 69, Ludhiana 46, Amritsar 38, Jalandhar 35.6, SBS Nagar 35.2, Patiala 34.4 and Rupnagar 25 per cent. In all above districts, more than 75 per cent of the infected are under home isolation, mandating strict monitoring by the state health authorities.The proportion of the positive persons isolated at home in the state are — Ludhiana 100 per cent, SAS Nagar 95, SBS Nagar 88.5, Jalandhar 82.3, Amritsar 78.6, Patiala 78, Hoshiarpur 77.82 and Rupnagar 77.3 per cent. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan flagged the above gaps to Punjab Principal Secretary, Health, Hussan Lal in a letter on Saturday, urging enhanced contact tracing in Patiala and Ludhiana.“Contact tracing and surveillance efforts in SAS Nagar are being hampered due to shortage of manpower. Low rates of testing have been reported from Patiala. There is no RT-PCR testing laboratory in Rupnagar. This has to be addressed urgently,” Bhushan said.Citing the findings of the Central teams, Bhushan said there was no dedicated Covid hospital in SAS Nagar and Rupnagar and patients were being referred to Chandigarh and other districts.“The teams have reported lack of Covid care centre and dedicated Covid hospital in Rupnagar. Hospital bed occupancy rates in SAS Nagar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana are on the higher side and must be addressed in view of the surge. They have also reported issues with procurement of ventilators for proper case management in SBS Nagar and Rupnagar. Although ventilators are available, these are not being optimally utilised due to shortage of healthcare workforce, particularly doctors and nurses,” Bhushan said, advising Punjab to hire contractual workers. He said shortage of healthcare workforce had been reported from Patiala and SAS Nagar also.ICU bed occupancy Ventilator occupancy (%)SAS Nagar 30 Hoshiarpur 20 Jalandhar 27.4 Ludhiana 8 SBS Nagar 8 Patiala 6.64Amritsar 6.5||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-flags-gaps-in-punjab-health-infrastructure-237896
12-04-2021||---||Kotkapura verdict: Don’t celebrate just yet, Punjab CM to SAD||Chandigarh, April 11Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday ridiculed SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for jumping the gun on the Punjab and Haryana High Court orders in the Kotkapura firing case, of which the court is yet to release the copy, and urged the Akali leader to refrain from making merry as the matter was far from over.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterBadals not absolved so farIn any case, whatever the verdict in the matter, I stand by the investigation of the SIT, which has, at no point, absolved the Badal family of involvement in the heinous incident.“At least wait for the copy of the orders, before claiming victory,” the Chief Minister advised the SAD president, mocking his reaction to media reports of the High Court’s decision on the investigation into the 2015 incident by the Punjab Police’s Special Investigation Team (SIT).“In any case, whatever the verdict in the matter, I stand by the investigation of the SIT, which has, at no point, absolved the Badal family of involvement in the heinous incident that led to innocent people losing their lives,” Capt Amarinder said, vowing to ensure justice for the families and punishment for the guilty.Reiterating that his government will challenge any court order that either quashes the SIT probe or removes the officer in charge, Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, the CM said Sukhbir’s desperation to celebrate his non-victory exposed his panic in the face of what he must have seen as writing on the wall, given the direction in which the SIT probe was pointing. The SIT has so far chargesheeted six persons in the Kotkapura case, including then Kotkapura Akali MLA Mantar Singh Brar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-verdict-dont-celebrate-just-yet-punjab-cm-to-sad-237768
12-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Jobless teachers jump into canal in Patiala, rescued||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 11Demanding jobs, two unemployed ETT pass teachers jumped into the Bhakra canal near the Passiana police station this afternoon. They were, however, rescued by divers soon after.The teachers were staging a sit-in on the Bathinda-Chandigarh highway when the incident occurred.Prem Singh Chandumajra, SAD leaderYouth Forced to take such stepsThe youth have been forced to take such steps because they see a dark future ahead. Instead of addressing their concerns, the government is thrashing them.The ETT and TET pass teachers said the government should immediately advertise 10,000 fresh posts for their cadre and bar BEd graduates from applying for the posts.Sandeep Sama, union leader, said: “We have been protesting for months in Patiala and Sangrur, but the government had not paid heed to our demands. Qualified youths of Punjab are jumping into canals for jobs, while the Chief Minister is bragging about giving jobs to youngsters.”The teachers lifted their protest in the evening after an assurance in writing of a meeting with Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, Education Secretary Krishan Kumar and Secretary to Chief Minister MP Singh.Earlier, the police cane-charged BEd and TET unemployed teachers who, in a separate protest under the banner of the Sanjha Berozegar Morcha, tried to march towards the Chief Minister’s residence.During the face-off between the police and teachers, several protesters were detained.Some protesters also suffered injuries in the clash, it was learnt.The teachers had already announced a gherao of the CM’s residence. The police cane-charged and detained them near the Polo Ground, 100 metres from the CM’s residence.DSP Yogesh Sharma said: “Our men also suffered injuries in the clash. We will file an FIR under relevant sections. The detained protesters were released after a meeting was fixed between them and the Patiala MP.”Cops’ action reprehensible: AAPThe AAP condemned the cane-charge by the police, calling it reprehensible. AAP Barnala MLA and Youth Wing president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said CM Capt Amarinder Singh, who had made tall promises to the youth before the elections, was now raining batons on them for demanding their rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jobless-teachers-jump-into-canal-in-patiala-rescued-237761
12-04-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Scholarship scheme: No clarity, students refuse to return share of colleges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11Disbursal of Rs 152 crore among 1.76 lakh students enrolled under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme has put the government and private educational institutions in a tight spot, thanks to the Social Welfare Department.For the academic year 2020-21, the department transferred the scholarship amount into accounts of students without clear guidelines on the break-up of the released scholarship amount that comprises the tuition fee to be paid to the respective college and the maintenance allowance to be given to the students.In many cases, the students have refused to share the tuition fee component with their respective college, attracting protest from college managements, which are now knocking at the door of Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and senior government functionaries. At Jalandhar, Bathinda and other places, students have protested as the college authorities are asking for the academic fee.“The government rushed to deposit the money into the accounts of students through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode without clarifying over the tuition fee component that the students are supposed to return to their college. It seems more like a political move to appease the SC vote bank that has been annoyed due to non-release of funds in the past,” said departmental officials. Social Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said the amount had been transferred into the accounts of students as per the revised Central guidelines. He claimed the academic fee had to be returned by students to their respective colleges.For academic year 2020-21, Rs 152 crore given to students is the state’s share of 40 per cent under the central scheme, while the remaining 60 per cent share (Rs 229 crore) is to be paid by the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. As per the Centre’s scheme, the 60 per cent amount is to be released once the state has disbursed its 40 per cent share. It is learnt that the Centre has already given sanction for disbursal of its 60 per cent share.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/scholarship-scheme-no-clarity-students-refuse-to-return-share-of-colleges-237762
12-04-2021||Sangrur||Minor ‘hung’ upside down from tree, thrashed by 3||A minor Dalit boy was allegedly hung upside down from a tree and thrashed by three other minors at Meemsa village under the Dhuri Sadar police station.The alleged crime took place after the victim failed to pay for four ‘tikkis’ (potato patty) they ate at a local shop. The police have started an investigation into the incident.Dispute over ‘tikki’“On April 7, the three minors, including a Dalit, called the victim to a local shop and offered him a tikki. However, the three fled without paying. When the shopkeeper asked him for the money, he said he hadn’t ordered the food. The shopkeeper noted down the names and addresses of the three others and let him go,” said Jagseer Singh Ghanaur, an activist who got the victim admitted to the Dhuri Civil Hospital on Sunday.But when the shopkeeper approached the minors’ parents and complained against them, the three decided to teach the victim a lesson for disclosing their identities.“On April 8, the three took the victim to the village stadium, tied him to a tree and thrashed him. A woman saw the act but the three fled the scene. The victim suffered leg and shoulder injuries, but the police were yet to register a case,” claimed Ghanaur.Dhuri DSP Parmjeet Sandhu said they had received information from the hospital that a minor child had been admitted there. “There are allegations that the child was tied upside down and assaulted. The investigating officer will record his statement. We will take appropriate action thereafter,” said the DSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-hung-upside-down-from-tree-thrashed-by-3-237763
12-04-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||105-yr-old oldest woman in country to get inoculated in Moga||Tribune News ServiceMoga, April 11A 105-year-old woman proved age is no bar when she received the Covid-19 vaccine in Moga.Kartar Kaur, a resident of the Moga city, is the oldest woman in the country to have received the vaccination. She received the first dose of the vaccine along with her 80-year-old son and other members of the family.Earlier, on March 10, a 103-year-old woman, J Kameshwari, received the vaccination at Apollo Hospital in Bengaluru.Health officials said the woman cooperated well with the staff while getting vaccinated and neither she nor her family members reported any side-effects in the30-minute post-vaccination observation.Praising the spirit of Kartar Kaur, District Magistrate Sandeep Hans said, “I appreciate the courage shown by the woman and her family. They deserve to be praised for setting an example for other senior citizens and helping to alleviate any fear and doubt in their minds regarding vaccination.”After getting the first dose of vaccination, the woman appealed to people to get the jab and help eradicate Covid from the country.Hold exams in online mode, PTU urgedChandigarh: In view of the rising Covid cases, the Punjab Unaided Colleges’ Association (PUCA) on Sunday requested Vice Chancellor, IKGPTU, Jalandhar, Dr Ajay K Sharma to conduct the pending examinations through the online mode. “Taking to social media, several students from various states are expressing their concerns, requesting the colleges to conduct exams online in order to safeguard the larger interest of students,” the association said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/105-yr-old-oldest-woman-in-country-to-get-inoculated-in-moga-237765
12-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Hoshiarpur villagers allege illegal felling||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 11Residents of Kukanate village in Hoshiarpur have alleged repeated illegal felling of khair trees on the forest land of the village and surrounding area.Their worst fears came true on Saturday when a part of the forest area caught fire. The Kukanate Welfare and Charitable Society has written several times to the Forest Department to stop illegal felling. The DFO, Hoshiarpur, however, denies the charge, claiming the legal felling was illegal.Naresh Mahajan, DFO, HoshiarpurNorms followedNo felling took place where the fire was reported. A permit to cut 2,000 to 2,500 trees was issued this year. These are legal permits sought by landowners, who have the right to get trees on their premises cut.In a letter yesterday, the society said: “The matter of illegal felling of khair trees in the jungle by miscreants may also be investigated on the land belonging to the Forest Department measuring 84 acres.” The society has been seeking investigation for years. In its letter to the DFO on March 9, the society alleged: “The illegal felling under the garb of permits has been carried out by unscrupulous sub-contractors of the village locality with the patronage of forest guard and forest range of the Dholbaha Forest Division, Hoshiarpur. Nobody managing and controlling the forestry of the village listens to our request.“This deforestation was brought to their notice on 8-3-2020 and on previous occasions when illegal felling was occurring at the village. Neither was the message attended through telephones, nor notice taken by the department officials,” it claimed.Jatindra Sharma, Principal Conservator of Forests, Punjab, said: “This is the season of jungle fires and such cases are being reported in every state. As far as felling is concerned, we will see who has made the complaint and the DFO will look into it. We shall be in a position to comment when the local forest department has investigated the matter and looked into the complaint.”Naresh Mahajan, District Forest Officer, Hoshiarpur, said: “At Kukanate, there is a dispute between two parties. They at times involve the Forest Department in their personal feud. We have called and heard their grievances.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hoshiarpur-villagers-allege-illegal-felling-237767
12-04-2021||---||Sonu Sood face of Punjab Covid vaccine drive||Chandigarh, April 11Actor Sonu Sood has been appointed the brand ambassador of the Punjab Government’s Covid vaccination programme.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh made the announcement a day after meeting Sonu, who called on him at his residence.“There is no one more ideally suited to inspire and influence people to take the vaccine. There is a lot of hesitancy among people here in Punjab. Sonu’s popularity among them, and his exemplary role in helping tens of thousands of migrants reach safely home since the pandemic broke out last year, will help counter their reservations,” said the CM.“When people hear this ‘Punjab da puttar’ talk about the benefits of vaccine, and how safe and essential it is, they will believe him. Because they trust him,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sonu-sood-face-of-punjab-covid-vaccine-drive-237802
12-04-2021||Faridkot||Activists protest burning of trees by government staff in Faridkot||Activists on Sunday staged a dharna at the Deputy Commissioner’s residence here after some government departments, including District Development and Panchayat and Canal, allegedly burnt a large number of trees in the name of cleaning the dead grass, fallen branches and leaves.Protesters said it was unfortunate that district authorities were treating these ‘illegal’ acts as a trivial issue when a large number of birds had perished and their habitat burnt due to fire. “Instead of cleaning the areas of dead leaves, tree limbs and other debris, many departments are in the habit of setting the ‘garbage’ on fire, killing birds, destroying their habitat and causing pollution,” said Mangat Arora, an advocate and member of the Society for Ecological and Environment Resources (SEER), Faridkot. Many trees planted by the society had perished in these frequent and repeating incidents of fire, claimed Sandeep Arora, convener, SEER.Earlier, opposing the axing of trees for widening of National Highway No 54 (Bathinda-Dabwali road), SEER had approached the NGT, suggesting a way under which roads could be widened only on its one side so that over 10,000 trees could be saved. Faridkot ADC Gurjit Singh assured them of legal action against the departments which were indulging in such illegal acts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/activists-protest-burning-of-trees-by-government-staff-in-faridkot-237803
12-04-2021||Aditi Tandon||Covid surge: Centre says ICU bed capacity fast exhausting in Punjab’s red districts||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 11The central teams visiting Punjab to help the state contain the surge of COVID 19 cases have flagged fast exhausting ICU bed capacity in most of the eight red districts witnessing recent rise in infections.The team in its report to the Health Ministry said ICU bed occupancy rates in the state ranged from 20 pc in Hoshiarpur and 40 pc in Amritsar to as high as 89 pc in Ludhiana; 80 pc in SAS Nagar, 70.6 pc in SBS Nagar, 63.2 pc in Jalandhar and 44.4 pc in Patiala. Rupnagar data was not available.Read also: Himachal makes RT-PCR test mandatory for visitors from Punjab, six other high Covid load statesCapacity of isolation beds with oxygen is also shrinking. As of today, the occupancy rate of isolation beds with oxygen occupancy in Punjab is Amritsar 38 pc, Rupnagar 25 pc, Patiala 34.4 pc, Jalandhar 35.6 pc to Hoshiarpur 98 pc, Ludhiana 46 pc; SAS Nagar 69 pc and SBS Nagar 35.2 pc.In all above districts more than 75 pc infected are under home isolation mandating strict monitoring by state health authorities.The proportion of COVID positive persons in home isolation in the state are—Amritsar 78.6 pc, Hoshiarpur 77.82 pc, Jalandhar 82.3 pc, Ludhiana 100 pc, Patiala 78 pc, Rupnagar 77.3 pc, SAS Nagar 95 pc, SBS Nagar 88.5 pc.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan flagged the above gaps to Punjab Principal Secretary Health Hussan Lal in a letter on Saturday urging enhanced contact tracing in Patiala and Ludhiana.“Contact tracing and surveillance efforts in SAS Nagar are being hampered due to shortage of manpower. Low rates of testing have been reported from Patiala. There is no RT-PCR testing laboratory in Rupnagar. This has been addressed urgently,” Bhushan said.Citing the findings of central teams, Bhushan said there is no dedicated COVID Hospital in SAS Nagar and Rupnagar andpatients are being referred to Chandigarh and other districts.“The team has reported lack of Covid Care Centre and dedicated Covid Hospital in Rupnagar. Hospital bed occupancy rates in SAS Nagar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana are on the higher side and must be addressed in view of the surge. Teams have also reported issues with procurement of ventilators for proper case management in SBS Nagar and in  Rupnagar, although ventilators are available, these are not being optimally utilised due to shortage of healthcare workforce, particularly doctors and nurses,” health secretary said advising Punjab to hire contractual workers.He said shortage of healthcare workforce has been reported from Patiala, SAS Nagar and Rupnagar also.Other findingsSlow pace of vaccination in Patiala and Ludhiana among persons above 45 years (with co-morbidities) and those above 60.Lack of COVID appropriate behavior in the communityVentilator occupancy in PunjabAmritsar 6.5 pc, Hoshiarpur 20 pc, Jalandhar 27.4 pc, Ludhiana 8 pc, Patiala 6.64 pc, SAS Nagar 30 pc, SBS Nagar 8 pc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-surge-centre-says-icu-bed-capacity-fast-exhausting-in-punjabs-red-districts-237728
12-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Shameful that Delhi Police is allowed to torture Punjabis in our domain and territory: Navjot Sidhu||Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said it was shameful that Delhi Police is allowed to torture Punjabis in our domain and territory over the news of Republic Day violence case accused Lakha Sidhana’s cousin Gurdeep Singh allegedly being thrashed by Delhi Police.“Shameful that Delhi Police is allowed to torture Punjabis in our domain and territory. It violates Punjab Govt’s authority - with whose connivance was it done ?? Lessons should be learnt from Mamata Banerjee who put CBI behind bars when they encroached in W.Bengal’s jurisdiction,” Sidhu tweeted.Shameful that Delhi Police is allowed to torture Punjabis in our domain and territory. It violates Punjab Govt’s authority - with whose connivance was it done ?? Lessons should be learnt from Mamata Banerjee who put CBI behind bars when they encroached in W.Bengal’s jurisdiction.  Republic Day violence case accused Lakha Sidhana, who is on the run, on Saturday alleged the Delhi Police abducted his cousin Gurdeep Singh from Patiala and beat him badly.While talking to The Tribune, Sidhana said the intelligence wing of the Delhi Police, which arrested Deep Sidhu, took away his cousin from Patiala who had gone there to give his law exam. He alleged the police repeatedly asked Gurdeep to tell his whereabouts.Lakha said he completely blamed Capt Amarinder Singh government as how could Delhi Police officials come here and take away a youth without informing the police station concerned.Gurdeep was brought to the Civil Hospital by Lakha’s supporters, where his condition is stated to be serious. Dr Ravinder Singh at the emergency ward said Gurdeep suffered injuries on the back and legs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shameful-that-delhi-police-is-allowed-to-torture-punjabis-in-our-domain-and-territory-navjot-sidhu-237675
12-04-2021||Anup Singh||On Satyajit Ray's centenary,  Qissa director Anup Singh presents a view from Punjab||On May 2, India and the world will be celebrating Satyajit Ray’s birth centenary. And here in Punjab, how are we considering celebrating this extraordinary filmmaker? In fact, are we going to? Should we? We might even ask ourselves, why should we? Well, we have to admit to ourselves that there’s no other Indian filmmaker who has managed to safeguard international respect for Indian cinema the way his work has for the past 60 years or so. And not only respect, there’s a deep affection in the hearts of film professionals, writers, scientists, educators, politicians, besides of course ordinary filmgoers.Then, something that has enchanted me from the very first moment I noticed it in Ray’s cinema: his adroit ability to capture precise particulars. For instance, rain drops as they rebound as scintillations when they hit a surface, or the sense of heat building in a hand lying in a fragment of sunshine on a windowsill. And, you realise that even as these particulars — be they of a village or a specific city — might create a sense of identity, draw a border, Ray always seeks to push and open them towards lively, varied correspondences with the deeper patterns of our world. Identity and borders in Ray do not close, Ghare-Baire (The Home and the World) are not in opposition.There’s a resplendent affirmation of our earthly life in Ray’s work. There’s a resolve and strength to cherish what the world might revile, and a longing to seek not for us, his audience, but with us, our genuine relationship with our cosmos.In his own way, Ray’s work is imbued with the quest and questions that we find in the visionary poetry of Guru Nanak or in the poetry of some of our Sufi poets. This should not come as a surprise as Ray connects to Punjab through Rabindranath Tagore. And, of course, a very large number of Ray’s films are based on Tagore’s stories and novels. We know that Tagore travelled with his father to Punjab at the age of 11. They rented a big house on the outskirts of Amritsar and visited the Golden Temple everyday. It seems the young Tagore was mesmerised by Guru Nanak’s Aarti and translated it into Bangla for the first time. We also know that the great actor, Balraj Sahni, had once asked Tagore that while he had written many important anthems for India, why had he not written an anthem for the whole world? Tagore had replied that, in fact, such an anthem had already been written. Not only for the world, but for the entire universe — in the 16th century by Guru Nanak. He was referring to Guru Nanak’s Aarti. Tagore’s poetry, his stories are saturated with Sufi bhakti resonances. While in many ways these resonances emerge in Ray’s narratives, they are even more vibrant in some of his images. These moments are like an epiphany, a heightened, dazzling perception in the trivial aspects of the everyday. They are of fugitive beauty, fading even as you notice them, but somehow they abide in us for the rest of our life.Guru Nanak’s Aarti has the same incandescence:“Gagan Mae Thaal RavaChanda Deepak BanayTarka Mandala Janak MotiDhoop Malyanalo Pavan Chavro KareySagal Banray Phulant Jyoti”(The sky is your platterThe sun and moon are the lampsThe stars in the sky are the pearlsThe incense is the fragranceThat the wind propelsAll the flora and fauna your flowers)Photos courtesy: Ray societyThe invocation brings us a revelation, it opens the framework of our consciousness. The distance between the individual and the cosmos burns away. Early French film theoreticians called such poetic moments in cinema — photogénie. They believed that such a moment defined the very epitome of cinema. It was the very rare film, though, that had these moments. For me, there’s one such moment in Mughal-e-Azam and in Dilip Kumar’s Taraana. In the films of Guru Dutt, such moments take you by surprise, often leaving you with that strange sense of serenity that a desolating insight can bring you.In the works of Satyajit Ray, however, and his peer, Ritwik Ghatak, these moments enrapture us and annihilate us (in the Sufi sense of ‘Fanaa’) in almost all their films. In Ray’s first film, Pather Panchali (Song of the Road), Durga, a girl of about 13, dances in the first monsoon. Apu, her younger brother, watches her from under the protection of a tree. Her hair open, Durga wheels around herself under the vast cloud-covered sky. The rain glitters as it falls and the lake behind her is luminous like a face. Here, the time in the film is suddenly suspended. A young woman takes complete possession of herself and her universe, while the universe seems to forego its indifference and shimmers with her.It’s no exaggeration when I say there’s no song sequence in Indian cinema that has the bewildering and exhilarating force of life that we see here. The film, the light, rain, landscape and Durga, for a long moment, beat with a rhythm where machine, heart and blood and the vibration of the cosmos are no longer distinguishable. Usually, these wondrous moments are brief. But I would argue that in the sequence where Apu and Durga walk through the long, white-wisped kusha grass and to their first sighting of the steam-clouded train, there’s almost a patterning of such ineffable moments of beauty.There’s nothing like this in world cinema (all exceptions granted: the films of Andrei Tarkovsky, Kenji Mizoguchi’s Ugetsu Monogatari, and in the cinema of Ritwik Ghatak. See especially Ghatak’s song sequence ‘Aeri Dekho, Bhor Bhayi’, in Subarnarekha). Though never with the same haunting quality after Pather Panchali and much more briefly, such moments continue to surface in almost every other of Ray’s next films. Almost all filmmakers are curtailed by budgets and expectations. Ray was too.After Pather Panchali, he made choices and never returned to the free-flowing, meandering narrative of his first film. His films now moved more and more towards classical story-telling. The relentless forward thrust of classical narration has a great seductive power, but that’s often also its weakness. The play becomes limited to a chain of cause and effect, each action locked to the next, imprisoning us within foreseeable rhythms. The closed flow makes it almost impossible for a moment, an image to surface for itself. For me, Ray’s choice to work within this classical mode heralds a narrowing in his wondrous ability to suggest and evoke. Over time, the struggle in his films between the photogénie and the classical narrative becomes more and more tense. But the tenacious and virtuoso quality of his struggle, his determination to keep seeking those rapturous moments — even within the limitations he had set for himself — is awe-inspiring.That incorruptibility is what makes us cherish and revere him even today. This complex creative play in his work continues to bring nourishment to one generation after another. In Pather Panchali, he achieved something supremely rare where, at moments, all mediations between the self and phenomena fade away. And, in his later works, the purity of his struggle to keep the heightened life-force alive has helped usher in a range of illumined traditions into Indian cinema today. We have the epiphanic cinema of Amit Dutta, the powerful, socially conscious films of Sanal Kumar Sasidharan. There is the cinema of Chaitanya Tamhane and Gurvinder Singh, who endeavour to hold these two tendencies together, and then those that choose classical story-telling (the mainstream cinema). As filmmakers, as audiences, whatever choices we make, I believe Ray’s cinema shows us that our struggle to live our story on this earth has to be open to discontinuities. His cinema gives us courage to take a pause and, perhaps, that might allow a colour, a face, a tree, a line of a poem to rise before our eyes. And while this moment, this image, affirms its own existence with us as witnesses, it might also transfigure our life.Satyajit Ray’s films, like Punjab’s visionary texts, aim to transform. They reject nothing and ask of us only that we not evade — with whatever excuses, be it the budget or audience expectations — any such moment that might bring us the opportunity to expand our life. By celebrating Ray, we’re celebrating what is best in us.— The writer is the director of theaward-winning film, Qissa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-satyajit-rays-centenary-qissa-director-anup-singh-presents-a-view-from-punjab-237634
12-04-2021||---||Celebrating the journey of Sikhs in Singapore||Vandana AggarwalThe Sikh community in Singapore may number just 13,000, but it is by no means obscure, thanks to the several high-profile Sikh professionals, businessmen, sportsmen and armed forces personnel who have made a name for themselves and contributed meaningfully to the island nation.Among the earliest recorded Sikhs in Singapore was Bhai Maharaj Singh, who, along with his disciple Khurruck Singh, had been deported to Singapore as a state prisoner in 1850 for his role in the Anglo-Sikh wars. It was in 1881, after the setting up of the Sikh Police contingent in Singapore, that Sikh migrants started arriving in large numbers.the incoming Commander.To honour this nascent community, the Indian Heritage Centre (IHC), Singapore, has put together an exhibition that celebrates the Sikh culture and heritage. ‘Sikhs in Singapore — A Story Untold’ features 450 carefully curated artefacts that provide a microcosm of the journey of the Sikhs. The displays are divided into three parts to showcase their beginnings in Punjab, the story of their migration to Singapore and their lives there.“Much of the Singaporean Sikh identity, its history, beliefs and traditions have been kept alive by being passed down through successive generations of Sikhs. As such, it was crucial that we worked closely with the community to capture the myriad facets of their heritage so that everyone can gain a deeper understanding and appreciation of the Sikh identity in Singapore,” explains Malvika Agarwal, the curator.Ordinary beginnings, extraordinary featsThe Sikhs gradually moved beyond their roles in the military or police force. They worked as bodyguards, watchmen, dairy farmers, moneylenders or businessmen. The presence of statues of Sikh guards, among Chinese graves, is one of the most potent symbols of how the Sikhs were considered so brave and dependable that they were given the jobs of guarding their masters in death, just as they had done in life.The census of 1921 recorded only 195 Sikhs in Singapore, but the numbers were set to rise. During World War II, they volunteered in large numbers to serve the British Indian Army. Many of them received commendations and medals for their bravery.In post-war Singapore, Hardial Singh & Co and Gian Singh & Co were businesses helmed by Sikhs that made a name for themselves as wholesalers and retailers in the textile trade. Many of these families are nostalgically remembered even today for their generosity and dedication to the religious and welfare needs of the community and for raising the prestige of the community in the public eye.With the spread of education, they took on the roles of clerks and court interpreters for the colonial government and, in later years, were employed as accountants, teachers, lawyers and doctors.For the nation, and societyThe family of Col Gurcharan Singh (retd) is among the early migrants who made Singapore their home. His grandfather was a prominent cattle dealer in the early 1900s. The family subsequently opened a dairy farm. When the cattle trade was no longer viable, Singh’s father changed professions to become successful moneylenders. Singh’s story embodies the life of a typical Sikh migrant who has made a name for himself and earned respect due to his hard work and integrity towards his chosen profession.Fondly nicknamed ‘Father of the Engineers’, Singh studied to be an engineer, but his father persuaded him to join the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF). “Singapore had just gained Independence. It was both a mix of my father’s desire for me to follow the Sikh tradition of sending sons into the armed forces to serve the nation, as well as the stability of a permanent government job that made him do so,” explains Singh. He was one of the key personnel involved in setting up the Singapore Combat Engineers Corps. He served as a Commandant of the Singapore Command and Staff College and as the Assistant Chief of General Staff (Operations) of the Singapore Army.Not limiting himself to SAF, Singh also held positions as president of the Singapore Rugby Association and Singapore Cricket Club, to name just a few. As the president of Singapore Khalsa Association, he was involved in building three gurdwaras in the city and raising the standard and range of activities available to its members. He continues to be informally involved in what he refers to as his “national service to the community and society”.His two younger brothers have also made a name for themselves in the medical profession and are well known for their enthusiasm and charitable nature.Another prominent Singapore Sikh, Justice Choor Singh Sidhu, came to Singapore as a child in 1915 to join his father, who was already working as a jaga (night watchman). He went on to be a judge of the Supreme Court of Singapore and was well known for his philanthropy and books on Sikhism.At the exhibition, in a pre-recorded message, guest of honour Tharman Shanmugaratnam, a senior minister, lauded the showcasing of Sikhs and their belief in chardi kala (positivity in the face of difficulties) which enables them to continue to support each other, as well as other Singaporeans at all times. He particularly mentioned how they stepped up to do ‘seva’ during the Covid-19 crisis. At one time, more than 10,000 meals were being provided free of cost every week to Singaporeans irrespective of their race, nationality or religion.Today the Sikhs form the fourth largest sub-ethnic group within the Indian community. They have evolved and assimilated in Singapore and made it their home. The younger generation has continued the good work of their immigrant forefathers and believes in contributing to nation-building while staying connected to the roots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/celebrating-the-journey-of-sikhs-in-singapore-237644
12-04-2021||Sarika Sharma||Shaukat Ali and Punjab of his dreams||Ni Waghe diye sarhadeTainu tatti waa na laggeLaggan phul gulaab de ni tereDohi paase wasde ni adiye putt Punjab de.And Shaukat Ali was a true son of the soil, who, when he lived, he lived for the idea of Punjab, and now when he is no more, he unites his fans on either side of the border. The song, ‘Ni waghe diye sarhade’, was written by Chan Jandialvi and sung by many, but it is Shaukat Ali’s rendition that gives goosebumps each time. The voice still resonates, it will resonate for long.Shaukat Ali was born in Pakistan but represented what is hailed as the shared cultural heritage of the two Punjabs. His career spanned six decades. He found fame early on with his song, ‘Kannu door door rende ho’, recorded by HMV. His oeuvre included Punjabi folk, Urdu ghazals and nationalistic songs. However, his heart beat for Punjab. He hated the border, but would often light candles in the wind at Wagah when Kuldip Nayar gave the call. He hated Samjhauta Express, but made endless journeys on it to meet his extended family here. He would say it should rather be called ‘Bichhoda Express’ and would confess being the saddest on his return journey.His most famous rendition would perhaps be Mian Muhammad Bakhsh’s ‘Dushman mare te’, from his qissa ‘Saif ul Malook’. The 40-45 minute record has been sung by hundreds in India and Punjab, but Shaukat Ali’s version is said to be the best. He also sang ‘Chhalla’ long before it became a sort of ritual to sing one. Bollywood had a date with him too when his song ‘Kadi te has bol’was featured in Imtiaz Ali’s 2009 film ‘Love Aaj Kal’.Shaukat Ali’s fame predated the era of TV. Riding on radio waves, he was making fans all over Pakistan and in India. As he would break into ‘Dushman mare te’ over Radio Lahore, a young Gurdas Maan, who was to soon earn his own legions of fans the world over, would get goosebumps here in India. “I was in college and a fan of Shaukat Ali saab. The pitch that he so effortlessly touched was a rarity. His voice had the ‘radka’ of vanjhali and the ‘khanak’ of been lahariya. He was unmatched,” he remembers. Maan was to meet him a few years later, at singer-turned-politician Bhagwant Mann’s wedding. “He was already singing when I reached and luckily found a place right in front of him. Just then someone spilled juice all over me. He left singing midway and gave me a cloth to clean myself. He exuded such warmth,” Maan recalls.Fans they all were — singers Maan, Hans Raj Hans, Jasbir Jassi, poet Gurbhajan Gill — and friends they become. His passing away saddens Gill, whose friendship with Shaukat Ali dates back several decades.Gill shares that in 1996, when Shaukat Ali was here for a programme in Mohali along with Pakistani singers Reshma and Akram Rahi among others, he had gone to receive them at Amritsar and wanted to take them out for lunch when Shaukat Ali saab expressed his desire to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and have kadah parshad before he put a morsel in his mouth. “At Darbar Sahib, at the request of the public relations officials, he recited a few shabads from Gurbani, beginning with Sant Kabir’s ‘Awwal allah noor upaya’. The other singers joined too. It was an overwhelming experience,” he recalls. His meetings with Shaukat Ali were many and all memorable ones, his son calling him ‘Chacha’, the meetings turning less formal as time passed away.His warmth spanned seasons of hate and camaraderie between the two nations, says Member Parliament Bhagwant Mann. “During my wedding in 1998, India and Pakistan were not on very cordial terms, but he still came — with pagdis and clothes for all of us here. And we sent him back with laddoos,” he recalls. The friendship continued. “Shaukat saab was so happy when I got elected to Parliament. He called me to congratulate.” His death, says Mann, has been a great loss for both the Punjabs. “So many singers have earned their bread and butter by singing his compositions.”Canada-based broadcaster Iqbal Mahal, who was a close friend of Shaukat Ali, says his songs were all steeped in Punjabiyat. “If he was nationalistic, he was also a votary of good ties between India and Pakistan. And his music became the bridge between the two countries.”With the passing away of Shaukat Ali, does the bridge stand weakened, we ask Maan and he says many more would come up. “And they are. Look at Coke Studio. It is full of talented Punjabi singers. They will reach their heights in due time,” he believes.Gill says the younger generation singers in Pakistan are reinventing their roots. He feels they are well adapting to changed tastes and says the onus is now on the government and the media to present them as the new icons. “People need to know about them. I have also requested for portraits of Pakistani Punjabi icons such as Mehdi Hassan, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Reshma, Shaukat Ali, Noor Jehan and Inayat Hussain Bhatti to be put up on the walls of Punjab Arts Council, Chandigarh. These people are as much our icons as Yamla Jatt and Surinder Kaur,” he says, adding, “They can’t be bound by territories. People love them in both India and Pakistan and this love is strong.”Maan couldn’t agree more. He says music is like birds and streams. “None has been stopped. None can be stopped.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shaukat-ali-and-punjab-of-his-dreams-237646
12-04-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Overloaded vehicles from Punjab hit mining business||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, April 10Overloaded vehicles from Punjab are allegedly adversely hitting mining business of Haryana.After strictness by the Haryana Government against overloaded vehicles in the state, stone-crusher owners of Haryana are loading less building construction material, including sand, stone, bajri etc, in trucks from their stone-crushers and screening plants.However, overloaded trucks are still coming from Punjab to Haryana, causing a huge financial loss to the Haryana stone crusher industry, mining contractors and transporters.The Stone Crusher Association, Yamunanagar has written a letter to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, requesting him to put a ban on overloaded vehicles coming from Punjab to Haryana.“Overloaded vehicles carrying sand, stone and bajri are coming in Haryana from Punjab in violation of the policy of the Haryana Government made against overloading. The vehicles enter Haryana through Kaithal, Pehwa, Ambala and Narwana (situated on Punjab border),” alleged Rampal Kamboj, president, Stone Crusher Association, Yamunanagar.He said the mining material coming from Punjab was being sold at cheaper rates due to overloading, causing a huge financial loss to the Haryana stone-crusher industry, mining contractors and transporters.He said the rates of their material were higher due to proper weight carried in the vehicles.He added that it would be difficult to do business for them in such circumstances if the Haryana government didn’t take some concrete steps to stop the entry of Punjab’s overloaded vehicles.“Our business of sand, stone, stone dust, core-sand and bajri is reducing day by day. Therefore, the state government should immediately take some steps to stop the entry of the overloaded vehicles coming from Punjab to Haryana,” said Rampal Kamboj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/overloaded-vehicles-from-punjab-hit-mining-business-237584
12-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||DIG probes VVIP treatment to singer Karan Aujla in jail||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 10Two days after VVIP treatment was accorded to Punjabi singer Karan Aujla during his visit to the Central Jail, DIG (Prisons) Surinder Singh Saini today visited the premises to conduct an inquiry.Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had marked an inquiry in the case and asked ADGP (Prisons) PK Sinha to probe negligence on part of Jail Superintendent Rajeev Arora. The ADGP has assigned the probe to DIG (Prisons) SS Saini.Sources said the DIG spent six hours inside the jail and examined the CCTV footage to ascertain whether or not there were any violations of security or Covid norms while the singer and his friends entered the jail and if the singer met any inmate.The DIG questioned Jail Superintendent Arora and staff present on security duty at the time about the episode. He also asked Arora if the singer was allowed to meet any inmate. There were reports the singer had gone to meet smuggler Gurdeep Singh Rano, nabbed recently with drug worth crores, drug money and 13 luxury cars by the special task force. Arora has already denied any such meeting.ADGP Sinha said the DIG was sent to conduct the probe. “Let him submit the report. Only then can I comment on the extent of negligence on part of the Jail Superintendent,” he said.Mayor lent GypsyIn a report submitted to Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, officials have confirmed the use of Ludhiana Mayor’s official Gypsy (in pic) during the singer’s visit. The Gypsy led the cavalcade into the jail. The Mayor said his son was friends with Karan Aujla and had taken the Gypsy along to oblige Aujla, who was ‘not a criminal’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dig-probes-vvip-treatment-to-singer-karan-aujla-in-jail-237391
12-04-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Deserted mandis in Punjab on Day 1 of procurement||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 10On day one of procurement on Saturday, Guru Nanak Dhaba at the otherwise bustling Khanna market, the largest grain mandi in Asia, wore a desolate look. There were no farmers at the mandi, only labourers, who had come all the way from Bihar to earn money during the wheat procurement season.Software amendedWorried, they said they were not sure of the process through which they would be paid their wages post-direct benefit transfer (DBT) implementation. Vikas Kumar Yadav said: “I am to be paid Rs 6.06 per bag (that I fill and load) by the farmer and Rs 9.24 by the agency. Earlier, the arhtiya would give me the money but I don’t know who will pay me now.” Arvind Kumar, manager of the dhaba, did not foresee a good season. “There is much uncertainty. Farmers and arhtiyas have a symbiotic relationship. Any change in the ties can damage the social fabric,” he said.The mandis in the state remained almost empty till late afternoon. In Rajpura, a pensive Naib Singh, 62, and his son-in-law Harwinder Singh of Thuha village sat outside the shop of their commission agent. “When I ask the arhtiya for an additional Rs 1 lakh credit in my account, it is done immediately. Will the government give me additional instant credit like him,” asked Naib Singh.Mohinder Krishan Chand Arora, a leading arhtiya, while admitting that DBT would bring in transparency, said: “The arhtiyas should not be made irrelevant in the procurement process. It is time the Centre amicably resolves all issues.” Harbans Singh Rosha, an office-bearer of the Federation of Arhtiya Associations, said they had called off their strike on the CM’s assurance that he would get their FCI dues (Rs 200 crore) released. “The DBT is aimed at dismantling the mandi system and creating space for private players,” he observed.Farmers Sandip Singh of Mathi village in Fatehgarh Sahib smelled a plot to help private players capture the market. “A few years ago, private players entered the mandis to buy paddy. They bought large quantities, but did not release the dues for months. It was the arhtiyas who made partial payment to help the farmers sail through,” he recalled. Suresh Sood, a commission agent, agreed with him. “Amid the gloom because of the pandemic, tampering with the mandi system was totally unnecessary,” he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deserted-mandis-in-punjab-on-day-1-of-procurement-237490
