13-04-2021||Chandigarh||3,003 new COVID-19 cases in Punjab; 53 deaths||The coronavirus tally in Punjab rose to 2.79 lakh on Tuesday with 3,003 new infections, while 53 more deaths took the toll to 7,609, a health bulletin said.There are 28,184 active cases, while 2,612 more coronavirus patients recuperated, taking the number of recoveries to 2.43 lakh, the Health Department said.Seven people died in Hoshiarpur, six each in Sangrur and Gurdaspur and five each in Amritsar, Jalandhar and Patiala, among Covid related fatalities.Ludhiana reported 480 cases, followed by 391 in Jalandhar, 374 in Mohali, 312 in Amritsar and 298 in Patiala.There are 50 critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 363 are on oxygen support. A total of 64,07,939 samples have been collected for testing so far, it said.A central team, led by Additional Secretary VK Singh, took stock of the COVID-19 situation in district, besides issuing directions to further expedite the pace of ongoing testing and vaccination.Holding a meeting with the officials of the district administration and the Health Department, Singh asked for ramping up contact tracing so that the transmission chain of virus could be contained effectively.The team also expressed satisfaction over the concerted efforts being made by the administration for controlling the spread of coronavirus, according to officials.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported 397 cases of coronavirus, taking the infection count to 31,564. The toll reached 401 with the death of a 39-year-old man, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases stood at 3,370 and 381 patients recuperated, taking the number of recoveries to 27,793, the bulletin stated.A total of 3,46,766 samples have been taken for testing so far, it said.The Chandigarh Administration decided to close the Rock Garden and Sukhna Lake area will also remain closed on all weekends till the situation improves, an official release said.Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the Health Department to intensify screening and testing.He ordered placing of mobile vans in crowded places like temples and gurdwaras so that the visitors could be screened and symptomatic persons could be tested immediately.The administrator directed the department to ensure that adequate stock of medicines, oxygen cylinders, vaccines and ventilators were available in various government hospitals.He also expressed concern over the wastage of vaccines and directed all concerned, particularly the private hospitals, to ensure that such valuable vaccines were not wasted. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-003-new-covid-19-cases-in-punjab-53-deaths-238642
13-04-2021||Talwandi Sabo||COVID-19 guidelines go for a toss during Baisakhi celebration at Takth Damdama Sahib||COVID-19 guidelines went for the toss as a large number of devotees paid obeisance and took a holy dip in the sarovar at the historic Damdama Sahib gurdwara on the occasion of Baisakhi, but no social distancing was maintained and hardly people were seen wearing masks.Even there was no arrangement of thermal scanning.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who along with his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal paid obeisance at Takth Sri Damdama Sahib, had to face protest from a section of devotees.Devotees standing in a queue started shouting slogans against Sukhbir Badal on seeing him while he was coming out of the gurdwara.On this Baisakhi celebration, the issue of farmers’ protest and three farm laws remained centre-stage. While addressing the devotees, Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh accused the BJP-led Union government of working for the benefit of corporate houses and hurting the economic interests of Sikh community.He said wrong policies formulated by the Union government are behind the economic instability as these policies are made keeping in mind few big corporate families.Harpreet Singh also said the 10th Sikh guru Gobind Singh Ji founded the Khalsa Panth in 1699 on Baisakhi.He asked people to follow the preaching of the holy scripture. He also appealed to them to shun drugs, keep unshorn hair and stay away from social evils.Bibi Jagir Kaur said Baisakhi was celebrated across the world wherever Sikhs reside.She talked about the history of Takht Damdama Sahib and urged devotees to lead their lives on the principles of Guru Granth Sahib.Besides roadside toy-sellers, eating joints and langar (community kitchen), serpentine queues and a heavy rush of vehicles was seen amid the recitation of religious verses.Community kitchens were set up at numerous places on the roads leading to Talwandi Sabo.Other gurdwaras in the city were also decorated on the occasion and witnessed a huge rush of devotees.The district administration and the police authorities had made elaborate security arrangements and made sure that devotees did not face any inconvenience.Apart from Talwandi Sabo, a religious function was organised by various gurdwaras in the city to celebrate Baisakhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-guidelines-go-for-a-toss-during-baisakhi-celebration-at-takth-damdama-sahib-238617
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh rejects IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap’s plea for early retirement||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has refused to accept the resignation letter of IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, seeking premature retirement from service.Declining the voluntary retirement plea of Kunwar Vijay Pratap, who is currently heading the Special Investigation Teams (SITs) probing the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan firing cases, the chief minister said he was a highly competent and efficient officer whose services were needed in the border state, especially at a time when Punjab was faced with various internal and external security threats.The state needs the expertise and experience of the officer, who has contributed exceptional service to the Punjab Police in various important positions, said the chief minister, describing Kunwar Vijay Pratap as a skilled, capable and courageous officer, with an exemplary track record.Referring to media reports on the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s orders in the Kotkapura case probe, the chief minister pointed out that he had already made it clear that any decision of the court that seeks to remove Kunwar Vijay Pratap as the SIT chief or to quash the investigations in the case would be challenged by his government in the Supreme Court.The officer and his team have done an excellent job of expeditiously investigating the Kotkapura case, which the Akalis have tried hard to stall for the past four years, Capt Amarinder said, adding that the probe will be taken to its logical conclusion under the guidance and supervision of the able officer himself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-rejects-ips-officer-kunwar-vijay-prataps-plea-for-early-retirement-238580
13-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Spot young Shehnaaz Gill in this rare family picture her father Santokh Singh Sukh shared||Bigg Boss 13 star Shehnaaz Gill and her father Santokh Singh Sukh made headlines last year over their alleged feud. Amid this chaos, Santokh shared a never-seen-before picture of Shehnaaz. This throwback family picture has left fans confused about their alleged cold was. Also read: Shehnaaz Gill's father says, 'was home all day, have enough proof', on rape accusationsHe shared the picture on his Instagram story. In this throwback picture, Shehnaaz was seen posing with her family. Her father was seen standing at the back. The actress is wearing an orange suit, and looks quite young. By the looks of it, the picture was taken when Shehnaaz was just a teenager.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spot-young-shehnaaz-gill-in-this-rare-family-picture-her-father-santokh-singh-sukh-shared-238558
13-04-2021||New Delhi||Southwest Monsoon 2021: Forecaster Skymet predicts 103 per cent rain for India||Private forecaster Skymet Weather has predicted Monsoon rains at 103 per cent (907 mm) of the Long Period Average rains for India, ranging between “normal and above normal”, with a model error of five per cent. This is the third year in succession that India may see “above normal” rains during the season. The last time it happened was in 1996, 1997, and 1998, Skymet said.  While most pasts of the country are expected to see “good rains”, some parts in the Northwest, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana, and Eastern parts of the country are expected to see some deficiency during initial parts of the season, the Skymet said. The Northwest is expected to see above-normal rains in September, the Skymet said.The monsoon usually reaches Northwest India at the end of June.Historically, there has been a vast difference in rain distribution over Punjab and Haryana.Last year Punjab reported a rain surplus, whereas Haryana recorded deficient rainfall.This year, in July and August, the states may report "some deficiency between 10 to 15 per cent"."However, the month of September seems to be rain surplus therefore, we do not expect any major risk in terms of rainfall over Punjab and Haryana," said Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather.Skymet said that there is “no cause of concern” so far as the food bowl of the country is concerned    Overall, there is a 70 per cent probability of “normal” rains with very little, only 10 per cent probability of “below normal” rains in June. In July, there is a 75 per cent probability of “normal” rains and only 15 per cent of “below normal” rains. In August, there is an 80 per cent probability of “normal” monsoon, 10 per cent “above normal” and 10 per cent of “below normal” rains. In September, there is a 30 per cent probability of “normal” rains and as much as 60 per cent of “above normal” rains, Skymet said. September is expected to see good rains, above 16 per cent in most parts of the country, including the Northwest.Ahead of the onset of the much-awaited rains over the Indian mainland two key factors, La Nina, and Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD), are “softening”, returning to neutral levels. The Skymet also ruled out the possibility of El Nino, which means SSTs may remain “neutral” during the 2021 Monsoon season, meaning that it may not give a “boost” and, also not “harm” the monsoon in any way. Similarly, the IOD index is also expected to be neutral, “not affect rains in any significant manner”, during the June-September season, according to the first forecast of the seasonOfficial forecaster India Meteorological Department (IMD) is expected to come out with its forecast for the seasonal rains on which almost two-thirds of India’s agricultural tracts depend upon for irrigation. Warmer than normal SSTs normally lead to more cloud formation and rains. In those terms, La Nina, or say a warmer West Pacific, and positive IOD, that is warmer West Indian Ocean, are indicative of good rains. El Nino or colder SSTs and negative IOD indicate otherwise.Last year saw El Nino weakening and La Nina developing during the second half of the season, factors that gave the country rains 109 per cent of the Long Period Average, third-highest after 112 per cent (in 1994) and 110 per cent (in 2019) according to the IMD. Monsoon rains are also important for replenishing groundwater and from this season onwards the official forecaster is also planning to provide estimates of possible increase and availability of water levels in river basins and reservoirs for better water management. Ends||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/southwest-monsoon-2021-forecaster-skymet-predicts-103-per-cent-rain-for-india-238546
13-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Duke of Edinburgh’s demise flashbacked Sikh leaders to the time he shared ecological concerns with them||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 12While the Duke of Edinburgh, Prince Philip, breathed his last on Friday, his demise also sparked nostalgia among Sikh leaders who found common cause with him in the endeavour to link religions and environmental concerns. Hailed as a Royal keen on environmental concerns, he also served as president of global conservation organisation and was also WWF’s (World Wide Fund for Nature) international president emeritus.Punjab Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal was an invitee at the ‘Many Heavens, One Planet’ celebration held at the Windsor Castle in 2019 by the ARC and UNDP, which saw representatives of various world faiths deliberating on ‘long term commitment plans for protecting the planet’.In the same year, Seechewal was invited to the Copenhagen conference on climate change, before attending the climate summit he stopped over at the Windsor Castle for the aforesaid event. The attendees were all honoured during a special ceremony there which was hosted by Price Philip with then UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.A photograph of Seechewal, Eco Sikh founder Rajwant Singh sharing a moment with the Duke of Edinburgh and Ban ki-moon has also gone viral on social media.Rajwant Singh, president and founder of Eco Sikh also took to Twitter to condole the recent demise. He wrote, “The Sikh community mourns the loss of Prince Philp. We had worked with him on environmental issues and had presented our plans to fight climate crisis at the Windsor Castle. In fact, Eco Sikh came into being due to this effort! His legacy will live!”The Sikh community mourns the loss of #PrincePhilip. We had worked with him on environmental issues & had the presented the Sikh plans to fight climate crisis at Windsor castle. In fact @ecosikh came into being due to this effort! His legacy will live! @EcoSikhUK @RoyalFamily pic.twitter.com/XP64H5KGV0  He also reminisced, “Prince Philip had hosted world’s faiths at the Windsor Castle to present concrete plans to work on environmental issues in 1995 and this meet prompted all to look at their own theology on environment. This was the first time Sikhs joined global environmental effort.”Prince Philip had hosted world’s faiths at Windsor Castle to present concrete plans to work on environmental issues in 1995 & this meet prompted faiths to look at their own theology on environment. This was the first time Sikhs joined global environmental effort. @guardianeco  Clad in his characteristic orange robes (his go-to attire every time), Seechewal, at the 2019 Windsor Castle event shared space with the other religious leaders like the Archbishop Seraphim of the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Alexandria and All Africa in Johannesburg and Pretoria; the Bishop of London; the Grand Mufti of Egypt, among others.Later in 2009, Prince Philip again hosted the UN Chief Ban Ki Moon and world faiths at Windsor castle to initiate global action by the world religions on climate. EcoSikh is indebted to Prince Philip for bringing all faiths together on this threat facing the world! @BBCWorld pic.twitter.com/VChonCEylj  Speaking to The Tribune, Seechewal said, “It was a rare occasion in which an initiative was taken for the world’s religions and faiths to speak on environmental concerns. The UN invited us all and the Duke of Edinburgh hosted the ceremony and honoured us all at the Windsor Castle. It goes to show the environmental concerns held for him. It is truer than ever that since religious figures are revered and followed, the world religious leaders have a greater responsibility than ever to speak up and work on such concerns. The same thoughts were echoed by the President of India APJ Abdul Kalam, when he visited us at Sultanpur Lodhi. Prince Philip’s demise is a sombre reminder of these concerns.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/duke-of-edinburghs-demise-flashbacked-sikh-leaders-to-the-time-he-shared-ecological-concerns-with-them-238490
13-04-2021||Harshraj Singh||Ludhiana residents gasp for breath as factories, dyeing units rain ash||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 12Sixty-year-old Harjinder Kaur of GK Estate and her family are forced to suffer a lot due to massive air pollution being caused by the factories. A huge amount of harmful ash gets collected on her house roof and outer areas in routine.Install machinery to record air pollution levels: ResidentsResidents want that the government should install machinery to record the air pollution levels in those areas which are badly affected. Ludhiana district has got a grant of Rs26 crore for air quality improvement from the Central government. “The authorties concerned should install machinery to record air pollution levels in affected areas on Tajpur Road, Chandigarh Road and others. All necessary steps must be taken to control the pollution level. The erring factories causing air pollution should be sealed. The air pollution is harmful for not only humans but also birds and animals,” said Jagjit Singh Mann of the Watawaran Sambhal Society, an NGO.The ash emanating from the chimneys of a number of dyeing units and other factories has been falling on houses and other buildings on Tajpur Road, Main Tibba Road, Kakka Dhaula Road, Chandigarh Road and many other nearby areas for a long time. But, the complaints made to the departments concerned are falling on deaf ears.Harjinder Kaur said she and her family generally stay inside house as it was difficult to breathe when smoke level is high in the area. “We avoid sitting in open on roof even on sunny days of winter as ash keeps falling. We don’t put wet clothes for drying on roof as ash leaves stains. If we keep a white cloth in open for one day, it turns black due to falling ash. The authorities must provide us relief,” she said.Like her, thousands of people are suffering due to high air pollution in various parts of the Ludhiana East constituency and nearby areas. The residents alleged that the ash emanating from many dyeing units and other factories had made their lives miserable. They blamed the PPCB and Ludhiana administration for ignoring the issue. Even the officials of Central Jail on Tajpur Road had earlier raised the issue of air pollution.Councillor from Ward 14 Kuldeep Janda said, “The areas in Ward 13, 14, 15 and 16 and surrounding localities are very much affected due to ash emanating from the dyeing mills. Black smoke is commonly witnessed in the streets of various residential areas every morning and evening. The bad and cheap quality waste is being used as fuel to run boilers in a number of units.”He said, “Three vehicles of bio-medical waste were found at a dyeing factory around two years ago. This bio-medical waste was to be used as fuel in that dyeing unit. The matter of air pollution is being ignored despite a large number of people suffering for years. We have raised the matter with higher government authorities too but of no avail.”Satish Malhotra from ward 15, said, “The ash is very harmful. There are hundreds of dyeing units and washing units on Tajpur Road and nearby areas. We have made complaints to the PPCB against the air pollution but the issue has not been resolved. Besides, some amount of ash from these units is also dumped in open areas like plots and roadsides, increasing the woes. The authorities concerned should take necessary action against the erring units causing air pollution.”Sanjay Talwar, MLA, had earlier raised the matter with the PPCB and MC but the authorities concerned failed to provide any relief to people. The MLA had also written a complaint to the chairman of the NGT Monitoring Committee. He had alleged that the dyeing units in the area were causing pollution due to which many people had fallen ill.Krunesh Garg, Member Secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board, said the local officials were looking into the matter. “I will take up the matter with the PPCB, Ludhiana, officials once again and required action will be taken,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-residents-gasp-for-breath-as-factories-dyeing-units-rain-ash-238448
13-04-2021||---||In a digital leap, PSPCL collects 75% revenue online||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, April 12Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has created a history of sorts while also making it to the toppers list for digital collection of Rs19,630 crore (75 per cent of its total revenue) during the 2020-21 fiscal.In a virtual interaction, the PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said as many as 143 lakh digital transactions were made during this period.He attributed this spurt in digital collection to number of easy-to-use platforms offered by the power utility, including simple digital touch points.Giving details, the CMD added that the digital payment facility for electricity bills started in Punjab in 2008.The facilities of electricity bill payments through enhanced, innovative and people-friendly digital modes started in Punjab in 2017, the CMD said.“We initiated cost-effective, convenient to use and smooth digital bill payment platforms through Bharat Bill Pay (BBPS) like BHIM, SBI Pay, PNB, HDFC Payzapp, Paytm, PhonePe, Just Dial, Google Pay, Amazon and Umang. PSPCL also offered digital modes like net banking, credit cards, debit cards, rupay card, UPI, mobile wallets, RTGS/NEFT and POS machines for the facilitation of power consumers,” the CMD added.To encourage more and more consumers to move to digital mode happily with least financial costs, the PSPCL had undertaken awareness campaigns, the CMD said.Every citizen had shown enthusiasm and consumers were now free from long queues at cash counters, the CMD added. The consumers were also saving direct and indirect costs, which they incurred in offline modes, the CMD said.“The consumers’ confidence in digital payments has evolved in such a way that from just Rs2000 crore through 43 lakh digital transactions during 2016-17, the PSPCL has now achieved nearly 10 times hike in digital collection. There is 350 per cent increase in digital transactions during last fiscal,” the CMD added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-a-digital-leap-pspcl-collects-75-revenue-online-238454
13-04-2021||---||Special coin to mark Guru Tegh Bahadur’s 400th Parkash Utsav||Ludhiana, April 12To mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, two Sikh entrepreneurs, Harjinder Singh Kukreja and Jasmeet Singh Saib collaborated to make 1,000 limited edition coins which can be bought online.“The coin has a diameter of 1.7 inches and will be made of 30% silver and 70% copper,” says Harjinder Singh Kukreja.Special coins, stamp to mark 400th anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur“On the one side of the coin is an artistic logo designed by me featuring 400 years of Guru Tegh Bahadur along with a kirpan”, says Jasmeet Singh Saib, of JSAIB productions.“The other side of the coin features an outline map of undivided India and with an embossed image of the guru,” says Harjinder Singh Kukreja.The state government is going to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur by organising special programmes from April 28 to May 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-coin-to-mark-guru-tegh-bahadurs-400th-parkash-utsav-238457
13-04-2021||---||Chronicling farmer deaths, Anuroop Kaur shares stories of Singhu ‘martyrs’||Amritsar, April 12Documenting farmer deaths at the Singhu border and the impact they have had over the course of the farm agitation, Anuroop Kaur, a tutor from Delhi University, has taken it upon herself to not just chronicle the martyrs of farmers’ movement, but also the reasons behind those deaths.Talking to writer Amandeep Sandhu during an online session with Majha House, Anuroop said her blogs were not just about numbers or body counts, but a glimpse into the psychological toll the entire movement is taking on those sitting at the Delhi borders.“As a supporter of farmers’ movement, I used to frequently visit Singhu border. When the deaths occurred, it felt important to me to document these, or else these sacrifices would go in vain,” she shared. That’s when she started giving an account of farmer deaths through her blogs.As a supporter of farmers’ movement, I used to frequently visit Singhu border. When the deaths occurred, it felt important to me to document these, or else these sacrifices would go in vain. Those deaths were sad, more so because they were being ignored by the government and not being acknowledged. That's when the sadness turned into anger. As a result, I have documented 363 people's deaths on the border so far. —Anuroop Kaur, documenting farmers’ death at singhu“Those deaths were sad, more so because they were being ignored by the government and not being acknowledged. That’s when the sadness turned into anger. As a result, I have documented 363 people’s deaths on the border so far,” Anuroop said, adding that the toll could be higher as she started documenting these from November onwards.While referring to Mukesh, a teacher at a school in Rohtak who committed suicide on April 6, 2021, after accusing the government of anti-people policies, Anuroop said: “I tried finding out why people were so furious. When we visited the border and met farmers, we realised that many of them were suffering from depression. They tell about physical discomfort, but they don’t realise that they are suffering from depression and other mental disorders as well due to such a long sit-in. There are other reasons besides depression such as heart attacks, etc. The important thing is to understand that a death is not just a statistic but a trauma the person’s family face. They also have to face financial difficulties which we cannot understand,” Anuroop explained.Dr Simmi Waraich, a psychologist, who was also one of the speakers, said most people live under a misconception that there are only farmers on the border. “Those sitting at the borders have braved so much that it impacts their mental health. Hence, there are so many reasons behind these deaths.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chronicling-farmer-deaths-anuroop-kaur-shares-stories-of-singhu-martyrs-238289
13-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Agri stir activist dies in Tarn Taran village, cremated||Tarn Taran, April 12A farmer, Kashmir Singh (65) of Pandori Ran Singh village, who had returned from Delhi due to illness a fortnight ago, died on Monday and was cremated at the village cremation ground with full honours.The deceased farmer was the member of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, and was actively participating in the agri stir since November.He fell ill a few days ago in Delhi and the leaders of the organisation asked him to go back for treatment. He, however, died on Monday at his native village, 20 km from Tarn Taran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agri-stir-activist-dies-in-tarn-taran-village-cremated-238306
13-04-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Minister Balbir Sidhu’s brother Amarjit Sidhu elected Mayor of Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 12Amarjit Singh Sidhu, aka Jeeti Sidhu, brother of Punjab Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, was elected the Mayor at the first General House meeting of the Mohali Municipal Corporation held at MC Bhawan here today.Amarjit Sidhu (48) will hold the post for two and a half years. Punjab Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was present at the meeting as an observer.Amrik Singh Somal and Kuljit Singh Bedi were elected the Senior Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor, respectively. Somal, a two-time councillor, had defeated former Mayor Kulwant Singh in the elections held on February 14.Meanwhile, expressing resentment, Congress councillor and former Senior Deputy Mayor Rishav Jain and his wife Rajrani Jain boycotted the meeting alleging that they were ignored by their party. Councillors of the Azad Group and other Independents also boycotted the meeting.Former Deputy Mayor Manjeet Singh Sethi said on the one hand, the Punjab Government had been making tall claims regarding giving 50 per cent representation in the civic body poll to women, while on the other, no woman councillor had been elected to the post of Senior Deputy Mayor or Deputy Mayor.Cabinet Minister Sidhu said they had declared that Rishav Jain would be the Mayor after two and a half years, while Narpinder Singh Rangi would be the Senior Deputy Mayor. He said the Deputy Mayor would be decided later. He said the names had been decided by the party high command.In the elections held for 50 wards, the Congress had won 37 seats, while the Azad Group won 10 and three seats went to Independents. For the first time in the history of the MC, not a single councillor from the SAD and the BJP is part of the House.Covid norms go for tossEven as the state government has been exhorting people to wear a mask and maintain social distance, councillors paid no heed to the guidelines. A majority of the councillors, including the newly elected Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor, were seen without a mask and did not maintain the distance despite the fact that Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was present at the MC House meeting.A supporter of Amarjit Singh Sidhu had brought a tree-pruning machine and showered flower petals from atop on the leaders after they came out of MC Bhawan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-balbir-sidhus-brother-amarjit-sidhu-elected-mayor-of-mohali-238353
13-04-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Farmers' agitation: Elderly Nihang alleges harassment by Chandigarh police||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12Laabh Singh, a slouching, frail, old man, believed to be in his 80s, has been frequenting the protests against new farm laws in the city. Dressed in the traditional blue “baana”, with kirpans in his hands, he identifies himself as a Nihang, and has sworn to peacefully sit at one of the dividers facing Matka Chowk till the farmers’ demands are met. However, today, Laabh Singh had to brave not just the scorching summer heat, but also alleged harassment by cops.“I have been sitting here since March 6. I come here at 5 am everyday. I have sworn that I will not budge an inch till the farmers’ demands are met. However, this afternoon, the police came and harrassed me no end,” Singh begins to tell his story as videos of him and other protesters at the chowk do the rounds on Instagram.He continues, “Tomorrow, as part of Basakhi celebrations, I have got some ration, just wheat, sugar and ghee, for prasad. I’ll do the ardaas here, offer my prayers for the farmers and distribute the prasad. However, the police asked me to remove my bag of ration and even tore the ‘chaddar’ (bedsheet) I sat on. What kind of behaviour is this?”Satnam Singh Tanda of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta, who rushed to the chowk on getting to know of Laabh’s ordeal, shared, “This is not the first time the police have come here to harass this old man, who can barely speak. His kirpans were taken by the police earlier. This is plain humiliation. Baba ji cannot even walk properly. He is just peacefully protesting here. Are the police trying to provoke a reaction?”Rajwinder Gill, who also reached the spot, said, “When I saw the police taking away Baba ji’s umbrella, I could not believe it. When I confronted them, they said they had orders to remove him from the chowk. When I asked them to show the orders, they didn’t have an answer. They just left when more and more protesters started gathering to support Baba ji.”The Sector 17 SHO refused to comment or reply to messages sent by this correspondent. DSP (Central) Krishan Kumar said he was on leave. DSP Rashmi Yadav, who is substituting for Kumar, said, “Talk to the SP (City).”SP (City) Ketan Bansal said, “I wasn’t at the spot, but we can’t allow weapons at the chowk.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-elderly-nihang-alleges-harassment-by-chandigarh-police-238377
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||3,245 slum-dwellers in 3 districts of Punjab get land rights||CM Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered proprietary rights for 3,245 slum households in three districts under the Basera scheme, with directives to complete the process to 40,000 households by September.Chairing the second meeting of the empowered committee under the slum development programme, Capt Amarinder told the department concerned to expedite the process to benefit maximum slum-dwellers.The 3,245 households approved for proprietary rights today are located at 12 slum sites in the districts of Faridkot, Sangrur and Fazilka. To date, 186 slums with 21,431 households have been identified in 20 districts, wherein the verification process is being carried out in full swing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-245-slum-dwellers-in-3-districts-of-punjab-get-land-rights-238244
13-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Will regularise contractual staff, says Bharat Bhushan Ashu||Punjab Food & Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today said the government was committed to regularising the services of contractual employees in all departments as the decision of the high-powered Committee of Cabinet for chalking out a plan in this regard would be out soon.Accompanied by Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, Ashu said the decision in this regard would be taken within a month or two. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-regularise-contractual-staff-says-bharat-bhushan-ashu-238268
13-04-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Three run over by CTU bus in Anandpur Sahib||Three persons were crushed to death and another seriously injured by a Chandigarh Transport Undertaking bus here today.The deceased have been identified as Veena Devi and Rama Devi, both from Rurki village near Bahadurgarh in Patiala, and Mohammad Yashan (55), a migrant labourer belonging to West Bengal. Subash Rai, also from West Bengal, who was injured, was taken to the local Civil Hospital, from where he was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. While the deceased women were returning home after visiting their relatives at nearby Tapparian (Nangli) village, the other victims were on their way to work.SHO Harkirat Singh said the bus was on its way from Nangal to Chandigarh when it hit four pedestrians near Bhanupali village at 7.30 am. Veena and Mohammad Yashan died on the spot, while Rama succumbed to injuries on way to hospital. The bus staff fled the spot after the accident, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-run-over-by-ctu-bus-in-anandpur-sahib-238269
13-04-2021||---||NEET-PG on schedule, test centres increased||Faridkot, April 12Amid confusion over safe conduct of the NEET-PG on April 18, the National Board of Examinations (NBE) has announced not to defer the examination as the peak of Covid cases remains unpredictable.In a notice, the NBE has announced to increase the number of test centres and testing seats across the country. Now, candidates who have chosen the “others” option have been allotted test centres within the state of their correspondence address, thus avoiding any inter-state travel.Admit cards being issued to the candidates will bear a Covid e-pass for perusal of police and administrative authorities to facilitate their movement in case of any travel-related restrictions. To avoid crowding at the test venue entry, there will be staggered time slots for candidates to report. Temperature of all candidates will be checked at the entry. Those detected with above-normal temperature or any Covid symptoms will take the exam in an isolation lab.Upon completion of the exam, candidates will be directed to leave the venue in a staggered manner to avoid crowding at the exit. As per the NBE’s notice, all candidates will get a protective gear safety kit comprising a face shield, a face mask and five hand sanitiser sachets.Extra caution for candidates’ safety||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neet-pg-on-schedule-test-centres-increased-238270
13-04-2021||---||Farmers' agitation: Back from Tikri border, Moga man dies of illness||Moga, April 12A 70-year-old farmer of Kokri Phoola Singh village in Moga, who had been agitating against the contentious central farm laws at the Tikri border and had recently returned from the protest site, has died, district administration officials confirmed here, today.Swaran Singh was an active member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan). He had to return from Tikri as he had fallen ill. He died due to illness at his home, the family members said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-back-from-tikri-border-moga-man-dies-of-illness-238271
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||AAP blames Amarinder for Delhi Police taking action against Punjab youth||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has criticised the Delhi Police and the central agencies for raiding various places in Punjab without informing the Punjab Police and rounding up and torturing the youth. AAP termed it a robbery on the constitutional rights of Punjab for which CM Capt Amarinder Singh was responsible.Shameful that Delhi Police is allowed to torture Punjabis in our domain and territory: Navjot SidhuState AAP president and Lok Sabha MP Bhagwant Mann today said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Capt Amarinder Singh wanted to intimidate the youth of Punjab who were raising their voice for the rights of farmers.Mann asked the CM how the Delhi Police had arrested the youths without the Punjab Government’s nod. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-blames-amarinder-for-delhi-police-taking-action-against-punjab-youth-238272
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid effect: 33K pupils move from private to govt schools in Punjab||The Covid-19 pandemic has pushed several private schools into a fiscal crisis in Punjab. As many as 33,132 students shifted from private to government schools in the state during the first week of the new academic session (2021-2022). In fact, a number of private schools have closed down over the past few months. Owner of a private school said, “Without any financial support from government, we were finding it difficult to pay our staff.Better results attract people to govt schoolsBetter results of pre-school education are believed to be another main reason behind the increased rush for government schools. The government has spent considerably on making specially designed classrooms, besides recruiting 8,393 teachers.When some of our staff have been laid off, we don’t have teachers to teach students. The government, in fact, should think seriously of coming to the help of private schools, financially.” “Private schools cannot compete with the government arrangement of holding online classes and providing education through television channels. Very few private schools have been able to manage the situation well. Parents are, thus, opting for government schools,” a teacher said.Government authorities, meanwhile, have shown a lot of innovation and teacher participation in making the student contact programme successful. Education Secretary Krishan Kumar himself made use of the public address system of gurdwaras and visited homes “door-to-door” in various villages.The data compiled by the Education Department indicated that the overall increase this year would outdo the increase of around 15 per cent recorded during the last academic session. The number of students in 2019-2020 was 24,02,548 and it rose to 27,20,616 in 2020-2021.As per information, 3,450 students have shifted to government schools in Ludhiana, 3,145 in Hoshiarpur, 2,548 in Patiala, 2,178 in Gurdaspur, 2,080 in Bathinda, 2,041 in Jalandhar, 1,790 in Amritsar, 1,527 in Sangrur, 1,227 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 1,209 in Pathankot, 1,200 in Fazilka, 1,180 in Nawanshahr, 1,151 in Tarn Taran, 1,093 in Mohali, 1,089 in Ferozepur, 1,074 in Moga, 1,035 in Barnala, 1,005 in Ropar, 983 in Muktsar, 919 in Kapurthala, 635 in Faridkot and 573 in Mansa.Better results of government pre-school education are believed to be another main reason behind the rush.The shift||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-effect-33k-pupils-move-from-private-to-govt-schools-in-punjab-238317
13-04-2021||Rajmeet Singh||‘Anomalies’ in bus permits irk youth||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12Days after Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh virtually launched the distribution of 3,000 minibus permits for rural youths under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar te Karobar’ mission, an anomaly in the grant of permits has surfaced.It has been pointed out that on a number of routes formulated by the regional transport authorities (RTAs) under the small-scale bus permits in the open-ended policy, minibuses were already running under permits previously granted by the state Transport Department. This has disappointed the youth who have been granted the new permits.One of the minibus permit holders from Doaba said, “The department, while granting new permits, should have seen if minibuses are already running on those routes.”Earlier, the department had found that the route surveys by RTAs in Malwa, Doaba and Majha regions were not done as per the specified guidelines but the anomaly was corrected by the office of the state Transport Commissioner. The open-ended minibus permit policy specifies public notice of the routes formulated but it was not followed.JS Grewal, general secretary of the Small Scale District Bus Operators’ Association, said government officials, with the connivance of transport mafia, were not following the guidelines to ensure that genuine bus operators entered the business and gave employment to rural youth. This was promoting illegal bus operations in the state, causing loss to the state exchequer. The permits of minibuses already operating were cancelled by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, but these were being renewed.He said if the government was keen to help the unemployed, the rural routes should have a maximum length of 30 km, with 75 per cent rural route. This would avoid overlapping with buses being run under other schemes in the state.Meanwhile, Convener, Punjab Minibus Bachao Action Committee, Surjit Singh Soita said new minibus permits were given at the cost of the existing minibus permit holders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anomalies-in-bus-permits-irk-youth-238240
13-04-2021||Bathinda||Farmers' protest: Kisan conference at Talwandi Sabo today||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) is all set to organise a district-level farmers’ conference at Talwandi Sabo against the central farm laws on Tuesday.A big stage has been erected under a pandal spread over 3.5 acres, where BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan will address the rally.Union state secretary Shingara Singh Mann today held a meeting with union leaders to review the preparations for the event. Mann said thousands of farmers, labourers, women, youth, employees would attend the conference.He said various stages would be dedicated to martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh at many places. “Important announcements pertaining to the ongoing protest will be made in the rally. Besides, farmer leaders will expose the Centre over the farm laws,” he said.Mann today held a meeting with employees of the district administrative complex. In which, Punjab State Ministerial Service Union president Megh Singh Sidhu assured that government employees would participate in the rally tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-kisan-conference-at-talwandi-sabo-today-238273
13-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Crop wet, harvest yet to gather steam in Malwa||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 12Though the procurement of wheat officially started on April 10, harvest in the south Malwa region is yet to pick up pace as the crop is wet due to recent rain.The delay in harvest has dampened the festive spirit of Baisakhi for farmers this year. Farmers generally start coming to markets to sell their harvest by the time of the festival, but this season, harvest is yet to pick up momentum.Shingara Singh Mann, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan)Festivities dampenedWe were expecting a bumper crop this time but the vagaries of weather have affected the crop in various areas. The delay in harvest has dampened Baisakhi celebrations.Shingara Singh Mann, state secretary, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said: “We were expecting a bumper crop this time but the vagaries of weather have affected the crop in various areas. The delay in harvest has dampened Baisakhi celebrations.”Gurdev Singh, a farmer of Naruana village in Bathinda, said his crop was ripe but had high moisture content and it would take one more week to harvest it. Even the procurement in the initial days has started at a snail’s pace. The farmers who have brought their produce to the grain market are feeling harassed.Jagdev Singh of Katar Singh wala village said “I came at the grain market in Bathinda with my crop on April 9 evening, but still it has not been procured”. Even commission agents are confused over the direct benefit transfer (DBT) issue. A commission agent said they didn’t know how the payment regarding produce would be made this season.Bathinda Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said so far about 11,545 metric tonnes of wheat had arrived in the grain markets and various procurement centres in the district. This year over 10 LMT of wheat was expected to arrive at the mandis of the district.Chief Agriculture Officer, Bathinda, Dr Bahadur Singh said the harvest had been delayed due to the prolonged cold weather in the region. It will pick up pace by next week, he hoped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crop-wet-harvest-yet-to-gather-steam-in-malwa-238274
13-04-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Son of farmer, Deputy Commissioner wields sickle, harvests wheat in Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 12A group of farmers went to meet Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ramvir at his local residence on Sunday, when his gunman told them, “He is busy in wheat harvesting, and will meet you after three hours.”Initially, farmers took it as a lie, but when insisted, the gunman allowed them to enter the residence of the DC and see him harvesting the wheat sown on two acres.Ramvir, Sangrur DCBoost to economyAt almost all places of my posting, I have kept cows and done farming... Punjab is an agricultural state and a lot can be explored in this field and allied business. This will also help boost economy of the state.For the farmers of the area, it is unprecedented to see the Deputy Commissioner working as a labourer in the field with a sickle in his hand, instead of a pen, but for Ramvir, being the son of a farmer, agriculture is an integral part of his life. “I have been involved in farming since my childhood days. As I belong to a family of farmers, I always try to stay connected with my roots. At almost all places of my posting, I have kept cows and done farming if I have enough land at my residence,” said Ramvir while asking his daughter and her two cousins to be cautious while using farming equipments.Hailing from Haryana’s Jhajjar district, Ramvir did graduation and MA in political science from JNU, Delhi. He did MPhil in security relations. He is a 2009-batch IAS officer and has worked as an IRS officer, before clearing the IAS exam.“I appeal to the youth that instead of running away from your social responsibilities, you should help your families in the daily household tasks without any hesitation. Punjab is an agricultural state and a lot can be explored in this field and allied business. This will also help boost the economy of the state,” said the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/son-of-farmer-deputy-commissioner-wields-sickle-harvests-wheat-in-sangrur-238275
13-04-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Clampdown on imported wheat hits processing units in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12The Punjab Government’s attempts to stop the flooding of cheaper wheat from outside the state for the illegal sale to government procurement agencies at MSP has hit hard the state’s wheat processing industry.Naresh Ghai, President, Punjab Roller Flour Mills AssociationCan't stay competitive if we buy at MSPThe cost of refined flour is Rs 2,150-Rs 2,200 per quintal... If we buy wheat at MSP of Rs 1,975 per quintal, how can we remain competitive in pricing? The government should immediately allow the free flow of wheat from other states meant for flour mills here.Ever since vigilance teams of the Food and Supply Department seized trucks carrying wheat from Rajasthan, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and unearthed the scam last week, the vigil on all trucks that are coming to the state has been stepped up. The departmental probe has revealed how the trucks are being brought from outside, in the name of the flour mills as well as feed mills, and sold in the mandis, by showing these as Punjab farmers’ harvest.“We found that all trucks seized so far in Bathinda, Ferozepur and Patiala districts were shown to be carrying wheat for flour mills or feed mills. These mills are allowed to get the wheat from outside the state for processing as either flour, refined flour or for use in animal feed. It was then decided that each truck coming to Punjab from outside will be examined carefully and released only after all verifications. Orders to this effect were issued on Saturday,” a senior officer in the Food and Supplies department said.Wheat from outside the state is purchased at Rs 1,200-Rs 1,300 per quintal, and after including the freight cost, traders, have to pay a landing cost of Rs 1,500-Rs 1,600 per quintal. By selling it at the MSP of Rs 1975 per quintal, unscrupulous traders make a profit of Rs 375-Rs 475 per quintal.Mohinder Krishan Chand Arora, an arhtiya in Rajpura, said the wheat processing industry should be given incentives if they purchased wheat from the mandis here.Dharminder Gill, a flour mill owner in Ludhiana, whose trucks carrying wheat have been held up at the state border for verification, said the industry worked on price competitiveness, and if this was resolved, they would buy wheat from Punjab. “Already, the market for refined flour (maida) has been captured by the industry from Gorakhpur in UP,” he rued. There are 70 wheat-processing units in Punjab and their combined annual processing capacity is 12 lakh metric tonnes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clampdown-on-imported-wheat-hits-processing-units-in-punjab-238276
13-04-2021||Ludhiana||Don’t sell other states’ wheat: Bhartiya Kisan Union to agents||Expressing concern over the large quantity of wheat purchased from other states at lower prices being brought to Punjab for sale at MSP with the connivance of certain arhtiyas, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) has warned unscrupulous elements against the practice.BKU general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said the imported produce purchased by government agencies through dubious dealings by corrupt traders and arhtiyas was leaving Punjab farmers high and dry even before they could bring their harvest to mandis. “The illegal sale of wheat is leaving Punjab farmers at the mercy of traders, forcing them to sell their crop at lower rates than the MSP,” Lakhowal said, urging arhtiyas to support farmers instead of hurting their interests when they were protesting against the farm laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-sell-other-states-wheat-bhartiya-kisan-union-to-agents-238233
13-04-2021||Archit Watts||Muktsar farmers ward off stray cattle at mandi||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, April 12Even as the wheat procurement season officially started across the state on Saturday, the grain market here is yet to make necessary arrangements.A visit to the grain market today exposed the functioning of the authorities concerned with garbage strewn across the sheds and a large number of stray animals wandering on the premises.Gaurav Garg, District Mandi OfficerWill make better arrangementsAs the grain market is partially open, stray cattle sometimes enter the premises. I will ask market committee secretary to make better arrangements. Bhupinder Singh, a farmer from Barkandi village, who had brought his produce to the grain market, said: “I could not sleep for even a minute last night as stray cattle were present in large numbers. It seems like a cattle pound. Barring lighting, no other arrangement has been made here.”Lakhwinder Singh, another farmer from Maur village, said: “The fresh crop has started arriving in the mandi, but the administration has not even made arrangements for drinking water. The authorities need to step up and make necessary arrangements as crop arrival will pick up over the next few days.”However, Gaurav Garg, District Mandi Officer, said: “We have got the entire grain market cleaned up. Still, I will ask the market committee secretary to make better arrangements.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-farmers-ward-off-stray-cattle-at-mandi-238234
13-04-2021||Faridkot||Gunny bags’ shortage worries farmers, arhtiyas in Faridkot||Even as the wheat procurement has begun, farmers and arhtiyas have started facing the shortage of gunny bags and farm labourers here.In Faridkot, Markfed, which has a major share (about 25 per cent) of the total procurement, on Monday faced a problem in procurement due to the shortage of gunny bags.Bharat Bhushan Ashu , Food and Civil Supplies MinisterArranged plastic bag stockThe shortage is being faced across the country, but the state government has made sufficient arrangements. The state has also arranged a stock of plastic bags, which can be utilised in the future.Sources in the Markfed revealed that the agency was provided only 7 per cent of its total requirement of gunny bags in the district and the stock finished in the first two days. “We are now waiting for the arrival of the gunny bags to start the procurement,” said a Markfed officer. It is only FCI which has adequate stock of gunny bags, but farmers and arhtiyas don’t want to sell their produce to the FCI.Meanwhile, Jaspreet Kaur, District Food and Supply Controller, denied shortage of gunny bags. She said the bags were being supplied to the agencies in proportion to the arhtiya-kisan passes that were mandi and date specific. Passes were being distributed for staggered arrival of wheat in the mandis, she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gunny-bags-shortage-worries-farmers-arhtiyas-in-faridkot-238235
13-04-2021||Amritsar||Sikh ‘jatha’ reaches Pak for Baisakhi||A ‘jatha’ comprising 815 Sikh pilgrims today left for Pakistan on the occasion of Baisakhi through the Attari-Wagah joint checkpost. The main event is scheduled at Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Hasan Abdal on April 14.The Pakistan High Commission had issued 1,100 visas to the pilgrims for the occasion. If everything goes according to the plan, the pilgrims will have an opportunity to visit other Sikh shrines during the 10-day trip. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-jatha-reaches-pak-for-baisakhi-238277
13-04-2021||Manav Mander||Reinfections a worry in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 12The second wave of Covid surge is proving fatal for those below 45 years and a few contracting the virus for the second time (without co-morbidity), have died across the state.Nearly 70-80 per cent of Covid cases in the state have UK variant of the virus.Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, who is also a member of Covid-19 task force formed by the government, said the UK variant was proving more deadly for the young as several youngsters below 45 years without co-morbidity had contracted the virus for the second time and lost their life. “Ten such cases have been reported in the state of whom three were admitted to the DMCH, a few in Jalandhar and rest were in other districts,” he said.Discussing a case from the district, he said a young doctor from Ludhiana tested positive earlier, but got both doses of the vaccine. “He has tested positive again. The severity of the disease in this case is negligible as he is vaccinated. Vaccination helps in reducing the severity of the infection,” he said.Last year, those admitted to ICUs were aged above 50 years. The new strain seems to have been affecting lungs more quickly and chances of the patient having severe lung infection are also high. On Sunday, 25 patients were on ventilator support in Ludhiana district alone.52 more succumb, testing to be ramped up||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reinfections-a-worry-in-punjab-238246
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh failed to manage spread of virus, says SAD||Former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today said widespread shortcomings in the management of Covid reported by the central team that visited the most-affected districts of the state was an indictment of CM Capt Amarinder Singh who banned political activities of the Opposition instead of improving medical infrastructure and healthcare system.Asserting the CM was directly responsible for the present state of affairs, she said the mortality rate in the state was one of the highest in the country as Capt Amarinder had refused to take control of the situation from the beginning.“The CM isolated himself in his farmhouse and subsequently, Punjab witnessed scams in procurement of Covid-care items, large scale irregularities in testing, scams in procurement of Covid kits and shortage of ventilators and ambulances. All this resulted in people shunning government facilities,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-failed-to-manage-spread-of-virus-says-sad-238247
13-04-2021||---||Religious leaders boost drive, 290 inoculated in two days in Punjab||Barnala, April 12To convince people to get vaccinated, the Barnala administration has been seeking help of various religious organisations.A special camp was organised at the Dera Beas sect on Sunday where 140 followers of the sect got vaccinated. Similarly, another camp for followers of the Nirankari sect was organised on Monday wherein 150 people got vaccinated. Senior citizens, too, have responded well to the call of vaccination and to date around 1,000 elderly people have been vaccinated.“Out of total 22,926 doses, 2,616 doses have been given to healthcare workers, 5,922 to frontline workers, including all government employees, and 14,388 doses to those above 45 years,” said Barnala DC Tej Partap Singh Phoolka.Apart from employee leaders, disciples of various religious organisations, followers of Dera Baba Punjab Singh Tajoke, including dera chief Baba Buta Singh, have also got vaccinated. Similarly, Gurdwara Singh Sabha Ghunas and Gurdwara Sahib Tallewal chief Sant Baba Karnail Singh, too, showed enthusiasm and all its in-house followers have also been vaccinated.“Apart from getting ourselves vaccinated, we all must help government authorities in allaying the fears of residents about getting the jab,” said Gurmukh Singh, a local resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/religious-leaders-boost-drive-290-inoculated-in-two-days-in-punjab-238248
13-04-2021||Ludhiana||Infra upgraded post Covid, Punjab tells Union Govt||The state government has strengthened the health infrastructure to a great extent since Covid spread early last year and all-out efforts were being made to contain the further surge of the virus.This was submitted by Punjab to the Centre in response to Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan’s letter dated April 10, flagging certain gaps in the state’s health infrastructure following the report by the Central teams visiting the state.In the letter, a copy of which is with The Tribune, Principal Health Secretary Hussan Lal informed the Union Health Secretary that the state had added more than 6,000 healthcare workers of various categories in the last one year to augment the healthcare workforce.“Specialist doctors are being recruited through walk-in-interviews regularly. 50 specialists of various disciplines have been issued appointment letters in the last week only. In addition, the districts have been authorised by the state government to engage medical, paramedical and other workforce as per the requirement to augment the capacity regarding Covid isolation management and vaccination,” he told Bhushan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/infra-upgraded-post-covid-punjab-tells-union-govt-238249
13-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Dreams to marry ‘Prince Harry’ shatter as Punjab and Haryana High Court junks woman advocate’s plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12Prince Charles would not like it, and Prince Harry would be appalled. But for the petitioner, it could not have been worse. Her dreams of marrying into royalty have been shattered with the Punjab and Haryana High Court terming her petition — alleging promises by Prince Harry to marry her — as “a day-dreamer’s fantasy”.“There is every possibility that so-called Prince Harry may be sitting in a cyber cafe of a village in Punjab, looking for greener pastures for himself,” Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted.The matter was placed before Justice Sangwan after advocate Palwinder Kaur moved the High Court with “Prince Harry Middleton” as a respondent. Seeking legal action against “Prince Harry Middleton, son of Prince Charles Middleton, resident of United Kingdom”, Palwinder also prayed for issuance of directions to the “UK police cell” to act against him.Directions were also sought for issuance of arrest warrants against him to prevent further delay “in their marriage”. She claimed that Prince Harry had given his word to marry her, but the promise remained unfulfilled.The matter was initially heard on a virtual platform. But the case was specially taken up for physical hearing on a request made by the petitioner in person. After hearing her, Justice Sangwan asserted: “I find that this petition is nothing, but just a day-dreamer’s fantasy about marrying Prince Harry.”Justice Sangwan added the petition was “very poorly drafted” grammatically and “lacked the knowledge of pleadings”. But it spoke about some emails between the petitioner and Prince Harry, in which the sender made a promise to marry soon.Responding to a court query on petitioner ever travelling to the UK, she replied in negative. Claiming conversation through social media, the petitioner said she had even sent messages to Prince Charles that his son Prince Harry was engaged with her.Referring to the documents, Justice Sangwan asserted the printouts of the “so-called conversation” were not true copies and some portion had been deleted/erased. “It is a well-known fact that fake IDs are created on various social media sites like the Facebook, Twitter, etc, and authenticity of such conversation cannot be relied upon by this court.”Before parting with the case, Justice Sangwan asserted the court did not find ground to entertain the petition and could only show its sympathy towards the petitioner that she believed such a fake conversation to be true.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dreams-to-marry-prince-harry-shatter-as-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-junks-woman-advocates-plea-238250
13-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib/Fazilka||Congress takes reins of MCs in Fazilka, Fatehgarh, Ferozepur||Congress councillors were elected as president, senior vice-president and vice-president of the municipal councils of Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib, Mandi Gobindgarh, Bassi Pathana and Khamano today.In Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib, Ashok Sood was again elected the president of the municipal council whereas Gurpreet Singh Lalli was elected the senior vice-president and Amarjeet Kaur vice-president. All the office-bearers were elected unanimously.In Mandi Gobindgarh, Harpreet Singh Prince was unanimously elected the president while Ashok Sharma was elected the vice-president.In Bassi Pathana, councillor Ravinder Kumar Rinku was elected the president as 13 members out of 15 supported him. In Khamano Nagar Panchayat, Dr Amarjit Sohal, who is also the president of the Block Congress, was unanimously elected as the president.In Ferozepur, the Congress regained the control over the Municipal Council after a gap of 18 years. In a unanimous decision, Rinku Grover, a close aide of MLA Parminder Singh Pinki, was elected the president while Rajinder Sippy and Michel Gachli were elected as senior vice-president and vice-president, respectively.Meanwhile, Advocate Surinder Sachdeva of the Congress has been unanimously elected the president of the ‘A’ category Municipal Council, Fazilka. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-takes-reins-of-mcs-in-fazilka-fatehgarh-ferozepur-238252
13-04-2021||---||Dhakoli area of Zirakpur declared containment zone as Covid cases surge||Mohali, April 12In view of the surge in Covid cases the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur, the district administration here on Monday declared the area as containment zone.With 850 cases in past one week Dhakoli area of Zirakpur in Mohali district has become the hotspot as maximum number of cases has surfaced in the area. About 1,100 Covid positive cases have surfaced in the Dhakoli area since April 1.Confirming the same Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said Dhakoli has been converted into containment zone in view of the high number of cases concentrated in the area for the last four days. He said even though no curfew has been imposed but people would not be allowed to move out till further orders.Dayalan said there shall be 100 per cent Covid testing of the people residing in this zone and till then no one would be allowed to enter or leave the area. He said after the Covid testing every eligible person in the area would be vaccinated before opening the containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dhakoli-area-of-zirakpur-declared-containment-zone-as-covid-cases-surge-238202
