15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees record daily rise of 4,333 COVID-19 cases||Punjab’s daily COVID-19 cases surged to a record high of 4,333 on Thursday, taking the state’s cumulative tally to 2,86,816, according to a medical bulletin.The state’s previous biggest jump of 3,477 COVID-19 cases was recorded on April 12.Punjab’s death toll climbed to 7,722 as 51 more people succumbed to the disease, the bulletin said.The number of active cases increased to 30,033 from 28,250 on Wednesday. There are 40 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 374 are on oxygen support, it said.Mohali reported the highest number of fresh cases at 860, followed by 482 in Ludhiana, 399 in Jalandhar, 365 in Amritsar, 353 in Patiala and 301 in Bathinda.Of the latest fatalities, 10 were reported from Amritsar, nine from Hoshiarpur and six each from Gurdaspur and Ludhiana.A total of 2,478 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of cured persons to 2,49,061, the bulletin stated.So far, 64,73,869 samples have been collected for testing in the state, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-record-daily-rise-of-4-333-covid-19-cases-239510
15-04-2021||Patiala||Family members of erstwhile electricity board employees stage protest; climb atop water tank||Family members of erstwhile employees of the electricity board, who lost their lives on duty, staged a protest on Thursday near Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh's residence in Patiala.Their families climbed atop an overhead water tank near an Ayurvedic research centre, and demanded jobs from the PSPCL. Those who climbed atop the water tank included elderly women, and others were present with children.The families said that they want a policy devised by the state government which would provide jobs to families who lost their members during duty.They "threatened to intensify their protest" in case their demands were unfulfilled.This protest took place when the city is already facing several protests.Two teachers, associated with ETT and TET pass teachers' association, have already been protesting atop another overhead water tank in the city.Farmers, under the banner Zameen Kisan Sangharsh Committee, have been protesting at YPS Chowk for the last 21 days. This has left police personnel positioned at the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/family-members-of-erstwhile-electricity-board-employees-stage-protest-climb-atop-water-tank-239483
15-04-2021||Bathinda||First-timer Raman Goyal elected as Bathinda Mayor amid favouritism allegations||First-time councillor Raman Goyal has been elected as Mayor of Bathinda Municipal Corporation on Thursday.  Raman, from ward number 35, is the wife of a liquor contractor, Sandeep Goyal, and the first woman elected for the Mayor post.While Ashok Pradhan was elected as Senior Deputy Mayor, Master Harmander Singh was elected as Deputy Mayor. Raman Goyal's win comes as a surprise as veteran Congress leader Jagroop Singh Gill—who won for a record seventh time—was seen as the strongest claimant for this post. Jagroop Singh Gill had resigned from the post of Chairman, District Planning Board before contesting the MC polls. Moreover, Raman Goyal jumped into politics ahead of MC polls.  Sources claimed that the proximity of Sandeep Goyal with Jaswinder Singh Jugnu, also a liquor contractor, who is a close aide of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal allegedly helped him to get his wife the post.  Gill also held the posts of the chairperson of the Bathinda Improvement Trust, vice-president, and president of the local civic body, and the president of the District Bar Association.After the announcement of the mayor, Gill walked out of the meeting, and alleged that "earlier, it was said that the SAD letter comes out from the pocket of Parkash Singh Badal, today the letter came out of Manpreet Badal’s pocket”.Without naming anyone, Gill said that certain section tried to defeat him during the civic body polls, but electors reposed faith in him. He added that Raman Goyal was "favoured" because of her husband Sandeep Goyal’s closeness with Manpreet Badal, and his close aides.Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi—who was the observer for the election—said that all three were elected unanimously. He added that Manpreet Badal, himself, was also present in the meeting and he congratulated all the three for being elected as mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. Badal also said that it was the toughest decision to elect Mayor from 43 councillors.Raman Goyal’s elevation to the post of Mayor is important due to the assembly polls due within eight months. Political expert claims, that picking a Hindu candidate for the Mayor is a bid to consolidate Hindu votes in the Hindu dominant seat. Secondly, the FM team can hold the power in their hands, and can dictate the term for development works in the city as non-experience, and first-timer has been given a chance to lead the MC Bathinda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/first-timer-raman-goyal-elected-as-bathinda-mayor-amid-favouritism-allegations-239453
15-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Bharti Singh snaps at man, says ‘mask lagaiye', realises she is not wearing it, but he is; watch hilarious video||Comedian Bharti Singh was spotted on the streets of Mumbai. The actress had stepped out for a shoot on Wednesday  where she ended up scolding a man for not wearing a mask.However, this took a hilarious turn, she later realised that he was wearing a mask, while she wasn't.“Mask lagaiye (Wear a mask),” Bharti told the man, who got startled by her comment.She quickly added: “Oh, sorry. Mera hi nahi hai (I am not wearing one myself).”A post shared by Viral Bhayani (@viralbhayani)  A photographer could be heard saying: “Uncle ko dara diya aapne (You scared the elderly man).”While some netizens found the incident funny, others were not amused to see Bharti without a mask.Currently, Maharashtra is in a partial lockdown to curb growing Covid-19 cases in the state.The 15-day statewide curfew, which excludes essential services, came into effect from Wednesday night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bharti-singh-snaps-at-man-says-mask-lagaiye-realises-she-is-not-wearing-it-but-he-is-watch-hilarious-video-239437
15-04-2021||Washington||Resolution introduced in US Congress to recognise significance of Baisakhi||A US Congressman has introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives to recognise the significance of 'Vaisakhi' and those who celebrate it."This resolution recognises the historic, cultural and religious significance of the festival of 'Vaisakhi'," Congressman John Garamendi said on the House floor as he re-introduced the Baisakhi resolution.Also known as Baisakhi, Vaisakhi is a spring season harvest festival for Sikhs, Hindus and Buddhists. It also marks the Sikh New Year and commemorates the formation of Khalsa Panth under Guru Gobind Singh in 1699, Garamendi said.The Congressman from California is co-chair of the Sikh Caucus in the House.“Madam Speaker, I encourage all Members of the House to join me in recognising the significance of Vaisakhi and those who celebrate it,” Garamendi said.In the United States, Vaisakhi is celebrated with large processions, celebrations and community service. Vaisakhi celebrates community, prosperity, and continued progress in the year ahead, he said.“As our country emerges from the COVID-19 pandemic, it is critical that we celebrate the strength of our communities and the sacrifice it will take to defeat the coronavirus and look toward the future,” the lawmaker said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resolution-introduced-in-us-congress-to-recognise-significance-of-baisakhi-239402
15-04-2021||---||Kotkapura verdict: Sukhpal Singh Khaira terms it miscarriage of justice||Jalandhar, April 14MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira termed the Punjab and Haryana High Court decision to quash the SIT, which was investigating Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan firing cases, against basic principles of natural justice. Khaira said such petty decisions cannot supress the truth. He said, “Had Sukhbir Badal been a true Akali, the SAD government should have punished the guilty during their tenure. Since they are themselves involved, they have remained mute spectators and have defended culprits.” Khaira said he was amused at the quashing, especially when the SIT had filed nine challans at a trial court in Faridkot.Khaira said if at all there was any discrepancy in the investigations, it was for the trial court to decide and not the high court. The high court has virtually become a party with the accused, which is nothing but a classic case of ‘miscarriage of justice’, he said.Khaira said if at all the high court had any doubt about the partisan working of IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, it could have simply asked the Punjab Government to replace him as the head of the SIT, rather than derailing the entire case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-verdict-sukhpal-singh-khaira-terms-it-miscarriage-of-justice-239142
15-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Capt Amarinder Singh to lay foundation stone of Hoshiarpur Medical College in July||Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni on Wednesday said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh would lay foundation stone of Rs 375-crore Hoshiarpur Medical College in the first week of July.Accompanied by Industry and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, Soni paid floral tributes to Dr BR Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary and said decks have been cleared to start and timely completion of this medical college, besides upgrading the Civil Hospital’s bed capacity from 200 to 500.He said the Punjab Government has fixed a timeline to accomplish the project by December 2022 and start first session in 2023, which would give a boost to medical education and healthcare facilities in the region.He said 20 acres would be required for establishing the medical college. Soni said Rs 325 crore would be incurred on the construction of the building and Rs 50 crore would be spent state-of-the-art machinery. He also pointed out that super speciality doctors would be appointed at the medical college.Giving information about three upcoming medical colleges, Soni said the Mohali Medical College is all set to start classes from this session while construction at Hoshiapur and Kapurthala was on the anvil.He said the government would also set up two more medical colleges in Gurdaspur and Malerkotla.Soni, Arora along with Principal Secretary Medical Education and Research DK Tiwari and Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, among others, were also present. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-hoshiarpur-medical-college-in-july-239146
15-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar's Rurka Kalan shows way to conserve natural water||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 14Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February made an appeal to people to start a 100-day ‘Catch the Rain’ campaign to conserve water ahead of the summer, but Rurka Kalan village in Jalandhar district had already constructed a rooftop water recharge plant at a cost of nearly Rs 1.5 lakh.Seven houses have been connected to the plant. Set up outside an aaganwari centre in the village, the tank has a capacity to store nearly one lakh litre rainwater and is 80 ft deep to mix it with the groundwater. The unit has been installed with the joint effort of the nagar panchayat, youth Football Club (YFC) and NRIs from the village. At least 19 more such rooftop water recharge plants are likely to come up in the village.Soil Conservation Officer, Jalandhar, Lupinder Kumar, said: “Rurka Kalan used to be in the dark zone category of the depleting water level. However, with the construction of rooftop water recharge unit and community ponds, the village has seen a turnaround. Besides, the model can be adopted in other villages to promote the conservation of natural water.”The Pond Irrigation Scheme has also benefitted farmers in Rurka Kalan village. The village pond fulfil the irrigational needs of the nearby fields. While shrinking groundwater reserves and the treatment of sewage water remain prime concerns in the state’s depleting aquifers, projects like these deal help retain a healthy groundwater table.In three simple steps — desilting, purification and filtration — the sewage water of the village gets collected in a huge pond, which is further pumped out for irrigation with the help of a pump run by 24 solar panels power.Gurmangal Das, founder, YFC, Rurka Kalan, says: “As part of the action plan for ‘Mission 2024’, six more ponds to irrigate 800 acres through solar-powered uplifting devices and the laying of 5 km HDP underground pipelines are on the cards. In addition, 200 soak pits would be constructed. The total budget for these projects is estimated to be around Rs 3 crore.Lupinder said, while the fund was collected by YFC and panchayat village, under the direction of Rajesh Vashist, Chief Conservator of Soil, we designed the models of water conservation for the village. “This was for the first time that there was optimum utilisation of local resources. The National Horticulture Mission also approved and appreciated the model,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhars-rurka-kalan-shows-way-to-conserve-natural-water-239138
15-04-2021||Fazilka||Heroin worth Rs32 cr seized||The BSF claimed to have arrested one smuggler and seized 6.52 kg heroin, worth over Rs 32 crore in the international market, in the Fazilka area this morning.Sources said soldiers of the BSF’s 52 battalion heard some noise across the fencing in the Lakha Asli area of Fazilka district in the wee hours today. On search, they found eight packets of heroin, one plastic bottle filled with liquor, one cell phone and two SIM cards from the area. The BSF also apprehended alleged smuggler Mangal Singh (18). He was hiding in a nearby field. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs32-cr-seized-239366
15-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Two cops booked for letting off smugglers in Tarn Taran||Five persons, including an inspector and head constable, have been booked for letting off two drug smugglers after taking a bribe of Rs 3.5 lakh.Head Constable Devinder Singh has been arrested, while Inspector Baljit Singh and three others are still at large.The services of Baljit were suspended with immediate effect on Tuesday at the orders of the SSP office. Baljit was given a chance to explain his version but he failed to come to record his statement, the SSP said.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-cops-booked-for-letting-off-smugglers-in-tarn-taran-239361
15-04-2021||Ferozepur||Ex-PCS officer held in land grab case||The police have arrested two persons, including a retired PCS officer, in a nine-year-old case pertaining to an attempt to grab government land worth Rs 150 crore. Those arrested are Gurjit Singh Pannu, the then Ferozepur SDM, and Biram Lal, a retired official of the Revenue Department.In 2012, the Ferozepur police had registered a case against seven persons, including Naib Tehsildar, Kanungo and other revenue officials, who had allegedly connived with Assa Singh and some other influential persons to grab land measuring 15.9 acres worth over Rs 150 crore in the heart of the city, following an inquiry conducted by the then DC S Karuna Raju. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-pcs-officer-held-in-land-grab-case-239349
15-04-2021||Amritsar||Kotkapura: Aggrieved families to contest court order||Aggrieved families and various Sikh groups have declared to hold protest on April 19 at the doorstep of the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the rejection of the SIT report on the Kotkapura incident.Sikh Youth of Punjab (SYP) president Paramjit Singh Mand, after presiding over a meeting of his party office-bearers at Dal Khalsa office in Amritsar, said Dal Khalsa, SAD (Amritsar) and United Akali Dal, along with the aggrieved family members, had decided to hold a protest against the HC order rejecting the SIT report.He said the HC judgment had dashed all hopes of justice in the case. On the resignation of SIT head IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, Mand said the police department needed a morally upright officer to usher in reforms and justice.The meeting also discussed the ongoing farmers’ agitation and decided to participate in the proposed Parliament gherao in May. The meeting warned the Centre not to underestimate the resolve and steadfastness of protesting farmers. They said the agitation would last till the three laws were repealed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-aggrieved-families-to-contest-court-order-239180
15-04-2021||Fazilka||In Fazilka market, resentment over tardy wheat purchase||Resentment is brewing among farmers over the slow procurement of wheat in Fazilka, one of the largest grain markets in the region.Notwithstanding tall claims of the administration for hassle-free procurement, the process could not be undertaken properly for more than one reasons despite the fact that the arrival began on April 10.Official sources said 34,825 tonne wheat had arrived in Fazilka district till today, out of which only 10,279 tonne had been procured by the government agencies.Only 70 tonne was purchased till Tuesday evening, while the remaining 10,209 tonne was procured today itself. Lifting has not begun so far.“The administration had assured farmers that their produce would be procured within one day after it was brought to the grain market, but I have been sitting here for the past five days, awaiting procurement,” said Ranjeet Ram of Muthianwali village who had brought 300 quintal wheat to the market.“The state government’s claim of hassle-free procurement has proved hollow,” alleged another farmer Harbans Singh of Kotha Lukmanpur village in Fazilka district. He came to the Fazilka grain market with 250 quintals of wheat.Officials said the procurement began at a slow pace due to a technical glitch in the portal offering the direct transfer of the payment into the accounts of farmers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-fazilka-market-resentment-over-tardy-wheat-purchase-239182
15-04-2021||Bathinda||No procurement: Farmers block highway in Bathinda's Goniana Kalan||Farmers under the banner of BKU (Mansa) faction staged a protest at Goniana Kalan in Bathinda district alleging the FCI had not started wheat procurement there so far.The protesting farmers raised slogans against the Centre and the FCI. They said the central procurement agency had dragged its feet from around six mandis in the district on the pretext of high moisture content. Farmers blocked Bathinda-Amritsar highway and also raised slogans against the state government.Union leader Jagshir Jeeda said, “This is a deliberate attempt by the central procurement agency to pester farmers who have brought their produce to the mandi. No one is available here to buy their produce. This approach of FCI won’t be tolerated and if the procurement does not start soon, we will intensify the stir.”Later, Naib Tehsildar Rajvir Singh reached the protest venue and placated the farmers following which the dharna ended. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-procurement-farmers-block-highway-in-bathindas-goniana-kalan-239184
15-04-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Kotkapura firing: Sukhjinder Randhawa distances self  from High Court verdict||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14Cooperation and Jails Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, who has been quite vocal in the Vidhan Sabha and outside on the issue of acting against those behind sacrilege and Kotkapura police firing incidents, on Wednesday sought to distance himself from the outcome of the SIT report in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Breaking his silence, Randhawa said he was never part of any political deliberations on the SIT investigation, barring a meeting called by the Chief Minister which was attended by Punjab Police IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh.“After that, I was never consulted or called for meeting on the issue. I cannot comment on other ministers or MLAs who were part of the first meeting,” he said.On being asked about people asking for answers to what he and other ministers said on the floor of the House when Justice Ranjit Singh Commission’s report was tabled, he said, “I stand by my words stated in public domain. Everyone knows who all are responsible for the sacrilege and Kotkapura firing incidents. Only the Chief Minister or the IG can comment on the reasons for quashing of the SIT report.”Randhawa’s comment comes in the wake of demand by certain party leaders to call an emergency meeting of party MLAs to discuss the issue threadbare. “It is ministers and MLAs who have to face public in the run-up to the elections,” said an MLA from Malwa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-sukhjinder-randhawa-distances-self-from-high-court-verdict-239186
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura verdict: Congress credibility hit, Advocate General must quit, says Partap Bajwa||Holding Advocate General (AG) Atul Nanda responsible for failing to defend the SIT report in the Kotkapura firing case before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa on Wednesday sought his resignation.The quashing of the SIT report had resulted in the loss of face for the Congress government as a fair investigation in these cases and punishment for the guilty police officials was one of the most important poll promises, said Bajwa.He said it was the duty of AG to appear and defend the state government in various courts. “In the present case, AG did not appear himself, but paid Rs 5.5 crore to lawyers from Delhi to defend the cases. It is the exchequer’s money that has been wasted by him by refusing to appear and defend the interests of the state in various cases. Against Rs 3,30,000 approved for a senior advocate on the panel, a Delhi lawyer was paid Rs 25 lakh per appearance,” said Bajwa, urging the CM to call an emergency meeting of all Congress MLAs, Ministers and MPs to have a threadbare discussion on the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-verdict-congress-credibility-hit-advocate-general-must-quit-says-partap-bajwa-239188
15-04-2021||Ropar||Punjab CM’s support to Kunwar Vijay Partap High Court contempt : SAD||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema today alleged that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had committed a contempt of court by supporting IGP Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh.Kunwar Vijay Pratap headed the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Punjab Police that was probing police action on people protesting over the alleged desecration of Guru Granth Sahib in which two persons were killed. The High Court had last week quashed the SIT inquiry with directions to the government to form a new SIT without him.Capt Amarinder has, however, refused to accept the resignation letter of the IPS officer, seeking premature retirement from service. The CM said the government would challenge the HC orders as he was a highly competent and efficient officer, whose services were needed in the border state.Cheema, while addressing mediapersons, said it was everybody’s right to challenge the HC’s orders in the apex court. In this case, however, supporting the police officer publicly, the Chief Minister attempted to tarnish the dignity of judiciary, he alleged.“It is the job of an investigating officer to present the facts before the court and the decision of the court is supreme. The court can accept or reject these facts. If he resigns out of resentment, then what is the use of the courts?” he asked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cms-support-to-kunwar-vijay-partap-high-court-contempt-sad-239190
15-04-2021||Patiala||AAP: Cong, SAD in cahoots over IG Kunwar Vijay Partap’s resignation||State AAP president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann today took a dig at the SAD and the Congress over the resignation of Punjab Police IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. Mann alleged that the resignation of the IPS officer was a result of both the Congress and SAD being in cahoots.Mann said the officer was leading an SIT in the firing incident at Kotkapura in connection to the Bargari sacrilege incident of 2015 whose probe report had been rejected by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.He said: “The state government has formulated a team of advocates deliberately to lose court cases. The state government should have sought a resignation from the Advocate General, Punjab, when the officer’s report was rejected by the court.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-cong-sad-in-cahoots-over-ig-kunwar-vijay-partaps-resignation-239192
15-04-2021||---||No procurement in Faridkot, FCI relaxes land record norm||Faridkot, April 14With the Food Corporation of India (FCI) failing to procure even a single grain of wheat in the last five days in Faridkot, the central agency on Wednesday decided to relax its demand for the land records of farmers for the purchase.Of the total 37,045 metric tonnnes (MT) of wheat procured in Faridkot district till Tuesday, the FCI’s share was nil. The maximum procurement has been made by Pungrain (16,590 MT), followed by Markfed (8,437 MT), Punsup (6,683 MT) and PSWP (5,335 MT).FCI Divisional Manager Vaneet Parkash said as the agency was always strict on its procurement parameters, including moisture specifications, the commission agents were reluctant to offer the wheat for procurement to it.Moreover, the FCI was also demanding the ID of farmers and their registration on portal before making purchase, so both farmers and commission agents were hesitant in selling their crop to the agency, said sources.Parkash said with the relaxation in the condition of land records of the farmers, the FCI was hopeful of making purchase from Thursday.The FCI has set a target of procuring 1.6 LMT in Faridkot and Muktsar districts. It has opened 44 purchasing centres in these two districts. In the last rabi season, the FCI had 11 per cent share in the total procurement in the state. In all, 127.67 LMT of wheat was procured last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-procurement-in-faridkot-fci-relaxes-land-record-norm-239193
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Post-resignation, IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh meets Capt||Hours after Capt Amarinder Singh refused to accept the resignation of IPS Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, the IG met the Chief Minister today. The meeting gains significance as the IG wrote a Facebook post saying he would continue to serve the society in the best possible manner, but not as an IPS. This was the second meeting between the CM and the IG in the last three days. There was, however, no official confirmation on the content of the discussion. The CM is learnt to have pressed upon the IG that he should continue to head the SIT at this juncture. The IG remained incommunicado. He is learnt to be upset over the quashing of the SIT report by the Punjab and Haryana High Court and handling of the case by the state legal team. Sources said the Congress leadership was jittery over the reports of AAP trying to rope in the IG and using sacrilege and police firing cases against the party in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly poll. “It will be in the interest of the party and public that the SIT investigations headed by the IG are taken to their logical conclusion,” said a senior party leader. CM Capt Amarinder Singh also trashed as baseless and politically motivated the allegations against Advocate General Atul Nanda, as well as the legal team that defended the Kotkapura firing probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-resignation-ig-kunwar-vijay-pratap-singh-meets-capt-239194
15-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||In Fatehgarh Sahib, sparks in power lines destroy crop on 35 acres||Wheat crop sown in 35 acres of land belonging to seven farmers at Balahri Kalan village was destroyed in a fire, allegedly due to sparking in power lines passing through the fields. Farmers Lakhwinder Singh, Surmukh, Shiv Nath, Gurcharn Singh, Ranjit Singh and others said the loss amounted to lakhs of rupees. Officials of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) have refuted the allegations.  A majority of these farmers had taken this land on lease for farming. Some villagers rushed to the spot to prevent it from spreading further. The affected farmers have appealed to the district administration and the CM to compensate them so that they can survive. Baljit Singh Bhutta, former chairman of Zila Parishad, lashed out at PSPCL officials, saying the incident happened due to their negligence. He alleged that the wheat crop at Balahri Kalan village on the Fatehgarh Sahib-Chandigarh road got burnt due to sparking in the power lines passing through the fields as these lines are loose. He alleged that none of the officials reached the spot to take stock of the situation. He demanded a thorough probe and action against the erring PSPCL officials. He urged the government to pay the affected farmers a compensation Rs 60,000 per acre. Anant Sood, SDO, PSPCL, Badali Ala Singh, refuted the allegations. He said, “No major line passes through those fields. A single-phase 11-KV line passes through one of the fields and there is no question of sparking as it does not touch any object.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-fatehgarh-sahib-sparks-in-power-lines-destroy-crop-on-35-acres-239195
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||No ‘bardana’ shortage at mandis: Ashu||Rejecting reports in a section of media regarding non-availability of bales with procurement agencies as malicious propaganda, Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Wednesday underlined that there was no shortage of bardana in the mandies at all. Ashu said the tendering for bardana procurement was a continuous process which started much before the season. The last tender floated on April 12 was necessitated only because permission from the Centre to use used bags was received late. “We have got jute bales indented through the Jute Commissioner and NAFED,” Ashu said, adding PP bales were also being received from various HDPE/PP bag suppliers. This in addition to the permission to use good quality used bags, already received from the Centre on April 12,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-bardana-shortage-at-mandis-ashu-239196
15-04-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Stored rice leaves little space for wheat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14The “unusually high” paddy procured in October last year is posing a problem for the government procurement agencies now. The shelled rice being delivered to the FCI is taking up the storage space, leaving little space for the wheat being procured now.Even as an inquiry by a central agency into the paddy purchase made from Punjab in the kharif marketing season (KMS) 2020-21, which was beyond the estimated production, is underway, the additional 28 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of rice delivered to the central food agency is a cause for concern. As against an average 108 LMT of rice that the state delivers to FCI, the rice being delivered this year is expected to be 136 LMT.On Day five, 5.12 LMT wheat procuredIn October last year, 202.78 LMT of paddy was procured from the state as against 163.82 LMT purchased in 2019-20. The crop-cutting experiments pointed to much lower figures of paddy production in the state, giving rise to suspicion that cheaper paddy was bought by unscrupulous dealers from Bihar and UP to sell it at MSP of Rs 1,888 per quintal.FCI sources said the additional rice (28 LMT) was taking up the storage space. Prem Goel, a Sunam-based miller, said millers were at the receiving end as the FCI was not taking delivery.A senior FCI official said of 175 LMT of covered space, only 35 LMT is available for wheat. Of 112 LMT of CAP storage, 65 LMT is vacant.Punjab is preparing to procure 130 LMT of wheat, of which 120 LMT will be given for the central pool to FCI after the state keeps over 9 LMT for its public distribution. Thus, there is a shortage of space for the current year’s wheat stock.Officials in FCI and state Food and Supply department said in order to create space for the new stock, they are working with the Government of India to fast track the movement of foodgrain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stored-rice-leaves-little-space-for-wheat-239197
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||BJP: Akalis indulging in vote bank politics||Reacting to SAD president Sukhbir Badal’s announcement of giving the Deputy Chief Minister’s post to a Dalit, the BJP today alleged that Akalis were playing only vote bank politics.     BJP state  president  Ashwani Sharma said the announcement was nothing, but a strategy to hoodwink the SC community in the ensuing Assembly elections in the state. He alleged that the SAD had a history of misleading voters and today’s announcement was nothing, but a desperate move to gain political space.  “When in power, the SAD never thought that the Deputy CM should be from the SC community,” said Ashwani Sharma. “It is on record that the BJP had requested the SAD to give a prominent position to the SC in ministerial berths and chairmanships. However, we regret that senior leaders did not heed to the advise of the BJP. The deputy chief ministership was kept within the family,” he said. Meanwhile, in a seperate statement, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh announced that if voted to power in the state, the Chief Minister would be a Dalit.  Chugh lambasted the Congress and the SAD for trying to mislead Dalits in Punjab by alluring them with false promises of giving the Deputy CM seat to a Dalit. In a tweet, BJP’s state general secretary Shubash Sharma said Sukhbir’s announcement showed his “feudal mindset” as he was already talking like as if he was the Chief Minister. He said it was not Sukhbir, but 33 per cent Dalits of Punjab who would decide who would be the Chief Minister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-akalis-indulging-in-vote-bank-politics-239199
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis, BJP failed to uplift Dalits, says CM Capt Amarinder Singh||Trashing it as nothing but poll optics, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday ridiculed the SAD and BJP promise of appointing Dalits as the Deputy CM and the CM, respectively, if voted to power. Given the shockingly poor track record of both parties, which did nothing for the Scheduled Caste (SC) community during their term in power, the Chief Minister alleged that the SAD and the BJP had failed to ensure the welfare of the Dalits in the state for 10 years, and were now resorting to political gimmickry to woo the community with an eye on the 2022 Assembly elections. “Sukhbir Badal is now promising a Dalit Deputy CM, but has nothing to show what he or his party, in alliance with the BJP ever did for the community,” remarked the Chief Minister, terming it a political antic aimed at misleading the people with an eye on votes. It was ridiculous the way the BJP had also quickly jumped on to the wagon to promise a Dalit Chief Minister if it was elected by the people of Punjab, he remarked, adding that given the angst against the party in the state over the farmers’ issue, even finding one winnable candidate would be a challenge for them.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-bjp-failed-to-uplift-dalits-says-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-239200
15-04-2021||---||Punjab seeks additional medical oxygen supply||Ludhiana, April 14The state government has demanded additional medical oxygen supply from the Central Government to cater to the need of critical Covid patients.The state has sought 1,400 D type cylinders, 350 B type, and 200 E type cylinders of medical oxygen.The demand was raised following a communication received by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan from Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on April 12.In a demi-official letter, a copy of which is with The Tribune, Bhushan had written that the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had last year provided oxygen cylinders to the states and UTs for effective Covid management. “The supplies were made as per the requirement projected by the states and UTs,” he reminded.The Union Health Secretary said in view of the surge in Covid cases, if there was any additional requirement of oxygen cylinders, the same along with the details thereof could be intimated to the ministry immediately.“It is also required to nominate a senior IAS officer as the state nodal officer for managing medical oxygen supply in the state,” Bhushan said, while providing the contact details of two senior ministry officials — Dr Rajiv Garg and Joint Secretary Nipun Vinayak — who will be handling the issues pertaining to medical oxygen.Responding to the Centre’s offer, state Principal Health Secretary Hussan Lal thanked the Centre for helping the state in arranging adequate supply of medical oxygen.“MD, Punjab Health Systems Corporation-cum-Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Tanu Kashyap has been appointed as the state nodal officer for managing medical oxygen supply in the state,” Hussan informed the Union Health Secretary, while raising the demand for 1,950 medical oxygen cylinders.He requested Bhushan to arrange and make the requisite quantity of medical oxygen cylinders available to the state on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-seeks-additional-medical-oxygen-supply-239201
15-04-2021||Talwara||Fake liquor scam busted, 6 arrested||A team of CIA staff yesterday claimed to have busted a six-member gang who was illegally taking out spirit from two tankers to make spurious liquor. The accused allegedly colluded with the drivers of the spirit tankers and illegally extracted the spirit out of tankers sent by factories at Sansarpur Terrace in Himachal to various places, in plastic cans of 35 litre.Sources said they sold these cans for Rs 1,200-1,300 per can. The police have recovered two tankers of spirit and cans used to steal the spirit have also been recovered from the accused. The accused used to sell it reportedly making fake liquor out of it. The police have registered an FIR against the six accused and recovered 40,000 litre spirit, two tankers, three cars, a pipe used for stealing spirit and 21 plastic cans.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said Rahul of Sohal village, was the kingpin of the gang. He is on the run. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-liquor-scam-busted-6-arrested-239203
15-04-2021||---||30% funds for SC welfare: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, April 14The Punjab Government will spend at least 30 per cent of funds under all government schemes for the welfare of the state’s SC population.Announcing this today, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh also took a host of other decisions for the uplift of the Dalit community, as a mark of homage to Dr BR Ambedkar.Paying floral tributes to the architect of the Indian Constitution, Dr Ambedkar, on his 130th birth anniversary, at a virtual state-level event, the Chief Minister also announced filling the backlog of SC vacancies in all departments on priority, while promising to explore a post-matric overseas scholarship scheme for SC students, on the lines of the Baroda State Scholarship Scheme awarded under a scheme established by Sayajirao Gaekwad III.The Chief Minister further announced a special Rs 500-crore Rural Link Roads project. The project will encompass construction of new link roads to the colonies of the Scheduled Castes and other poorer sections of society, which do not currently have road connectivity.A special allocation of Rs 100 crore was proposed in 2021-22 for modernisation of villages having more than 50 per cent SC population, said the Chief Minister, adding this was aimed at providing further impetus to existing grants in the villages having SC population greater than or equal to 50 per cent of the total population.Smart phones would be given to all Class XII SC students in government schools, while to motivate people to take up dairy farming, 150 village-level awareness camps would be conducted, with special emphasis on SC beneficiaries, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/30-funds-for-sc-welfare-capt-amarinder-singh-239156
15-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Dalit to be Dy CM, if voted: Sukhbir Badal||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 14Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday promised to give the post of Punjab Deputy Chief Minister to a Dalit if his party is voted to power in the Assembly elections next year.He was in the district to pay tributes to BR Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary.BJP: Akalis indulging in vote bank politicsOn the occasion, Sukhbir announced that a university named after BR Ambedkar would be set up in the Doaba region. On the other hand, BSP activists opposed Sukhbir’s visit to the district and raised slogans.Sloganeering by BSP activistsThe SAD chief’s visit came half an hour after that of BJP leaders who, too, faced opposition and sloganeering by BSP workers. There was a huge rush at the venue.Although heavy police force was deployed, Sukhbir had a tough time walking up to the statue of Ambedkar to pay floral tribute amid pushing from all sides.Security personnel jostled with the crowd pushing on both sides to get the leader across to his vehicle. The protesters raised slogans such as ‘Sukhbir Badal murdabad’, ‘Mazdoor maroo murdabad’, ‘Kisan maroo murdabad’ and ‘Bhajpa da friend murdabad’.Later, addressing the media, Sukhbir said, “Babsaheb ne desh da savidhan banaya. Babasaheb gariban de messiah san. Babasaheb ne garib janata nu adhikar den vaste, sare vargan nu savidhan vich security den vaste, subeyan nu adhikar den vaste Constitution banaya. Aj jis Constitution de rahi desh chal reha, oh Babasaheb di den hai. (Babasaheb made the Constitution, he was the messiah of the poor. He made the Constitution to provide rights to the poor, security to all communities and give states their constitutional rights.)”The SAD chief reiterated that when the SAD forms the government in the state, the Deputy CM would be from the Dalit community. A university named after Babasaheb would be established in Doaba. His ideas, thoughts and ideals would be taught to the new generation through this university.Asked whether the SAD will form the government in a coalition, he said, “Talks are on with several parties. The decision will be made public”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dalit-to-be-dy-cm-if-voted-sukhbir-badal-239157
15-04-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Top Punjab dog training institute in Dera Bassi faces existential crisis||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14Popular across the country for providing trained dogs for detecting drugs and explosives, Punjab Home Guards Canine Training and Breeding Centre, Dera Bassi, is under review over its viability.From Indian Army to Ministry of External Affairs, the EC to security units in J&K and from prisons of other states to top industrialists like Mukesh Ambani, the institute has a long list of illustrious clientele.While it has supplied nearly 250 dogs to other states in the last five years for Rs 3.45 crore, Punjab has not placed a single order during this period.The Punjab Government recently formed a committee to review its viability. Newton Sidhu, institute director, alleged a lobby of officers wanted to damage the institute. Questioning the legality of the committee, he has already written to the CM, Chief Secretary and the DGP.Sidhu alleged DGP (Home Guards) VK Bhawra had got the committee constituted in contravention of his authority. He said Bhawra wrote a DO letter to the Home Secretary, seeking its review.“The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the authority of the DGP (Home Guards) and thus the demand is illegal and amounts to contempt of the court,” Sidhu claimed, seeking the CM’s intervention.Bhawra said the government had every right to review the projects under it from time to time.“This is procedural. There is nothing personal about it,” the DGP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/top-punjab-dog-training-institute-in-dera-bassi-faces-existential-crisis-239158
15-04-2021||Kullu||Punjab tourist found dead in Kullu hotel||A tourist from Punjab, Vicky Dogra (35), was found dead at his room in a hotel at Manikaran yesterday.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said Vicky was staying in the hotel for the past two days and the police got information that he was not opening the door since morning. The police broke open the door and found him lying dead on the bed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-tourist-found-dead-in-kullu-hotel-239173
15-04-2021||New Delhi/Lahore||India in touch with Pakistan: EAM on safety of Indian Sikh pilgrims||India is in touch with authorities in Pakistan regarding safety of over 800 Indian pilgrims whose visit to the neighbouring country has been affected by violent protests in several cities, including Lahore.“Closely tracking developments. In touch with Pakistani authorities and Sikh Jatha. Will do utmost to ensure security and safe return of pilgrims,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar tweeted.The minister’s response came after president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management committee Manjinder Singh Sirsa, in a tweet, requested Jaishankar to look into the matter of stranded Sikh pilgrims in Pakistan.Over 800 Indian Sikhs travelled to Pakistan to attend the Baisakhi festival. The Indian pilgrims had reached Lahore via Wagah border on Monday to attend the festival.On Tuesday afternoon, the visiting Indian Sikhs left for Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Hassanabdal in 25 buses which were escorted by the police and the Pakistani Rangers.“Owing to the TLP protest that blocked roads, the Sikh yatrees reached Hassanabdal at 4 am on Wednesday after over 14 hours of journey which otherwise is covered in three hours,” an official of the Punjab government told PTI in Lahore.  Protests are taking place in several parts of Pakistan by supporters of Tehreek-i-Labaik Pakistan (TLP) demanding the expulsion of the French envoy over the publication of blasphemous caricatures in France.The Indian pilgrims attended the main event on Wednesday in which several local Sikhs also participated.The visiting pilgrims are scheduled to visit other holy places in the Punjab province of Pakistan during their 10-day stay in the country. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/india-in-touch-with-pakistan-eam-on-safety-of-indian-sikh-pilgrims-239096
15-04-2021||Patiala||Bhagwant Mann takes digs at Congress and SAD over IPS officer’s resignation||Sangrur MP and president of Aam Aadmi Party Punjab Bhagwant Mann on Wednesday took digs at the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Congress over the resignation of IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap.Holding a press conference in Patiala, Mann alleged that the resignation of IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh was a result of both Congress and SAD being in cahoots.The party, however, failed to maintain proper social distancing at the event organised in a closed venue where the media persons and party workers had to jostle for space.Mann said the IPS officer was leading an SIT in firing incident at Kotkapura in relation to Bargari sacrilege incident of 2015 whose probe report has been rejected by the Punjab and Haryana High court.He said, “The state government has formed a team of advocates deliberately to lose court cases,” and added that the state government should have sought resignation from the Advocate General Punjab when the officer’s report was rejected by the court.He said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and former Deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal are in convergence.“After years of delay in delivery of justice, the state government has decided to approach the Supreme Court, the process of which will take another set of years.”He said the probe report of the SIT will come in public domain as it has been presented in the court of law and added, “If we come into power in the coming elections, we will take action on the basis of the report.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-takes-digs-at-congress-and-sad-over-ips-officers-resignation-239048
15-04-2021||---||30 per cent of all Punjab funds to go for SC welfare: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, April 14The Punjab Government will spend at least 30 per cent of funds under all government schemes for the welfare of the state’s Scheduled Caste (SC) population.This was announced on Wednesday by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, along with a host of other measures for the uplift of the Dalit community as a mark of homage to Dr BR Ambedkar.Paying tributes to the architect of the Indian Constitution on his 130th birth anniversary at a virtual state-level event, the Chief Minister also announced filling of the backlog of SC vacancies backlog in all departments on priority, while promising to explore a post-matric overseas scholarship scheme for SC students on the lines of the Baroda State Scholarship Scheme awarded to Baba Sahib under a scheme established by Sayajirao Gaekwad-III.The Chief Minister announced a special Rs 500 crore Rural Link Roads Project for FY-2022. The project will encompass construction of new roads to the “bastis” of Scheduled Castes and other poorer sections of society that do not currently have road connectivity. Cremation grounds and places of worship would also be connected through the project.Opinion: Ambedkar put equality at the core of democracy, writes Yogendra YadavA special allocation of Rs 100 crore was proposed in 2021-22 for the modernisation of villages with more than 50 per cent SC population, the Chief Minister said, adding this was aimed at providing impetus to existing grants in the villages with SC population greater than 50 per cent.Smart phones would be given to all Class-12 SC students in government schools. To motivate people to take up dairy farming, 150 village-level awareness camps and training at nine Training & Extension Centres would be conducted, with special emphasis on Scheduled Caste beneficiaries.The government also proposed to provide 30 per cent reservation for SC applicants in villages under the “Har Ghar Pakki Chhat’ scheme, and also 30 per cent in the affordable housing scheme for EWS. A Dr B.R. Ambedkar Institute of Training at Jalandhar for competitive exams, including civil services, was also proposed under the GGRK mission. It would have 50 per cent seat reservation for SC candidates. Other projects planned include a Dr BR Ambedkar museum and a Dr BR Ambedkar Institute of Management on the PTU Campus in Kapurthala.Captain Amarinder recalled that when Rajiv Gandhi contested for the first time from Amethi, after the death of his brother Sanjay Gandhi, the campaigning task was handed to him for one of the four areas in the constituency. “An SC youth who was deputed to help me wanted to get off the jeep before entering an upper-caste-dominated village, but I did not allow him to. He was standing next to me when the villagers offered me water, asking him to go out. But I made it clear that he would not go out alone. So I also left the place, telling them – “Votan pao ya na pao, appa jaa rahe hain”. (whether or not you give us votes, we are leaving!)At the virtual event, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan cited some of the steps taken by the government for Dalit welfare, while Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot lauded the various measures taken by the government. His colleague Aruna Chaudhary appreciated the “revolutionary steps” taken for Dalit women and girls, while Charanjit Singh Channi stressed the need for the implementation of the 85th Amendment and regular recruitment of Dalits, along with reservation for Dalits in private schools, police department, AG office, and posts of board chairman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/30-per-cent-of-all-punjab-funds-to-go-for-sc-welfare-capt-amarinder-singh-239010
15-04-2021||Washington||Joe Biden greets Indian-Americans and Sikhs on Baisakhi||US President Joe Biden led his country in greeting Indian-Americans, South Asians and Southeast Asians on the eve of their New Year."(First Lady) Jill (Biden) and I send our warmest wishes to the South Asian and Southeast Asian communities who are celebrating Vaisakhi, Navratri, Songkran and the incoming New Year this week. Happy Bengali, Cambodian, Lao, Myanmarese, Nepali, Sinhalese, Tamil, Thai, and Vishu New Year!" Biden said in a tweet on Tuesday.Biden and the US first lady were joined by several lawmakers in greeting Indian-Americans and Sikhs on the occasion of Baisakhi."Wishing a happy and healthy Vaisakhi to the Sikh community celebrating across the country!" Indian=American Congressman Ami Bera said.Another Indian-American lawmaker, Ro Khanna, tweeted, "Wishing the Sikh community in America and around the world a happy Vaisakhi!""Wishing a happy Vaisakhi to all those celebrating in New Jersey and around the world!" said Congressman Frank Pallone.Pallone and Congressman John Garamendi have introduced a resolution honouring the Sikh community's celebration of Baisakhi."Wishing a happy Vaisakhi to all the Sikhs and Sikh Americans celebrating in Illinois and across the world," tweeted Senator Dick Durbin."Warm wishes on Vaisakhi to everyone in the Sikh community who call New Jersey home. This is a time to focus on what matters most - family and standing in solidarity with our neighbours," said Senator Bob Menendez, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/joe-biden-greets-indian-americans-and-sikhs-on-baisakhi-238967
