16-04-2021||New Delhi||Rs 13.71 crores and Rs 735 crores transferred directly into accounts of farmers in Punjab and Haryana for wheat procurement||The government agencies have procured 18,24,310 tonnes (18.24 lakh tonnes) of wheat from Punjab and 36,30,790 tonnes (36.30 lakh tonnes) from Haryana in the ongoing Rabi Marketing Season till April 15.  From the country on the whole, 81,63,669 tonnes (81.64 lakh tonnes) has been procured at an MSP of Rs 1,975 per quintal, against an estimated target of 427.36 lakh tonnes this year. From Chandigarh, 5650 tonnes have been procured, according to the FCI data.   This is the first time the farmers from Punjab and Haryana are receiving direct online MSP payment of their produce.The Centre has been pursuing with the two state governments for ensuring direct online payment into farmers’ accounts since 2015-16. However, they had been “routinely approaching the Centre for granting exemption and seeking time”.Just ahead of procurement, Punjab had sought yet another exemption, which was rejected by the Centre.Till date Rs 13.71 crores and Rs 735 crores has been transferred into the accounts of farmers in Punjab and Haryana, respectively. Normally there is a lag of 2-3 days in transfer of money, officials said, adding that procurement in Punjab started on April 10, and picked up in last two days (after Baisakhi), while in Haryana it has been going on since April 1.With Punjab and Haryana on board, the entire country is now covered under Direct Benefit Transfer of MSP under the theme of “One Nation, One MSP, One DBT”, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said. Till date Rs 13.71 crores and Rs 735 crores has been transferred into the accounts of farmers in Punjab and Haryana, respectively. Normally there is a lag of 2-3 days in transfer of money, officials said.Dismissing observations of procurement “going slow” in Punjab, Pandey said procurement and transferring of the MSP amount is going smoothly in the state.“We are now transferring in Punjab the MSP amount directly to farmers’ accounts which has been possible with the cooperation of the state government and ‘arthiyas’, who are a very important stakeholder. They will get their respective commission due under the APMC Act and rules into their accounts.“There is no stakeholder interest clash or encroachment in Punjab. ‘Arhtiyas’ will receive their commission separately through the e-mode of payment. Earlier, the MSP was going to farmers via ‘arhtiya’ and now it is being directly transferred to farmers online,” he said, in response to reports about ‘arthiyas’ demanding “signed blank cheques from farmers to facilitate procurement”. Pandey said the Centre is hoping to procure 427 LMT this season, the highest ever in the country. This includes 130 LMT from Punjab and 80 LMT from Haryana, states where farmers have been at the forefront of the agitation against the three agriculture laws.The leader of the group (of 11 states and two UTs, Chandigarh and J&K) will be Madhya Pradesh from where 135 LMT is expected to be procured. So far, the highest procurement has been reported from Haryana, he said, thanking the government and the ‘arthiyas’ of the state.As per the data available with the FCI, the government agencies have procured 23.08 lakh tonnes of wheat from the farmers in Madhya Pradesh and 1.99 lakh tonnes in Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, to ramp up storage infrastructure in India and increase storage capacity by 100 LMT, the government is launching a storage modernisation plan.“By 2024-25, we will store our stocks in modern silos and phase out conventional godowns,” Pandey said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-13-71-crores-and-rs-735-crores-transferred-directly-into-accounts-of-farmers-in-punjab-and-haryana-for-wheat-procurement-239966
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab government under-reporting Covid deaths: Bhagwant Mann||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday demanded that Chief Minister Amarinder Singh give an account of the money collected in the Punjab CM Covid Relief Fund.AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann also sought details of where the funds had been spent so far.The Punjab Chief Minister Covid Relief Fund was set up by the state government in March last year for the welfare of people in distress due to the coronavirus pandemic."The money of the public cannot be kept secret. Amarinder Singh should give an account of the money collected in the Covid relief fund," Mann said in a statement here.It has been more than a year since COVID-19 came to the country and even the first wave of the pandemic has passed but the state government hospitals do not have an adequate number of ventilators yet, he claimed.He further said, "To counter the second wave properly, the number of beds in hospitals has also not been increased yet. When the government has not done anything, the question arises that what did it do with the crores of rupees collected in the name of Covid relief fund."  Mann said the number of COVID-19 patients and the mortality rate in the state have been rising but Singh is busy promoting himself in the name of disease rather than improving the health facilities.He also alleged that the state government was under-reporting deaths."Hundreds of people are dying every day due to the lack of treatment but the names of all those people are not being included in the government records. The number of people dying due to the pandemic is many times higher than what the government is reporting," he claimed.On Thursday, Punjab's COVID-19 tally surged to 2,86,816 with a record daily high of 4,333 fresh cases, according to a medical bulletin.The death toll climbed to 7,722 with 51 more fatalities, the bulletin stated. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-under-reporting-covid-deaths-bhagwant-mann-239938
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Fortis, Max among seven private hospitals in Mohali to set aside 50% bed capacity for COVID patients||The Mohali administration on Friday ordered the seven private hospitals to set aside at least 50 per cent of their total bed capacity as isolation beds and wards for COVID care.The seven hospitals—Max Super-specialty, Fortis Healthcare, SGHS Sohana, Indus Hospital and Ivy Hospital, Grecian Super-specialty and Mayo Super-specialty—providing quality tertiary care (L2/L3) for COVID patients in the district shall set aside at least 50 per cent of their total bed capacity as isolation beds and wards for COVID care.“The district possesses minimal public health infrastructure, given that the district hospital is under re-construction as a medical college – which will take time. Most of the ICU beds/ ventilators (L2/L3 i.e. Tertiary Care) are in the private sector,” said Mohali DC Girish Dayalan in an order.The hospitals shall also put certain ambulances exclusively attending to COVID-19 patients or suspected cases.The Civil Surgeon, Mohali, shall decide on the exact number of beds and ambulances based on overall capacity of the hospital.Private hospitals in the district shall not refuse admission or treatment to patients of COVID-19 referred by the Civil Surgeon, Mohali. The hospitals shall ensure that staff – doctors, nurses, and paramedics—are all available on duty and no one shall refuse treatment.There have been 3,466 positive cases with 21 deaths in the week starting April 8 and the district has witnessed 486 deaths till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fortis-max-among-seven-private-hospitals-in-mohali-to-set-aside-50-bed-capacity-for-covid-patients-239918
16-04-2021||Mohali||7 private hospitals in Mohali to set aside 50% bed capacity for COVID care||The Mohali administration on Friday ordered seven private hospitals to set aside at least 50% of their total bed capacity as isolation beds and wards for COVID care.The seven hospitals -- Max Super-specialty, Fortis Heathcare, SGHS Sohana, Indus Hospital and IVY Hospital, Grecian Super-specialty and Mayo Super-specialty -- provide tertiary care (L2/L3) for COVID patients in the district.''The district possesses minimal public health infrastructure, given that the District Hospital is under re-construction as a Medical College – which will take time. Most of the ICU beds/ ventilators (L2/L3 i.e. Tertiary Care) are in the private sector,'' said Mohali DC Girish Dayalan in an order.The hospitals shall also put certain ambulances exclusively to attend to COVID-19 patients/suspected cases.Civil Surgeon, Mohali, shall decide on the exact number of beds/ambulances based on the overall capacity of the hospital.Private hospitals in the district shall not refuse admission or treatment to COVID patients referred by the Civil Surgeon, Mohali. The hospitals shall ensure that staff – doctors, nurses, and paramedics -- are all available on duty and no one shall refuse treatment, said the order.There have been 3,466 positive cases with 21 deaths in the week starting April 8, 2021, and the district has witnessed 486 deaths to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-private-hospitals-in-mohali-to-set-aside-50-bed-capacity-for-covid-care-239914
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||After meeting Badnore, IG Vijay Pratap hints he is firm on resigning, has convinced Capt||After meeting Governor VP Singh Badnore, IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh on Friday indicated that he was firm on resigning and had convinced Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh of the same. The meeting with the Governor started at 11:32 am, confirmed an official of the Governor's office.IG Kunwar — No-nonsense officer with ‘Dabang’ imageThe IG had recently resigned from the police service after an adverse order by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the Kotkapura police firing case. His resignation was, however, rejected by the Punjab Chief Minister.Bargari sacrilege cases: Navjot Sidhu wants SIT findings made publicThe IG was the key investigator in the case that was probed by a five-member SIT.After the meeting with the Governor, Partap said the meeting was “routine and in his private capacity.” On the status of his premature retirement application to the Chief Minister, he said he was firm on his decision even though the CM had tried to convince him to remain in service. Pratap added that he had assured the CM that he would continue to assist the SIT from outside, whenever the government takes any concrete step in the direction. The IG’s resolution has started creating a crisis for the Congress government. Congress leaders fear that the IG’s retirement over the SIT probe would work towards the party’s disadvantage in the upcoming 2022 elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-meeting-badnore-ig-vijay-pratap-hints-he-is-firm-on-resigning-has-convinced-capt-239893
16-04-2021||Patiala||Bargari sacrilege cases: Navjot Sidhu wants SIT findings made public||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said that a “botched up” probe in Bargari sacrilege incidents led to delay in justice for the victims.Sidhu demanded that the Punjab police Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe into the 2015 firings at people protesting in Kotakpura and Behbal Kalan against sacrilegious incidents be made public. Also read: After meeting Badnore, IG Vijay Partap hints he is firm on resigning, has convinced CaptAt Behbal Kalan, two people were killed in the police firing.Sidhu said when the culprits are identified as per the report, and there is evidence that the “then state DGP was in touch with the Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal at 2.30 am then it’s clear evidence that they were in cahoots”. “Law must prevail and charge sheet filed in court against all who were part of the chain”, says Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bargari-sacrilege-cases-navjot-sidhu-wants-sit-findings-made-public-239889
16-04-2021||Muktsar||Partially burnt 'Gutka Sahib' found in Muktsar||A partially burnt 'Gutka Sahib' was found at a vacant plot on Abohar Road here Thursday evening.A 'granthi' of a nearby gurdwara informed the manager of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib here about the sacrilege, who then reached the spot along with the police.Sumer Singh, Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Muktsar, said, "The holy Gutka Sahib was found partially burnt in a vacant plot. I have informed the police about the sacrilege incident for further action. Some burnt literature and worship material too has been found from the plot. It seems someone burnt the holy Gutka Sahib by mistake along with some literature and then threw it in the vacant plot to avoid any legal action."He added, "We will now again go to the spot, ask some nearby residents."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/partially-burnt-gutka-sahib-found-in-muktsar-239879
16-04-2021||Muktsar||Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal tests Covid positive||Bathinda MP and ex-Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal tested COVID-19 positive on Friday. The cook and two more workers at her Badal village residence also tested positive for the deadly disease, said sources.  Notably, Harsimrat held a few meetings with SAD workers in Bathinda on Thursday. Sources shared that she was "doing fine, but isolated herself, following the Health Department's guidelines". "Dear all, I've tested positive for COVID-19 today with mild symptoms. I have quarantined myself at home and am taking all the necessary precautions. I would request all those who came in contact with me to isolate and get themselves tested at the earliest,' the former Union Minister shared on Twitter.Dear all, I've tested positive for #COVID19 today with mild symptoms. I have quarantined myself at home and am taking all the necessary precautions. I would request all those who came in contact with me to isolate and get themselves tested at the earliest.  Earlier, her husband, SAD Chief-cum-Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal had tested COVID-19 positive on March 16. He was discharged from a Gurugram private hospital on March 24.Meanwhile, security personnel and other workers who were deployed at the Badal's residence had also tested COVID-19 positive earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-mp-harsimrat-kaur-badal-tests-covid-positive-239867
16-04-2021||Phagwara||Punjab teacher beaten up, face blackened for sexually harassing Class-10 girl||A private schoolteacher was thrashed and his face blackened by the family of a class 10 girl before he was arrested by the police for allegedly sexually harassing her, officials said. Vikas Kumar has been arrested under section 354-A (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code, said Inspector Navdeep Singh. The minor girl's family alleged that Kumar had asked her to stay back after special doubt-clearance classes, saying he wanted to give her some extra lesson.However, instead of discussing studies, he asked the girl to watch a vulgar film on his cellphone, they alleged.When she refused to do it, the teacher made some vulgar gestures too, they alleged.The incident took place on Monday when a group of students were called for doubt clearance.The parents and their kin Thursday barged into the school and thrashed the teacher in the classroom and blackened his face, the officials said.Police took the teacher to the city police station and then booked him. School Principal Kusum said that the teacher has been sacked forthwith as the school authorities never tolerate any immoral activity. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-teacher-beaten-up-face-blackened-for-sexually-harassing-class-10-girl-239863
16-04-2021||Mona||Filmmaker Jagmeet Samundri wants to highlight the valour of the Sikh community||There is an abundance of amazing stories inspired by Sikh history; unfortunately, they are limited to the region and the international audience remains oblivious to them, feels director Jagmeet Samundri. Out to undo that, this passionate filmmaker, who has to his credit Rise of the Khalsa, Martyrs, and Saka: The Martyrs of Nankana Sahib, recently wrapped up the first schedule of Shahaadat, near Chunni Kalan, in the vicinity of Chandigarh.“Shahaadat is a story about Baba Deep Singh and Bhai Mani Singh. Keeping true to the Sikh code of conduct, we are not showing their characters through actors,” says Samundri. He promises a ‘newer’ way of storytelling with his latest outing, “This film depicts a great chapter of Sikh history that took place about 300 years ago.” Baba Deep Singh’s visual of sword in one hand and head in another is a story of legends, pretty popular in the region. “Baba Deep Singh and Bhai Mani Singh’s lives were linked as both spent time with Guru Gobind Singh ji. Of course, we don’t show their characters in flesh and blood, but other characters would be there and our actors like Suvinder Vicky, who is playing Zakriya Khan in the film, have done a great job.”Going internationalA fan of Ridley Scott, who has helmed Gladiator, Kingdom of Heaven and Exodus: Gods and Kings, Samundri wishes to tap international market with Shahaadat, which is an interesting play of an incredible story and cutting edge VFX. “We believe in perfection. Our planning is foolproof, so much so that for our Chandigarh schedule we would shoot one scene even before breakfast,” says Samundri, who worked on a call time of 6:30 am and would start rolling by seven. “VFX is our USP. Shahaadat would see massive use of visual effects, which are being worked upon for last many months.” The film’s cinematography is by Anil Dhanda and executive producer is Ajit Babbar.Samundri is known for his films on Sikh history like SAKA — Nankana Sahib De Shaheed, a feature film, and Shaheed, a docu-feature on Sikh history. The documentary Rise of the Khalsa won him the best director award at New York International Film Festival.“Shahaadat has powerful performances and huge scope in the international circuits,” says Samundri, who is amazed at how the pandemic has changed the face of the entertainment industry. “Our industry, which was star-driven, has lately opted for content.”True foodieIn Mumbai now, for a decade-and-a-half, Samundri misses the khana of Punjab the most. “We had a tandoor on the sets to make up for all the Punjabi food that I miss in Mumbai. Also I am a firm believer that good food leads to good thoughts, so I ensure my unit is well-fed,” he laughs. Along with Shahaadat, Samundri is also working on a Hindi horror film.About 75 minutes long, Sahaadat, written and directed by Samundri, is being made in Punjabi with subtitles and would later be dubbed for the international audience. “It is about time that world knows about Sikh valour and the sacrifices they made,” he signs off.mona@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/filmmaker-jagmeet-samundri-wants-to-highlight-the-valour-of-the-sikh-community-239825
16-04-2021||Washington||US Senator greets Sikhs on Baisakhi, Guru Tegh Bahadur's 400th birth anniversary||Noting that Sikhs share a strong sense of community, family, and selfless service, a senior US Senator has greeted members of the community from across the world as two important celebrations are taking place this week: 'Baisakhi' and the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur."I extend my best wishes to the Sikh community for the joyous celebrations of 'Baisakhi' and the 400th anniversary of the birth of Guru Tegh Bahadur," Senator Pat Toomey from Pennsylvania said on the Senate floor on Wednesday.Toomey said Sikhism traces its origins to the Punjab region of India and has flourished around the world for nearly 600 years. He said Sikh tradition is built on ideals of peace, respect, and equality.Further, Sikhs are dedicated to the principle that every person is created equal before God, no matter their race, gender, religion, or creed.Today, the Sikh population in the world stands at 30 million, making it one of the world's major religions. Nearly 700,000 Sikhs live in the United States, and many of them have made Pennsylvania their home, Toomey said.Sikhs share a strong sense of community, family, and selfless service, as evidenced by their commitment to welcoming and serving individuals from all religious, cultural, and ethnic backgrounds, he said.During the COVID-19 pandemic, Sikh communities across the country, including Pennsylvania, mobilised to deliver meals, groceries, masks, and other supplies to tens of thousands of families in need, he added."In my own travels across the Commonwealth, I have witnessed firsthand the spirit of this community when meeting with Sikh constituents. It is clear they have enriched their neighbourhoods and contributed in numerous ways to the growth and vitality of Pennsylvania and the United States," Toomey said."As a proud member of the American Sikh Congressional Caucus, each year, I join many voices across Congress and the United States in commemorating the holiday of 'Baisakhi', which took place on April 13 this year," he said.'Baisakhi' marks the spring harvest and serves as a day of reflection of Sikhism's origins. During 'Baisakhi', Sikhs commemorate the founding in 1699 of the Khalsa Panth, an order of devout Sikhs who played a fundamental role in cultivating the religion's history and identity, he added.Traditionally, Sikhs recognise 'Baisakhi' with parades, dancing, singing, and other festivities. Sikhs also commemorate this special day with community service, both organising and volunteering in various community projects. In years past, Sikhs from around the country have organised a parade here in Washington, DC to commemorate 'Baisakhi' as National Sikh Day, he said."While the pandemic has prevented such large scale, public celebrations both last year and this year, I look forward to welcoming Pennsylvania's Sikh community back to D.C. in the years to come,” he said."In addition to celebrating 'Baisakhi', Sikhs will also mark the 400th anniversary of the birth of spiritual leader Guru Tegh Bahadur on April 18. The Ninth Guru of Sikhism, Guru Tegh Bahadur is remembered as a champion of religious liberty for all,” Toomey said."In 1675, Guru Teg Bahadur confronted Mughal emperor Aurangzeb against the forced religious conversion of Hindus, an act for which he was publicly beheaded in Delhi. In giving his life to protect a religion that was not his own, he is fondly remembered by Sikhs as 'Dharam Di Chadar', or Shield of Religions," said the senator. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-senator-greets-sikhs-on-baisakhi-guru-tegh-bahadurs-400th-birth-anniversary-239861
16-04-2021||Jalandhar||Khed mela at Tikri to boost morale of farmers||A khed mela was held on the occasion of Baisakhi at Tikri border. Several events, including wrestling, kabaddi, volleyball, turban tying, running, yoga, tug-of-war, gatka and horse racing, were held to instill enthusiasm among protesting farmer.To uplift the morale of farmers who have been agitating for the last five months, Kartar Singh Pehelwan, a Padma Shri and president of the Punjab Wrestling Association, had earlier announced to organise wrestling competitions at Singhu border on February 3.Arjuna awardees Kartar Singh, Rajbir Kaur and Sajjan Singh Cheema, and Olympians Gurmel Singh and Davinder Singh Garja had announced their support after an unfortunate incident at red fort. “We support farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. To infuse more energy, motivation and power in farmers and youngsters who are spending days and nights at Delhi borders, wrestling competitions will be organised,” they had said earlier.Now, the competitions were organised to make the atmosphere at border lively.Pehelwan said to destroy cruelty of the powerful and create a peaceful society, the 6th master, Guru Har Gobind Singh wanted youngsters to be full of energy and motivation. So, he started an akhara outside Akal Takht, where several pehelwans would visit and perform.“Our farmers, too, are fighting the cruelty of the Centre and youngsters can be seen making their presence felt. Thus, it’s very important to keep them upbeat, which is why we decided to organise such events,” he said.He said farmers were away from their homes and were living in such harsh conditions, which is why such steps were being taken to boost their morale. Medical camps were also held at Tikri border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khed-mela-at-tikri-to-boost-morale-of-farmers-239789
16-04-2021||Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr girl tops UP civil services exam||Life mein kuch bada karna tha bachpan se hi, says Sanchita Sharma (29) from Nawanshahr who has topped the UP civil services exam in her second attempt. As nobody in her family has been in the services or in this field, her selection has brought a bundle of joy and an enormous amount of happiness for her parents. For Sanchita, it has given a purpose and meaning to her life.Sanchita completed her studies in 2013 from Panjab University. She has done dual degree courses in BE (Chemical Engineering) and MBA. Because of some issues in the family, she didn’t do any job after she passed out of the university. So, it was in 2016, she started preparing for civil services as she wanted to do something ‘meaningful’ in her life.“While doing my degree courses, I just wanted to do a job in a corporate house. But when I joined the internship, it wasn’t satisfying and fulfilling at all. It was then I realised that this was not something I always wished for. My dream was to achieve something big and do better for society,” Sanchita shared.Sanchita’s father is running a Jan Aushadhi Kendra store in Nawanshahr, while her mother has worked as a lecturer in a college in Banga. Her sister is a dentist who has her clinic in the district itself.The proud father of Sanchita said: ‘Asi te vyapari aadmi haan. Saade ghar vich kade koi nai si is taraf.’ He felt glad to get such recognition after his daughter’s achievement.“My parents feel that they have got honour in society after the news and I feel proud that I could give this happiness to them,” the topper said. “Now, I am just looking forward to serving my nation,” Sanchita added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nawanshahr-girl-tops-up-civil-services-exam-239794
16-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||VVIP treatment to singer Karan Aujla: DIG submits probe report to ADGP||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 15Almost a week after the incident in which Punjabi singer Karan Aujla was given VVIP treatment at the Ludhiana Central Jail, DIG (prisons) SS Saini submitted a probe report to Additional Director General of Police (prisons) PK Sinha.After the incident occurred on April 7, Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had asked the ADGP (prisons) to probe the matter and fix the responsibility of Jail Superintendent Rajeev Arora if the latter had resorted to any negligence.Mayor’s official Gypsy escorted singer Karan Aujla to jailWhile confirming this to The Tribune, the ADGP said the DIG had submitted the probe report and he was yet to go through the same. When asked if any action is recommended against the Jail Superintendent or he is declared innocent, he said: “Let me examine the report first, only then I can comment.”Notably, when the DIG visited the jail to conduct a probe, he had questioned the Jail Superintendent and also took the statement of other jail staff members who were present at the jail when singer Karan Aujla, along with several others, had entered the jail without undergoing any security checks. The singer and others had also reportedly taken mobile phones to the jail, which was also against the jail norms.The Jail Superintendent said the singer was his family friend and he came to the jail to have a cup of tea with him and later, he went to his official residence to have lunch. Arora had already denied the rumours that the singer had come to meet notorious drug peddler Gurdeep Singh Rano, who is also lodged at the jail.Notably, smuggler Rano was nabbed with drugs worth crores, drug money and 13 luxury cars by the Special Task Force, Ludhiana. The singer used to conduct shooting of his song at the bungalow of smuggler Rano in Khanna district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vvip-treatment-to-singer-karan-aujla-dig-submits-probe-report-to-adgp-239776
16-04-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana drug case: 45 days on, BJP leader’s role not clear||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 15Over 45 days have lapsed since the police recovered 1.29 lakh tablets from the house owned by BJP leader Satish Nagar’s wife at Chawani Mohalla, but still there is no clarity on the role of the BJP leader in the case.The police had registered a case against the BJP leader along with others namely Anup Sharma, Hemant and Rajinder under the NDPS Act.Since the role of BJP leader had surfaced in the probe and his name was also mentioned on the first number in the FIR, the police had on March 1 taken Nagar to police station suspecting he is the kingpin in the case, he was released by the police.Reportedly, the police had allegedly released the BJP leader under political pressure. When asked why the role of the BJP leader is still not clear even after 45 days since the incident, the Police Commissioner, Rakesh Agrawal, who had formed a special investigations team (SIT) to investigate the role of BJP leader, told The Tribune, “The role of BJP leader is still being verified. ADCP 1 Pragya Jain is heading the SIT and is yet to submit the report to me.”Some residents of Chawani Mohalla, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Why the police is sitting on the probe, if BJP leader Nagar has any role in drug racket he should not spared and if he has no role, SIT should give a clean chit to him rather than delaying the probe.”Cong MLA questions probeCongress MLA Rakesh Pandey had commented on the drug racket probe and said, “Why BJP leader Satish Nagar was first taken to police station, then was released and the probe into his role is yet lying pending. I will take up the matter with CM Capt Amarinder Singh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-drug-case-45-days-on-bjp-leaders-role-not-clear-239785
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||No Class X exam in Punjab||Amid the surge in Covid cases, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced that students of Classes 5, 8 and 10 would be promoted to the next standard without exams. A decision on Class 12 examinations, which have already been postponed, would be taken later.For Class 5 students, since exams for four of their five subjects had already been conducted, the results would be declared by the Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) on the basis of marks obtained in the four subjects. The results for Classes 8 and 10 would be declared on the basis of pre-board examinations or internal assessment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-class-x-exam-in-punjab-239713
16-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib youth tries to put out fire, gets burn injuries; wheat destroyed||Gurwinder Singh (19), a resident of Sadoo Majra and BA first-year student, received severe burn injuries while trying to put out a fire that was spreading fast and engulfing the ripe wheat crop at the village today.Though wheat on 45 acres was destroyed, he was able to save the remaining crop of villagers. The youth was admitted to a private hospital.The 45 acres belonged to small farmers with less than two acres each. Villagers said the exact cause of the fire was unknown. They also ruled out the possibility of a spark in the power lines as there was a power cut when the fire broke out.They said they informed the Fire Station Office at Sirhind and three fire fighting engines were pressed into service. Harbans Singh, Inspector, Fire Department, Sirhind, said as soon as they got the information, three fire fighting engines, along with a team of fire extinguishing staff, was pressed into service and the fire was controlled.The farmers whose crop was damaged said the government should order ‘girdawri’ and pay them compensation. Some of the farmers had taken land on lease.AAP leader Lakhvir Singh Rai assured the farmers to take up matter with the government. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fatehgarh-sahib-youth-tries-to-put-out-fire-gets-burn-injuries-wheat-destroyed-239572
16-04-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Amid shortage, millers make do with poor quality used bags||Tribune News ServiceMoga, April 15Keeping in view the shortage of gunny bags, the Centre has allowed the central and state procurement agencies to utilise one-time used gunny bags (bardana) made of jute for the supply of custom-milled rice by mills to the Food Corporation of India (FCI). However, the quality of bags in Moga district is relatively poor, revealed insiders in the milling industry.FCI Divisional Manager Pankaj Kumar Singharia claimed they accepted rice in one-time used gunny bags as per the specifications laid down by the central government. “There have been instances of rice millers trying to deliver rice in poor quality gunny bags, but our staff members at the storehouses or depots reject the lots,” he said.Singharia said rice millers in Moga were supposed to deliver 14 lakh MT of rice to the FCI by April 30, but, so far they had delivered approximately 7.30 lakh MT, just 53 per cent of the total target. The delay has been attributed to shortage of space and non-availability of gunny bags.Meanwhile, a visit to many rice mills by this correspondent revealed that old gunny bags, underweight and torn, were seen lying at many rice mills in Moga, Baghapurana, Nihalsinghwala, Badhni Kalan, Ajitwal, Kot-ise-Khan and Dharamkot areas, with labourers stitching them to fill the custom-milled rice.There are reports that rice mill owners were delivering rice in old gunny bags that had been repaired beyond their capacity. FCI officials, however, rejected such reports. A new gunny bag costs somewhere between Rs 50 and Rs 60 in the wholesale market, whereas one-time used bag, weighing about 500 gm, costs Rs 30 to Rs 40.Due to the shortage of gunny bags, the Centre has asked the Punjab Government to use 1.52 lakh bales of used bags to pack rice. The price of each gunny bag, weighing 580 gm, has been fixed at Rs 22 per bag.The paddy is required to be stored for longer periods, even for about two years, and if it is not packed in good quality gunny bags, the danger of deterioration of rice looms large, resulting in loss to the foodgrain.Central guidelines for reuse of bags||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-shortage-millers-make-do-with-poor-quality-used-bags-239577
16-04-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Ahmedgarh SDM conducts raids on Pungrain godowns||While the procurement of wheat is yet to gather steam at grain markets, officials of Punjab Grains Procurement Corporation Limited (Pungrain), the state food procurement agency, have allegedly been found committing gross irregularities during purchase and storage.Transportation of purchased wheat without signatures of authorised officials and drivers and entry of truckloads without maintaining records at godowns, were among discrepancies found by senior officers. Officials were also accused of hindering verification of filled bags by not providing portable weighing machines.Officials led by Ahmedgarh SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey raided some godowns belonging to Pungrain on Thursday and found gross irregularities. Panthey said he had submitted a detailed report to Sangrur DC Ramvir Singh. “However, it is a matter of investigation whether the irregularities have been committed to commit fraud.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahmedgarh-sdm-conducts-raids-on-pungrain-godowns-239578
16-04-2021||Faridkot||Norms eased, Faridkot and Muktsar farmers sell to FCI||A day after easing of the documentation process by the FCI for the procurement of wheat, many farmers approached the central agency to sell their produce. On Thursday, the FCI procured 6,430 Metric Tonnes (MT) of wheat in Faridkot and Muktsar districts.For the first five days of the procurement, farmers stayed away from the FCI in Faridkot and Muktsar due to the demand for land records. However, after the FCI relaxed the condition on Wednesday, it was able to purchase 955 MT of wheat which further increased to 6,430 MT on Thursday.Anticipating a fall in wheat prices in the coming days, private flour millers, cattle feed manufacturers and other private buyers are staying away from the mandis. In Faridkot, a total of 80,000 MT of wheat has been procured and the purchase has been made by government agencies only.While last year’s wheat is still available in the open market at Rs 1,800 per quintal, the minimum support price (MSP) of the new wheat is Rs 1,975 per quintal. While there is negligible moisture content in the last season’s wheat, it is around 10 per cent in the newly arrived wheat, says expert.Experts said as the FCI was already burdened with stocks beyond its capacity, it will offer the wheat at prices lower than the MSP in the coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/norms-eased-faridkot-and-muktsar-farmers-sell-to-fci-239579
16-04-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Wheat production down by 5.2% in Sangrur district||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 15The Covid surge coupled with the vagaries of weather have already made a dent in the wheat production across Sangrur district. To date, the production of wheat has seen a decline of 5.22 percent. But farmers and agriculture department officers are hopeful that Sangrur will retain its top position, like last year, in wheat production across the state.Sources said the 39 crop-cutting experiments of agriculture department officers showed the average per hectare production of wheat had gone down to 5,469 kg per hectare against the last year figure of 5,767 kg per hectare.In the district, a total of 2,91,000 hectares is under wheat production and authorities are expecting around 15,91,500 MTs of wheat production this year. Though last year a similar area was under wheat, but the production was 16,78,197 MT.Till last evening, harvest of 31 per cent wheat had taken place and 2,78,380 MTs had arrived in various grain markets of the district. Of the total arrival, Pungrain has purchased 1,10,115 MTs, Markfed 6,2910 MTs, Punsup 60,170 MTs, Punjab State Ware House Corporation 21,905 MTs and FCI 1430 MTs.“Last year Sangrur had topped in per acre and overall production of wheat across state. We would again produce 9.52 per cent of the state’s total wheat production. Despite a 5.22 per cent decline, we are hopeful that we would again top in wheat production across state” said Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal, Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Sangrur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wheat-production-down-by-5-2-in-sangrur-district-239580
16-04-2021||Abohar||Won’t let imported grain enter Abohar: Arhtiyas||Farmers and commission agents today said no one would be allowed to smuggle wheat from neighbouring states to Abohar. At the launch of wheat purchase in the new grain market, arhtiya association president Anil Nagori cautioned against smuggling of wheat from Rajasthan and Haryana. So far, local farmers have transported 5,000 quintal wheat to the market here. Commission agents were asked to maintain proper sale records and make payments directly to the farmers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-let-imported-grain-enter-abohar-arhtiyas-239581
16-04-2021||---||Keeping CM post open part of SAD strategy||Chandigarh, April 15While SAD president Sukhbir Badal announced Deputy Chief Minister’s post for a Dalit leader if the party is voted to power in 2022 Assembly election, the party has strategically kept the post of the Chief Minister open.Party insiders say five-time Chief Minister and party patriarch Parkash Singh Badal will be the face of the campaign, but Sukhbir will be the CM candidate. The senior Badal is reportedly quite active, despite his age and the Covid-19 epidemic. Besides speaking regularly with senior party leaders, he recently called up newly appointed youth wing leaders across the state and shared his own experiences. He has not retired from active politics as yet.Sukhbir created a ripple in the Punjab political scene on Wednesday when he announced the Deputy CM post for a Dalit leader. He made this announcement on the Ambedkar Jayanti, celebrated especially by the Dalits for his work to uplift the community.All other parties reacted immediately, claiming the announcement was a political gimmick aimed at attracting nearly 33 per cent Dalit votes in the state. The parties also announced top political posts for Dalit leaders.While it seemed Sukhbir made an impromptu statement, enquiries suggest party leaders had carefully planned it. Various Akali leaders told The Tribune the issue was discussed at the last two core committee meetings and all were on board for reserving the post for a Dalit leader.Sukhbir was the Deputy Chief Minister in the last tenure of the Akalis in alliance with the BJP. When The Tribune asked him today if he was the CM candidate, Sukhbir said the decision would be taken by the voters of Punjab and the legislative party after the elections.Interestingly, this is the second time this year that the SAD president has announced key decisions of the party’s core committee later. Earlier, he had announced his candidature from the Jalalabad constituency and sounded the poll bugle for the next year’s elections.The party looking to focus on Dalit votes as it is already considered to be representative of the Jat Sikh community. The party is hoping the resignation of Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal from the Union Cabinet over the farm laws will garner rural votes. This vote bank seemed to have been hit by the sacrilege incidents earlier, though the party is trying to regain ground now.The quashing of the Kotkapura police firing probe, which pointed the finger at the Akali leadership, also seems to be helping the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/keeping-cm-post-open-part-of-sad-strategy-239582
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM, Badals trying to be Dalits’ messiah: AAP||Reacting to declarations made by CM Capt Amarinder Singh and SAD chief Sukhbir Badal in support of the Dalits, the AAP today said the CM and Badals had always done politics in the name of the Dalits.“If they were really concerned about the Dalits, their situation in Punjab would not have been so bad,” said Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema. During the 10-year Akali and four-year Congress rule, no concrete steps had been taken to improve Dalits’ condition, he said.The AAP leader said the CM should first respond on the post-matric scholarship scam, uniform scam and book scam worth thousands of crores of rupees that affected Dalit students. He said had he really worked for the Dalits, he would have sacked Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, allegedly involved in the scholarship scam, from his ministry.He said both the CM and Badals, who burned copies of the Constitution, were pretending to be messiahs of the Dalits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-badals-trying-to-be-dalits-messiah-aap-239583
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Why not Dalit CM: Congress MP to Akalis||Congress MP from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari today advised SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal to desist from indulging in politics of identity.He was responding to a statement by the former Deputy Chief Minister that if the Akalis came to power in 2022, they would appoint a Dalit Deputy Chief Minister. “Why only Deputy CM, why not a Dalit CM? Is the top position reserved for someone permanently,” he asked Badal.Tewari said: “Once the Pandora’s box of identity politics is opened, people will legitimately demand, if not ask, as to why a Hindu should not be CM or for that matter someone from the OBC community should not then be the CM?” He said merit and merit alone should determine as to who should occupy the top job in the state if it has to progress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-not-dalit-cm-congress-mp-to-akalis-239584
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||BJP couldn’t get Hindu Dy CM appointed: Cong||Local Bodies and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Brahm Mohindra today ridiculed BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh for claiming to appoint a Dalit Chief Minister if the party formed the government in the state.Mohindra said the same BJP leaders could not get a Hindu Deputy CM appointed between 2007 and 2012 when they could have easily done so.He pointed out in 2007, the SAD government was completely dependent on BJP’s support as the party won 19 of the 21 seats it had contested.“Even then it could not assert itself to get a Hindu appointed as a Deputy CM and now the party has announced a Dalit CM when it has no existence in the state,” he said.“The BJP has always claimed to espouse the cause of the Hindus, but when the party had a chance to get a Hindu CM appointed in Punjab, it compromised for petty interests,” said the minister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-couldnt-get-hindu-dy-cm-appointed-cong-239585
16-04-2021||---||PAU develops new ‘Punjab Basmati 7’ variety||Moga, April 15Aiming at diversification and preservation of depleting underground water table, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, has developed a new variety of basmati, ‘Punjab Basmati 7’ for commercial cultivation in the upcoming season in the state.This variety has been developed by involving the strongly scented traditional basmati variety, ‘Basmati 386’, and the most popular basmati variety, ‘Pusa Basmati 1121’. Dr GS Mangat, Head, Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, says: “Being a major export item, the ‘Queen’ of rice, basmati, is making a significant impact on our national economy. During 2019-20, about 44.54 lakh metric tonnes of basmati, amounting to Rs 31,025.87 crore, was exported to different countries”.Referring to salient characteristics of the variety, Dr Mangat says ‘Punjab Basmati 7’ yielded consistently better than the check varieties in the multi-locational trials. Overall, it has an edge of 11.4 and 6.1 per cent, respectively, over the popular basmati varieties, Pusa Basmati 1121 and Pusa Basmati 1718. It gives an overall yield of 48.58 quintals per hectare (19.4 quintals per acre), he says.It performs better when transplanted in the first fortnight of July, he adds. ‘Punjab Basmati 7’ matures about one week earlier than the check varieties, Pusa Basmati 1121 and Pusa Basmati 1718, and also has medium height (111 cm), he says.Dr RS Gill, a rice expert, says ‘Punjab Basmati 7’ is resistant to all 10 pathotypes of bacterial blight pathogen prevalent in Punjab, while the most popular variety, Pusa Basmati 1121, is susceptible to the disease.“The specific feature of ‘Punjab Basmati 7’ is that like traditional basmati varieties, it possesses a strong aroma. The other characteristics like grain dimensions, milling quality and cooking quality are comparable to the most popular Basmati variety, Pusa Basmati 1121,” he observes.Dr Buta Singh Dhillon, another rice expert, says: “In research trials under direct seeded conditions, ‘Punjab Basmati 7’ gave 17.7 per cent higher yield than the check variety, Pusa Basmati 1121, hence it has also been recommended for planting under direct sowing technology to save water. “Qualities such as higher yield, shorter duration, strong aroma and good milling feature make ‘Punjab Basmati 7’ a viable alternative for basmati growers and other stakeholders,” he says.The seeds of ‘Punjab Basmati 7’ and other basmati and non-basmati varieties are available at all regional research stations, seed farms, Krishi Vigyan Kendras and Farmer Advisory Service Centres of PAU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pau-develops-new-punjab-basmati-7-variety-239586
16-04-2021||Vishav Bharti/Aparna Banerji||Several Punjab districts halt vaccine drive as Covaxin stock dries up||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Jalandhar, Apr 15Several districts today ran out of Covaxine stock as a large number of patients in district hospitals were turned away.The biggest sufferers were those who required the second dose. Among prominent hospitals that faced the problem included the Mohali district hospital where patients who were scheduled to get the second shot at four weeks were refused one due to shortage.Sources revealed that several districts which still have the vaccine are also quickly running out of stock. In Barnala, only 4,000 doses were left. Dr Balwinder Kaur, in charge of the state’s Covid vaccination programme, accepted the shortage of Covaxin at certain places. “But we will get the sufficient stock tomorrow,” she said.In Jalandhar, at least 11,000 persons, who received the first dose of Covaxin in the first week of March, were left disappointed. While the Astra-Zeneca Covishield saw much enthusiasm in the district, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, got off to a slow start. Against Covishield’s 2.6 lakh doses, only 11,000 doses of Covaxin were administered in the district.A patient from Jalandhar said: “We have been assured that the vaccine will be made available in one or two days. Though I know the department is working hard, the current situation has triggered panic as the second dose is essential to fight Covid.”District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra, too, had received Covaxin dose on March 20. “The vaccine will arrive tomorrow. The patients will get the vaccine within the stipulated time as the second dose can be administered after a six-week gap,” he said.The Health Department said they had received 1.34 lakh doses of Covaxin of which 1.06 lakh had been used and 2 lakh doses would arrive tomorrow.Highest single-day spike in 2nd wave||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/several-punjab-districts-halt-vaccine-drive-as-covaxin-stock-dries-up-239587
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Expedite inoculation of medical staff: Punjab minister Soni||Medical Education and Research Minister Om Prakash Soni today issued directions to complete vaccination of the medical colleges’ staff as soon as possible.At a meeting here to review the functioning of the Medical Education Department, Soni said the vaccination of the staff of medical colleges should be expedited so that it could be completed sooner. He said immunisation campaign for the general public could be improved and run smoothly. He also directed the colleges to improve facilities for Covid patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expedite-inoculation-of-medical-staff-punjab-minister-soni-239588
16-04-2021||---||Curbs effective, strictly enforce norms: Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, April 15 Even as he noted that the Covid numbers in the state appeared to have plateaued out, CM Capt Amarinder Singh today ordered strict enforcement of Covid protocol to prevent any super-spread events. He also issued instructions to increase daily vaccination doses to 2 lakh and set up a special control room for effective in-person monitoring of home isolation cases. Citing figures on mortality and positivity, the CM said the restrictions were showing results and needed to be implemented strictly, particularly in Mohali and other cities showing high rate of transmission and positivity. Chairing a virtual meeting with several ministers, senior administrative and police officials and health experts, he said the state’s positivity rate stood at 8.1%, even though positivity in the age group of less than 40 years had come down from 54% (September 2020) to 50% (March 2021). “The curbs have helped reduce the percentage of mortality in the age group below 60 years from 50% (September 2020) to 40% (in March 2021), and should be strictly adhered to,” he added. However, he reiterated his demand that the Centre should allow vaccination for under-45 in areas with more cases. He directed Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to pursue the matter with the central government, while Dr KK Talwar stressed that patients of kidney and liver diseases under 45 years should at least be allowed to be vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/curbs-effective-strictly-enforce-norms-capt-amarinder-239589
16-04-2021||Bathinda||Drive to dispel vax fear in Mansa||The IMA, Mansa unit, along with local NGOs, have started an awareness campaign, under which door-to-door visits and ‘nukkad’ meetings are being conducted to spread awareness among residents to get vaccinated against Covid. The medical body started the campaign after witnessing low vaccination rate in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drive-to-dispel-vax-fear-in-mansa-239590
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punish those obstructing Kotkapura probe: Sunil Jakhar||Joining the chorus within the party over embarrassment being faced by the Congress government after the Punjab and Haryana High Court struck down the Kotkapura police firing SIT probe report, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Sunil Jakhar has urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to investigate and fix responsibility of those creating obstacles in the probe.He said he would meet the CM to request the same as it was sensitive case linked to the religious sentiments of lakhs of people. Reposing faith in the CM’s resolve to punish the guilty, Jakhar while referring to assertions that SIT probe had been completed, said if there was no legal hurdle in filing further appeal, the report should be made public. He said people had the right to know at whose behest the firing took place. A few days ago, party leader Navjot Sidhu had also raised a similar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punish-those-obstructing-kotkapura-probe-sunil-jakhar-239591
16-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Virsa Singh Valtoha, Akali ex-MLA acquitted in murder case||Former SAD MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha was today acquitted by a local court in the 38-year-old murder case of Patti-based Dr Sudarshan Trehan, who was shot at his clinic.The case was reopened around two-and-a-half years ago by presenting fresh challan by the district police.With other lapses in the reopening of the case, the district police had to face embarrassment in the court for not maintaining proper record.Five witnesses were examined in the court but the prosecution failed to prove the charges and keeping all facts presented by Valtoha’s advocate JS Dhillon, the court of Charanjit Arora Additional District and Session Judge acquitted him. Valtoha said he was wrongly framed in the case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/virsa-singh-valtoha-akali-ex-mla-acquitted-in-murder-case-239592
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Release Behbal Kalan report: BJP||The BJP today said the SIT report into the Behbal Kalan incident be made public along with the Justice Ranjit Singh Commission report. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said clarity was needed as to what the government had achieved in the past four years of investigation into controversial cases. “An attempt is being made to absolve some people and put others in the dock,” he said. He demanded strict punishment for those involved in the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-behbal-kalan-report-bjp-239593
16-04-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||IG Kunwar — No-nonsense officer with ‘Dabang’ image||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15In the news these days over his resignation, IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh is known for carrying a devil-may-care attitude, sporting the image of a ‘Dabang’ police officer, who likes to always speak, if he so chooses, on record.The first officer to be chosen for any sensitive and tricky investigation, Kunwar quotes freely from Gurbani on the social media to drive home the message, regularly recites and posts quotes or couplets of revolutionaries to make his point against rivals, posts videos teaching mathematics on the social media and proudly displays a distinction he received in diploma in French language.He made his mark as an investigator as not only his senior officials, but also various courts directly handed over investigation of important cases to him.From busting the infamous kidney racket in Punjab to corruption in the jail department to exposing gangster-police nexus, Kunwar had once recommended registration of a case against a DIG, who was his immediate superior.During his stint as the Ludhiana SSP, he took on elected Congress leaders, refusing to give them a VIP treatment or toeing their line.The IG seemed to have hit the peak when he was appointed the key investigator in the five-member SIT on sacrilege and police firing cases.He maintained his style of working and even took on the SIT head, an ADGP-rank officer. Kunwar went on to question former CM Parkash Singh Badal and actor Akshay Kumar, reportedly against the advice of other SIT members.The Punjab and Haryana High Court recently quashed his investigation into the Kotkapura police firing case, following which he put in his papers. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, however, rejected his resignation.In his social media post, he said he had done his part in the investigation by sticking to honesty and facts. “Whatever be the outcome of the sacrilege and police firing cases, this investigation would be remembered for the role of one man, who did his job without fear and pressure,” he said, referring to himself, in an interview.Investigator of police firing cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ig-kunwar-%E2%80%94-no-nonsense-officer-with-dabang-image-239594
16-04-2021||Bathinda||First-timer Raman Goyal picked Bathinda Mayor||First-time councillor from ward No. 35 Raman Goyal was elected Mayor of the Bathinda MC today. She is the wife of liquor contractor Sandeep Goyal. Her election has come as a surprise as veteran Congress leader Jagroop Singh Gill, who won for the record seventh time, was seen as the frontrunner.Party sources said her husband’s proximity to Jaswinder Singh Jugnu, a liquor contractor and a close aide of the Finance Minister, was behind her selection.Meanwhile, Ashok Pradhan was elected senior deputy mayor and Master Harmander Singh deputy mayor. Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who was the observer, said the three were elected unanimously. Manpreet Badal was also present at the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/first-timer-raman-goyal-picked-bathinda-mayor-239595
16-04-2021||---||Faridkot jail warden, aide arrested for supplying drugs to inmates||Faridkot, April 15Unearthing a racket involving supply of drugs inside the Faridkot Central Jail, a police team have arrested two persons, including the jail warden, and recovered 50 gm heroin valued at Rs 50 lakh in the international market. A sum of Rs 58,000 in drug money was also seized from the jail official.The suspects have been identified as jail warden Darshan Singh, a resident of Guru Nanak Colony, Faridkot; and Manpreet Singh of Laxmi Nagar, Gidderbaha.According to the police, Manpreet was intercepted by the CID wing of the police in the town after a tip-off last evening. The police recovered 25 gm heroin from him.On questioning, he told the police Darshan, posted as jail warden, was on his way to get the delivery of the drug.Darshan was also arrested by the police and both were booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act.On search of the jail warden’s house, the police recovered 25 gm heroin and Rs 58,000 in drug money.The suspects told the police Manpreet used to supply the contraband to Darshan, and he further used to sell it to inmates addicted to drugs inside the jail at exorbitant prices.Darshan had established a distribution network in the jail. He used to smuggle in drugs by hiding these in shoes after getting delivery from Manpreet.Inside the jail, Darshan was in touch with an inmate linked to a murder case. He allegedly used to distribute drugs among other inmates, said sources in the police.The sources said Darshan’s father was serving in the jail department and was nabbed for supplying mobile phones to inmates sometime ago.“The arrested suspects will be interrogated to uncover the entire racket,” said Amritpal Bhaati, CIA Staff in-charge, Faridkot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-jail-warden-aide-arrested-for-supplying-drugs-to-inmates-239596
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Enrolment, online education on fast track||The School Education Department has accelerated the drive to provide online education to students along with enrolment campaign for the new academic session.On the instructions of School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and under Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, teachers have started online classes from April 1 due to the closure of schools and now process of online learning has further accelerated along with the admissions process.According to a spokesperson for the Education Department, various online video apps are being used by teachers to ensure the education of around 25 lakh students of government schools. Teachers are creating WhatsApp groups to take classes on the ‘Zoom’ app as well as using the ‘Educare’ app. They are also sending online assignments to students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/enrolment-online-education-on-fast-track-239597
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panel: Thapar varsity public authority, give info under RTI||Terming Patiala’s Thapar University a “public authority”, the State Information Commission (SIC), Punjab, has directed it to provide requisite information to an appellant.A spokesperson for the commission said RTI activist Akash Verma had sought information under the Right of Information (RTI) Act but the university refused the same, saying it did not fall within the ambit of RTI.The activist approached the SIC on December 24, 2020, by filing an appeal against the order passed by the university, which dismissed the RTI application saying it was a private deemed-to-be university under Section-3 of UGC Act, 1956, and not a public authority.The spokesperson said Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology had been established by the then Pepsu government in 1955, consequent upon entering into an agreement with the Mohini Thapar Charitable Trust with a view to promoting technical education in the state.Under the agreement, a joint Charitable Trust was created and Rs 30 lakh each by Mohini Charitable Trust and the Pepsu government were subscribed to the institute.On September 19, 1955, the erstwhile Pepsu government issued a notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act to the effect that land measuring 250 acres was likely to be required for public purposes. The land was provided by the erstwhile government free of cost for the establishment of the respondent institute, and the state government and University Grants Commission gave grants to the institution, said the spokesperson.The SIC, disposing of the appeal, cited the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of DAV College Trust and Management Society (Supra), wherein while interpreting the meaning of term ‘substantially financed’ under Section 2(h)(i) of the RTI Act, 2005, it held if an institution is established on the land given by the state it would certainly mean it is substantially financed by the government and is a public authority and is obliged to comply with the provisions of the RTI Act, 2005. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-thapar-varsity-public-authority-give-info-under-rti-239598
16-04-2021||Ropar||Ropar civic body gets new chief; MLA Amarjeet Singh Sandoa to move court||The process to elect the Ropar Municipal Council president ran into controversy as local MLA Amarjeet Singh Sandoa called it a “murder of democracy” and said would challenge it in the court. Earlier, Congress councillor Sanjay Verma was elected president, Rajesh Kumar senior vice-president and Poonam Kakkar vice-president.Drama prevailed since morning as the meeting was scheduled by ADC Deepshikha Sharma at 11 am. While MLA Sandoa and six councillors reached in time, others ‘close to’ Youth Congress president Bridner Dhillon, didn’t arrive till 11.10 am. They asked the ADC to postpone the meeting and left.A little later, other 14 Congress councillors arrived there, but the ADC postponed the election, saying councillor Inderpal Singh was Covid-19-positive. The local bodies director then asked the ADC to reschedule the meeting at 6 pm. While Sandoa and others failed to reach the venue, the new president was elected in the presence of 14 councillors. Meanwhile, Sanjay Sawhney and Harjeet Singh Jeeta were elected president of Nangal and Anandpur Sahib, respectively, and Surinder Pal Kaura the first chief of Kiratpur Sahib nagar panchayat. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-civic-body-gets-new-chief-mla-amarjeet-singh-sandoa-to-move-court-239599
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||5,000 job offers for university students||Chandigarh University topped in campus placements in the zone by clocking more than 5,000 job offers for the 2020-21 batch. More than 500 multinational companies conducted virtual campus placement drives for engineering, MBA, hotel management, pharmacy, bio-technology and architecture students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-000-job-offers-for-university-students-239607
16-04-2021||Streets surrounding Darbar Sahib are centuries old and have direct link with the lives of the Sikh Gurus and pilgrimage is considered incomplete without visiting these city sites. Tribune Correspondent Manmeet Singh Gill and lensman Sunil Kumar take you to a spiritual journey in the holy city||Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Amritsar||The holy city, which is known world over for the Sikh shrines, including the Golden Temple, has numerous places of religious and historical value in lanes surrounding Darbar Sahib. For most of the visitors, including Sikhs, visiting the Golden Temple is the foremost thing on their itinerary. But for devotees, their pilgrimage is not complete till they visit most places (gurdwaras) associated with the Sikh Gurus. Gurdwara Bibeksar SahibSituated on the banks of Bibeksar sarovar, the place was frequented by Guru Hargobind Sahib, who held discussions with the Sikhs at this place after his wrestling and martial arts training sessions. The present gurudwara was built during the period of Maharaja Ranjit Singh.Manji SahibDedicated to the fifth Sikh master, Guru Arjan Dev, it’s the place where he composed gurbani of Sukhmani Sahib while sitting under the shade of a ‘Beri’ (tree). The gurdwara is located on the bank of a sarovar near gurdwara Ramsar Sahib. Gurdwara Pipli Sahib Situated around 1 km away from the Amritsar railway station, Guru Arjan Dev personally welcomed devotees coming from Afghanistan and north-western districts for the excavation of sarovar at Darbar Sahib. The place was subsequently turned into a resting place for devotees. Gurdwara Bibi KaulanThe place is named after Bibi Kaulan, who was an adopted daughter of Qazi of Lahore. The samadh of Bibi Kaulan lies at the western end of Kaulsar gurdwara. It’s stated that her father had pronounced a death sentence for her for showing devotion for the Sikh Gurus. She had found refuge at the place. The sixth Guru had directed devotees to take a dip in sarovar at Mata Kaulan before taking a dip at holy sarovar at the Golden Temple.Gurdwara Toba Bhai ShaloBhai Shalo was a prominent Sikh during the period of Guru Ram Das, Guru Arjan Dev and Guru Har Gobind. He was instrumental in bringing traders and artisans of 52 castes to the city when it was being developed. He was in charge of the city and collected food for langar. Originally a dharmshala, the place, now a gurdwara is visited by people seeking blessings for a son. People donate cow dung cakes and take a bath in the holy tank. Gurdwara Guru Ka MahalAs the name signifies, it was a residential place for Gurus and their families. The ninth Sikh master, Guru Teg Bahadur, whose 400th birth anniversary is being celebrated this year, was also born at this place. Situated to west of Akal Takht across Guru Ka Bazzar, the place was originally a modest hut built by Guru Ram Das in 1573. The place was subsequently enlarged and beautified by Guru Arjan Dev and Guru Hargobind Sahib. The house was later converted into a gurdwara. Gurdwara Baba Atal SahibIt’s a nine-storey octagonal tower, over 45m in height, near Kaulsar sarovar and to the south-east of the Golden Temple. At this place, Baba Atal Rai, nine-year-old son of Guru Hargobind passed away on September 13, 1628. A simple memorial in honour of Baba Atal was raised on the site originally. Construction of the present edifice commenced after the Sikh misls had established their authority in Punjab. The cornerstone was laid in 1770 and first three floors were completed by 1784. The upper floors were constructed by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The first six storeys are larger than upper ones, which rise above the central sanctum. The doors on the ground floor, four in number, are decorated with embossed designs, on brass and silver sheets. Interior walls and the ceiling are covered with murals depicting scenes from lives of Guru Nanak, his two sons and nine successors, Guru Gobind Singh’s four sons and Baba Buddha. Samadh Sardar Jassa Singh AhluwaliaIn the vicinity of gurdwara Atal Sahib is a memorial of Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia. Under his leadership, the Sikhs ruled Delhi and Lahore and he had earned the title of Sultan-Ul-Quam. After Abdali had demolished the structure of Darbar Sahib, Jassa Singh had contributed Rs 9 lakh for reconstruction of the building. Gurdwara SantokhsarBefore Guru Arjan Dev became Guru, he came at this place on the instructions of the third Sikh master, Guru Amar Das, to find a place for excavation of the holy tank. As per a tradition, when the place was being dug, Yogi Santokh Muni was found meditating underneath. It’s stated that Muni told Guru that he had been meditating for long and breathed his last. It’s first of five holy sarovars in the holy city and was completed in 1589.Gurdwara Ramsar SahibSituated alongside Ramsar sarovar, the smallest of Amritsar’s five holy ponds, the place is associated with the fifth Sikh master, Guru Arjan Dev. The Sikh holy book, Guru Granth Sahib, was edited and compiled at this place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spiritual-journey-of-gurdwaras-in-amritsar-239719
16-04-2021||---||Hindu leader Sudhir Suri alleges threats by gangsters||Amritsar, April 15Controversial Hindu leader Sudhir Suri on Thursday alleged that he was receiving threats from alleged gangsters for reaching a compromise in an instance in which a car was collided with his bus around nine days ago.He had alleged that the occupants of the car indulged in firing and the incident had led to the injuries to the passengers of bus owned by him. He said he along with his security personal handed over four suspects to the local police at that time. He said a revolver, car and keys of the car used by the accused were also handed over to the police. A case of murder bid and under different Sections of the Arms Act was registered by the police in this connection. However, the police let off a youth who later turned to be a close associate of PA of a local political leader. Later, his videos with weapons went viral and local BJP leadership was trying to save him.Suri alleged that he was also getting threat calls from gangsters lodged in jail and outside on bail for reaching on compromise or be prepared for the dire consequences. Suri alleged since the incident, he was getting threats from radicals from different mobile numbers of foreign origin. He said links of these gangsters with foreign-based Khalistani organisations should be looked into.In a letter shot to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, national chairman Shiv Sena Taksali said that after the registration of an FIR in the case he was constantly getting threats from notorious gangsters of Punjab. He urged the Chief Minister for ‘quick security review’ including deployment of additional security at the earliest.He also demanded an FIR against the cops who let off one of the suspects at the behest of his political bosses.Parminder Singh Bhandal, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), said that the police had already registered an FIR in the incident and raids were on to nab the remaining suspects. He said he had asked Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh to submit a report regarding the allegations of Sudhir Suri of letting off of a youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hindu-leader-sudhir-suri-alleges-threats-by-gangsters-239709
16-04-2021||Vibha Sharma||Proposal for changing grain procurement specifications formulated after due consultations: Centre||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 15The Centre on Thursday said the proposal for change in specifications of grain procurement, including wheat, was formulated after due consultations with scientific and technical institutions and stakeholders keeping in mind the best interests of farmers as well as consumers. Responding to a media query on proposal to “tighten” grain specifications, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said the procurement during the ongoing marketing season is being done according to already-notified specifications. “The norms were framed in 1995 and are revisited periodically. The production processes, agriculture collection, mechanisation of farm sector have all improved during these years. Climate change has also happened…you would have noticed that the temperatures are rising.“After months of deliberations with the scientific and technical institutions and stake holders, the standards were revisited while balancing the interest of both the sides. The farmers’ interest is protected, and the consumer interest is also protected. Those who get the grains under the PDS and do not have much say, their interest is also protected,” he said.Regarding the changes, he specified that “nothing is done on the ground without a notification”. “What is happening today is on the basis of notifications already specified. What will happen in future will be on the basis of notifications issued then,” he added.  FCI sources said procurement for the ongoing season is being done according to existing norms. “The recommendations are in proposal stage,” they said. Notably the proposal includes reduced limit of moisture content in wheat from present 14 per cent to 12 per cent.Meanwhile, Pandey said with Punjab and Haryana on board, the entire country is now covered under the Direct Benefit Transfer of MSP for grain procurement under the theme of “One Nation, One MSP, One DBT”.Dismissing observations of procurement “going slow”, including in Punjab, Pandey said procurement and transferring of the MSP amount is also going smoothly in Punjab. “We are now transferring in Punjab the MSP amount directly to farmers accounts which has been possible with the cooperation of the state government and ‘arhtiyas’, who are a very important stakeholder. They will get their respective commission due under the APMC Act and rules into their accounts. The farmers will get MSP of their amounts directly in their accounts.“There is no stakeholder interest clash or encroachment in Punjab. ‘Arhtiyas’ are receiving their commission separately through the e-mode of payment. Earlier, the MSP was going to farmers via 'arhtiya' and now it is being directly transferred to farmers online,” he said, in response to reports about ‘arthiyas’ demanding “signed blank cheques from farmers to facilitate procurement”.  “We hope to touch 427 LMT this season, the highest ever in the country. This type of procurement has never happened in the country. Procurement operations in Punjab started from April 10. From Baisakhi the activity will heighten,” he said.  So far the highest procurement has been reported from Haryana, he said, thanking the government and the ‘arhtiyas’ of the state.Meanwhile, to ramp up storage infrastructure in India and increase storage capacity by 100 LMT, the government is launching a storage modernisation plan. “By 2024-25, we will store our stocks in modern silos and phase out conventional godowns,” Pandey said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/proposal-for-changing-grain-procurement-specifications-formulated-after-due-consultations-centre-239498
16-04-2021||New Delhi||HC grants time to family to seek opinion of experts on farmer’s post-mortem report||The Delhi High Court Thursday granted time to the family of a 25-year-old farmer, who died after his tractor overturned during the farmers’ protest rally on the Republic Day, to seek opinion of experts on his post mortem and X-Ray reports.Justice Yogesh Khanna also asked the Delhi Police to allow the family to view the CCTV footage of the spot where the incident took place, whenever they want to.The court listed the matter for further hearing on July 26.The high court was hearing a plea by deceased Navreet Singh’s grandfather—Hardeep Singh—claiming that the victim suffered gunshot injuries to his head. His post mortem was conducted at Rampur district hospital in Uttar Pradesh.However, both the Delhi and Uttar Pradesh Police had told the court that Navreet Singh did not suffer any gunshot wounds.During the hearing, advocates Vrinda Grover and Soutik Banerjee, representing Hardeep Singh, said the family needs time to seek experts’ evaluation of the material provided to them by the police which included post mortem report and video and X-ray report of the deceased.The high court had earlier directed the Delhi health secretary to constitute a board of medical and forensic experts and also a radiologist to examine the X-Ray report of Navreet Singh.It had also asked the doctors of Maulana Azad Medical College here to prepare the X-Ray report from the original X-Ray plate which has been received by Delhi Police from the Uttar Pradesh police.Delhi Police had earlier said that according to the post-mortem report the young farmer died due to a head injury as a result of the accident and all his injuries were possible in a road accident.The petition has sought a court-monitored SIT probe into the death of the young farmer.Delhi Police has relied upon the footage collected from CCTV cameras located at the site—Deen Dayal Upadhyay marg—where the young farmer died and said that he was driving the tractor at high speed and the vehicle overturned after hitting the barricades.It had said that the footage also shows that the police personnel were running away for safety from the speeding tractor and that none of them fired upon the vehicle or the driver.  Delhi Police had also said that CCTV footage further indicated that the protestors did not take the injured Navreet Singh to any nearby hospital and instead they attacked the ambulances that reached the site after hearing about the accident.It had said that the protestors kept his body on the road for five hours and then spread rumours that he was killed in police firing.The petitioner’s counsel had earlier contended that the way Delhi Police has conducted itself in the matter “does not inspire a shred of confidence”.She had argued that this indicated that the victim lost control of the tractor and it overturned as he was shot by the police personnel.According to the police, the man had died as his tractor overturned at ITO where many farmers participating in the tractor parade had reached from the Ghazipur border after taking a detour of the pre-agreed route for the march.The police had claimed that the man was driving the tractor and he came under the vehicle as it overturned.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points—Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur—for over four months, demanding the repeal of new farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price(MSP) for their crops.The protesting farmers clashed with the police in the national capital on January 26 during a tractor parade to highlight their demands. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-grants-time-to-family-to-seek-opinion-of-experts-on-farmers-post-mortem-report-239468
16-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Andhra man's story of introducing Punjabi girlfriend to his family has Twitterati hooked||Remember '2 States', the Bollywood movie? This incident is quite similar.A man from Andhra Pradesh shared the story of introducing his Punjabi girlfriend to his parents, and all the behind-the-scenes drama that went down with it.   Netizens were instantly hooked to the man's story. Several even compared his story to the Bollywood film, 2 States, which was about a Punjab-Tamil Nadu wedding.  Vivek Raju, who hails from Andhra Pradesh, recently broke the news about his Punjabi girlfriend to his parents on the microblogging website. What happens next could be very well-used for a Bollywood movie script. On April 8, Vivek wrote: “Broke the news about my girlfriend to my parents last night. We are from Andhra. My girlfriend is Punjabi. Fun times in the house. Mom is okay. Dad has gone completely silent. Having fun observing this once in a lifetime reaction from parents (unless my brother drops a bomb too).”Broke the news about my girlfriend to my parents last night. We are from Andhra. Girlfriend is Punjabi.Fun times in the house. Mom is okay. Dad has gone completely silent.Having fun observing this once in a lifetime reaction from parents (unless my brother drops a bomb too)  Vivek shared an update, saying that: “Dad’s avoiding now. Hiding behind the phone to avoid further conversation.”He added that his father wanted his girlfriend to come and visit him over the weekend, which he denied given the COVID situation. And Vivek's idea of a video call was shot down instantly. Broke the news about my girlfriend to my parents last night. We are from Andhra. Girlfriend is Punjabi.Fun times in the house. Mom is okay. Dad has gone completely silent.Having fun observing this once in a lifetime reaction from parents (unless my brother drops a bomb too)  Just found out from mom he said "I thought she was kannadiga because she studied in Bangalore which is still culturally closer but she is Punjabi!!!"Total this scene happening: https://t.co/DUmBNSVl9j  Vivek revealed that his mother instantly approved of their match. He also joked that he and his father were teetotallers, which annoyed his father-in-law. Sharing more updates, Vivek explained that his dad was still avoiding him. Later, he explained that the girlfriend’s family was “absolutely fine” with the relationship. “No drama. I doubt they are from India,” he joked.Ok. Sense has prevailed. Told my mom before leaving for office that she doesn't need to fly down. And also, it seems unwillingly muttered "his choice" before leaving.  Also, since many of you asked, girlfriend told her parents few months ago. They are totally fine. No drama. I doubt they are from India.  Vivek, in the end, clarified that though his father did not instantly approve his choice of life partner, he was not a villain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/andhra-mans-story-of-introducing-punjabi-girlfriend-to-his-family-has-twitterati-hooked-239446
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder orders increase in daily vaccination doses to 2 lakh in Punjab||Even as he noted with satisfaction that the Covid numbers in the state appeared to have plateaued, Punjab Chief Minister, Captain Amarinder Singh, on Thursday ordered strict enforcement of Covid appropriate protocols to prevent any super spread events, along with an increase in daily vaccination doses to 2 lakh, and a special control room to be set up for effective in-person monitoring of home isolation cases.Citing figures on mortality and positivity, the Chief Minister said the restrictions currently in place are showing results, and the same needed to be implemented strictly, particularly in Mohali and other big cities showing high rates of transmission and positivity.He pointed out that the state’s positivity rate stands at 8.1%, even though positivity in the age group of fewer than 40 years had come down from 54% (September 2020) to 50% (March 2021). The curbs, coupled with strong efforts by all concerned, had helped reduce the percentage of mortality in the age group below 60 years from 50% (September 2020) to 40% (in March 2021), and should be strictly adhered to, he added. However, he reiterated his demand that the Centre should allow vaccination for under 45 in areas with more cases since the UK variant was infecting younger people more. He directed Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to pursue the matter with the central government, while Dr KK Talwar stressed that patients of kidney and liver disease who are under 45 years should at least be allowed to be vaccinated.The Chief Minister was chairing a virtual meeting with several ministers, including Health Minister Balbir Sidhu, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla & Medical Education Minister OP Soni, along with senior administrative and police officials as well as medical/health experts to review the Covid and vaccine situation in the state.Making it clear that there was no scope for complacency, the Chief Minister said the special control room with a dedicated team could utilise ANMs, ASHA workers, interns from medical colleges, to move beyond just telephonic to more in-person monitoring. GMCHs should provide students to RRTs at District Level immediately, he further directed the Health Department.On the vaccination front, the Chief Minister directed the Health Department to further scale up vaccination efforts to vaccinate the entire eligible population within this month, along with auditing of any deaths taking place after vaccination. While vaccination has increased to 90,000/ day we need to further take it up to 2,00,000/ day, he said, with Punjab currently has 3 lakh Covishield and 1 lakh Covaxin in stock.Sufficiency of doses must be ensured at all times and it must be ensured that the COWIN portal is updated so that the actual position is reflected, said the Chief Minister, adding that districts must not spread themselves too thin and execute vaccination strategies that ensure no wastage and adequate availability. He also ordered immediate overtime allowance and weekly offs to be given to all vaccinators, to reduce the burden on them. He also directed the Department of Information & PR to immediately roll out the IEC campaign, with proper utilisation of the services of actor Sonu Sood, whom the state government has appointed as a brand ambassador for the campaign. Of the 75 lakh population in the age group of 75+, so far only 15.56% have been vaccinated, he noted, stressing the need to create awareness to end the vaccine hesitancy.Pointing to a Punjab Police case study, shared by DGP Dinkar Gupta, the Chief Minister pointed out that percentage increase in vaccination among police personnel had led to a clear downward trend and decline in active positive cases among the force. The empirical data clearly shows a positive effect of vaccination amongst the policemen, and not only the number of active positive cases has come down, but the policemen requiring critical medical care have also become negligible, the DGP informed the Chief Minister, citing the study findings. He disclosed that as against a peak of 1700 daily cases last year, this surge had seen only 400 cops getting infected on any given day at its peak. He informed the meeting that after taking the second dose, there had been no death in the department due to Covid.The Chief Minister directed the Police Department to persuade and take for testing all those showing Covid inappropriate behaviour in public places, including at marriage palaces, and if they subsequently agree and are eligible, then also take them for vaccination, without the use of any coercive measures.Noting that even though there had been a decline in CFR, almost 30% of deaths are taking place within two days of hospitalisation, the Chief Minister said around 84% of patients presented themselves at the hospital for the first time with severe symptoms, indicating delayed reporting. 90% of the total deaths have been of persons with comorbid conditions, he observed, directing the Department to ensure that those with COVID symptoms should immediately report to the nearest health facility to save precious lives. Those with diabetes, hypertension, kidney/lung disease, etc. should get tested and should be advised to report to the hospital in case of any symptoms, and should also be prioritised for vaccination if eligible, he added.Pointing to the low contact tracing, Captain Amarinder asked the Department to aim for 30 contacts per positive patient. 100% of contacts traced must be tested with RAT for quicker identification and isolation of those who are positive, he said, adding that turnaround time for RTPCR samples needs to be reduced to less than a day. Approved list of private labs and well-functioning hospitals for testing should be put up in the public domain immediately, he further said, adding that while sampling has reached 40,000/day, it needed to be pushed up further to at least 50,000/ day.Ventilators should be assigned to hospitals where they are needed, the Chief Minister further directed, adding that Oxygen kits, Remdesivir and other medicines are available in sufficient quantity, and must be effectively utilised. Districts such as Jalandhar, Mohali, Ludhiana where there is a higher level of L3 patients must increase the L3 capacity by directing private hospitals to reserve more beds for Covid, he further said.Health Secretary Hussan Lal informed the Chief Minister that there was currently no shortage of Oxygen in the state, with three Oxygen plants already operational and two more in the process. He said the department was grateful to the Rajasthan chief minister for providing it with 20,000 doses of Remdisivir, which have been given out to both Government (12500) and well-functioning private (7500 doses) hospitals. Punjab still has about 7000 doses in stock, after giving around 300 even to PGI, he added.Stressing the need for optimum utilisation of manpower, the Chief Minister said while the Police Department was already providing manpower and other support for the Covid effort, all other Departments, especially School Education and Higher Education, must also immediately issue orders regarding availability of staff from their departments.The Chief Minister also launched the Food Kits to be provided free to those patients who are poor and who are badly impacted due to loss of livelihoods during their days of recoveryWhile Fateh Kits are available in adequate quantities, it was important to ensure that these kits reach the patients on the same day as the person testing positive, directed the Chief Minister. The Ration Kit will comprise 10 Kg wheat flour, black channa 2 Kg and Sugar 2 Kg.Earlier, in a presentation, the Health Secretary apprised the meeting that as against the 8.1% overall positivity in Punjab, the district of Mohali was reporting 18%. Along withJalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala, the district is reported high transmission.Dr KK Talwar, head of the state’s Covid task force, said while the curve seems to be flattening, caution was imperative, and anyone coming from a large gathering should quarantine at home for four days as a precautionary measure. The next few weeks were expected to show the same numbers, post which they should start declining, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-orders-increase-in-daily-vaccination-doses-to-2-lakh-in-punjab-239442
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab students in Classes V, VIII and X to be promoted without exams: CM||Amid the Covid surge, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced that all Class 5, Class 8 and Class 10 students be promoted to the next class, without any examination.A decision on Class 12 PSEB exams, which have already been postponed, will be taken later.Also read: NEET postponed in view of rising number of COVID-19 cases: VardhanThe Chief Minister took these decisions during a virtual Covid review meeting with top officials and medical experts.The Chief Minister said that even though the state had closed all educational institutions till April 30— bringing down the positivity in the 11-20 age group—children needed to be relieved of exams.Also Read: For the class 5 students, since exams for 4 out of 5 subjects have already been conducted, results may be declared by the Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) based on the marks obtained by the students in 4 subjects, ignoring the 5th subject. Results for class 8 and 10 may be declared based on Pre-Board examinations or the internal assessment of the respective schools, the Chief Minister directed the Education Department.The Chief Minister, who had written to the Union Education Minister earlier this week in this regard, also expressed satisfaction at the Centre’s decision to postponed Class 12 CBSE exams and cancellation of Class 10 CBSE exams in view of the pandemic.Medical Education Minister OP Soni, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, DGP Dinkar Gupta were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-students-in-classes-v-viii-and-x-to-be-promoted-without-exams-cm-239431
