17-04-2021||Chandigarh||64 deaths, 4,498 fresh virus cases in Punjab||Sixty-four more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Saturday as the state reported another record spike of 4,498 cases, pushing the infection count to 2,95,138.Two days ago, the state had seen its biggest daily jump of 4,333 infections. With 64 more fatalities in the past 24-hours, the death toll in the state climbed to 7,834, according to a medical bulletin. Ten deaths were reported from Mohali, seven from Patiala and six each from Amritsar, Ludhiana and Gurdaspur. Ludhiana reported 835 cases, the maximum in the state, followed by 790 in Mohali, 449 in Jalandhar, 372 in Patiala and 357 in Amritsar.     As many as 2,615 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,54,805, the bulletin said.  There are 46 critical patients on ventilator while 401 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 65,61,028 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.—     PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/64-deaths-4-498-fresh-virus-cases-in-punjab-240460
17-04-2021||Patiala||COVID-19: Fully-vaccinated Patiala doctor infected for 2nd time in a month||A fully-vaccinated doctor from Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital has been infected by COVID-19 for the second time in a month, sources said from the hospital said—a development that could possibly pose challenge to a vaccination drive that’s already met with a degree of scepticism over the vaccine’s efficacy.The doctor, whose identity we’re withholding because she hasn’t consented to being named, tested positive a second time in a month on Friday, the sources said. She received her second dose in February.She had previously tested positive on March 20 and recovered fully from that bout, even resuming work, the sources said. But when she began showing symptoms again, she got herself tested and was found to be re-infected, the sources said.Health experts say while re-infection isn’t unheard of, especially given how the virus continues to mutate, the instance does raise questions over how effective the vaccines are in preventing the disease.Dr Sachin Kaushal, nodal officer of the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital, said: “Given the cases of re-infection, it seems that a new strain of the coronavirus has already spread. However, mutation needs to be studied thoroughly”.Still, they say that the vaccine could help prevent infections from turning fatal.Dr Sumeet Singh, the district epidemiologist, said the district health department had recorded only 12 cases of COVID-19 re-infection.“People could test positive for the coronavirus even after both doses, but it will be less severe,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-fully-vaccinated-patiala-doctor-infected-for-2nd-time-in-a-month-240438
17-04-2021||New Delhi||Punjab man arrested for passing sensitive information to foreign intelligence agency||The Delhi Police has arrested a man for allegedly passing sensitive information about Army deployment to a foreign intelligence agency, officials said on Saturday.The accused has been identified as Harpal Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran in Punjab, they said."A highly motivated and radicalised man was arrested for passing sensitive information to foreign intelligence agency. He conveyed details related to Indian Army personnel, Army movements, location of Army and BSF posts and bunkers on the outposts of India at India-Pakistan borders," a senior police officer said.The money routed through hawala channels was used for funding the espionage operation, he said.Further details are awaited. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-man-arrested-for-passing-sensitive-information-to-foreign-intelligence-agency-240435
17-04-2021||New Delhi||Pakistani drugs smuggler nabbed from border fence in Punjab||In a first-of-its-kind operation, anti-narcotics agencies have nabbed a Pakistani national while attempting to smuggle drugs from along the India-Pakistan border fence in Punjab, officials said on Saturday.Twenty-eight-year-old Amjad Ali alias Majid Jutt, a resident of Kharak village in Lahore, was nabbed by the Border Security Force (BSF) troops in the Khemkaran front area of Ferozepur district on the intervening night of April 6-7 when he and his associates were about to push in over 20 kg of heroin from under the fence to their Indian contacts.A total of 20.5 kg of heroin, a mobile phone, a power bank and a 13-feet-long PVC pipe (used to push in drug packets from under the border fence) were recovered by the BSF from Ali, they said.As it was a case "of utmost importance related to inter-border drug trafficking", the probe was handed over to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), deputy director general (north) of the central agency Gyaneshwar Singh said."It is an international drugs syndicate working from across the border. Suppliers are sitting across the fence and pushing in the drugs into India," he said.In a video provided by the NCB, the arrested Pakistani national confesses to have been nabbed by BSF troops in the dead of the night on the said day from the "zero line" of India-Pakistan border.Seen handcuffed and flanked by NCB officers, he claims in the video that while he and his two associates were about to push in drugs to the Indian side, the BSF fired and the two men with him and those on the Indian side fled as he ducked to save himself."The BSF caught me after opening the gates of the border fence," he is heard saying.NCB deputy director (operations) K P S Malhotra said this was the "first operation in which a Pakistani national was arrested alive" from the international front area.There have been numerous instances of the BSF shooting dead drug smugglers along this border in the past.Malhotra said a man identified as Jarnail Singh has also been arrested by the NCB from Vadodara in Gujarat on Saturday on leads provided by the Pakistani man.Jarnail Singh, the receiver of the 20.5 kg heroin being smuggled from across the India-Pakistan border that day, is a resident of Ferozepur and has been absconding since the BSF nabbed the Pakistani man, he said."Amjad Ali was put to sustained interrogation, which led to unearthing of the entire drug syndicate, which is being controlled by two Pakistani nationals who are, residents of Lahore and Kasur districts of Pakistan." "The Indian side receivers have also been identified. Raids have been conducted at possible hideouts in Punjab and Gujarat," Malhotra said.The NCB said it will "also raise this issue at appropriate international forums and will also seek assistance in arrest of the Pakistani nationals who are involved with Amjad Ali in drug trafficking".We are going to take the help of Interpol to nab and nail the international operatives of this syndicate, Gyaneshwar Singh said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pakistani-drugs-smuggler-nabbed-from-border-fence-in-punjab-240403
17-04-2021||April 17||US Sikh group demands probe of possible hate bias in deadly Indianapolis FedEx rampage||Half of the eight workers shot to death at an Indianapolis FedEx facility by a former employee before he killed himself belonged to the Sikh religious community, leading an advocacy group to urge a probe of possible racial or ethnic hatred as a factor.Law enforcement officials said Friday they have yet to determine what motivated the gunman, 19-year-old Brandon Hole, who was white, to carry out Thursday night's rampage, at a FedEx operations center near Indianapolis International Airport.The attack in Indiana's state capital, the third most populous city in the Midwest, was the latest in a spate of at least seven deadly mass shootings in the United States over the past month.It came a little over a year after Hole was briefly placed under psychiatric detention by police when his mother reported her concerns that he was contemplating "suicide by cop," according to the FBI. A shotgun was seized from his home.FBI agents who interviewed the teenager last April found no criminal violation at the time and determined he possessed no "racially motivated violent extremism ideology," said Paul Keenan, special agent in charge of the FBI's Indianapolis field office.But the New York-based Sikh Coalition, a civil rights advocacy group, called for a full investigation into "the possibility of bias as a factor" in the FedEx killings.Four members of the Sikh faith - three women and a man - were among the dead in Thursday night's shooting spree, and at least one Sikh individual was wounded, said Gurinder Singh Khalsa, a businessman and leader of the local Sikh community who said he was briefed by victims' families.Singh Khalsa also told Reuters the majority of employees at the FedEx site are Sikhs, whose religion originated in the Punjab region of the Indian subcontinent.He said the FedEx center was known for hiring older members of the local Sikh community who did not necessarily speak fluent English.The Sikh Coalition's executive director, Satjeet Kaur, said more than 8,000 Sikh-Americans live in Indiana.SPATE OF VIOLENCEThe recent surge in U.S. mass gun violence began on March 16 when a gunman shot eight people to death, including six Asian woman, at three Atlanta-area day spas before he was arrested.That rampage heightened tensions already brewing over a rise in hate crimes and discrimination directed at Asian Americans in recent years, stoked in part by racially inflammatory rhetoric about the coronavirus pandemic's origins in China.Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States perpetrated by the Islamist militant group al Qaeda, Sikh men have sometimes been confused publicly with Muslims because they wear turbans with their hair and beards uncut.The eight people killed in Thursday night's violence ranged in age from 19 to 74. The shooting lasted only a couple of minutes and was over by the time police responded to the scene, Craig McCartt, the Indianapolis police department's deputy chief, said on Friday.Witnesses described a chaotic attack, as the gunman opened fire with a rifle in the parking lot before entering the facility and continuing to shoot, leaving victims both inside and outside the building. Officers found the suspect dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.McCartt told reporters the suspect was believed to have last worked at the plant in the fall of 2020.Asked what brought him back to the facility on Thursday night, McCartt replied: "I wish I could answer that." Neither authorities nor FedEx officials would say what ended Hole's employment at FedEx. — Reuters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-sikh-group-demands-probe-of-possible-hate-bias-in-deadly-indianapolis-fedex-rampage-240400
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Days after receiving vaccine, Sonu Sood tests COVID-19 positive; fans wish him 'speedy recovery'||Actor Sonu Sood on Saturday said he has tested positive for COVID-19 and is currently under quarantine, nearly ten days after receiving the vaccine. The actor was recently made the brand ambassador for Punjab's anti-coronavirus vaccination programme.Sood had also met Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, on April 10. The 47-year-old actor, who catapulted to the national spotlight for helping migrants reach their home states during the nationwide lockdown last year, said he will continue his work for those in need. "This is to inform you that I have tested positive this morning for COVID-19. As a part of precautions, I have already quarantined myself and taking utmost care. "But don't worry, this gives me ample time to solve your problems.  Remember, I'm always there for you all," Sood tweeted. The actor had received the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine on April 7. A post shared by Sonu Sood (@sonu_sood)According to the health ministry on Saturday, a record single-day rise of 2,34,692 cases and 1,341 fatalities pushed India's COVID-19 tally to 1,45,26,609 and the death toll due to the viral disease to 1,75,649.  Registering a steady increase for the 38th day in a row, the tally of active COVID-19 cases in the country rose to 16,79,740. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/days-after-receiving-vaccine-sonu-sood-tests-covid-19-positive%C2%A0fans-wish-him-speedy-recovery-240383
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court Chief Justice tests Covid positive||Justice Ravi Shanker Jha, Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, has tested positive for Covid-19, it was announced.A note in the list of cases to be heard on Monday reads: "Hon'ble the Chief Justice will not be holding court on April 19 and April 20, as his lordship has been tested positive of novel coronavirus." IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-chief-justice-tests-covid-positive-240359
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM expresses shock at mass shooting incident in US||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressed shock on Saturday at a mass shooting incident at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis in the US that killed eight people, including four Sikhs.4 Sikhs killed in FedEx facility mass shooting in US"Shocked by the mass shooting incident at FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis which took the lives of 8 people including 4 Sikhs. Pray for strength to their families in this hour of grief," Singh said in a tweet.Four Sikhs, including three women, were among the eight people who were killed in the Indianapolis incident.Brandon Scott Hole (19) and a former employee at the facility in Indianapolis carried out the mass shooting late on Thursday, before allegedly committing suicide.About 90 per cent of the workers at the delivery service facility in Indianapolis are said to be Indian-Americans, mostly from the Sikh community. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-expresses-shock-at-mass-shooting-incident-in-us-240353
17-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||Wind uproots farmer protesters’ huts, tents at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 16High velocity winds coupled with rain uprooted the huts and tents of protesting farmers camping at Tikri border on Friday.Water entered their camps leaving clothes, food items and other belongings of the farmers soaked. The farmers later repaired their huts and placed the clothes and other things in the open to dry.“We have suffered heavy loss due to the storm and rain in the evening. The temporary abodes of many farmers were damaged and all things kept in the camp got wet, but it will not affect our enthusiasm in any manner. We will not move from here without getting the three farm laws repealed,” said Anoop Chanaut, a farmer leader.He maintained they were fully prepared to brave every sort of weather. “We faced bone-chilling winter sitting in the tractor-trailers at Tikri during the initial days and now, we have made all arrangements to beat the summer heat and the rains. No one is worried about the weather,” Chanaut added.Pragat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader, said some of the huts had been repaired by the farmers by helping one another. The remaining would be set up again in the morning as the electricity supply was not proper at this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wind-uproots-farmer-protesters-huts-tents-at-tikri-border-240253
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cases rising, farmers must call off stir: Haryana CM Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has urged farmers to call off their protest in view of the rising Covid cases across the country.Dire need to remain vigilantI urge my farmer brothers to end their agitation during this hour of crisis. The government has always been and is always ready to listen to their demands. There may be some differences of opinion, but right now, there is a dire need to remain vigilant.—  Manohar Lal Khattar, CM, Haryana“I urge my farmer brothers to end their agitation during this hour of crisis. The government has always been and is always ready to listen to their demands. There may be some differences of opinion, but right now there is a dire need to remain vigilant,” he appealed to farmers during his “Haryana Ki Baat” programme broadcast live today.He further said it was everyone’s democratic right to agitate, but the immediate concern was to protect everyone from the deadly virus.Khattar clarified that the industry would not be closed. “Unlike last year when industrial units were shut during the lockdown, no such restrictions will be imposed this time. We have learnt from the last year’s experience. Necessary steps will be taken for containing the spread of the virus,” he said.The Chief Minister said migrant labourers and workers residing in the state should not panic. “The government will ensure that all workers and labourers do not face any trouble. All possible help will be extended to them.”On the health infrastructure, he said oxygen cylinders, ICU beds, ventilators, masks and PPE kits were available in adequate numbers in all hospitals across the state. “Doctors and medical staff have been put on high alert. More than 30,000 people are tested daily. Contact tracing is also on,” Khattar added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cases-rising-farmers-must-call-off-stir-haryana-cm-khattar-240257
17-04-2021||Sonepat||Samyukt Kisan Morcha: Open jab centres at protest sites||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of agitating farmer unions, today demanded that the government should start vaccination centres and provide related facilities at the protests sites.“We appeal to the farmers to follow the necessary norms and guidelines like wearing masks and doing their bit to stop the spread of the virus. At the same time, we also request the government to fulfil its responsibility by starting vaccination centres and providing necessary facilities at protest places,” the SKM said today after a meeting over the future course of action of their stir;This is for the first time that the union has made such a demand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukt-kisan-morcha-open-jab-centres-at-protest-sites-240262
17-04-2021||---||Punjabi University sans regular VC for months||Patiala, April 16Functioning without a regular Vice-Chancellor (VC) for many months, Punjabi University working has been affected.The university is dependent on newly appointed Dean, Academic Affairs, and the Registrar to manage it on the academic and administrative fronts.Ravneet Kaur, IAS officer, executed a number of works on the campus after former Vice-Chancellor Dr BS Ghuman resigned on November 18 citing personal reasons, but several tasks still remain pending, including promotion of various faculty members.The long awaited action on various probe reports into alleged scams is another matter that did not reach a conclusion.Associate Professor Damanjeet Kaur, who awaits promotion, said: “The pending promotions have a long-lasting affect on the university academics. Assistant and associate professors awaiting promotions are unable to involve more scholars into research leading to a loss for such students and the university.”Dr Prabhleen Singh, an A-class officer on the campus, said: “Day-to-day operations of the university have been pending for a long time now. Many employees have applied for deputation but all those have been stalled due to the unavailability of the Vice-Chancellor.”He said the university had been allocating non-teaching posts of the Registrar, Dean Colleges, Dean Student Welfare, Controller Examinations and others to faculty members which led to politics among them while they were unable to justify the work owing to their hectic academic tasks. “Functioning of the university needs to be properly streamlined by a regularly appointed VC.”PUTA president Dr Nishan Singh Deol said: “A regular VC should be appointed to manage all day-to-day works. Even salaries have been pending for months.”Dr Pushpinder Singh Gill, Dean Academics, said: “We are carrying out the works properly as per the directions of the acting VC and there are no lapses. The government is on the task and should provide a VC with integrity and insight.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-sans-regular-vc-for-months-240302
17-04-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Reforms: Pathological labs to be set up in all Punjab jails||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 16As part of the ongoing process of reforms in jails, pathological laboratories are being established in all Central, district and sub-jails of the state following which inmates will no longer be taken outside the prison premises for tests.Dubai-based businessman Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi has agreed to fund the entire project through his charitable organisation Sarbat Da Bhala. The cost of each lab has been pegged at around Rs 25-Rs 30 lakh. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has already given his nod.In the first phase, six prisons — Gurdaspur, Patiala, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Bathinda and Faridkot — will be coveredJails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa rushed to Patiala on Thursday to work out the modalities with Oberoi’s team. Dr Daljit Singh Gill, a former Deputy Director of the Punjab Health Department, has been asked to ensure that no teething problems delay the venture.In the first phase, six prisons — Gurdaspur, Patiala, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Bathinda and Faridkot — will be covered. Apart from routine tests, electrocardiogram (ECG) tests, which are used to detect heart problems and monitor the heart’s status in many situations, too will be conducted.Oberoi’s charitable organisation has opened scores of labs across the state. “It is for the first time that we are establishing labs in jails. At other labs, we charge just 10 per cent of what is charged by private labs. In the labs to be opened in prisons, this 10 per cent fee will be given to us by the jail authorities. I have asked Dr DS Gill to use his experience and expertise to make sure the labs are established by the end of May. Our teams will visit the jails next week to select the exact sites,” said Oberoi.Randhawa said he had asked his officials to identify sites within the jails premises within a week. “It is said that nobody truly knows a nation until one has been inside its jails. A nation should not be judged by how it treats its highest citizens but by how it treats its lowest ones,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/reforms-pathological-labs-to-be-set-up-in-all-punjab-jails-240012
17-04-2021||Mohali||In Mohali, maximum 20 can attend marriages, funerals||The Mohali administration today announced a cap on gatherings at marriages and funerals. It said the number of people at marriages and funerals would henceforth be restricted to 20.Special nakas are being set up around containment zones to keep a strict vigil over any unauthorised movement in or out of the zones.Besides, police and revenue officers will conduct surprise checks at markets and crowded areas for challaning protocol violators. They will also conduct joint inspections at marriage banquets and take action against owners found violating the Covid guidelines.To ensure that no one violates the curfew, the police will impound cars plying on roads after 9 pm. The police will also ensure that all liquor vends remain closed after 9 pm. Joint teams of civil and police officers will keep tabs over home isolation and geo-fencing breaches by Covid-19 patients.“We have constituted additional 10 rapid response teams per subdivision for quick response to distress calls. They will ensure the distribution of Covid-19 kits and monitor the health of patients,” said an official. We would also monitor oxygen supply to prevent shortage and overpricing, he said. Additional IT teams have also been deployed for better data management of patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-mohali-maximum-20-can-attend-marriages-funerals-240205
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Act in sacrilege, firing cases, MLAs, ministers urge Capt Amarinder Singh||As allegations of “shoddy” handling of the Kotkapura police firing cases has set off churning within the Punjab Congress, a group of Cabinet Ministers and MLAs today categorically told Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to act strongly against the perpetrators in the sacrilege and firing cases or else lose badly in the 2022 Assembly polls.Set up new SIT: BajwaChandigarh: Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Friday said the High Court verdict in the Kotkapura case was a monumental failure of the Advocate General and his office. He said the government should constitute a new SIT in the case. Since the material collected during the probe was already with the government or the previous SIT. The new SIT would be able to complete its probe within a timeframe of one month and file challans, he added.It was pointed out that the quashing of the SIT investigations had cast aspersions on the party’s resolve to take the perpetrators to task, resulting in leaders within the party like MPs Partap Singh Bajwa, Ravneet Singh Bittu and senior party leader Navjot Singh Sidhu questioning their own government to give justice to victims in the police firing cases. “The issue has brought us on a par with the Akalis,” said a senior leader.Though no formal decision was taken in the meeting, it was decided to wait for the Punjab and Haryana High Court judgment before deciding the future course of action. Various options like challenging the HC order or appointing a new SIT chief were also discussed. It is learnt that the Chief Minister would be holding a briefing in the coming days.The meeting was attended by PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar, senior party leader Lal Singh, Ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, MLAs Kiki Dhillon and Navtej Cheema, Advocate General Atul Nanda and DGP Dinkar Gupta, besides political secretary to CM Capt Sandeep Sandhu.Seeking answers for the apparent administrative lapses that had led to the High Court quashing the investigations of the Punjab Police SIT and removing its chief IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, the ministers and MLA sought to know the concrete way forward to tide over the crisis and restore faith of the people in the probe being done against the Akalis.It is learnt that Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and MLA Kushaldeep Dhillon were vociferous on the issue. “A blame game between the police and legal department has started,” said a senior leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/act-in-sacrilege-firing-cases-mlas-ministers-urge-capt-amarinder-singh-240048
17-04-2021||Patiala||Drugs and sacrilege cases: People feeling cheated, says Navjot Singh Sidhu||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu today said the state government had cheated the people of Punjab by “failing to meet the two prime demands of strict action against drug kingpins and punishment for those involved in the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib”.Hard-hitting posers to own govtAccusing his own government of defending the main accused, who were at the top of the hierarchy when the Bargari sacrilege took place and innocent men lost their lives, Sidhu said the system had failed us. “Despite prima facie evidence following the Justice Ranjit Singh Commission report, the Punjab Government called a special session but failed to nail the culprits. Even after four years of the government, the FIR in the case does not name the accused cops or the then Chief Minister,” Sidhu said, adding: “I will speak my mind as no Sikh would tolerate this. No one can fool us.”“When those involved in the crime have been identified, why is there no action? Why is there no chargesheet?” he asked at his ancestral residence in Patiala.“The FIR is the foundation of any case. But here, there is no foundation. You may hire top lawyers, what can they do? How will you build the case?” Sidhu asked.“There is not even a single name from the top in the FIRs, be it drugs or Bargari case, despite evidence and the commission’s report. It was a government-appointed commission and SIT to probe the Bargari sacrilege issue,” said Sidhu.On the issue of botched-up probe in the drugs nexus, Sidhu again blamed the state government. “The report by the Special Task Force formed by the government in 2017 under a senior IPS officer brought from outside the state is yet to be made public and kingpins yet to be named,” said Sidhu. “Why is the government silent on the findings of the report? Despite it being with the government, why is there no action against anyone? Even the officer was later shifted,” Sidhu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drugs-and-sacrilege-cases-people-feeling-cheated-says-navjot-singh-sidhu-240049
17-04-2021||Muktsar||Burnt ‘gutka’ found; Muktsar cops start probe||A partially burnt ‘gutka’ was found in a vacant plot on the Abohar road here last evening. A granthi of a nearby gurdwara informed the manager of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib here about the sacrilege incident, who then reached the spot along with the police.Sumer Singh, manager, Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, said: “The gutka was found partially burnt in a vacant plot. I have informed the police about the sacrilege incident for further action. Some burnt literature and worship material too has been found from the plot. It seems someone burnt the gutka by mistake along with some literature and then threw it in the vacant plot to avoid legal action.”Meanwhile, the SAD (Amritsar) lodged a protest at the spot, accusing the police of inaction. Later, a team led by local DSP went there and promised a fair probe. The Muktsar City police have registered a case against unidentified persons in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/burnt-gutka-found-muktsar-cops-start-probe-240050
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura police firing: Cong conspiracy exposed, says SAD leader Daljit Cheema||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today said the conspiracy hatched by the Congress government to defame the party had been exposed with the quashing of the investigation carried out by the state in the Kotkapura police firing case. It had also been proved that the Congress had misused the issue for petty political gains, the SAD added.SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said the Congress government had played with the sentiments of Punjabis by failing to nail the real culprits. “Four years have been wasted in indulging in a political vendetta against the SAD. Crores of public money has been wasted with Rs 5.50 crore doled out to private lawyers by the Advocate General. A malicious and biased investigation was also conducted by former SIT head Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh to implicate senior SAD leaders in the case. Despite misusing all resources at its command, the Congress government could not prove the involvement of a single SAD leader in any case”.Cheema said all this proved that the Congress government was not interested in nabbing the culprits but was all along indulging in conspiracies to defame the SAD as well as its religious institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-police-firing-cong-conspiracy-exposed-says-sad-leader-daljit-cheema-240051
17-04-2021||Faridkot||Ex-DGP Sumedh Saini exempt from appearance in Kotkapura firing case||The court of Judicial Magistrate First Class, Faridkot, on Friday exempt former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini from personal appearance before the court here in the Kotkapura police firing case of October 2015.The court allowed exemption to Saini after his counsel asserted that the probe conducted by the SIT in the Kotkapura firing case was quashed by the High Court on April 9. Opposing this move, the public prosecutor claimed that the ground for allowing exemption to the former DGP was devoid of any merit. However, allowing exemption from personal appearance for today, the court directed the counsel for Saini to ensure the presence of former DGP before the court on May 10 and asked him to produce the High Courtorder about quashing of the investigation in the Kotkapura police firing case.The SIT has so far submitted total nine chargesheets in the courts in both the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-exempt-from-appearance-in-kotkapura-firing-case-240052
17-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Complaint against BJP leaders||AAP’s legal cell has filed a complaint against BJP general secretary Ram Madhav and Gujarat Deputy CM Nitin Patel in the court of Judicial Magistrate for allegedly using derogatory language against protesting farmers.In the complaint, it claimed Madhav and Patel had used derogatory language against farmers, terming them anti-national, Maoists, Khalistanis, separatists, etc. It said farmers Rashpinder Singh and Amrinder Singh had filed a defamation complaint against both leaders and recorded their statements. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/complaint-against-bjp-leaders-240053
17-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Protest over no procurement at Sirhind mandi||Farmers and commission agents on Friday protested the insufficient arrangements and the non-procurement of wheat allegedly due to the shortage of gunny bags in the Sirhind grain market.They sat on a dharna and threatened to block the GT road if gunny bags were not arranged immediately. Notably, Food and Civil Supply Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had claimed that there was no shortage of gunny bags in the state for wheat procurement.SDM Sanjeev Kumar and market committee chairman Gulshan Rai Bobby rushed to the mandi to pacify the protesters and assured that efforts were being made to procure gunny bags.Protesters said there was an acute shortage of gunny bags with the state procurement agencies and no arrangements were made by the government to procure them in advance. Admitting there was a shortage of gunny bags, the market committee chairman said the problem would be resolved soon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-over-no-procurement-at-sirhind-mandi-240055
17-04-2021||Amritsar||Admn in fix as farmer unions plan rallies in Amritsar amid Covid||Cocking a snook at the state government’s directions against holding social, religious or political gatherings in the face of the Covid-19 threat till April 30, farm organisations have announced ‘kisan rallies’ in Amritsar.While the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has scheduled a congregation on April 18 at Bhagtanwala grain market, a group of farmers under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has announced an identical programme at Kukkranwala village in Ajnala the following day.Terming these programmes illegal, Amritsar DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said any violator of the directions would be liable to face legal action.Nonetheless, Punjabi actor Sonia Mann, who has been participating in the farm struggle at the Delhi borders under the umbrella of SKM, today announced a ‘kisan mahasabha’ at the Kukkranwala village stadium on April 19.Asked about the Covid threat, the daughter of Baldev Singh Mann, a Left activist killed by militants in the 1990s, said if the government was so conscious about the health of its citizens, how could it ignore the cause of farmers and elders who had been so vulnerable at the Delhi borders struggling against the farm laws. She claimed prominent farm leaders, including Balbir Singh Rajewal and Joginder Singh Ugrahan, have given their consent to participate in the programme. KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said farmers were never afraid of curbs in the garb of Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/admn-in-fix-as-farmer-unions-plan-rallies-in-amritsar-amid-covid-240056
17-04-2021||Sangrur||Wheat growers await e-payment||Despite claims of payment for wheat purchase within 48 hours, four days after selling their crop and submitting blank bank cheques and fulfilling other formalities, many farmers of the district have yet to get their payment.“I sold my crop on April 13 and have still not received the payment. Neither my arhtiya nor officers concerned of purchase agencies are giving any satisfactory reply,” said Nanak Singh, a farmer from Thalesa village. Another farmer, Gurbakhshish Singh, said he had been waiting for the past three days for the payment.“I have been waiting for the release of the payment since April 13. We know that this year government has introduced a new system for the direct payment, but it must direct its officers to take effective steps for the quick release,” said Gurmale Singh, another farmer from Mangwal village.Some senior officers said since Punjab farmers had been receiving direct payment for the first time and there’s a change in the established system, there was bound to be some initial hiccups. The e-payment software started working properly from Thursday and in the past 24 hours, authorities have released a total ofRs 9.20 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wheat-growers-await-e-payment-240057
17-04-2021||Patiala||Farmers block Patiala's YPS Chowk, seek hike in land relief||Farmers under the banner of the Zameen Kisan Sangharsh Committee blocked the YPS Chowk on Friday and demanded a hike in compensation for their land acquired for the Delhi-Katra expressway.They have been protesting adjacent to the chowk for the last 22 days. The stir has left the road connecting YPS Chowk and Shaheed Major Manwindra Singh Chowk from the front of the Chief Minister’s residence blocked ever since.SP Varun Sharma, DSP Yogesh Sharma and other police officials reached the spot to ensure law and order. The police also blocked all exits from the chowk with vehicles and force. In the evening, protesters were called by the Deputy Commissioner for a meeting along with the SSP and the SDM to find a solution to the matter. The blockade was finally lifted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-block-patialas-yps-chowk-seek-hike-in-land-relief-240058
17-04-2021||Pathankot||Rift in Congress over choice of mayoral nominees in Pathankot||Fissures have erupted among the newly elected Congress municipal councillors, forcing the leadership to postpone a meeting that was to be held to nominate Pathankot’s mayoral candidate.Earlier, five-time councillor Panna Lal Bhatia was considered the probable choice. However, this is no longer the case even as the postponement has yanked the door wide open for other aspirants, particularly Nitin Laddi Mahajan and Gaurav Wadhera, to press their claims.The meeting was allegedly postponed as the leadership feared the councillors would defy the party whip asking them to back Bhatia. “This would have left the party red-faced. Hence the deferment,” said a councillor. Sources say unanimity was not emerging on Bhatia’s name as a majority of the councillors were not backing him. Incidentally, all three — Bhatia, Wadhera and Mahajan — are considered to be close to MLA Amit Vij.On his part, the legislator is busy balancing caste equations to avoid any electoral embarrassment in the 2022 Assembly polls. “Pathankot is primarily an urban seat. Around 90 per cent voters for the Assembly seat are based in the city. A wrong choice will mean a major loss of the city’s vote bank for him,” said a Congress leader.The PPCC is keen to weigh caste factors before finalising the candidate in this Hindu-dominated town. “Both Wadhera and Bhatia may be in the reckoning but neither the PPCC nor the MLA can ignore Mahajan because the community to which he belongs has nearly 35,000 votes in this Assembly seat. “The legislator will be playing with fire if he ignores this fact,” said a senior leader. Sources say the final decision on Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor has been left to PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rift-in-congress-over-choice-of-mayoral-nominees-in-pathankot-240064
17-04-2021||Bathinda||Bid to scuttle farmers' stir: Leaders||Farm unions have condemned the Union Government’s statement asking farmers to vacate protest sites at the Delhi border in the wake of Covid-19 spread, terming it nothing more than “pressure tactics” to end the agitation against the three agricultural laws.BKU Ugrahan president Joginder Ugrahan said after other ploys failed to work, the government in the garb of Covid now wanted to sabotage the movement, but won’t succeed as farmers were resolute in their struggle.Ugrahan said: “There are reports in the media that the government, citing the pandemic, will first ask farmers to peacefully vacate the sites and if they do not comply, it will explore the alternative of using force to remove farmers. But farmers are firm in their resolve and won’t leave the protest venues till three laws are repealed by the government.” Punjab Kisan Union leader Balkaran Singh Balli warned against any coercive action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-scuttle-farmers-stir-leaders-240069
17-04-2021||Jalandhar||Negative test despite Covid symptoms a worry||After having temperature for a few days, Sunny Verma (42) was taken to a private hospital where he was tested for Covid. His report came negative. He was referred to another hospital where he was admitted, but his condition deteriorated and he died after three days. All through his treatment his Covid report (he was tested twice) remained negative.3,915 cases, 51 deathsChandigarh: Punjab continued to be on the edge with 3,915 new Covid cases and 51 deaths. Ludhiana and Mohali continued to take the state tally up with 598 and 560 cases, respectively. Bathinda, which witnessed 266 fresh cases, has the highest positivity rate of 24.77 per cent, followed by Mohali (16.63) and Amritsar (15.90). The highest number of deaths was reported from Amritsar (7) and Ludhiana (6). The total active cases in the state stand at 30,745. TNSKulwant Singh from Chabbewal took to Facebook to narrate a similar ordeal. His father — who tested negative for Covid — was admitted to a private hospital and died a few days later. Kulwant also made a complaint to the Jalandhar DC in this regard.Harsimrat tests +veMP Harsimrat Badal has tested +ve for Covid. She had held some meetings with SAD workers in Bathinda on ThursdayPersisting Covid symptoms despite patient testing negative has made doctors worried and the administration is flooded with complaints. Doctors say as per ICMR guidelines, the treatment for Covid can’t be initiated unless a person tests positive.AAP seeks details of Covid relief fundChandigarh: The AAP has raised questions over the CM Covid Relief Fund. In a statement issued from the party headquarters on Friday, AAP state president Bhagwant Mann said the state government had not made public the total amount that came to the CM Covid Relief Fund and also sought details of where the funds had been spent so far. TNSRishi Verma, brother-in-law of Sunny Verma, said, “Before being admitted to the hospital, my brother tested negative. After being admitted, the RT-PCR test also came out negative, yet he was kept in a Covid ward. However, he was cremated without Covid protocol.”Another patient said, “My father was tested for Covid and his report came negative. He walked to the hospital and was normal on the first day, but within two days he died. Doctors told us he died of typhoid.”Dr Rajesh Baskar, state nodal officer, Covid, said, “The accuracy of the RT-PCR samples depends a lot on the quality of the nasopharyngeal sample being taken. An inappropriately taken sample is bound to test negative. Also, timing matters. Hospitals should treat a patient as a Covid suspect if they display symptoms despite testing negative.”He added, “So far we have no doubts regarding the specificity of the RT-PCR tests. If such incidents increase, the issue will be raised.”Dr BS Johal of Johal Hospital, Jalandhar, said, “In at least 20% cases, symptoms are seen in a patient despite RT-PCR report testing negative. In these patients, symptoms are present, CT scan findings are suggestive of Covid, but the patient tests negative. This is happening because in the new strain, patients’ throat and nasal swabs at times prove inadequate to establish Covid.”Dr TP Singh, nodal officer, Covid, Jalandhar, said, “While RT-PCR never had 100% specificity, 60 to 70% accuracy in its results has been sufficient to detect Covid. There seems to be an anomaly in a few cases, but the number is too little. Some seasonal allergies or medical histories might be playing a part in their health conditions. It is too early to comment whether protocol should be changed or enhanced for such cases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/negative-test-despite-covid-symptoms-a-worry-240092
17-04-2021||Bathinda||IELTS centres protest closure||Owners of the IELTS centres staged a protest against district administration following the closure orders till April 30 in wake of the Covid surge.The centre owners took out a protest rally. Rupinder Singh said, “The administration’s decision to close down the IELTS centres is unfortunate as no other district has taken such a measure.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ielts-centres-protest-closure-240093
17-04-2021||Fazilka||Will attend urgent cases: Advocates||Members of the District Bar Associations, Fazilka and Jalalabad, on Friday decided to appear in courts only for urgent and bail-related matters and other cases shall be kept in abeyance due to the Covid surge.In a resolution passed by the Bar Association, Jalalabad, advocates have resolved that the work of courts, except urgent and bail matters, would be adjourned till April 23. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-attend-urgent-cases-advocates-240094
17-04-2021||Patiala||Year on, construction workers await relief||Even after a year, hundreds of construction workers in the state haven’t received financial assistance, which was meant to fight the financial onslaught of the Covid-induced lockdown. The aid was announced for registered construction workers last year. Workers have been running from pillar to post to get the aid as the department has failed to transfer the due amount to their bank accounts.The state government had announced two installments of Rs 3,000 to allay the economic impact of the lockdown. The Tribune found that around hundreds of workers in the home district of the CM – the ex officio chairman of the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board – have not received the amount. Local dealing officials claimed they had sent multiple reminders to the state Labour Department in this regard.Ranjit Kaur of Thuhi village said, “The government has failed to protect the construction workers from financial burden of the lockdown. I wrote to the Nabha Labour Inspector in July, but I have not received any amount till now.”Vijay Walia, an activist fighting for the construction workers, said, “The CM, who is the chairman of the labour board, should have checked whether the grants have reached genuine beneficiaries or not.”VK Janjua, Principal Secretary, Labour Department, said, “A majority of the workers have already received the amount. I will ask officials concerned to immediately transfer the amount to the workers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/year-on-construction-workers-await-relief-240095
17-04-2021||Amritsar||3 from MP nabbed with 30 illegal pistols||Busting an interstate module of weapon suppliers, the Amritsar rural police have arrested three Madhya Pradesh residents and confiscated 30 illegal weapons from their possession. Those arrested have been identified as Crore Singh, Ram Singh Patwa and Chander Pal.According to the police, the suspects used to supply weapons to different parts of Punjab, besides neighbouring states. The suspects were nabbed from Burhanpur district during a special operation. The arms seized included 25 .32 bore pistols, five .30 bore pistols and 32 magazines, besides an Alto car and a bike.DGP Dinkar Gupta said acting on specific inputs, a police team from Amritsar rural led by Majitha ASP Abhimanyu Rana and DSP (Detective) Gurinder Nagra arrested Crore Singh and Chander Pal near the Burhanpur bus stand on April 10.Ten .32 bore pistols and 10 magazines were recovered from their possession, while third suspect Patwa was nabbed near Gurdwara Badi Sangat in Burhanpur, along with 15 .32 bore pistols, five .30 bore pistols and 22 magazines.Patwa said the consignment had been supplied to him by Rahul, an MP-based weapons manufacturer and smuggler, whose name has cropped up in similar seizures by the Punjab Police in the past six months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-from-mp-nabbed-with-30-illegal-pistols-240097
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||AAP: Changing school books will hit sellers||Criticising the decision of the state government to change around 35 school books for the academic year 2021-22, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the decision was against the rules and this would cause considerable financial loss to booksellers and agencies.Cheema alleged that it had come to his notice that the Education Department of Punjab had taken several decisions in violation of educational rules in the past, which was causing great harm to those who were feeding their families by selling books.He said just 15 days before the new academic session, the Education Department has decided to change about 35 books of different classes. Cheema claimed that the owners of book agencies and booksellers had lost lakhs of rupees due to this decision. He said the government should withdraw this decision immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-changing-school-books-will-hit-sellers-240098
17-04-2021||Tarn Taran||Three held with illicit liquor, lahan||The district police and excise department, in a joint operation, raided six places and recovered 66,570 millilitre illegal liquor, 3,680-kg lahan and an apparatus of working still. Three suspects were arrested, while three others fled.A team from the Sarai Amanat Khan police station and excise department seized 37,500 ml illicit liquor from the house of Veer Singh at Harbanspur village, who fled the scene. They also recovered 22,320 ml illicit liquor and 1,140 kg lahan from the house of Karanjit Singh the same village, who was arrested.The Sarhali police in a raid at Jawanda Kalan village seized 150 kg lahan from the residence of Dilbag Singh Baga, who fled the scene.Also, a raid by the Goindwal Sahib police at Lalpur village led to the recovery of 60 kg lahan and an apparatus of working still from the house of Gurmit Singh, who fled the scene. The police seized 6,750 ml illicit liquor from Bohar Singh of the same village. The suspect was arrested.During a raid at Feloke village, the police seized 50-kg lahan from the house of Gurdev Singh, who was arrested.Meanwhile, the suspects have been booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-held-with-illicit-liquor-lahan-240099
17-04-2021||Bathinda||Wrong blood transfusion case: NHRC notice to state, seeks reply in 6 weeks||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued a notice to the Chief Secretary, Punjab, and sought a reply on why the commission should not grant a monetary compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the two patients who were given HIV-positive blood at the Bathinda Civil Hospital blood bank.Personal enmityThe commission has asked the Punjab Government to reply within six weeks, else the commission would presume that it had no objection to grant of the compensation.In December, the NHRC had issued a notice and sought action taken report from the Health Department in the case of transfusion of HIV-positive blood to a seven-year-old thalassaemia patient at the Bathinda Civil Hospital. The move came on the complaint filed by Kulwant Singh Nagra of Jalandhar to the NHRC chairperson on October 10.The Superintendent (Health-4), Department of Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, vide communication dated March 1 forwarded a report of the Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, wherein it said acting on the complaint, the matter was probed through the SMO, Civil Hospital, Bathinda, by constituting a committee of three senior doctors of the rank of medical officers.In the notice, the commission stated it had considered the report of the Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, and observed due to negligence and criminal act on part of blood bank employees, lives of two of the patients had been put at risk by transfusing HIV-infected blood.It is on record that the lab technicians had knowingly invited an HIV patient to donate blood and remained silent when an infected sample was issued for transfusion to patients just on account of personal enmity with other staff of the blood bank.Further, it had stated it was the duty of the state to provide required medical care to save the lives of the patients admitted to government hospitals, which the state failed to do and thus a consequence was vicariously liable for any omission or commission on part of its employees, which in this case fell within the domain of criminal act, as HIV infected blood was knowingly allowed to be transfused to otherwise healthy patients, including a seven-year-old minor girl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wrong-blood-transfusion-case-nhrc-notice-to-state-seeks-reply-in-6-weeks-240100
17-04-2021||Moga||Moga villages along Sutlej belt turn stockyard of extracted sand||Illegal, unscrupulous and unscientific sand mining has been done in the guise of desilting the Sutlej in the district.Most of the villages along the river belt have turned into stockyards of sand. After Sanghera, mining mafia has turned to nearby Rerhwan village, where huge mounds of sand are piled up for sale.Officials of the mining department claim that desilting work was allocated to Prime Vision Industries Pvt Ltd, Noida, which was allowed to stock the sand extracted from the river. But as per the orders issued by the Executive Engineer, Ferozepur division of the Mining Department on February 23, a copy of whichis with The Tribune, no specific place has been designated for stocking the sand extracted from the river.In the guise of these confusing orders, huge stocks of sand have piled up in many villages. Moreover, the mining officials have failed to specify procedures or rules on how the sand mined during the desilting was to be handled.Meanwhile, DSP Subeg Singh claimed that the Mining Department had allowed the Noida firm to store sand in its stockyards at the nearby villages, therefore, the police could not take any legal action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-villages-along-sutlej-belt-turn-stockyard-of-extracted-sand-240101
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Explain power backup for CCTV cameras in police stations: High Court||Two years after the Punjab and Haryana High Court was told that CCTV cameras installed in all police stations across the state had power backup, a Bench has directed the police officer incharge of computerisation to file an affidavit on the veracity of the statement.A cover-up?The directions came a month after Sangrur SSP was asked to explain non-functioning of CCTVs in a police station while taking up a drugs case. The accused claimed the CCTV footage was deleted despite his prayer for its preservation.“The ADGP/IGP, who is the nodal officer currently with regard to computerisation of CCTV cameras installed in police stations is directed to file an affidavit as to whether any power backup has been provided as was in fact stated on an affidavit by the Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Punjab/DGP, Punjab, before this court, around two years ago when CCTV cameras were ordered to be installed in all police stations,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted.The petitioner, Jatinder Kumar through counsel Ishan Gupta, was seeking probe by an independent agency such as the CBI in FIR registered on May 31 last year at the Bhawanigarh police station in Sangrur. Directions were also sought for taking stringent action against erring officials who allegedly destroyed the evidence in the form of CCTV footage of the police station.After going through the SSP’s affidavit, Justice Singh asserted preliminary perusal revealed that not even a single word was said in response to the court query on the absence of power backup. The affidavit said there was some fault with the CCTV camera installed in the police station during the period in question.Justice Singh said there would seem to be no excuse actually for any malfunctioning on account of power failure and the entire exercise prima facie, at least at the current stage, appeared to be a complete cover-up by the police.Justice Singh granted interim bail to the petitioners without final comment on the actual merits of the case, after taking into consideration the contention that they were apprehended on May 30, 2020, and not on May 31, 2020, from a place different from the one shown in the FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/explain-power-backup-for-cctv-cameras-in-police-stations-high-court-240106
17-04-2021||Amritsar||Global Sikh institutions to come under Akal Takht||Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has initiated a move to bring all Sikh institutions and gurdwara committees across the globe under the umbrella of the highest Sikh temporal seat.In this direction, he has appointed Gurmeet Singh as honorary secretary to streamline the working at the Akal Takht Secretariat.Jathedar said they needed to rope in educated and experienced individuals to streamline the functioning. “We need to be united and religiously strong,” he said.Asked about the Covid threat, he said the government had lost its credibility due to its double standard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/global-sikh-institutions-to-come-under-akal-takht-240107
17-04-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap meets Punjab Governor, firm on his resignation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16Despite Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh rejecting his resignation, IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap today met Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore. The IG called the meeting “personal”. He later told the media he would not withdraw his resignation. His meeting with the Governor further stoked the controversy regarding the officer’s role as the key investigator in the Kotkapura police firing case.Kunwar Vijay Pratap, IGAs of now, I have no plans to join a political party. Meeting various politicians is part of my job.The High Court quashed the SIT investigation on April 9 and asked Punjab to form a new probe team sans Kunwar Vijay Pratap following which the IG resigned on April 14. The Punjab CM issued a statement the next day, saying the resignation had been rejected and that he fully trusted the investigating officer.Kunwar Vijay Pratap, IGI will disclose my future course of action at an appropriate time.At the meeting today, the Governor advised the IG to reconsider his decision, but the latter said he had already made up his mind, sources said. The meeting lasted about 25 minutes after which the IG told the media he was firm on quitting. “The CM tried to convince me to withdraw the resignation. Instead, I was able to convince him on my decision to resign,” he said, clarifying that he had been meeting the Governor every month in his ‘personal capacity.’Talking to The Tribune later, the IG said he would disclose his future course of action at the appropriate time. On reports that he may join a political outfit, he said he had no such plans as of now. “I keep meeting politicians. It’s part of my job,” he maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ig-kunwar-vijay-pratap-meets-punjab-governor-firm-on-his-resignation-240116
17-04-2021||Vibha Sharma||Direct Benefit Transfer in Punjab successful, Rs 13.7 crore paid so far||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 16Central government agencies have procured 18.24 lakh tonnes of wheat in Punjab and 36.30 lakh tonnes in Haryana during the ongoing rabi season till April 15, according to Food Corporation of India (FCI) data.An amount of Rs 13.71 crore and Rs 735 crore has been transferred into the accounts of farmers in Punjab and Haryana to date.Sudhanshu Pandey, Food SecretaryCentre hails arhtiyasWe are transferring MSP directly to the farmers’ accounts in Punjab, which has been possible with the cooperation of the state government and arhtiyas.This is the first time farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been receiving MSP payment through the DBT (direct benefit transfer) mode. The Centre had been pursuing DBT implementation in the two states since 2015-16, but Punjab and Haryana sought repeated exemptions. Just ahead of procurement, Punjab had sought yet another exemption, which the Centre declined.“With Punjab and Haryana on board, the entire country is now covered under ‘One nation, one MSP, one DBT’ theme,” Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said. He dismissed reports of slow procurement in Punjab. He said the ‘arthiyas’ too would get their commission in account.Haryana leads the tally among 11 states and two UTs where wheat is procured at MSP (Rs 1,975 per quintal rate this year).Around 81.64 lakh tonnes of wheat, against the national target of 427.36 lakh tonnes, has already been procured. The FCI will procure the maximum 135 lakh tonnes from MP and 130 lakh tonnes from Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/direct-benefit-transfer-in-punjab-successful-rs-13-7-crore-paid-so-far-240096
