20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 61 Covid deaths, 4,673 cases||The coronavirus fatality count in Punjab rose to 8,045 with 61 more deaths reported on Tuesday as 4,673 fresh cases took the state’s infection tally to 3,09,316, according to a medical bulletin. The maximum seven deaths were reported from Patiala, followed by six in Amritsar and five each in Ludhiana, Mohali and SBS Nagar, it said.Ludhiana reported 778 cases, the maximum in the state, followed by 698 in Mohali, 556 in Bathinda, 454 in Jalandhar and 434 in Patiala.Currently, the number of active cases stands at 36,709. A total of 3,198 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,64,562, the bulletin said.There are 48 critical patients on ventilator while 480 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 66,90,798 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-61-covid-deaths-4-673-cases-241772
20-04-2021||---||Punjab industry fears ‘exodus’ of migrant workers||Chandigarh, April 20Industry in Punjab fears an “exodus” of migrant workers, repeat of the 2020 situation when labourers went back home after lockdown, while some businessmen are claiming they have started heading back to their states.According to industrialists, migrant workers have a fear that a total lockdown may be clamped as was done last year in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases.To avoid any hardship that was faced last year after the lockdown was imposed, workers have started returning to their homes, they said.“We are trying to convince them to stay back. But, some of them have started going back to their states as workers say they do not want to face again any bad experience which they saw last year,” said Ludhiana-based industrialist Vinod Thapar on Tuesday.Thapar, who is also the president of Ludhiana Knitwear Club, said that if more workers started going back, the industry would suffer.He said many workers who usually return after harvesting season have also not come back.Avon Cycles Chairman and Managing Director Onkar Singh Pahwa said the bicycle industry has seen 15 per cent workers’ absenteeism in the past two days.Punjab has around 10 lakh migrant workers, including 7 lakh in Ludhiana alone. Majority of migrant labourers are from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand.However, some industrialists said there is no such problem, saying workers every year head back to their homes during this time for holding ceremonies like weddings.Ludhiana-based hand tool maker S C Ralhan said the industry was organising anti-COVID-19 vaccination camps for their workers.Meanwhile, Punjab Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora said no outward movement of migrant workers has been reported in the state.Many industrial units across all the districts are dependent on migrant industrial workers and it is a matter of satisfaction that till date, no outward movement of workers has been reported in the state, he said in a statement here.He assured the industry of all proactive support and cooperation in mitigating the impact of the ongoing second COVID-19 wave.The minister appealed to the industry to take care of all their workers in this hard time of COVID-19.All industrial workers may be vaccinated for COVID-19 dose at the earliest to arrest the further spread of infection. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-industry-fears-exodus-of-migrant-workers-241758
20-04-2021||---||Punjab to have unified single-number call centre for citizen grievance redressal by month-end||Chandigarh, April 20Punjab is all set to have a unified state-wide single-number call centre to address all citizen-centric grievances by the end of the month, with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday directing that the process to standardise the redressal mechanism be expedited, with instructions for bringing all the 500 citizen services in the state online, through the Sewa Kendras, within this year.He approved the recruitment of 503 personnel at various levels to give the necessary push for the process.Chairing a virtual meeting of the Board of Governors of the Punjab State e-Governance Society (PSEGS), the Chief Minister also directed that for the convenience of citizens, Home Delivery of services and Tatkal services should also be launched from Sewa Kendras immediately. He ordered total computerisation and digitisation of the backend of the citizen-centric service mechanism to ensure effective and timely disbursal of services.Currently, 329 services of various departments are being delivered from these Sewa Kendras to the citizens, with Saanj Kendras (Police) and Fard Kendras (Revenue) recently integrated into the system. These services shall also have computerized backend and digitised legacy records.To help achieve these targets, the Chief Minister gave the go-ahead to the Department to hire 503 personnel at different levels, including a Chief Technology Officer, Chief Data Officer, and other IT skilled manpower across functions, including System Managers, Business Analysts, Network operators and IT assistant.Taking note of the success of E-office in ensuring smooth functioning of government offices, with reduced physical contact, during the Covid pandemic, the Chief Minister also ordered adoption of the E-office by all offices of the State Government, including all Directorates, District and field offices, Boards, Corporations etc, by May 31. This would enable the state to move toward paperless government functioning with increased efficiency and minimal human intervention, said an official spokesperson after the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-have-unified-single-number-call-centre-for-citizen-grievance-redressal-by-month-end-241734
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Over 61K test positive, more than 1,000 die of COVID-19 in Punjab since April 1||Punjab has added over 61,000 COVID-19 cases and reported over 1,000 deaths due to it since April 1, with many districts including Mohali, Ludhiana and Amritsar being among the worst-hit areas.Health Department officials blamed non-adherence of COVID- appropriate behaviour by people and the UK variant of the virus for the sharp rise in COVID-19 cases in the second wave.They also pointed out that delay in approaching hospitals for treatment by patients with severe symptoms and comorbidity conditions were the main reasons behind fatalities.The Punjab government on Monday had announced stricter curbs, including the extension of night curfew by an hour and closure of bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres and sports complexes in the state till April 30.According to the Health Department data, Punjab had a total 2,42,895 cases of infections as on April 1. The cases sharply rose to 3,04,660 as on April 19, showing a rise of 61,765 in COVID-19 infections.For the past few days, the state has been seeing around 4,000 cases daily with experts indicating that the daily spike could reach 6,000 cases per day next month.The state’s positivity ratio which was earlier 7.8 per cent, had hit the highest rate of 12.6 per cent on April 15, officials said.Punjab’s overall positivity rate, a ratio of positive cases to total tests conducted, stands at 4.5 per cent.Among the worst-affected districts, Mohali saw a quantum jump of 9,762 in fresh cases in the past 19 days. Ludhiana and Jalandhar added 9,035 and 6,982 infections since April 1, the data showed.With Punjab having the highest case fatality rate of 2.6 per cent in the country, it logged 1,059 deaths since the start of this month with data showing total fatalities rising from 6,926 as on April 1 to 7,985 till April 19.Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana reported over 100 deaths each while Jalandhar 96 in the past nineteen days, the data showed.“Ninety per cent of total deaths have been of those who had comorbidities,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid -19 on Tuesday.Last week, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had pointed out that around 84 per cent of patients presented themselves at the hospital for the first time with severe symptoms, indicating delayed reporting. He had also said that almost 30 per cent of deaths were taking place within two days of hospitalisation.The active cases in the state have also risen from 24,644 as on April 1 to 35,311 as on April 19, showing a rise of 10,667 patients.As cases are spiralling in the state, the health authorities are focusing on making adequate medical oxygen available for Covid patients to meet the requirement.The Health Department has projected demand for oxygen to go up to 120 metric tonnes per day next week as against 80 MT as of now, said a senior official of the department.The state government has written to the Centre to give approval for two new oxygen plants at medical colleges Amritsar and Patiala.As far as availability of beds, the occupancy in government and private hospitals for level-2 facilities is around 20 per cent and 30-35 per cent respectively, said the official.For level-3 facilities, the occupancy of beds in both the government and private hospitals was around 45 per cent, he said.The state government on Monday had directed 75 per cent reservation of level-3 facilities for COVID in all private hospitals providing critical Covid care.Elective surgeries in government or private hospitals have also been postponed till May 15. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-61k-test-positive-more-than-1-000-die-of-covid-19-in-punjab-since-april-1-241731
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM gives in-principle approval for law on teachers’ transfer policy||In a slew of decisions to further improve the functioning of schools in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday gave in-principle approval for legislation of Teachers Transfer Act in the Vidhan Sabha, while announcing Rs 500 amonth increase in the salaries of mid-day meal workers and distribution of another 2.14 lakh smart phones to Class XII government school students this year.The enactment of a law will give legal sanctity to the Teachers Transfer Policy introduced by his government in 2019 to make the entire process transparent, efficient and corruption-free, said the Chief Minister, pointing out that since the policy was brought in, not a single complaint of corruption had been received with respect to transfer of school teachers. Under the policy, which has now also been extended to non-teaching staff, of 1.12 lakh teachers, so far 21600 teachers had availed the benefit.On the issue salary hike for MDM workers, the Chief Minister said it was a long pending demand of the workers, who had got a hike last in 2017. The move will benefit 42000 MDM workers in 19000 schools.The Chief Minister further announced that the process of distribution of 2.14 lakh more smart phones will commence within three months, with budget allocation already made for 2020-21. The proposal will be cleared at the next meeting of the state cabinet, and orders for the phones will be placed immediately thereafter to enable distribution to commence within the time-frame, said the Chief Minister. The proposal for procurement of smart phones for these students had already been sent to the Department of Industries, he added.Pointing out that 1.75 lakh students studying in class 12 had already been provided Smart Phones during 2020-21, the Chief Minister said in addition, 3502 Tablets had already been provided to the students of Government schools, while Rs. 5.25 crore had been kept aside for e-libraries.Asserting his commitment to the implementation of all the 20 manifesto promises with respect to school education before the end of his term, the Chief Minister directed the School Education Department to formulate a scheme and draft a formal proposal for the introduction of NCC training as a subject in all schools in a phased manner, beginning with the border schools. This, he said, was important to inculcate discipline among students, especially in current times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-gives-in-principle-approval-for-law-on-teachers-transfer-policy-241718
20-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala's Rajindra Hospital sees 16 Covid deaths in a day||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 20Sixteen people died of Covid at Government Rajindra Hospital here over the past 24 hours.As many as 175 people have died of Covid at this hospital in April.The hospital is one of the biggest isolation centres in Punjab and patients from far-off places come here. As many as 113 people had died of Covid at the hospital last month.Owing to the rising Covid deaths, the hospital mortuary reportedly has a shortage of space. Consequently, work to accommodate more dead bodies is under way.The hospital authorities claimed that majority of the patients had been admitted at a critical stage. “Majority of the Covid patients when admitted have oxygen saturation below the critical level of 90 per cent. They die within 72 hours of hospitalisation.”Dr DS Bhullar, in-charge, mortuary, said, “This is the highest death count in a day this year. People should immediately report to the nearest hospital on the onset of Covid symptoms.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patialas-rajindra-hospital-sees-16-covid-deaths-in-a-day-241668
20-04-2021||New Delhi||83 more die in Punjab, 33 in Haryana as India witnesses 2.59 lakh more Covid cases||India's total tally of Covid cases climbed to 1,53,21,089 with 2,59,170 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while active cases surpassed the 20-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.The death toll increased to 1,80,530 with a record 1,761 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.Registering a steady increase for the 41st day in a row, the active cases increased to 20,31,977, comprising 13.26 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid recovery rate has dropped to 85.56 per cent.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,31,08,582, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.18 per cent, the data stated.According to the ICMR, 26,94,14,035 samples have been tested up to April 19 with 15,19,486 samples being tested on Monday. The 1,716 new fatalities include 351 from Maharashtra, 240 from Delhi, 175 from Chhattisgarh, 167 from Uttar Pradesh, 146 from Karnataka, 117 from Gujarat, 83 from Punjab, 79 from Madhya Pradesh, 53 from Rajasthan, 46 from Jharkhand, 44 from Tamil Nadu, 41 from Bihar and 38 from West Bengal and 33 from Haryana.A total of 1,80,530 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 60,824 from Maharashtra, 13,497 from Karnataka, 13,157 from Tamil Nadu, 12,361 from Delhi, 10,606 from West Bengal, 9,997 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,985 from Punjab and 7,437 from Andhra Pradesh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/83-more-die-in-punjab-33-in-haryana-as-india-witnesses-2-59-lakh-more-covid-cases-241667
20-04-2021||Patiala||Army entrance exam put off||The common entrance exam for candidates, who had cleared the physical test for recruitment in various categories in the Indian Army, scheduled to be held on April 25, has been postponed in the wake of spike in Covid-19 cases.Officials at the Army recruitment office said candidates from five districts namely Patiala, Sangrur, Mansa, Barnala and Fatehgarh Sahib were shortlisted, after they cleared the physical test.Army Recruitment Director Col RR Chandel said: “The director-general of recruiting, IHQ of the Ministry of Defence (Army), has decided to put off the written test (Common Entrance Exam) that was scheduled on April 25 at the 1st Army Division Signal regiment ground on the Sangrur Road.”He said the candidates would be informed about the next date for the test. The coordinating conference that was scheduled for April 21 for the subject exam was also cancelled, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-entrance-exam-put-off-241491
20-04-2021||---||Send vax, approve 2 oxygen plants in Punjab: CM to Centre||Chandigarh, April 19CM Capt Amarinder Singh today urged the Centre to send immediate supply of vaccine and also give quick approval for two new oxygen plants in the state amid concerns over depleting stocks of both. On the availability of vaccine, the Chief Secretary told the CM that the situation was critical, with only three days of stocks left, but the Centre has assured that more would be coming soon.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said though Indian Oil Limited (OIL) was providing the state with oxygen supplies, the situation was a matter of concern. A close watch was being kept on the demand-supply situation at both government and private hospitals, she said. A committee was coordinating with the Centre in this regard, Mahajan said.Health Secretary Hussan Lal said three plants had been operationalised since the last surge and two plants at medical colleges in Amritsar and Patiala were awaiting the Centre’s approval. While there was shortage currently, supplies were being diverted from one district to another to meet the requirement.The meeting was informed that vaccination appeared to be having a positive effect in the police department, with only one vaccinated official testing positive in the past 24 hours, and a total of only 397 positive cases among those who have been immunised.The CM directed all departments to maximise vaccination and urged industries to take responsibility for getting their employees vaccinated.84 deaths, most in second wave||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/send-vax-approve-2-oxygen-plants-in-punjab-cm-to-centre-241424
20-04-2021||Barnala||Elderly couple dispels jab fears||Amid rumors about authenticity of the vaccine, a nonagenarian couple — Surjit Kaur (96) from Gugga Madhi and Krishan Singh (92) — got the jab at a camp organised at the Municipal Council Office, Tapa. It has given a push to the drive as many are seeking inspiration from them. Senior officers said the campaign against Covid had been going on in full swing in Barnala and senior citizens were volunteering to get vaccinated. “Vaccination is must to prevent this disease and people should follow the instructions of the government,” said Surjit, who could not walk properly and was given the jab and honoured in the auto rickshaw in which she had reached the camp. Krishan said they were fine and people should come forward to get vaccinated. Barnala SDM Varjeet Walia honoured the couple and the health department team. Barnala DC Tej Partap Singh Phoolka said: “So far, 31,293 doses of vaccine have been administered.” He said senior citizens had responded well. He appealed to all people above 45 years to get vaccinated. He said vaccination camps were being held regularly at the district’s grain markets amid ongoing procurement season. Farmers, arhtiyas, labourers and other stakeholders are being vaccinated, he said. “The health department has been organising camps at five market committees — Barnala, Tapa, Dhanaula, Bhadaur and Mehal Kalan. Camps have also been organised in market committee office of Barnala also,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/elderly-couple-dispels-jab-fears-241425
20-04-2021||Amritsar||Panic as Amritsar's Guru Nanak Dev Hospital switches to buffer stock of oxygen||Amid reports of ongoing oxygen shortage at hospitals, Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, associated with the Government Medical College, here had to switch to its buffer stock after exhausting its supply.The hospital administration said the buffer stock was maintained so that suppliers could be notified about the demand in time. However, this created panic among family members of patients at the hospital.Later, Minister for Medical Education and Research OP Soni clarified a “situation” had arisen which was tackled immediately. “There is no shortage of oxygen in any medical college in the state,” he said. Medical Superintendent Dr KD Singh said: “We always keep a buffer stock of oxygen for such situations. This morning, we had to use oxygen from this stock. We immediately informed our suppliers and the stock was replenished.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panic-as-amritsars-guru-nanak-dev-hospital-switches-to-buffer-stock-of-oxygen-241426
20-04-2021||---||BSNL offers free service to boost vaccination drive||Bathinda, April 19 In a bid to boost the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the district, telecom operator BSNL has announced free mobile phone services (data and calling) for the first two months for those getting the jab. A camp will be organised at the BSNL office in Bharat Nagar on April 20 where people can get themselves vaccinated. A public announcement regarding the offer was made by the BSNL via loudspeakers in different parts of the city today. Gyan Singh, deputy manager, Bathinda circle, said: “Covid-19 is spreading at a rapid rate so it’s the need of the hour that maximum people get vaccinated to prevent the further spread. While the health department and government are doing their job diligently to prevent the spread, we also decided to do our bit. We have introduced an offer for those who get vaccinated at the camp on April 20.” “Those interested can bring along their Aadhaar card and can get a new prepaid connection, which will be free of cost for the first two months, after getting the jab. The regular plan charges will be applicable thereafter. We hope it will encourage residents to get vaccination.” Harmeet Singh, a resident said: “The offer is a welcome step and will give a boost to the vaccination drive.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsnl-offers-free-service-to-boost-vaccination-drive-241428
20-04-2021||Ropar||Ropar councillor  flouts isolation norms, booked||The local police have booked a municipal councillor for violating home isolation norms meant for Covid-19 patients. The councillor, Inderpal Singh Raju Satyal, allegedly left his home during the election of municipal council’s president on April 15 at 11 am.Satyal had written to the authorities saying he was suffering from Covid-19 but wanted to cast his vote. He even reached the council office in his car. The director allowed him to cast his vote through video conferencing.Later, Covid-19 patient tracking officer Monika Yadav lodged a complaint with the police that Inderpal had left his home on April 15 in a car to attend a meeting. Following this, he was booked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-councillor-flouts-isolation-norms-booked-241430
20-04-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||20% govt centres shut amid vaccine shortage in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 19The shortage of vaccine is hitting the state’s strategy of inoculating more people and stopping the Covid surge.For the past two days, vaccine stock at several government-run centres has dried up, forcing the government to shut 20 per cent of these centres. Besides, several private hospitals have suddenly been eliminated as vaccination centres after a new rule made it mandatory that only Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana-empanelled hospitals will be allowed to give the jab.As a result, against a target of vaccinating 2 lakh persons a day, the state’s daily vaccination is down to an average of just 85,000 a day. The state has just 1.83 lakh doses of Covishield and 1.59 lakh of Covaxin left. To date, 25.50 lakh persons in the state have been vaccinated, which is 10 per cent of the state’s population.The closure of vaccination centres is confusing those who are scheduled to get their second dose.Hinting at political bias in dose administration, Dr GS Grewal, a Ludhiana-based doctor who is also former president of Punjab Medical Council, told The Tribune: “With some centres closed, patients are left in the lurch. Strangely, while some non-empanelled hospitals have been eliminated, some camps are being organised by politicians for their constituents and as many vaccine doses are being diverted there.”The state health department denied the charge. Hussan Lal, Secretary, Health, said all eligible persons were getting vaccinated, and anyone organising special camps was being issued vaccine doses. “This is not being done at the cost of cutting back on the vaccination programme being run through the designated vaccination centres,” he said.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said though they had set up the infrastructure to vaccinate 3 lakh persons a day, they were not getting enough vaccine to meet the target.Sought 15L, got 2L"We had sought 15 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin, but got just 2 lakh. It is sad that the Centre is biased even in the midst of a raging pandemic." —Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/20-govt-centres-shut-amid-vaccine-shortage-in-punjab-241431
20-04-2021||Amritsar||Farmers warn against ending protest on Covid spread pretext||A large gathering of farmers to oppose the three agricultural laws was organised at Kukranwala village near Ajnala on Monday. Farmers warned the government against taking any action to end the protest forcibly on the pretext of the Covid-19 spread.Farmer leaders said they would oppose any such move with all their might and would not end the protest until their demands were accepted.The event organised by actor Sonia Mann witnessed participation of several Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders, including BKU (Ekta) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Kirti Kisan Union vice-president Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala, Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha president Kulwant Sandhu, Kandela Khap Panchayat (Haryana) president Chet Ram Kandela and Gaurav Tikait, son of Rakesh Tikait.“This gathering is meant to reconnect people from Majha with the farmers’ cause,” said Sonia, whose father Baldev Singh Mann, a leader of Kirti Kisan Union, was gunned down by Sikh militants.Ugrahan said the three farm laws were detrimental to the agricultural sector. He said, “Farmers are unable to meet their expenses even with the MSP but the government is trying to open the sector for the corporate.” He added corporate houses would exploit farmers and offer them lower prices when the prevailing market system collapsed.Commenting on Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s statement that the Centre was ready to hold talks with farmers, Ugrahan said, Tomar had nothing to offer and needed to get the permission from the Prime Minister before issuing any statement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-warn-against-ending-protest-on-covid-spread-pretext-241432
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Agri laws misunderstood by certain sections: BJP leader Tarun Chugh||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh today said it was unfortunate that the three agricultural laws had not been understood in the proper perspective by a section of farmers, particularly in Punjab and Haryana."Green Revolution was successful in increasing per hectare productivity. By 1970, Punjab was producing 70 per cent of the country's total foodgrain. At the same time, the revolution led to inequality in foodgrain production and farmers' income. Repetitive cropping pattern led to degradation of soil. The overuse of water led to fall in the water table. Uncontrolled use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides degraded the environment," he highlighted.Chugh said from being number one in the 1980s, Punjab went down to 19th rank in 2019-20 in terms of per capita GDP. As per a study conducted by a state university, a total of 16,606 farmers and farm labourers committed suicide between 2000 and 2015 which comes to three suicide per day, he stressed. The BJP leader said small land-holding, lack of crop diversification and markets for the produce, mounting debt and middlemen, besides a crumbled state support, led to stagnation of the agrarian sector.Stressing the MSP will continue, he said the new farm laws gave farmers the option of selling their wheat at a higher rate but not below Rs 1,975. Farmers can withdraw from the contract with the corporate at any stage without penalty but the corporate buyer will have to pay the agreed price and penalty for breaching the contract, Chugh said. “The mandi system will not collapse at all. In fact, mandis will become more competitive,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agri-laws-misunderstood-by-certain-sections-bjp-leader-tarun-chugh-241433
20-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers, arhtiyas protest gunny bag crisis in Sirhind town||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 19Hundreds of farmers and commission agents on Monday blocked the national highway at Sirhind town in protest against the non-availability of gunny bags (bardana) with state procurement agencies, which has affected wheat procurement.The protesters raised slogans against the state government and disrupted traffic, leading to a massive jam on GT Road. Administrative officials and the police reached the site and tried to persuade the protesters to lift the blockade, but they refused and said the dharna would continue till gunny bags were not made available with the procurement agencies.Sadhu Ram Bharmajra, president of the Arhtiya Association, said since the procurement of wheat had started, there was an acute shortage of gunny bags.He said although the state government had allowed the use of old gunny bags, commission agents had been asked to purchase them on their own and the amount would be reimbursed later.Bharmajra said the commission agents had refused to buy the gunny bags from their own pockets. They get Rs 46 per quintal as commission, whereas gunny bags would cost Rs 96 per quintal. Moreover, they were not sure whether they would get commission due to direct payment to farmers.He said earlier, the protests were held at Khamano, Sanghol, Bassi Pathana, Amloh and other procurement centres and the gunny bags were supplied there. Meanwhile, Opposition leaders are ridiculing the claims of the government and the district administration that the procurement of wheat is going on smoothly and there is no shortage of gunny bags.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-arhtiyas-protest-gunny-bag-crisis-in-sirhind-town-241435
20-04-2021||Ludhiana||Procurement system flawed: BKU||Alleging farmers are being harassed and exploited in mandis and at purchase centres, the BKU (Lakhowal) has criticised the system for procurement put in place by the government. “Tall claims of the government and procurement agencies stand exposed as majority of farmers are facing problems due to severe shortage of empty gunny bags and delayed lifting in the mandis,” alleged Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU.  He said farmers coming to mandis to sell their crop were feeling frustrated due to inadequate arrangements for storage, shortage of gunny bags and delayed lifting. “Wheat crop is piling up and grain is getting damaged due to inclement weather as no arrangements have been made for early lifting or safe storage of wheat arriving in mandis or purchase centres,” he said. The BKU leader alleged all claims of timely payment to farmers for their produce also remained on paper as many were made to wait for several days. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/procurement-system-flawed-bku-241436
20-04-2021||---||Farmers' dharna in Sirhind||Chamkaur Sahib, April 19A number of farmers on Monday staged a dharna on the Sirhind canal bridge in protest against the shortage of gunny bags in the local grain markets.They blocked roads from all sides, including Ropar, Chamkaur Sahib, Ludhiana and Bela. They flayed the government for its failure to make available the required quantity of bags for wheat lifting in the markets of Chamkaur Sahib, Bela, Gaggon, Hafizabad and Bassi Gujran villages.Commission agents said they were finding it difficult to lift the procured wheat.Following an assurance by local Sub-Divisional Magistrate HS Atwal that there will be no shortage of bags in any market, the protesters lifted the dharna after two hours.District Food Supply Controller Sabir Singh said there would be sufficient supply of gunny bags from tomorrow as the government had made more arrangements for it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-dharna-in-sirhind-241438
20-04-2021||Amritsar||Repeal farm laws: Tikait’s son to Centre||Gaurav Tikait, son of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, said their struggle would continue until the three farm laws were repealed and a law on the MSP was enacted.Accompanied by other farmer leaders and actor Sonia Mann, he paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and prayed for the success of the farmers’ struggle.He was in Amritsar to attend a farmers’ event at Kukranwala village. “The movement will succeed and the government will have to relent. The Centre was bent on suppressing the farmers’ agitation, but it has ended up being more intensified. Now, the Covid-19 threat has been made an excuse to scuttle the movement, but it will have no impact”, he said. Meanwhile, the SGPC honoured the visitors with siropas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/repeal-farm-laws-tikaits-son-to-centre-241439
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege: CM alone can order arrest of guilty, says Navjot Sidhu||Days after Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu accused his government of cheating people of the state by failing to punish those involved in the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, he has targeted the CM who also holds the portfolio of the Home Department.In a reply to former AAP Dakha MLA HS Phoolka, who had asked Sidhu to take action as justice had not been done in the 2015 sacrilege incidents, the former Cabinet minister said there was need to shake those who had the executive power of the state, especially the CM-cum-Home Minister.Sidhu said according to the Constitution, only the Home Minister could give political order regarding arrest of the perpetrators of the sacrilege and subsequent police firing.“While being a minister for 27 months, I raised my voice in the Cabinet against the delay in taking action against the perpetrators of the crime. In 2019, while campaigning for the Congress, I again demanded that those behind the crime should be given exemplary punishment. Because of that, my ministry was changed from the Cabinet and I resigned,” said Sidhu, adding that nothing would be achieved by calling the Vidhan Sabha session because it was only in the hands of the Home Minister of the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-cm-alone-can-order-arrest-of-guilty-says-navjot-sidhu-241441
20-04-2021||---||SAD factions join hands, to float party||Chandigarh, April 19In a major political development, SAD (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and SAD (Taksali) president Jathedar Ranjit Singh Brahmpura today announced dissolution of their respective parties to form a new party in the first week of May.“We are forming a new political party. Its name will be announced in the first week of May,” Dhindsa said.“We know that Punjab needs a new political front to give an alternative to the existing skewed political choices for people. We have had several rounds of discussions to decide our way forward. These will be made public soon. And, we are not collaborating with AAP, despite all guesses,” Dhindsa said.Jathedar Brahmpura will be the patron, while Dhindsa will be the president of the new party, it was decided.A six-member committee has been constituted to work out the details of the party. The committee included Jathedar Ujagar Singh Badali, Jathedar Mahinder Singh Hussainpur, Karnail Singh Peermohammad, Jagdish Singh Garcha, Ranjit Singh Talwandi and advocate Shinderpal Singh Brar members.Dhindsa and Jathedar Brahmpura said a strong organisational structure would be formed by the new party in the first week of May and a fourth front would be formed in coordination with like-minded parties to defeat the major parties. The leaders, jointly, said PM Narendra Modi was urged to give up his stubbornness and accept the demands of farmers and provide relief to the protesters who had been agitating for months now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-factions-join-hands-to-float-party-241442
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing: AAP protests delay in justice to kin||Alleging collusion between Capt Amarinder Singh and the Badal family, AAP MLAs today protested the “delayed action” against the accused and justice to the families of the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents.Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema along with MLAs Sarvjeet Kaur Manuke, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, Amarjeet Singh Sandoa, Jai Kishan Singh Rodi, Kulwant Singh Pandori, Manjit Singh Bilaspur and Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal protested against the government and the Badals.The police detained the AAPMLAs on their way to gherao the CM residence. Cheema said instead of saving the culprits, Capt Amarinder should have taken immediate action by making arrests. He alleged that both CM and the Badals worked in collusion and made multiple attempts to derail the probe. “Since the Badals have withdrawn the cases against Capt Amarinder, the latter is now paying that debt with interest,” he alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/behbal-kalan-and-kotkapura-firing-aap-protests-delay-in-justice-to-kin-241444
20-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Man killed in cracker blast||One person was killed and another critically injured in a cracker blast near Tibbi village here this morning. The incident occurred when a large quantity of illegally manufactured crackers was being transported on a makeshift three-wheeler from Maloud village in Khanna to Amloh town. The deceased has been identified as Ravinder Kumar, a resident of Somalkheri village. He was sitting on the three-wheeler with the stack of crackers. Driver Surinder Singh, a resident of Malaudkheri in Khanna, was critically injured and taken to the Civil Hospital, Amloh.  The police have registered a case. Ravinder was transporting firecrackers, used in marriages, along with a bag of potash, used to manufacture crackers, to Amloh. As the vehicle passed over a speed-breaker, Ravinder was tossed into the air but landed on the potash bag, triggering a blast. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-killed-in-cracker-blast-241445
20-04-2021||Ropar||Principal thrashes student, probe on||A video has gone viral purportedly showing a local government school principal thrashing a girl student. The authorities said an investigation had been initiated. In the video, the principal is seen slapping the student and pulling her hair after calling her onto the stage during the school assembly. While the face of the victim was not visible, the clip seemed to be old as all were seen in woollen clothes. Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said a three-member committee would probe the matter and submit its report within 15 days. The principal had been asked to proceed on leave. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/principal-thrashes-student-probe-on-241446
20-04-2021||---||Kunwar Vijay Pratap looking to join AAP: Bikram Majithia||Majitha, April 19Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia today said former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, who recently tendered resignation following adverse comment by the Punjab and Haryana HC over the Kotkapura firing case probe, was gearing up to join the AAP and that his vendetta against the SAD had been exposed.Majithia said the ex-IG had indulged in politics while flouting the service rules.“He was challenged by a police functionary and not by the SAD in the court. Earlier also, the head of the SIT — ADGP Prabodh Kumar — and three other members, including IG Arun Pal Singh, had disassociated themselves from the IG’s findings in writing and refused to become party to politicisation of the case. The court had rejected his findings and directed the government to disassociate him from the probe. His political aspersion was to join the AAP ahead of 2022 elections,” he said.The SAD leader alleged the Congress continued to steer the case with the intention of implicating the SAD and its senior leadership in the case.On health services, Majithia asserted the mortality rate in the state had been the highest in the country. “People are not getting beds. If they get beds, there are no ventilators. Similarly, forget Remdesivir, even Dolo tablets are unavailable.”He said all this was the result of government’s lack of preparedness to fight Covid-19. “Health Minister Balbir Sidhu knew it and chose to get treated at a private hospital. Patients were being exploited by private hospitals and even scams of Covid testing by labs too had hit the headlines,” he said.Majithia was addressing mediapersons during the election of office-bearers of the Majitha Nagar Council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kunwar-vijay-pratap-looking-to-join-aap-bikram-majithia-241448
20-04-2021||Ludhiana||Superintendent shifted over singer Karan Aujla’s visit to Ludhiana jail||Ten days after Ludhiana Central Jail Superintendent Rajiv Arora hosted Punjabi singer Karan Aujla on the prison premises, the officer has been chargesheeted and transferred to Chandigarh.The action by the Prisons Department follows an inquiry into the incident by DIG (Jails) SS Saini, who was assigned the probe by ADGP (Prisons) PK Sinha. Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had ordered the inquiry following media reports.Principal Secretary (Prisons) DK Tiwari told The Tribune the department had transferred the jail superintendent from the Ludhiana jail to the state headquarters in Chandigarh following receipt of the inquiry report.“Departmental action will follow,” he said, adding the action was taken after the minister approved the report to this effect.The ADGP (Prisons) said he had submitted the report to the state government for suitable action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/superintendent-shifted-over-singer-karan-aujlas-visit-to-ludhiana-jail-241449
20-04-2021||---||Bathinda: Commission orders action on ostracism of  Dalit man||Chandigarh, April 19The Punjab State Schedule Castes Commission has ordered the Bathinda Deputy Commissioner and SSP to initiate a disciplinary action on the complaint of Ram Singh, a Dalit who had been banished from Virk Kalan village by the panchayat.The commission has also directed setting aside of the directives passed against Ram Singh by the panchayat and his rehabilitation in his house.Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur said Ram Singh had lodged a complaint that the panchayat had issued a notice on a burglary complaint asking him to leave the village in seven days, else his belongings would be thrown out.The incident happened a year ago and the complainant was forced to live in exile. He said education of his children had suffered owing to the decision.Earlier, Ram Singh had lodged a complaint with the DC and an inquiry was marked to the executive officer (EO) of the Bathinda zila parishad, but the EO closed the complaint, terming it baseless. The commission constituted a two-member team that visited the scene and found the facts of the complaint to be authentic. “The sarpanch has admitted before the inquiry panel that some of the villagers forced him to issue the orders,” she added. She instructed the DC to make arrangements for rehabilitation of Ram Singh at his house in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-commission-orders-action-on-ostracism-of-dalit-man-241450
20-04-2021||Bathinda||Missing scribe Kanwaljeet Singh Sidhu’s body found in lake||4 years after crime, gang leader heldAbohar/Sriganganagar: The kingpin of a Punjab-based gang, allegedly involved in snatching gold and cash by trapping devotees outside religious places in Punjab and Rajasthan, was nabbed four years after the incident. The accused has been identified as Bindu of Jagraon. A special investigation team (SIT) was formed to nab Bindu, who is facing eight similar cases in Punjab. OCTrust gets chairman after four yearsAbohar: Anil Nagpal, son of veteran Gandhian and freedom activist late BL Nagpal, took over as chairman of the Improvement Trust here on Monday. The office of the chairman had been lying vacant for four years. The Congress move is seen as a bid to woo the Arora community, a major vote bank in the urban area.OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/missing-scribe-kanwaljeet-singh-sidhus-body-found-in-lake-241452
20-04-2021||Jupinderjit Singh & Balwant Garg||Before quitting, ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap flagged plan to submit challan against Badals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 19Days before the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed his investigation into Kotkapura police firing case, Kunwar Vijay Pratap (IG whose resignation was accepted today) had written to the Punjab Police and Home Department on the challan to be submitted against former CM Parkash Singh Badal and his son Sukhbir Badal.Sacrilege: CM alone can order arrest of guilty, says Navjot SidhuThe ex-IG, who resigned on April 14, in the letter dated March 15, also brought to the notice of the government through the Punjab DGP, Director of Bureau of Investigation, and the Additional Chief Secretary, Home, that the Akali leaders had threatened him. He also specifically said the government and the state legal department did not take any action on his complaint about receiving threats from the accused.He also sought protection for the witnesses in the case, citing the mysterious death of one of them, Surjit Singh, in January 2020. The Tribune has a copy of the letter.The letter contains a detailed note about the entire investigation and legal points. None of the officers to whom the letter was addressed responded to The Tribune’s queries.Kunwar Vijay Pratap looking to join AAP: Bikram MajithiaKunwar Vijay Pratap said he had already put in his papers and would not talk further on the issue.Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said in a statement that he would file a defamation suit against the ex-IG for making false claims in the letter.The SAD president said the ex-IG was obsessed with targeting the SAD and the Badal family. “The ex-IG knew from the proceedings of the Kotkapura firing case in the high court that his probe would be cast aside. The latest allegation is a result of this deep-rooted frustration and aimed at politicising a case after wasting three years pursuing the political agenda of the Congress party.“It is a clear case of gross misuse of his official position to please his political bosses rather than nailing the culprits in the case.”The ex-IG’s letter said, “The accused tried to put undue pressure and even threat to the life of mine and my family (sic); however, I have maintained full professional attitude…. Threat, coercive and abusive language used by Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia could not deter me from the righteous and rightful path…. The same has been reported to the competent authority from time to time. However, nothing from the state side has been done in this regard from the office of the Advocate General, Punjab.”Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing: AAP protests delay in justice to kinOn the status of investigation, he has written: “It is further submitted that the investigation of these cases has been completed in all respects. Sukhbir Singh, the then Deputy Chief Minister and in charge of Home Department, has been examined on l9.l l.20l9 by the SIT. Sardar Parkash Singh Badal, the then Chief Minister, has also been examined on 16.11.2018 by the SIT. One challan in respect of them is required to be submitted in the court of competent jurisdiction, as mentioned in the first challan presented on 27 .05.2019 in FIR No. 12912018 (PS City Kotkapura). Similarly, one challan is also required to be filed in FIR No. 130/2015 (Behbal Kalan firing case).”Flagging the threat to the witnesses, the ex-IG’s letter said: “It is submitted that witness protection has become very crucial and indispensable at this stage in this case. It is a matter of fact that one of the key witnesses Surjit Singh died in January 2020 under mysterious circumstances.”Letter cites threatThe ex-IG’s letter states, “The accused tried to put undue pressure. There is a threat to my life and that of my family.”Resignation acceptedPunjab Govt on Monday accepted the resignation of IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. He had resigned on April 14, days after the HC quashed the investigation carried out by him in the Kotkapura case.Sukhbir threatens defamation suitShiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal has said he will file a defamation suit against the IG for making “false claims” in the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/before-quitting-ex-ig-kunwar-vijay-pratap-flagged-plan-to-submit-challan-against-badals-241495
20-04-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Samyukt Kisan Morcha launches ‘Phir Delhi Chalo’ to bolster agitation||Tribune News ServicePanipat, April 19Aiming to strengthen its agitation against the central farm laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has decided to launch ‘Phir Delhi Chalo’ movement from April 24, the day the farmers’ protest completes 150 days.The SKM, a joint forum of farm unions spearheading the protest, on Monday coined the new slogan to ramp up numbers at the protest sites on the Delhi border. A special convention had been planned on May 10 and farm leaders from across the country would participate in it, the forum said. Union leaders said the date for the scheduled “Parliament march” would be announced at an appropriate time.Ashish Mittal, SKM member, said as farmers were away for wheat harvesting, their focus would first be on calling them back. He said the BKU (Ugrahan) had called upon its members to start reaching Tikri border from April 21.Farm activist Yogendra Yadav alleged the government was hatching a conspiracy in the garb of anti-Covid measures to quell their stir. “They used the same trick last year. We will not let it happen,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukt-kisan-morcha-launches-phir-delhi-chalo-to-bolster-agitation-241490
20-04-2021||---||Stricter curbs in Punjab till April 30||Chandigarh, April 19As Covid cases rise rapidly, the Punjab Government on Monday ordered stricter curbs, including extension of night curfew by an hour from 8 pm to 5 am and closure of bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres and sports complexes in the state from Tuesday till April 30.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who chaired a Covid review meeting, directed the police department to strictly enforce the restrictions.The rates for RT-PCR and rapid antigen test (RAT) by private labs have been reduced to Rs 450 and Rs 300 (additional charges for home collection of samples) in a bid to promote increased testing.Gatherings of more than 20 persons, including for weddings and cremations, have been banned across the state. A prior approval from the district administration will be needed for all gatherings of more than 10 persons, except for cremation. All weekly markets have also been ordered to remain closed.Those having attended any large gathering would have to be mandatorily home-quarantined for five days and tested as per protocol, said officials.Health Secretary Hussan Lal said by May 5, the state was projected to receive 6,000 cases a day if urgent steps were not taken in high-burden Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala districts. The CM directed that RAT booths be set up at bus stands and railway stations to screen passengers.Theatres, gyms shut||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stricter-curbs-in-punjab-till-april-30-241420
