21-04-2021||New Delhi||Farmers resolute, agriculture laws must go, says SKM as farmers return to Delhi borders after harvest||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha said on Wednesday that the central government must repeal the three controversial agriculture laws and provide a legal guarantee to resolve an ongoing deadlock with farmers—a statement that comes as farmers who had gone to their villages for the harvest reason began returning to protest sites at Delhi’s borders.The development also comes at a time when India sees a crippling rise in COVID-19 cases that have stretched health infrastructure to its capacity in many parts of the country. Among the most affected is the national capital Delhi, which has added over one lakh cases since Saturday.Scores of farmers led by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, are camping at Delhi’s border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November with their demands for the repeal of the three new laws and a new law on MSP for crops.“On the call of the SKM, farmers in large numbers have started coming towards Delhi. The farmers are coming back after harvesting, to strengthen the protest at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Shahjahanpur borders,” SKM leader Darshan Pal said in a statement.“If the government is equally worried about the health of farmers, it should immediately repeal the three laws and make a new law on the MSP. This is the only solution where farmers can rollback the protest, otherwise, it will be getting stronger day by day,” he said.Pal, who also virtually participated in the International Press Conference at Press Club Geneva, claimed that the Indian government failed to consult the farmers, farmer organisations, people living in rural areas, pro-farmer economists, political scientists or political parties, while framing the controversial laws in violation of a UN declaration which grants rural dwellers a right on such issues.“We the farmers of India while protesting against these Acts have a very genuine case, and the government has violated our rights which were provided to us by the United Nations declaration of 2018. Secondly, we are not getting MSP or remunerative price for our crops and for that also we demand that our government should make a law,” Pal, who is also the president of Krantikari Kisan Union of Punjab, said.The SKM alleged that the government instead of strengthening the farm sector is creating “cheap labour” in urban spaces through “agrarian crisis”.                              “There are reports of long journeys of migrant labourers from all over the country. This danger is the result of neoliberal policies. A big step to sponsor these policies is these three agricultural laws. The results of open market and privatisation are that today thousands of labourers are wandering in cities at cheap wages,” it said.“Instead of strengthening the farming sector, the government wants to create cheap labour in the urban spaces by creating an agrarian crisis, but now the farmers and labourers will fight back against these policies at all costs,” it added.Amid exodus of migrant workers from the NCR in view of the coronavirus-induced lockdown in Delhi, Pal said farmer organisations and volunteers have now begun preparing food packets to be distributed at bus depots and railway stations in the national capital.“Food was distributed to fleeing migrant workers at the Anand Vihar bus stand,” he added.The SKM also accused the BJP’s IT cell of spreading fake news regarding farmers obstructing the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic by stopping trucks of oxygen and other essentials on the borders of Delhi and also spreading the infection.“The SKM condemns and opposes all these false narratives. Farmers have never intended to sleep on the streets and stay away from their homes and land. The government has inhumanly imposed these laws on the farmers,” the farmers’ body said.“The farmers are not asking for anything new, they are only fighting to save what they have. In this battle of existence, they are fighting against both coronavirus and the government,” it added.The SKM also alleged that the government is “running away” from its responsibilities at the time of the pandemic, but is ironically choosing to blame the farmers.In fact, on humanitarian grounds, the protesters have been more than willing to assist locals and others despite the serious hardships that they find themselves in, in the ongoing stir, it added. —  Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-resolute-agriculture-laws-must-go-says-skm-as-farmers-return-to-delhi-borders-after-harvest-242231
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sanctions reward policy for accurate intelligence on drugs||The Punjab government has announced what it calls “reward policy” to encourage people to provide information on drug smuggling and peddling in the state—a development that comes as part of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s attempt to root out drug abuse in the state.Amarinder Singh gave his sanction on a policy that he claimed was an “important step towards motivating people to play a proactive role in helping the government in cracking down on drug smugglers and traffickers,” a press note said on Wednesday.The policy aims at recognising government servants, informers, or sources in providing credible inputs leading to a drug haul, the press note quoted Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta as saying.“The quantum of reward for successful investigation, prosecution, forfeiture of illegally acquired property, preventive detention and other significant anti-drug work shall be decided on case-to-case basis,” he said.The decision is believed to be on the basis of Gupta’s own suggestion made at a meeting with the chief minister in February.“Those eligible for the reward under the policy would include informers whose information leads to seizure of narcotics drugs/ psychotropic substances/controlled substance and forfeiture of illegally acquired property under Chapter V-A of NDPS Act, 1985,” the press release quoted Gupta as saying.“Other eligible category would comprise the officers/officials of State Government or Central Government such as Police, Prosecutors, Officers of enforcement agencies of  Government of India, who make seizures of narcotics drugs/psychotropic substances/controlled substances or conduct successful investigation under the NDPS Act, 1985, or ensure successful prosecution or achieve successful forfeiture of illegally acquired property under Chapter V-A of NDPS Act, 1985 or achieve successful preventive detention under PIT NDPS Act, 1988 or any other achievement considered fit for grant of cash reward by ADGP/STF and DGP/Punjab.”Government employees would eligible to 50 per cent of the highest reward. Any exceptions to this rule would only be considered in cases where a government employee has opened himself or herself to great personal risk by proving such information.The reward is purely ex-gratia payment that cannot be claimed as a matter of right, the press note said.  The decision of a competent authority to grant reward would be final.Factors such as accuracy, risk factors involved and nature of help given to law enforcement agencies will be factored in before granting the reward.The reward granted would also be based on categories. In case of seizures, government employees would get a reward after receipt of Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report confirming the presence of illegal drugs; in case of investigation and prosecution, after conviction; in case of illegally acquired property, after the successful forfeiture under section 68-I of NDPS Act, 1985; and in case of a detention order, after the confirmation of detention order under section 9(f) of PIT NDPS Act, 1988. The informers would get the reward after receipt of FSL report confirming presence of illicit drug in case of seizures; and in case of illegally acquired property, after successful forfeiture.A three-member panel at the district, unit or department level headed by a police commissioner, senior superintendent of police, or head of office, as the case may be, will examine claims for rewards and mark such recommendations to the Additional General of Police or a Special Task Force, which a committee at the SFT headquarters would then scrutinise and forward to ADGP, STF or DGP/Punjab (through ADGP/STF).The ADGP/STF is empowered to sanction rewards up to Rs 1 lakh. Any reward money than that must have the DGP’s sanction.“The necessary budget provision for this purpose shall be made under the Object Head ‘Rewards to ADGP, Special Task Force, Punjab,” Gupta said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sanctions-reward-policy-for-accurate-intelligence-on-drugs-242202
21-04-2021||Amritsar||BSF demands FIR against Pakistani pigeon||The BSF has sought registration of an FIR against an intruder from Pakistan that happens to be a pigeon. The Punjab Police are seeking legal opinion on this.The pigeon perched itself on the shoulder of a Border Security Force jawan at the Rorawala post here last Saturday, apparently after flying across the border, an official said.A small piece of paper with a “contact number” was wrapped around its leg, the official said.The BSF personnel handed over the bird to the police with a demand in writing for taking legal action.Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruv Dahiya said the BSF demanded registration of an FIR against the pigeon. “As the pigeon is a bird, I don't think an FIR can be registered against it. But we have referred the matter to our legal experts for their opinion,” he said on Wednesday.The number tagged on the pigeon's leg is being analysed, he said.Pigeons have been “captured” earlier as well in border areas with security forces suspecting espionage attempts. Homing pigeons can be used to courier information and the tags can carry coded messages.Or the birds can be innocent, tagged with identification numbers by their keepers.For now, the pigeon is being kept at the Khangarh police station. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-demands-fir-against-pakistani-pigeon-242190
21-04-2021||Mohali||Sanjeev Khosla appointed Director, Animal Husbandry in Punjab||Dr Sanjeev Khosla took over charge as Director, Animal Husbandry, Punjab, at the Livestock Complex in sector 68, Mohali district on Wednesday.The orders of regular appointment were issued on April 19 by the Additional Chief Secretary, VK Janjua, following approval of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Animal Husbandry Minister.Animal Husbandry Department was bereft of regular Director ever since Dr HS Sandha retired on June 30, 2017. Dr Khosla is the senior-most officer of the department and has varied experience at the headquarter and was, of late, working as Joint Director (Animal Health).After joining, Dr Khosla said his top priority would be disease prevention, increasing milk production through selective breeding, dissemination of information about latest management techniques through extension, augmenting the income of livestock farmers and above all implementing policies and programmes of the Punjab Government.He added that he would endeavour to bridge the gap between the lab to land as research carried out at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana would be fruitful only then for the benefit of stakeholders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanjeev-khosla-appointed-director-animal-husbandry-in-punjab-242155
21-04-2021||Indianapolis||Sikhs in US feel targeted after FedEx shooting||Ajeet Singh had to steel himself for a return to work at a FedEx warehouse in Indianapolis on Tuesday for the first time since a former employee shot dead eight people, including four members of Indianapolis' tightly knit Sikh community.“I've been scared to go back," Singh said. "I don't know why this happened still. Was it random, or was it because of who I am?” While the motive for last week's rampage remains under investigation, leaders and members of the Sikh community say they feel a collective trauma and believe more must be done to combat the bigotry, bias and violence they have suffered for decades in the country. Amid intense pain, they're channeling their grief into demands for gun reform and tougher hate crime statutes, and calls for outsiders to educate themselves about their Sikh neighbours.“We are time and time again disproportionately facing senseless and often very targeted attacks,” said Satjeet Kaur, executive director of the Sikh Coalition, a New York-based group that has urged investigators to examine bias as a possible motive in the shootings."The impact on the community is traumatic," she continued, "not just particularly the families that face the senseless violence, but also in the community at large because it's community trauma.” In the days since the shootings, the coalition facilitated a call with federal officials in which Sikh leaders in Indiana asked for the appointment of a Sikh American liaison in the White House Office of Public Engagement, among other requests.A monotheistic faith founded more than 500 years ago in India's Punjab region, Sikhism is the world's fifth-largest religion with about 25 million followers, including about 500,000 in the United States.Kaur said that as a relatively young faith with a low population in the Western world, Sikhism is generally not taught in schools to the same extent as other global religions or integrated in policy-making, resulting in misunderstanding and ignorance. Anti-Sikh discrimination can manifest itself in everything from schoolyard bullying to verbal attacks to shocking acts of violence.Last year, a man accused of running over the Sikh owner of a suburban Denver liquor store after reportedly telling him and his wife to “go back to your country” was charged with a hate crime and 16 other counts including attempted murder.The latest killings dredged up painful memories for Rana Singh Sodhi, an Indian immigrant living in Arizona. He has spent nearly two decades preaching love and tolerance after his brother was shot dead four days after 9/11 by a man who mistook him for a Muslim because of his turban. Balbir Singh Sodhi was the first of scores of Sikhs who were the target of hate crimes in the aftermath of the 2001 terror attacks.“It's very painful,” Rana Singh Sodhi said. “I hope one day ... people will love each other and enjoy the life and working together and living together in this beautiful country.” There are between 8,000 and 10,000 Sikh Americans in Indiana, where they began settling more than 50 years ago and opened their first house of worship, known as a gurdwara, in 1999.Most of the employees at the FedEx warehouse are members of the community. Gurinder Singh Khalsa of the Indiana-based Sikh Political Action Committee said many Sikhs live on Indianapolis' west and south sides, making the facility's airport location a convenient place to work.On Monday his committee said it had set up a task force to seek answers about the shooting and to press government officials to take action. An important goal, Khalsa said, is to help people returning to work feel safe.That would be a relief to people like Gaganpal Singh Dhaliwal, who said two of his aunts had just arrived for their shift at the warehouse Thursday night when the shooting started. His mother also works there. They all survived, but he's mourning colleagues and friends.Dhaliwal expressed hope that the tragedy will inspire others to better understand the religion and cultural practices: “To all my fellow Americans, whether Republicans, Democrats, Muslims, Jewish, non-religious people, everyone: Google the word Sikh' today. ... Devote five minutes of your time to be aware about another people around you who may not look like you.”Already he's starting to see some signs of raised consciousness, notably in the flags flying at half-staff outside homes and businesses across Indianapolis and an “outpouring” of support to fundraisers for victims' families. He urged more people to build bridges to his community.“If you see a person like me wearing a (turban) on the head, in your street, in your grocery shop, at your workplace, go talk to them," Dhaliwal said."Tell them you know who Sikhs are, or give them a hug and say, Hey, you're welcome in the US.' Right now we're a community that needs a lot of support, and to know that we have a place in this place called America.”  The killings have reverberated nationwide.Pardeep Singh Kaleka, executive director of the Interfaith Conference of Greater Milwaukee and the son of one of seven fatal victims of a 2012 mass shooting at a gurdwara in the suburb of Oak Creek, Wisconsin, said there are concerns about an escalating threat of violence. AP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikhs-in-us-feel-targeted-after-fedex-shooting-242149
21-04-2021||Amritsar||International tourism awards: Partition Museum wins Best Wider World Tourism Project||The Partition Museum in Amritsar has won the Best Wider World Tourism Project award at the British Guild of Travel Writers International Tourism (BGTW) Awards 2020, held this Sunday in the UK, despite stiff competition from other international tourism projects. It was rated as “first class” and the “most innovative and important tourism project” with a positive impact on community, according to Simon Willmore, chair of BGTW.Taking the leadThe Partition Museum beat global tourism projects include the Macon Music Trail in Georgia, USA; the Michinoku Coastal Trail in Honshu, Japan; the Nelson Mandela Capture Site Museum and Visitor Centre in Howick, South Africa; Remando por la Paz/Rafting for Peace in Colombia and the Soqotra Heritage Project in the Gulf of Aden.The Partition Museum launched by The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust (TAACHT) was nominated by BGTW member Meera Dattani and voted for by the 260 members of the BGTW. Winners were announced during ‘BGTW’s Really Big Reveal’, an online broadcast that took place on April 18 due to the pandemic restrictions.Initiated by a group of people led by Kishwar Desai, the Partition Museum called the ‘people’s museum’ was established under The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust. Dedicated to remember the largest mass migration in human history, the Partition Museum has won six other awards, nationally and internationally.The BGTW award scheme, the results of which were postponed into 2021 because of the pandemic, gives Guild members the opportunity to propose new tourism projects that they feel deserve recognition for their outstanding contribution to tourism. Awards are split into three categories: ‘Best UK and Ireland Tourism Project’, ‘Best European Tourism Project’ and ‘Best Wider World Tourism Project’.Kishwar Desai, reacting to the win, said: “We are truly honoured and thrilled to receive this award and thank everyone who has supported it. This museum is dedicated to millions of those unremembered and unrecognised people, who lost their homes and homelands overnight due to the Partition of India. It draws thousands of visitors every month and has become an important part of the tourist itinerary. This award will further encourage others to visit the Partition Museum, learn about the world’s largest forced migration, the repercussions of which last till today, nearly 75 years later.”BGTW chairman Simon Willmore said: “The BGTW International Tourism Awards provide the opportunity for members to nominate the most innovative and important tourism projects they have visited over the last year that they believe deserve wider recognition. The Partition Museum is a first-class example of a tourism project that is having a positive impact on the community and the environment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/international-tourism-awards-partition-museum-wins-best-wider-world-tourism-project-241985
21-04-2021||Amritsar||Deorhi in Amritsar's historic Ram Bagh cries for attention||The historical structure known as Deorhi in the summer palace of legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh, also known as Ram Bagh, is crying for attention.One of the projecting balconies decorated with ornamental floral designs in the lime plast has fallen, while cracks have appeared from different sides in the structure.The Deorhi was handed over to the Municipal Corporation by the British era ‘Service Club’ over a year ago.Resembles Shalimar Bagh in LahoreAccording to sources in the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the structure remained in the occupation of the club for nearly a century. Therefore, it could not be preserved. Sources said the said structure was a replica of ‘Deori Ram Bagh’ — one of the main entrance gates to the Summer Palace, which is conserved and currently under the occupation of the ASI, which runs its office from its premises.As per the ASI, the Deorhi (under its occupation) comprised fortified citadel having the Darbal Hall, two pavilions on the eastern and western sides, two gateways on the northern and southern sides. Besides the façade contains beautiful balconies.As far as the Deorhi (vacated by the Service Club) is concerned, its façade needed urgent repair, said sources in the ASI. They pointed out that a balcony has caved in, while cracks have appeared on different sides.An ASI official pointed out that the process of repair and conservation of the outer façade has already been approved and the department was in the process of floating tenders for the same. The entire process, which got delayed to the pandemic in the previous year, is likely to be completed by July this year. After this, they would again request the MC authorities to hand over the structure to them.Vijay Kumar, a frequent visitor to the historic garden, said it was very ‘painful’ to see the approach of different agencies towards theses heritage structures of immense importance. The government should conserve these structures on a priority, as it could add to most prominent tourist destination for tourists visiting the holy city.The ASI has written a number of times to the civic authorities for handing over the protected monument.At present, three British-era clubs — Service Club, Lumsden Club and Amritsar Club — are being run from the premises.Besides, food kiosks, concrete pathways, children’s park, skating rink, tennis courts and zonal offices of the Municipal Corporation have been playing a spoilsport as far as the historic Bagh’s heritage significance is concerned.The ASI and the Municipal Corporation have entered into an agreement, where the latter would remain the custodian of the garden, but the restoration of the heritage would be done under the ASI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deorhi-in-amritsars-historic-ram-bagh-cries-for-attention-241991
21-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Harpreet Singh takes charge as Mandi Gobindgarh MC president||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 20Harpreet Singh Prince today took charge as the president of the Municipal Council Mandi Gobindgarh in presence of Amloh MLA Kaka Randeep Singh.Interestingly, five or six Congress councillors were conspicuous by their absence.The District Magistrate's order regarding gathering in view of Covid-19 pandemic were violated as a majority of Prince's supporters and Congress workers were seen without masks. Social distancing norms also went for a toss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harpreet-singh-takes-charge-as-mandi-gobindgarh-mc-president-241992
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu, Partap Bajwa target Capt Amarinder, AG Atul Nanda on drug, firing cases||As pressure within the Congress is building up to seek answers for the botched probe into the Kotkapura police firing cases and those behind it, senior party leaders in the anti-Capt Amarinder Singh camp further stepped up their attack on the CM and the Advocate General (AG).After targeting Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for failing to act against the perpetrators of the sacrilege and police firing incidents, former Cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday hit out at his government for failing to act against “big fish” involved in the drug trade.The cricketer-turned-politician, while referring to a report on drug cases compiled by special task force chief Harpreeet Sidhu, sought to know the action taken on it. “Despite investigations, reports and evidence in drug cases, big crocodiles are roaming in open while small fry rot in jail. Why powerful drug mafia kingpin not punished?” Sidhu said in his tweet.Joining the issue, Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo said the guilty in the sacrilege and police firing cases should have been behind bars by now. “In four years, we have not acted. The government has to be answerable to the public. Drug and mining mafia still have the upper hand”, said the former PPCC chief.Taking on the AG, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa said despite instructions of the Chief Minister to the AG to personally appear in sensitive cases, the latter ignored. — TNSAAP MLA seeks nanda’s resignationChandigarh: AAP MLA and Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly Saravjit Kaur Manuke on Tuesday demanded immediate resignation of Punjab Advocate General Atul Nanda in the wake of the quashing of the SIT probe into the sacrilege cases by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The AAP leader alleged that IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who was heading the SIT, had exposed the “role played by Atul Nanda in the desecration and other cases”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-partap-bajwa-target-capt-amarinder-ag-atul-nanda-on-drug-firing-cases-241825
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Soon, single number call centre for plaints in Punjab||The state is all set to have a unified statewide single number call centre to address all citizen-centric grievances by the end of the month.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday directed that the process to standardise the redress mechanism be expedited, with instructions for bringing all 500 citizen services in the state online through the sewa kendras this year. He approved the recruitment of 503 personnel at various levels to give the necessary push for the process.Chairing a virtual meeting of the Board of Governors of the Punjab State e-Governance Society, the Chief Minister also directed that for the convenience of citizens, home delivery of services and tatkal services should also be launched from sewa kendras immediately. He ordered total computerisation and digitisation of the backend of the citizen-centric service mechanism to ensure effective and timely disbursal of services.Currently, 329 services of various departments are being delivered from these sewa kendras to the citizens with saanj kendras (police) and fard kendras (revenue) recently integrated into the system. These services shall also have computerised backend and digitised legacy records. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soon-single-number-call-centre-for-plaints-in-punjab-241826
21-04-2021||---||First-timer picked Batala mayor||Batala, April 20First-time councillor Sukhdeep Singh Teja has been unanimously elected the first-ever mayor of Batala. His appointment had the stamp of approval of PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar.Teja’s success story was scripted by Cabinet Minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who prevailed upon dominant Hindu community to let his man occupy the top civic body post. Four-time councillor Sunil Sareen, a Hindu Khatri, was appointed senior deputy mayor. Observers term Chander Kanta’s selection as deputy mayor as Bajwa’s political masterstroke as he accommodated both an SC and a woman candidate in one slot.Normally, out of the three slots, one is reserved for a general category candidate, while the remaining two are the domain of SC and woman candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/first-timer-picked-batala-mayor-241828
21-04-2021||Amritsar||Rare nagar kirtan from  Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib to zero line||In a rare event, a nagar kirtan procession was taken out from Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Narowal district of Pakistan to the zero line connecting Dera Baba Nanak on the Indian side last evening.The procession, accompanied by a ‘palki’ was headed by ‘panj pyaras’ from India who are accompanying a jatha to commemorate Baisakhi in Pakistan.Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) chief Satwant Singh said it was the first time such a nagar kirtan was organised from the Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, to the Joint Check Post by an Indian Sikh jatha comprising 800 pilgrims.At the zero line, an ‘ardas’ was performed for early opening of the Kartarpur corridor from the Indian side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rare-nagar-kirtan-from-gurdwara-kartarpur-sahib-to-zero-line-241830
21-04-2021||Ferozepur||Heroin worth Rs 32 cr seized||The Narcotics Control Cell nabbed a smuggler and recovered 6.27 kg heroin worth Rs 32 crore following the information provided by him.The police nabbed Raj Kumar, alias Raja, yesterday and recovered 270 gram heroin from him. He was booked under the NDPS Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heroin-worth-rs-32-cr-seized-241831
21-04-2021||GS Paul||Bird from Pak has police in a fix||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 20The local police department have a unique case on their hands — seizure of a pigeon from across the border. The bird tagged with a Pakistan number was captured by the BSF and handed over to the police for further action.In a communication to the police, the BSF insisted on lodging an FIR against the recovered bird. A BSF official said around 6.25 pm on April 17, the bird came and sat on the shoulder of a jawan on duty at Roranwala border outpost, around 500 metre from the Attari-Wagah border.Later, it was discovered a slip bearing a Pakistani contact number was wrapped around one of its legs with an adhesive tape. Fearing it to be a ‘spy code’, the police were asked to initiate action.Faced with a unique situation, the police have sought legal opinion. Attempts to reach the number mentioned on the slip have turned futile.Attari DSP GS Sahota said: “We have lodged a DDR and are awaiting legal opinion.” Till then, the bird would be in forest department’s custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bird-from-pak-has-police-in-a-fix-241832
21-04-2021||Aman Sood||Rain hits wheat procurement, lifting||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 20Uncertain weather conditions have further added to the miseries of wheat farmers, who are still awaiting the lifting of their procured produce due to the shortage of gunny bags. At present, there is a glut-like situation in the grain markets of the district.Farmers said rain at regular intervals had further hampered the lifting and procurement of wheat in the grain markets.Last week too, the yield had suffered damage due to wind and rain and now a wet spell had further hampered the procurement process.“Wheat has been lying in the open due to the shortage of gunny bags, and now when the use of old bags has been allowed, intermittent showers have added to the moisture content,” said Balbir Singh, a farmer from Samana.Farmers at the Patiala grain market demanded that the state government should assess the losses and provide compensation accordingly. “Not only the standing crop has suffered damage, but the produce kept or stored in the open will be spoiled due to rain. Now, it will be difficult to harvest the crop with a combine. Besides, prolonged drying may lead to the shattering of grain. Also, there is a fear of fungus and discolouration of grain,” said farmers.“Tough measures make it all the more difficult for us to sell our produce in the market as procurement agencies are particular about the wheat stock they buy”, they added.Meanwhile, procurement agencies and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) have asked the farmers to bring produce to grain markets with moisture content not beyond 12 per cent. The advisory has been issued to avoid crowding and ensure social distancing at the grain markets to contain the spread of Covid-19.Harshdeep Singh from Bhadson in Patiala district said rain had flattened nearly half of his crop that was yet to be harvested. “Rain at this stage of the harvesting season is a cause of concern. Farmers are already facing a lot of difficulties in harvesting and selling their produce in the wake of the Covid outbreak,” he said.Reviewing the procurement process at a meeting with the District Food and Civil Supplies Controller, district managers of procurement agencies, district marketing and enforcement officer, arhtiyas and farmers, Rajpura MLA Hardyal Singh Kamboj and Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit asked them to expedite wheat procurement and arrange gunny bags immediately as per the latest guidelines of the state government.Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit directed the district managers of the procurement agencies to immediately procure the wheat of the farmers who had reached the grain markets. “The Chief Minister is personally monitoring the entire procurement process,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-hits-wheat-procurement-lifting-241803
21-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Wheat procurement: Poor arrangements exposed, say Farmers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 20With rain in the past 24 hours in the region impeding the harvest and procurement operations, farmers and arhtiyas have complained about the poor arrangements at grain markets.As wheat brought in the mandis got wet, procurement agencies and arhtiyas were seen struggling to provide tarpaulin covers to farmers to protect their grain. Even the procured wheat lying in open at markets also got damped.Uncertain weather conditions coupled with tardy lifting have worried farmers. They say they are in no position to store the produce in fields because of showers and fire.Karnail Singh of Multania village, who brought wheat to the Bathinda grain market on Monday, said because of rain, farmers were facing difficulty in threshing the crop. Even combine harvesters could not be made operational in the fields because of the wet soil.Another farmer, Gurdarshan Singh of Bir Behman, said: “The wheat is lying in open and there is no arrangement by the district administration to provide any tarpaulins to cover the crop. We have to save our crop on our own.”Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said procurement and lifting of wheat in the mandis and procurement centres was being done on time. About 3,58,413 metric tonnes of wheat has arrived and 3,13,156 metric tonnes has been procured. Besides, 1,11,573 metric tonnes of wheat has been lifted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wheat-procurement-poor-arrangements-exposed-say-farmers-241804
21-04-2021||Sangrur||In Sangrur, houses turn granaries||In view of the tardy lifting of wheat and to protect their crop from rain, farmers have converted their houses into granaries. Meanwhile, the shortage of gunny bags continues in the district.“I harvested wheat on 15 acres on April 10 and since then the crop has been lying at my house. The government must intervene as there is no space for fresh arrivals in view of the slow pace of lifting. Rain would have destroyed my entire produce had I not stored it in my house,” says Amarjeet Singh Mann from Channo village.Till last evening, various grain markets of the district had received 7,15,270 MT of wheat, of which 6,70,541 MT was purchased by various agencies. Pungrain has purchased 3,13,325 MT of wheat, Markfed (1,36,940 MT), Punsup (1,45,140 MT), Punjab State Ware House Corporation (63,215 MT) and the FCI (5,861 MT). Of the total purchase, the authorities have lifted 2,88,630 MT and released a payment of Rs 94.76 crore.“Our wheat has been lying in the open due to the tardy lifting. The authorities have failed to supply gunny bags. We have laid siege to the SDM offices in Lehra and Moonak. We will not lift our dharnas till the government makes required arrangements of gunny bags,” said Dharminder Pashore, BKU (Ugrahan) leader.Deputy Commissioner Ramvir said they had been taking all required steps to ensure the smooth purchase of wheat across the district. “I along with other senior officials have been supervising the purchase of wheat and taking effective steps. If there is any problem, our officials will visit farmers to address their concerns,” the Deputy Commissioner said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-sangrur-houses-turn-granaries-241805
21-04-2021||Bathinda||No bags, BKU activists gherao officials in Bathinda||Irked over the shortage of gunny bags, farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) gheraoed inspectors of procurement agencies at the Baho Yatri and Burj Sema centres here on Tuesday. They also raised slogans against the government.Farmers alleged for the past 10 days, they had been facing harassment in selling their produce, but the Punjab Government seemed to be in a deep slumber.Jagsir Singh Jhumba, member, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said the claims of the government to buy the grains of the farmers had fallen flat.He said due to the shortage of gunny bags, the wheat lying in the open was getting spoiled due to rain and there was no provision to protect it from showers. The farmers warned that they would not end the siege till proper arrangements were made.Vikas Garg, District Manager, Punsup, said the procurement inspector had been informed about the “bardana” being sent to the Baho Yatri procurement centre. District Manager, DM Warehouse, Gagandeep Mittal said they had sent 19 bales to the Burj Sema mandi on Monday and more would be sent soon.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said 3,500 bales of “bardana” had been allotted to the procurement agencies through a tender. — TNSPUNSUP inspector faces farmers’ ire over gunny bag shortage the required gunny bagswas also reaching soon||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-bags-bku-activists-gherao-officials-in-bathinda-241806
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||AAP protests at minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s house||Lashing out at the state government for not addressing the issues raised by farmers and not making prior arrangements for procurement and gunny bags, AAP today protested outside Minister Of Food And Civil Supplies Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s residence here on Tuesday.  AAP’s Kotkapura MLA and kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan along with party leaders were stopped by the police outside Ashu’s official residence. They  demanded immediate solution to the problems faced by the farmers in the mandis. The minister later assured the leader of resolving the farmers’ issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-protests-at-minister-bharat-bhushan-ashus-house-241808
21-04-2021||Abohar||90 quintal of wheat smuggled from Rajasthan seized||The police have impounded a tractor-trailer loaded with 90 quintal of wheat that was smuggled from Rajasthan.  Driver Binder Singh, who is employed with Seed Farm, has been booked under Section 420 of the IPC in this regard. He is absconding. Market Committee secretary Baljinder Singh had informed the police that a person was transporting wheat from Rajasthan in a tractor-trailer to further sell it in Punjab.   Although the driver managed to flee, the vehicle loaded with wheat was impounded. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/90-quintal-of-wheat-smuggled-from-rajasthan-seized-241809
21-04-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Amid fears, migrants in Ludhiana head back home||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 20A large number of migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have started leaving for their hometowns from the industrial city of Ludhiana. While it is believed that seeing the surge in Covid cases and amid speculation about a “partial lockdown”, migrants have started leaving the city, industrialists claim it is the marriage season in UP and Bihar which is resulting in the movement.Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) former president SC Ralhan says many migrants had taken leave last month only, as from tomorrow there is a wedding season in UP and Bihar. “About 25 per cent of the labourers have gone back to their native places, but they will be back in a month or so. In Delhi, they might be returning because of a lockdown,” says Ralhan.However, labourers have something else to say. Priya, a domestic helper, along with her family left for UP all of a sudden because they wanted to be with their relatives in the Covid times.“You never know when a complete lockdown is imposed”, says a worried Priya. Migrants are not even bothered if trains are moving or not, they are hiring private buses to be with the families. “We will come back. But before the situation worsens, we wish to be in our native places”, says Siyaram, a painter here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-fears-migrants-in-ludhiana-head-back-home-241810
21-04-2021||Bathinda||Vancouver council backs farmers’ stir||The Vancouver city council has passed a motion in support of farmers protesting outside New Delhi since November last year. The motion was moved by COPE councillor Jean Swanson and was passed by the 11-member city council. While four councillors joined Swanson in voting in favour, three others abstained and three, including Mayor Kennedy Stewart, stayed away.The motion says the city stands in solidarity with Indian farmers and directs the mayor of Vancouver to write to the provincial and federal governments, asking them to speak out against laws introduced by the Indian Government. Thousands of farmers have been camping on the border of the national capital asking the BJP-led Centre to roll back three farm laws.Demonstrations have been held in the past across Canada. Earlier, a rally was held outside Vancouver City Hall on March 29. The organisers displayed more than 200 shoes on the steps leading to the building as a mark of respect to farmers who have lost their lives during the struggle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vancouver-council-backs-farmers-stir-241811
21-04-2021||Ravneet Singh||IISER physicist Prof Arvind is Punjabi University VC||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 20The Punjab Government has appointed Professor Arvind of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali (IISER), the new Vice-Chancellor of Punjabi University, Patiala.Reviving and rebuilding the university by adding fresh courses to bring it on a par with international institutions remains on top of Professor Arvind’s agenda.Professor Arvind has been serving as a physics professor at the Mohali institute since March 3, 2010. He is a known theoretical quantum physicist working on science education, science communication and developing science paedagogy in Punjabi and is credited with over 100 technical and non-technical publications, including ‘True experimental reconstruction of quantum states and processes via convex optimisation’ published this year.Professor Arvind said the university needed to recover and move forward. “On the academic front, my vision is to restore the old glory of the institution and build on those areas. I plan to bring in new disciplines, including liberal arts education, five-year integrated courses and data sciences, to put it on a par with international institutions. I will like to revamp the course work and course structure as well,” he said.On the financial crisis faced by the university, he said there was a need to work on curtailing expenditure, do redeployment and re-training of manpower. “The university’s academic culture has declined. I think those on the campus are awaiting restoration of good culture,” he said.Professor Arvind is the national coordinator of theme-1 (photonics) of the National Multi-Institutional Networked Programme on Quantum Enabled Science and Technology (QuST) launched by the Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi, in 2018. He is also a member of the DPR drafting committee for the National Mission on Quantum Technologies and Applications (NMQTA).Earlier, he had worked at the Physics Department of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, as special faculty from 2002-2004.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iiser-physicist-prof-arvind-is-punjabi-university-vc-241812
21-04-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Thousands set to leave for Delhi today||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 20Amid surge in Covid cases and harvesting of wheat, preparations are also going on in full swing across various districts to take thousands of farmers to New Delhi borders on April 21 under the banner of the BKU (Ugrahan) through Khanauri, Dabwali and Sardulgarh borders to counter the Centre’s claims about decline in the number of protesters.Many have got freed after harvesting wheat, while others are trying to finish chores before departing for Delhi.“Our protests have crossed 200 days at various locations and after failing to see any decline in our strength, the Centre is now trying to spread misinformation about the reduction in number of protesters. We will join protests on April 21, which will further increase the number of protesters,” said Gurwinder Kaur, a woman protester in Sangrur.Darshan Singh, another farmer, said he had sold his wheat crop of 7 acres and was awaiting payment. He was also determined to leave for Delhi on April 21 even if he did not get the payment.“I will borrow money from my brother, who is a government employee, while my son will take care of the payment. But I will definitely leave for Delhi,” he said.Teams of youngsters associated with the BKU (Ugrahan) have been working hard to make required arrangements of transportation and ration. There are many who are already supplying ration and milk to Delhi borders.“Many youths have been going to Delhi through train and trucks to supply milk. On April 21, more farmers will join them,” said Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, BKU (Ugrahan) state general secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thousands-set-to-leave-for-delhi-today-241813
21-04-2021||Vishav Bharti||25 pc drop in jabs as vaccine stock dries up in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20State’s Covid vaccine stocks seems to be drying up at a rapid pace as last week (April 13 to 19) the Health Department administered 25 per cent less doses of vaccination compared to the previous week.As per the data of the Health Department, between April 5 and 12, the department administered 7.53 lakh doses. However, in the last week (April 13 to 19), it administered just 5.56 lakh doses of the vaccine.23.4 lakh administered vaccine in stateAs per a reality check made in the field, several districts of Punjab are facing shortage of vaccine. A large number of people who require second dose are being sent back on the pretext of shortage. In Moga and Barnala, the stock of Covishield had dried up.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the state government had a strong health infrastructure and the capacity to vaccinate at least 3 lakh persons in a day through more than 3,000 government health centres, but due to lesser supply of vaccine from the Centre, the state was not able to achieve the target.Even CM Capt Amarinder Singh had raised the issue of shortage of vaccine during a virtual meeting with the Centre and demanded immediate supplies of vaccines and quick approval for two new oxygen plants in the state amid concerns over depleting stocks of both.Inoculation so farHealthcare workers dosesFrontline warriors45+ age group||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/25-pc-drop-in-jabs-as-vaccine-stock-dries-up-in-punjab-241814
21-04-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Pathankot ambulance sent to Nangal, MP fumes||Tribune News ServicePathankot, April 20In times of Covid when almost all districts of the state are experiencing a surge in cases, the Pathankot Civil Surgeon “in violation of rules” has dispatched a ventilator-equipped ambulance acquired through MP Sunny Deol’s MPLAD funds to Nangal not only leaving local residents to fend for themselves but also leaving the actor fuming at the turn of events.An officer said the vehicle was sent to Nangal, the Assembly seat of Speaker Rana KP Singh, as “the case load of Covid was more as compared to Pathankot.”Dr Harvinder Singh, Civil Surgeon, said, “The vehicle was dispatched a few days ago on instructions of the state government and will return to the city this evening.”Rana KP Singh said he was not aware of the development. “In any case I will look into the matter and ensure the ambulance is returned as soon as possible.”When Sunny Deol was quick to dispatch an angry missive to DC Sanyam Aggarwal. “According to rules, the MPLAD fund infrastructure and facilities are meant for the use of inhabitants of that area only,” he wrote. Deol has asked the DC to conduct an inquiry to “fix responsibility of the erring officials.” The DC was not available for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pathankot-ambulance-sent-to-nangal-mp-fumes-241816
21-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Covid: High Court puts Punjab, Chandigarh on notice over ‘grim’ situation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20Taking cognisance of the “grim” situation in the region following surge in Covid cases — including the non-availability of beds in the hospitals and “depleted” oxygen supply, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the state of Punjab and Chandigarh on notice after impleading the two as party-respondents in an ongoing petition on the pandemic management. The newly added respondents were given two days’ time to address the Bench on the issues after seeking instructions. The state of Haryana also undertook to file a status report on the requirement and supply of oxygen to the hospitals.As the case came up for resumed hearing before the Bench of Justices Rajan Gupta and Karamjit Singh, senior advocate and amicus curiae Rupinder Khosla contended there was a complete chaos due to the situation arising out of Covid-19 spread and the government guidelines were not being followed in the region. Beds were not available to those seeking admission to the hospitals and the supply of oxygen was “severely depleted”.Praying for impleading Chandigarh and Punjab as parties as the conditions were “equally grim” in the two states and the UT, he further submitted that the situation demanded the Court’s immediate attention.He also brought to the Court’s notice the “casual attitude of the general public even at a stage when spread of Covid-19 was reaching its peak”. The Bench was told that the public places were crowded and the government guidelines were not being followed. “The situation, to say the least, is alarming,” he added.Haryana Additional Advocate-General Ankur Mittal submitted appropriate steps were being taken, as submitted in an affidavit filed by Haryana Home Department Secretary Pankaj Yadav. At the same time, he did not dispute that something more was required to be done to bring the situation under control.He added that a state-level monitoring committee headed by the Haryana Health Minister had already been constituted to look into various issues, particularly timely supply of oxygen to the hospitals.He added daily requirement of oxygen, as on date, was 70/80 MT, while the production in the Haryana was 270 MT. The directions came on a petition filed against Haryana and other respondents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-high-court-puts-punjab-chandigarh-on-notice-over-grim-situation-241817
21-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala's Rajindra Hospital sees 15 fatalities in 24 hours||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 20Fifteen persons died of Covid at Government Rajindra Hospital here over the past 24 hours. As many as 175 persons have died of Covid at the hospital in April.The authorities said 194 persons had been receiving treatment in the isolation wing of the hospital of which 175 were positive, while the test reports of 19 were awaited. As many as 113 persons had died of Covid at the hospital last month.Dr Sachin Kaushal, nodal officer, isolation wing, Government Rajindra Hospital, said, “Sixteen persons died at the isolation ward over the past 24 hours. Of 16, one was a suspected Covid patient, who tested negative. Patients are reaching hospital at late stage. A majority of the cases were referrals from other districts.” He added that a majority of patients had died within 48 hours of admission.Officials revealed that of 5,757 positive cases, 1,109 had died at the hospital since the outbreak of the disease last year. The mortality rate at the hospital hovers around 20 per cent which was alarming, said experts.It has been learned that the hospital mortuary is running short of space following the sudden rise in Covid deaths.Meanwhile, the body of a Covid suspect at the hospital mortuary was allowed in the car of the family members. Officials at the mortuary said though the deceased was admitted at the isolation ward, his report came negative. They said the family members of the deceased could take the body if the report was negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patialas-rajindra-hospital-sees-15-fatalities-in-24-hours-241818
21-04-2021||---||Patwari, jiledaar exams deferred as cases surge||Chandigarh, April 20 In view of the surging Covid cases, patwari and jiledaar examination slated to be conducted by the Subordinate Services Selection Board (SSSB)on May 2 have been postponed. This was disclosed by board Chairman Raman Behl.  He said the examination for these posts was to be held on May 2 which had now been postponed in pursuance of government Covid guidelines.  Behl said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had reviewed the Covid situation on April 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patwari-jiledaar-exams-deferred-as-cases-surge-241819
21-04-2021||Abohar||4 die in Abohar, Rozgar Mela postponed||Four more deaths due to Covid infection were reported here today. With this, the death toll in the past 14 days has gone up to nine. As many as 170 people in Fazilka district today tested positive of which 71 belong to Abohar.The Education Department had closed schools till April 30 but teaching and non-teaching staff was directed to attend schools on all working days to give the enrollment drive a boost. Health Department sources said two teachers, one each in Government Senior Secondary Girls School here and Government Sr Sec School, Gobindgarh village, have also been found positive but other staff is yet to be vaccinated. About 12 health workers have also tested positive for the virus. No schedule to give first dose to teachers has been finalised as of now.In the wake of unprecedented resurgence of the pandemic, Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu announced that the “Rozgar Mela” to be held in Abohar on April 23, Fazilka on April 28 and Jalalabad on April 30 have been postponed and new dates would be decided later. As people were thronging for Covid tests at Civil Hospital, NGOs decided to organise separate camps for vaccination. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-die-in-abohar-rozgar-mela-postponed-241820
21-04-2021||Saurabh Malik---||File affidavit on cases against lawmakers within 10 days: High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 20 Less than two months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court made clear its intent to fast lane cases involving sitting and erstwhile parliamentarians and legislators of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, a 10-day deadline was today set for Punjab and the Punjab Police to file affidavits in the matter. The Centre was also given liberty to file its response in form of an affidavit in the matter. As the suo motu case, “In Re: Special Courts for MPs/MLAs”, for monitoring the progress of cases pending against MP/MLAs came up for resumed hearing g before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain submitted that he required another one weeks’ time to respond to the court’s previous order dated February 25. “He shall be at liberty to file an affidavit on or before the next date of hearing,” the Bench asserted.  The Bench also directed Punjab Additional Advocate General SPS Tinna and State’s Inspector-General of Police, Crime, Arun Pal Singh, to file an affidavit. The case will now come up for further hearing in April last week.  The Bench, on the previous date of hearing, had made it clear that the information, to be furnished to the court, would include details of cases pending with the Central Bureau of Investigation, the enforcement directorate and other Central investigating agencies. The district judges of the two states and the Union Territory were also directed to furnish details of all such cases and to ensure speedy disposal. “They shall also send a report regarding the stage of such trials,” the Bench had added. The amicus curiae or the friend of the court, Rupinder Khosla, had also told the Bench that the operative part of the Supreme Court order specifically mentioned monitoring the trial of all criminal cases instituted by the state.  The suggestion to set up special courts flows from recommendations of the Vohra committee, set up in 1993 by the Central government. The committee was constituted under the chairmanship of the then Union Home Secretary, NN Vohra, to take stock of all available information about activities of crime syndicates/mafia organisations, which had developed links with, and were being permitted by government functionaries and political personalities. Among other things, the report recommended the setting up of an efficient “nodal cell” with powers to take stringent action against crime syndicates, while ensuring immunity from being exploited or influenced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/file-affidavit-on-cases-against-lawmakers-within-10-days-high-court-241821
21-04-2021||---||Punjab to give legal sanctity to transfer policy for teachers||Chandigarh, April 20Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday gave in-principle approval to a legislation on the teacher transfer policy in the Vidhan Sabha, while announcing Rs 500 per month increase in the salaries of mid-day meal workers.He gave consent for the distribution of another 2.14 lakh smartphones to Class XII government school students this year.The enactment of the legislation would give legal sanctity to the teacher transfer policy, introduced by his government in 2019 to make the entire process transparent, efficient and corruption-free, said the Chief Minister, pointing out that since the policy was brought in, not a single complaint of corruption had been received with respect to the transfer of school teachers.Under the policy, which has now also been extended to non-teaching staff, of 1.12 lakh teachers, 21,600 teachers had availed the benefit so far.On the issue of salary hike for the mid-day meal workers, the Chief Minister said it was a long-pending demand of the workers, who had got a hike last in 2017. The move would benefit 42,000 workers in 19,000 schools.The Chief Minister further announced that the process of the distribution of 2.14 lakh more smartphones would commence within three months, with budget allocation already made for 2020-21.Pointing out that 1.75 lakh students studying in Class XII had already been provided smartphones in 2020-21, the Chief Minister said in addition, 3,502 tablets had already been provided to the students of government schools, while Rs 5.25 crore had been kept aside for e-libraries.School Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said 250 schools would be upgraded in 2020-21, with a draft policy for the same already sent to the Finance Department for approval.Enrolment in government schools had registered an increase of 15.07 per cent with 27.20 lakh students enrolled during 2020-21, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-give-legal-sanctity-to-transfer-policy-for-teachers-241822
21-04-2021||---||Chaos at Amritsar airport as 50 pupils for direct flight to Toronto deboarded||Amritsar, April 20Chaos was witnessed at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International (SGRDJI) Airport here when a number of students, who were supposed to board a direct flight to Toronto (Canada), were deboarded after being asked to take a flight via Dubai last night.The students opposed the move fearing it would cause them unnecessary financial burden as they would have to follow the Covid-19 protocol at Dubai. Around 50 students missed the flight even as SpiceJet authorities gave varying reasons for offloading them.Flight changed, No Dubai visaThe chaos continued till 8.30 am, when Member of Parliament Gurjeet Singh Aujla reached the airport during his return from New Delhi. He intervened in the matter and met with airport director VK Seth, SpiceJet station manager Komal Thakur and CISF authorities.Later, Aujla issued a statement saying an agent had arranged a chartered plane for Toronto. “A SpiceJet plane was hired by agent Bharat Ghai for Dubai that would have further connected them to a Toronto flight. But the agent didn’t inform all passengers about their stay in Dubai. The passengers required a Dubai visa for stay there.“The agent provided visa to around 200 passengers but due to shortage of time, some didn’t get visa in time. The chartered plane offloaded around 60 passengers, who didn’t have the Dubai visa and departed late night. The passengers were not aware of the plane’s status so they got agitated. The statements of passengers have been recorded and appropriate action would be taken.” However, the passengers and airlines reached a compromise in the evening.Mohan Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Airport), said: “The issue has been resolved as the airline assured that all passengers would be flown to Toronto soon on the same ticket.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chaos-at-amritsar-airport-as-50-pupils-for-direct-flight-to-toronto-deboarded-241823
21-04-2021||Kurukshetra||Punjab residentt booked for obtaining passport on forged papers in Haryana||Another case of obtaining a passport on the basis of forged documents has come to light in Pehowa of Kurukshetra.The Kurukshetra police have registered four FIRs in the recent past in the Pehowa City police station.In an FIR registered on Monday evening, Harinder Singh of Punjab had shown himself as Pehowa resident. He got his passport in February 2020 and showed himself as a resident of Diwan Colony, while no such person resides at the given address. He was booked under various Sections of the IPC and Passports Act.Similar FIRs were registered against Taranjeet, alias KD, of Uttarakhand, and Yuvraj Singh of Punjab. The police said while the criminal records of Harinder and Yuvraj were yet to be known, Taranjeet was presently lodged in a jail in Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarakhand.The Kurukshetra police on Monday had arrested Mohit Guglani of Pehowa, Sumit of Punjab and Vikram of Ambala City for their involvements in preparing passports using forged documents for Punjab-based gangster Harmanpreet Singh, against whom a case was registered.DSP (Headquarters) Subhash Chander said: “We had arrested Mohit, Sumit and Vikram for preparing forged documents. Mohit had prepared documents for Harinder, Harmanpreet, Yuvraj and one more person, whose records are being traced. There is another case in which Taranjeet had also got a passport using fake papers but Mohit had denied making them for him. We have applied for his production warrant and he is expected to be brought on April 27.”“The clients were provided by Sumit, while Mohit used to prepare forged documents and then Vikram Verma, who was posted through a private firm at the passport office, used to facilitate them. The passports were prepared from August 2019 to February 2020,” he added.The DSP said: “We will investigate and then take action against the people involved in this racket. The involvement of more officials of the passport office can’t be denied.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-residentt-booked-for-obtaining-passport-on-forged-papers-in-haryana-241874
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers opposed to Covid test, but open to vaccination||Farmer leaders camping at the Singhu and Tikri borders in protest against the Centre’s three farm laws are opposed to Health Minister Anil Vij’s offer of sending medical teams to conduct Covid tests, but welcomed his idea of vaccinating protesters.The Sonepat and Jhajjar district administrations approached the farmers’ unions today after Vij directed officers to hold talks with them regarding testing and vaccination.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will take a decision in a meeting soon, but farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal from Punjab said testing by health teams from Haryana was unacceptable.“They (doctors from Haryana) will carry out tests and declare some of us Covid-positive and then force us to wind up the protest. We will not fall in the trap. We have a hospital here and more than 40 doctors are available round the clock. Not one farmer has died of Covid at the Delhi borders. The Haryana Government was not bothered about us all these months. Why are they worried about our health now?” said Rajewal.Apprehensive of getting tested, SKM leader Dr Darshal Pal said protesting farmers had no symptoms, so the question getting tested should not arise.Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (Charuni) chief, was also against testing.“Covid is a farce. Testing protesting farmers under the pretext of Covid is a ploy to wind up the protest. The Centre wants to malign the protest in the same manner it maligned the Tablighi Jamaat last year,” he said.At the Tikri border, Joginder Ugrahan of the BKU (Ugrahan) was also doubtful of the government’s intention of testing the protesters. “No farmer has died of Covid. So, why the need to test them? Having said that, the government’s offer of vaccinating farmers is welcome. The SKM will convene a meeting and take a call,” he said.Meanwhile, Sonepat Superintendent of Police (SP) Jashandeep Singh Randhawa and Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Ashok Bansal met farmer leaders. During the meeting, the leaders rejected the administration’s offer to call off major programmes scheduled for the next few weeks and “nearly” rejected the RT-PCR tests, but accepted the offer for vaccination, sources say.The Jhajjar administration led by Deputy Commissioner Jitender Dahiya met farmer leaders from the Tikri border. “We have conveyed our concerns. The leaders want to deliberate on the matter and sought time till tomorrow,” said the DC.The SKM had, in a statement issued yesterday, said farmer leaders would cooperate with the district administration and sensitise protesters about Covid safety norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmers-opposed-to-covid-test-but-open-to-vaccination-241799
21-04-2021||Ravinder Saini||After harvesting, Punjab farmers start returning to Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 20A day after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha announced ‘Phir Delhi Chalo’ campaign to bolster numbers at the protest sites, farmers and labourers from Punjab have started returning to Tikri to join the agitation against the central farm laws.The protesters put up an impressive show of strength in Tikri today to mark the birth anniversary of farmer leader Dhanna Bhagat. The crowds had been steadily thinning at the protest sites in Tikri, Singhu and Ghaziabad over the past few weeks.While the SKM, a joint forum of farm unions, said the farmers had returned home temporarily for wheat harvesting, some alleged the protesters were unhappy with the top union leadership for campaigning in poll-bound states at the cost of the farm stir.“Around 3,000 farmers from Punjab have returned to Tikri after completing their rabi harvest. Many more are likely to reach here in the coming days,” claimed Purushottam Singh Gill, a BKU (Lakhowal) leader. He said the count of local farmers too was growing.Pargat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader, said farmers and labourers were arriving by trains, buses and in their personal vehicles as tractors were still required for agricultural tasks. “The numbers will keep rising now as farmers will be free for over a month after selling their produce,” he claimed.The SKM has appealed to the migrants returning to their native places not to panic and join their protest. “We will make all arrangements for food and shelter. They must join the common struggle against the Centre,” said SKM leader Darshan Pal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-harvesting-punjab-farmers-start-returning-to-tikri-border-241979
21-04-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||25 Punjabis held in Canada drug racket||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20The Canada police, after an almost yearlong operation, have busted an international drug racket by arresting more than 30 persons, 25 of them of Punjab origin.As per media reports from Canada, the police with the help of some international agencies began working on a special operation code-named Project Cheetah to break the back of an international drug network in Canada. The police action on the ground began on April 8 and by April 19, the police in Ontario, British Columbia and California had carried out more than 50 search warrants and seized about $2.3 million worth of drugs, including heroin and ketamine, and 48 highly sophisticated firearms, besides $7,30,000 in Canadian currency.The drug haul included 10 kg cocaine, 8 kg ketamine, 3 kg heroin and 2.5 kg opium.Project CheetahBy April 19, cops in Ontario, BC and California seized $2.3 million worth of drugs, besides currency and 48 highly sophisticated firearmsThe drug haul included 10 kg cocaine, 8 kg ketamine, 3 kg heroin and 2.5 kg opiumThe big success against the drug cartel has excited Indian security agencies, especially the Punjab Police and the Narcotics Control Bureau, whose officials had shared vital inputs with Canada and the USA in the last two years over the racket being run from Canadian soil.The Indian agencies had in different operations in the last three years found drugs were transported to Canada from Punjab in vessels, electronic machines and even in holy books. Punjab counter-intelligence teams had in June 2018 named Canadian nationals Devinder Dev and Kamaljit Singh Chauhan in a drug racket which used improvised vessels to transport ketamine and opium to Canada.In one case, the NCB had traced smuggling of cocaine to Punjab from Canada for local use as well as further trafficking to Delhi and Goa. This gang first used a paper-cutting machine to send a sample of the drug. Later, it sent a consignment hidden in printer machines to a Jalandhar-based company. “Canadian national Amrinder Singh Chhina was running the racket. As per our reports, he is active in Canada,” said an NCB official. “Another smuggler from Canada Jimmy Sandhu is reportedly in hiding after the NCB sounded Interpol about his activities.”The agencies are hoping the follow-up investigation would lead to the arrest of a number of international smugglers based out of Canada, Italy and Australia who were wanted by security agencies in India.Officials with the drug network said Punjab was a vital cog in the wheel with smugglers using the state for transportation of drugs to Delhi and Goa, besides Australia, UK, Vietnam and Italy. “We hope to get details about the accused belonging from Punjab soon,” said officials of the Punjab Police, Special Task Force against drugs and the Narcotics Control Bureau.Modus operandiIn the past three years, Indian agencies found in different operations that drugs were transported to Canada from Punjab in vessels, electronic machines and even in holy books.Involved in the drug racket||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/25-punjabis-held-in-canada-drug-racket-241977
21-04-2021||Patiala||Theoretical Physicist Prof Arvind appointed Punjabi Varsity Vice Chancellor||The state government has appointed Professor Arvind of Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali (IISER) as the new Vice Chancellor of Punjabi University, Patiala.The professor now aims to revive and rebuild the university by adding courses in an attempt to put it at par with international institutions.Professor Arvind has been working as professor, Physics, at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali. He is a well-known theoretical quantum physicist working on science education, science communication and developing science pedagogy in Punjabi and is credited with over 100 technical and non-technical publications, including ‘True experimental reconstruction of quantum states and processes via convex optimisation’ published this year.Talking to The Tribune, he said the university needs to be recovered, reconstructed and moved forward. “From the academic front, my vision is to go back to the old glory of the institute when it was doing well, and build on those areas. I want to bring in new disciplines including liberal arts education, 5-year integrated courses and data sciences to put it at par with international institutions. I would like to revamp the course work and course structure as well,” he said.He added that on the front of financial crises, they might work on curtailing expenditure, do some redeployment and re-training in terms of manpower issues.“The university’s academic culture has declined. I think those on the campus are waiting for a good culture to restart,” he said.Professor Arvind is the National Coordinator of Theme-1 (Photonics) of the National Multi-Institutional Networked Programme on Quantum Enabled Science and Technology (QuST) launched by the Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi in 2018.He is also a member of the DPR drafting committee for the National Mission on Quantum Technologies and Applications (NMQTA).The professor has been working at the IISER, Mohali since March 3, 2010. Before this, he was an associate professor at the same institute from 2007. He has also worked at the Physics Department of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh as a special faculty from 2002-2004.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/theoretical%C2%A0physicist-prof-arvind-appointed-punjabi-varsity-vice-chancellor-241753
21-04-2021||---||Delhi gurdwara panel election postponed||New Delhi, April 20The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee elections have been postponed due to the surging COVID-19 cases and the week-long lockdown imposed in the city to check the spread of the virus, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday. The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara management committee (DSGMC) elections were scheduled for April 25.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has sent a proposal in the regard to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal."Gurudwara elections in Delhi, to be held on 25 Apr, have been postponed due to corona and ongoing curfew. Hon'ble CM sends the proposal to Hon'ble LG," Sisodia tweeted.The proposal stated it would not be prudent to hold the DSGMC elections during the ongoing curfew, and added polling booths might become "hotspots" and "super-spreaders"."Whereas Delhi government is keen on holding DSGMC elections at the earliest, we should postpone the elections at the moment due to Corona crisis," it stated.Referring to a High Court case, the proposal said the Delhi government has stated in the court that election process will be completed by April 29. The court has directed to adhere to the schedule with permissible variation of two weeks, it said.Therefore, the elections should be postponed as it could be conducted by May 13 as per the court order, it said. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-gurdwara-panel-election-postponed-241723
21-04-2021||Amritsar||Chaos at Amritsar airport when students for direct flight to Toronto asked to get Dubai flight||Utter chaos was created at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Amritsar, when a large number of students from Punjab, who were supposed to board a direct flight to Toronto (Canada) from here, were asked to take a flight via Dubai last night.The students opposed the move of the authorities saying that it would unnecessarily burden them with expense as they would have to undergo COVID-19 protocol during their stay at Dubai.Around 50 students missed the flight due to chaos. The SpiceJet airline authorities gave different reasons for offloading these students.Most of the students had tickets for the direct flight to Toronto which was scheduled to depart at 9:30 pm on Monday. The students alleged that they raised the question when authorities provided them with Dubai visas.Several students preferred to board the SpiceJet flight with stay in Dubai while some of them raised concerns over COVID-19 protocol during their stay at Dubai.The airline reportedly offloaded more than 50 students. Around 3.30 am, airport authorities asked the students to leave the airport which led to agitation by students and their parents.The chaos continued till 8.30 am, when MP from Amritsar Gurjeet Singh Aujla reached the airport during his return from New Delhi. He intervened in the matter and met with Director Airport VK Seth, SpiceJet station manager Manjor Komal Thakur and CISF authorities.Later Aujla issued a statement that the students became victims of the air ticket fraud being run by agents and asked the police to take appropriate action.The police have recorded the statements of students and their parents in this regard. Aujla asked the residents to be alert about the air ticket frauds while booking the ticket abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chaos-at-amritsar-airport-when-students-for-direct-flight-to-toronto-asked-to-get-dubai-flight-241709
