23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Minor reshuffle in Punjab Police||Punjab Police transferred police officers, including the Inspector General of Faridkot range, in a series of routine transfers.IGP Faridkot Range Kaustabh Sharma has been transferred to Jalandhar Range, a post that was vacant.  Deputy Inspector General, Administration, Gurpreet Singh Toor is now DIG Faridkot Range. Amritsar Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh has been made IGP Community Affairs, Punjab, Chandigarh—a position he will hold in addition to his current charge.Parambir Singh Parmar, currently commandant of the 7th IRB, Kapurthala, has been transferred as ADC Governor, Punjab. The current ADC Governor Alam Vijay Singh is the new superintendent of Sangrur. The current Sangrur Superintendent is now SP-Investigation Sangrur, while the current SP, Gurpreet Singh, is appointed Assistant Commandant 6th IRB Ladda Kothi, Sangrur.All officers must join their new positions immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-reshuffle-in-punjab-police-243140
23-04-2021||Ludhiana||New high: Ludhiana reports 1,099 new cases, 13 deaths||In a new high, the Ludhiana district on Friday reported the highest-ever 1,099 new Covid cases and 13 deaths due to the virus during the past 24 hours.The fresh infections included 995 from Ludhiana and 104 from other districts, and included six healthcare workers and a teacher.The deaths included eight from Ludhiana, and one each from Jalandhar, Faridkot, Barnala, Delhi, and Jharkhand.With this, the count of cases surpassed the 54,000-mark and mounted to 54,481, including 7,128 out-of-district patients.The death toll went up to 1,939, including 659 outsiders. The number of active cases also breached the 6,500-mark to reach 6,511, including 259 out-of-district patients.While 877 critical patients were hospitalised, 4,649 active cases were home isolated. However, 39,821 patients have already recovered from the virus in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-high-ludhiana-reports-1-099-new-cases-13-deaths-243117
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders immediate recruitment of 400 nurses and 140 technicians to GMCs to tackle Covid surge||To strengthen the state’s healthcare capabilities amid the COVID-19 surge, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered immediate recruitment of 400 nurses and 140 technicians to the government medical colleges.He also directed the department to expedite the medical college projects approved or in progress in the state so that Punjab is not left behind in the development of medical infrastructure.The chief minister, who also raised the issue during the VC meeting earlier with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said he will be writing soon to the latter seeking a direction to PGI satellite centres and military hospitals in Punjab to provide Covid beds to citizens.Pre-fabricated structures could be used for this purpose, he stressed.Virtually reviewing the functioning of the Department of Medical Education and Research, particularly in the backdrop of the COVID-19 crisis, the chief minister also approved amendment in rules for re-designating the department faculty members in a time-bound manner to bring them at par with their peers on this count.On the recruitment drive, the chief minister said of the 900 posts sanctioned after the department restructuring, 400 should be filled immediately in phase 1 with hiring of nurses.In hiring of technicians, reasonable weightage should be given to those who are already working on contract with Punjab government, he said.Medical Education Minister OP Soni shared details of the various hospitals and medical colleges that are coming up in Mohali, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala.Efforts are also being made to establish medical colleges at Malerkotla and Gurdaspur with the approval of the Central government, he said, adding that the satellite centre of PGI will also be commissioned at Sangrur this year while construction of satellite centre of PGI at Ferozepur had started.Further, approval has been recently received from ICMR New Delhi for setting up of National Institute of Virology at Mohali, he disclosed.Currently, the state has two universities under the department—Baba Farid University of Health Sciences Faridkot and Guru Ravidas Ayurveda University Hoshiarpur.In addition, there are three government medical colleges, two government dental colleges, one government ayurvedic college and 12 nursing schools/colleges under the department.There are six councils for registration of various doctors, pharmacists and nurses.Pointing out that the department has already been restructured keeping in view latest norms of National Medical Commission, Dental Council of India and Central Council of Indian Medicine, the minister said budget provisions of Rs.550 crore in 2020-21 has been increased to Rs 1008 crore for the current financial year.Talking about the initiatives undertaken by the department in view of the Covid epidemic over the past one year, the minister said 1,498 isolation beds were provided in three government medical colleges, of which 361 were ICU beds.Further, seven VRDL labs were now capable of testing 35,000 RT-PCR tests daily and around 54 lakh tests had been conducted so far. Plasma banks had been set up in three medical colleges.So far, said Soni, more than 14,000 Covid patients had been treated in government medical colleges and an attendant management system had been implemented to report relatives.Post Covid Multispecialty OPD had been introduced for patients, and arrangements made to look after dialysis patients and pregnant women during the Covid epidemic. A total of 1,095 additional manpower, including technicians, nurses and MTWs, had been engaged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-orders-immediate-recruitment-of-400-nurses-and-140-technicians-to-gmcs-to-tackle-covid-surge-243103
23-04-2021||---||BRO opens all-weather bridge between remote Punjab village and J-K||New Delhi, April 23The far-flung villages of Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir which remain cut off when the Ravi is in spate have been connected with all-weather bridge.The Border Roads Organisation (BRO), wing of the Ministry of Defence, has opened a 160-ft-long bridge that will be a vital link between Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir.The bailey bridge over the Tarnah river is on the Chadwal-Sanjimore-Hariyachak-Paharpur-Simbal stretch. The bridge will provide a lifeline to the people of Sakol village in Gurdaspur. The village was tough to reach during monsoon when the entire region across the river used to be cut off.People had to be either ferried across on boats or use the pontoon bridge which used to be established by BRO every year. The new bridge will provide all-weather connectivity.Director General, BRO, in a statement said the construction of the bridge in the prevailing pandemic condition was a big challenge.The locals gathered in large numbers during the inauguration of the bridge and the village sarpanch lauded the efforts of BRO in fulfilling their long-pending demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bro-opens-all-weather-bridge-between-remote-punjab-village-and-j-k-243090
23-04-2021||Moga||Dalit woman 'killed by paramour' in Punjab's Moga||A 30-year old Dalit woman was strangulated to death by a man she was allegedly having an extramarital affair with, even as her 10-year-old son listened to her cries for help, at Rauke Kalan village in the Moga district, police said on Friday.The aggrieved husband Balvir Singh alias Dheera said that his wife Karamjit Kaur went along with their son Gurpreet Singh to get medicine from a doctor at Badhni Kalan, but, on the way, Sewak Singh, a resident of Badhni Kalan, took them to his farm in a makeshift room on a water pump. The boy was asked to stand outside.The child allegedly heard the voice of his mother crying for help, but got frightened and ran away from the spot. He came back home and told his father about the incident. Balvir went back to look for his wife, but he could not find her, he told the police.Later, the dead body of the woman was recovered by the police from the bushes on the banks of a canal at Badhni Kalan. The police took the body into custody and sent it for a post-mortem examination at the district hospital here.Preliminary findings suggested that the woman was strangulated to death but the exact cause could be ascertained only after getting the post-mortem examination report, the police officials said.The SHO of Badhni Kalan police station Karamjit Singh stated that a criminal case under section302 of the IPC has been registered against the alleged accused Sewak Singh and a hunt has been launched to nab him. He was eluding arrest, till the filing of this news report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dalit-woman-killed-by-paramour-in-punjabs-moga-243073
23-04-2021||Toronto||Canada bans passenger flights from India, Pakistan for 30 days due to surge in Covid cases||The Canadian government has banned all passenger flights from India and Pakistan for 30 days due to the unprecedented spike in COVID-19 cases in the region, the longest country-specific travel ban imposed by Canada.The flight ban took effect from Thursday midnight, Transport Minister Omar Alghabra said on Thursday.A number of countries like the UK, Australia and Singapore have banned travel to and from India due to surge in coronavirus infections.Over 3.14 lakh new coronavirus cases were registered in India on Thursday, the highest-ever single-day count in any country. While the death toll increased to 1,84,657 with a record 2,104 new fatalities. The national recovery rate fell below 85 per cent.Transport Minister Alghabra said the government imposed a 30-day ban, the longest travel ban Canada has put on any individual country, on passengers flights from India and Pakistan, based on advice from federal health officials in order to buy time to assess more data, and to provide “certainty” for Canadians considering travelling to the region, the Toronto Star reported.However, the cargo flights are not banned and Ottawa is still hoping that India, which has suspended vaccine exports, will send the bulk of 1.5 million AstraZeneca doses Canada had purchased through the Serum Institute of India.Those doses—about 1 million—are now in limbo, at least until June due to export controls in India, officials admitted on Thursday.The moves come after the Liberal government came under fire from the Conservative opposition, the premiers of Canada's two largest provinces, and even their own MPs to tighten border restrictions as COVID-19 variants continue to spread in Canada.The government said it had taken advice from chief public health officer Dr. Theresa Tam, who just a day before had said “country-specific targeted measures can only go so far,” and “no border measures are completely 100 per cent effective.” Tam said “layers of protection” are needed, especially given most cases here arise from community transmission, not travellers.In recent weeks, 50 per cent of travellers arriving in Canada who tested positive for COVID-19 came from India, even though those flights were only 20 per cent of all international arrivals. And an alarming number of positive cases also showed up in travellers from Pakistan. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/canada-bans-passenger-flights-from-india-pakistan-for-30-days-due-to-surge-in-covid-cases-243062
23-04-2021||Vijay C Roy||Punjab to get Rs 700 cr from Nabard||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22Rural infrastructure projects in Punjab are likely to get a shot in the arm as the state is likely to get Rs 700-crore assistance in the current fiscal under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) from Nabard. It will drive inclusive growth in rural and farm economy.Dr Rajiv Siwach, CGM, Nabard, Punjab Regional Office, said, out of total assistance under RIDF last year, social sector comprising schools, drinking water supply, sewerage and health got Rs 318 crore, followed by farm sector Rs 223 crore and rural connectivity Rs 59 crore.Also, in order to address the issue of depleting groundwater in the state, Micro Irrigation Fund has been implemented in the state with Rs 150 crore benefitting about 26,000 hectares. Further, a credit facility was provided to Milkfed for liquidity support during the Covid pandemic.The CGM said the Nabard has provided financial support of Rs 12,108 crore to the state by registering a growth of 51% over the disbursements during the previous year.He said the refinance support of Rs 11,311 crore was provided to the state by registering a growth of 48% over the disbursements during the previous year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-get-rs-700-cr-from-nabard-242968
23-04-2021||Ropar||Sena leader Nishant Sharma starts hunger strike in jail||Shiv Sena (Hindu) president Nishant Sharma, who is lodged at Ropar district jail, has started a hunger strike, alleging he was framed in a false case by Kharar SHO Daljit Singh. He also threatened to continue the strike until action was taken against the SHO and the case against him withdrawn.Sources said Sharma, reportedly a diabetic, had not taken a meal since Tuesday. He was brought to Civil Hospital today after his condition deteriorated. He was referred to PGI, Chandigarh, where he refused to cooperate with the doctors. He was sent back to the Ropar jail in the evening. On April 3, the Kharar police arrested the Sena leader and one Arvind Gautam for making a provocative speech and threats against a particular community in Jalandhar. A total of 36 persons were named in the FIR. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sena-leader-nishant-sharma-starts-hunger-strike-in-jail-242964
23-04-2021||---||Farmers block Bathinda-Barnala NH over gunny bag crunch||Bathinda, April 22Scores of farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakonda) today protested and blocked the Bathinda-Barnala National Highway near Kararwala village in the Rampura Phul area of the district.Ruing an acute shortage of ‘bardana’ (gunny bags) in the mandi, protesters raised slogans against the state government, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Minister of Food and Civil Supplies Bharat Bhushan Ashu. They said the government was making tall claims of arrangements for procurement of wheat in the mandis, but the ground reality painted a different picture.Balwinder Singh Jethuke, block president, BKU (Dakonda), said: “There is an acute shortage of bardana in mandis. As a result, procurement is getting delayed. Our produce is lying in mandis vulnerable to inclement weather conditions. We will intensify our protest if the government does not make arrangements of providing bardana in mandis. We do not want to hassle the commuters but we are helpless.”Farmers in many mandis have been claiming that wheat procurement is either delayed or not taking place at all. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today visited different mandis in the district to take stock of arrangements. After listening to farmers’ grievances, he said: “The state government has failed miserably in ensuring smooth procurement of wheat. For past over two weeks, farmers have been guarding their produce in mandis. There are heaps of wheat lying in mandis and due to tardy lifting and shortage of bardana, farmers and arhtiyas are suffering.”Sukhbir asked the district administration and mandi board officials to ensure procurement at the earliest or else the SAD would start an agitation. Pratyush Kumar Sinha, Divisional Manager, FCI said, “We are procuring wheat irrespective of varieties in mandis of Bathinda and Mansa districts. But there are some mandis where arhtiyas have denied the FCI to make procurement so we can’t make purchase there.”Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan couldn’t be contacted on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-block-bathinda-barnala-nh-over-gunny-bag-crunch-242751
23-04-2021||---||10 days on, no wheat purchased in Sangrur||Sangrur, April 22 With no wheat procured for the past 10 days, farmers on Thursday gheraoed the officials at the Bhutal Kalan purchase centre and raised slogans against the Punjab Government.  “My wheat produce of 11 acres has been lying here since April 12 and I have been repeatedly meeting all officials concerned, still there is no procurement. Officials are not doing their duty fairly. The produce of only a few farmers has been purchased as yet,” alleged Harjeet Singh, a farmer from Bhutal.  On Thursday, when officials of Markfed reached the local grain market, farmers gheraoed them and did not allow them to start the purchase process. Farmers have been demanding to expedite the wheat purchase process as they fear more rain could increase the moisture content of their crop.  “My wheat produce of five acres has been lying here since April 9, but officials are not listening. They are only bothered about the purchased wheat. We are already facing huge losses and request the government to take quick action for the procurement of our wheat,” said Chamkaur Singh, another farmer.  Though many farmers admitted that the officials concerned provided them tarpaulin to cover their wheat produce during rain, but the delay in the purchase has angered them. “There is a shortage of gunny bags as even after promising to reuse the old ones, arhtiyas are not cooperating. I came here to solve the problems of farmers, but they are not allowing me to start the work,” Amrit Kaur, inspector, Markfed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-days-on-no-wheat-purchased-in-sangrur-242752
23-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Gunny bags shortage: Capt Adviser Bharat Inder Singh Chahal faces protesting farmers’ fury||Farmers today gheraoed Bharat Inder Singh Chahal, the Adviser to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, for hours at Roorkee village on the Patiala-Sirhind highway.Led by Harnek Singh Bhalmajra, district president, Krantikari Kisan Union, farmers had planned to stage a dharna and disrupt traffic on the highway to protest the non-availability of gunny bags and poor arrangements in the grain markets for procurement. On noticing a VIP car with the CM’s Adviser coming from Patiala, farmers intercepted it and started raising slogans against the government.Chahal talked to the farmers and assured them of arranging gunny bags. However, the farmers continued to argue with him and said they would not allow him to leave until arrangements were made. The Fatehgarh SDM and the DSP rushed to the spot and tried to pacify the agitating farmers. Even the ADC and the SP also rushed to spot to ease the situation, but to no avail.Bhalmajra said they were forced to protest as the government had failed to make proper arrangements for procurement. He said the protest was the only way out to force the government to provide gunny bags. He said if the situation did not improve they would gherao the CM’s residence also. The gherao of Chahal continued till the filling of the report. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gunny-bags-shortage-capt-adviser-bharat-inder-singh-chahal-faces-protesting-farmers-fury-242753
23-04-2021||Moga||Sukhbir Badal: Capt Amarinder to blame for procurement mismanagement||Blaming Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for the mismanagement and chaos in mandis, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal alleged that farmers were being forced to camp at the procurement centres for days due to the state’s inability to arrange gunny bags.Sukhbir visited the Goniana Mandi, Goniana Kalan, Maluka, Kotha Guru and Bhagta Bhaike mandis in Bathinda district and the Asia’s largest grain market in Moga and interacted with a cross section of farmers to know about their problems.He directed the SAD leaders to fan out at the procurement centres and assist the farmers to get their crop purchased at the earliest. He announced that the party would hold symbolic district-level dharnas across the state on April 24 in front of the offices of the DCs to submit a memorandum, demanding to solve the problems being faced by farmers in the grain markets.“Around 45 lakh metric tonne of wheat is lying in the open in mandis due to the lack of gunny bags. Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has also gone into hiding as he can’t face the farmers after failing to issue timely tenders for the gunny bags.” Sukhbir said farmers and arhtiyas told him that they were now being asked to arrange the gunny bags on their own. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-capt-amarinder-to-blame-for-procurement-mismanagement-242754
23-04-2021||---||Help desks at Punjab mandis to assist in DBT portal registration||Chandigarh, April 22In a bid to facilitate farmers facing hardship on account of introduction of the direct benefit transfer (DBT) system for the ongoing rabi marketing season, the Punjab Mandi Board has set up ‘Farmer Help Desks’ at grain markets across the state for online registration on the new portal for making payments directly into their bank accounts.Board chairman Lal Singh said the rationale behind the move was to ensure timely payment to farmers into their bank accounts expeditiously. Of the 12 lakh farmers, nearly six lakh had already uploaded the requisite documents on portal https://anaajkharid.in/farmerRegistrations/farmerRegistrations.The chairman said the counters would help guide/assist farmers and arthiyas for registration on the portal. Efforts were on to help the remaining farmers for registration as the majority of them were not tech savvy, he said. The Centre has implemented the DBT for crops procured on MSP and the payment thereof would be credited directly to the bank accounts of farmers.So far 64.25 LMT wheat had arrived in mandis, as against 17.56 LMT during the corresponding period last year. Of this, 59.78 LMT had been procured across the state.Sangrur district led in arrival with 7.89 LMT, followed by Patiala and Ludhiana with 6.30 LMT and 5.09 LMT, respectively. As many as 10.59 lakh passes had been given to farmers through arthiyas by the board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/help-desks-at-punjab-mandis-to-assist-in-dbt-portal-registration-242755
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sack Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded the immediate resignation of Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu over the continuing smuggling of wheat from other states, non-procurement of produce and shortage  of gunny bags (bardana) in the state mandis. AAP MLA and kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan alleged Ashu had failed in his responsibilities as minister and CM Capt Amarinder Singh should dismiss him.  Sandhwan said of the total crop reaching state mandis, 60 per cent was still to be procured for the want of gunny bags.  Sandhwan alleged the shortage of gunny bags seemed to be a pretence for buying bags from factories of people owing allegiance to the ruling party. He said truckloads of wheat were being smuggled into Punjab every day, causing economic loss to farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sack-food-and-civil-supplies-minister-bharat-bhushan-ashu-says-aap-242756
23-04-2021||---||Faced pressure not to question influential persons: Former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap||Chandigarh, April 22  Opening up on reasons behind his resignation, former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap said he faced pressure to avoid proceedings against influential persons who indulged in proxy litigation in their attemp to scuttle the investigation. In an hour-long interview to a Canadian channel, the former Punjab Police officer said his investigation in the Kotkapura police firing, which the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed earlier this month, would eventually stand the test of time.  He invoked the need to save Punjab from certain people who had destroyed the state and went to the extent of conspiring the sacrilege incidents. He referred the pressure on him was exerted through one of the members of the Special Investigation Team probing the Kotkapura firing incident.  “I was told to hold lower rank policemen responsible for the firing. I was also told that I was not mandated to prove sacrilege incidents. The pressure tactics did not succeed as I asked the official to give me in writing, which he did not,” the former IG said. He said: “I checked up with the CM’s office through one of the top officials. He said the CM had mandated the SIT shall work independently.” On the petitions against his probe, the IG said the public needed to know how a retired constable, one of the petitioners, could afford highly expensive lawyers practicing in the Supreme Court. “The influential persons indulged in proxy litigation. They used someone to save themselves. Punjab will never forgive them. People will ask who paid the hefty fee to the lawyers,” he said. On SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s statement on filing a defamation suit, he said: “I will expose them all in each hearing of the defamation case. I have much evidence.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faced-pressure-not-to-question-influential-persons-former-ig-kunwar-vijay-pratap-242757
23-04-2021||Aparna Banerji ---||On mission to revive waterbodies||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, April 22 To contain the increasing forest fires in Nawanshahr and the Shivaliks, Nikhil Senger, a Nawanshahr resident, is slogging it out to revive the waterbodies. With the help of water tankers, Nikhil has revived at least 20 dried up waterbodies in the jungles.  After a forest fire in Majra on March 3, Nikhil began taking water tankers of 5,000-6,000 litres capacity to the forest to track wildlife in distress and revive waterbodies. For the past over a month, he has taken 30 to 35 water tankers in the forests of Majra, Bana, Tonsa, Bhaddi, Noorpur, Singhpur and Hajipur to rejuvenate dried-up streams, choes, ponds and other waterbodies.  “On March 3, I saw sambars and blue bulls fleeing the forest after a fire broke out. We immediately took a water tanker there. I was chased by thirsty sambars. In parched forest, animals catch the scent of water fast. I search for areas where for 4 to 5 km there are no waterbodies and build kutcha ponds there. It takes two to three tankers to fill up one 10-foot-deep waterbody. I have filled at least 20 so far this year. About 10 to 20 years ago, there used to be incessant rains for weeks in jungles. But now jungles have dried up, leading to wild fires and posing threat to animals.” Tracking wildlife with motion-sensor cameras at Hajipur, Nikhil was astounded by results. “In a 10-day period, 1,278 animals came to the pond I created. My camera captured huge blue bulls, peacocks, sambars, wild boars among other animals visiting the kutcha pond to quench their thirst.” Nikhil first took a tanker to Singhpur forest after a wildfire in 2011. He has been accorded the title of Honorary Wildlife Warden for his extensive relief and rescue work in jungles and villages. With a body of do-gooders in the Shivaliks, he now plans to buy his own tanker and start a “Water for Wildlife” service soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-mission-to-revive-waterbodies-242758
23-04-2021||---||Free vaccine for 18-plus in govt hospitals in Punjab: Amarinder||Chandigarh, April 22Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced that for the inoculation of the age group of 18-45 (from May 1), vaccines would be supplied free of cost in all government healthcare facilities in the state.In view of the limited supplies of the vaccine expected initially, the CM constituted an expert group, comprising eminent virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang; Dr Jacob John, Professor of Community Health at CMC, Vellore; and Dr Rajesh Kumar, former Head, School of Public Health, PGI, Chandigarh, to suggest a strategy of prioritisation.Chairing a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 situation, Captain Amarinder tasked the expert group to chalk out a vaccination strategy and submit a plan to the state government in a week.Dr Kang, who attended the meeting as a special invitee, emphasised the need for a proper strategy to combat the second Covid wave, with geographical saturation in high caseload cities such as Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Mohali and Patiala, besides prioritisation on the basis of medical need and occupational groups.The CM was informed that the state had received four lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine from the Centre today. As these were likely to last for only three or four more days as per the pace of the ongoing vaccination drive, he asked the Health Department to pursue with the Centre the matter of supply of more vaccines.Referring to the reports of black marketing of anti-viral drugs like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab in the country, the CM said the experts had given clear protocols on the use of such medicines, which must be duly publicised and followed. Health Adviser Dr KK Talwar referred to the WHO studies that have shown that Remdesivir might not have any significant impact on the mortality due to Covid.Meanwhile, Captain Amarinder expressed concern at the reports of shortage of beds for Covid patients in various parts of the country. However, he said the current situation was comparatively better in Punjab. He directed the 104 helpline to provide 24x7 real-time information regarding the availability of Covid beds in the hospitals.Ordering a crackdown on oxygen hoarding, he said no trader or manufacturer would be allowed to indulge in illegal hoarding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-vaccine-for-18-plus-in-govt-hospitals-in-punjab-amarinder-242759
23-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Abohar short on ‘Fateh’ kits, vaccines||Abohar, April 22Amid an unprecedented Covid resurgence, 100 Covid-positive patients are waiting to get their ‘Fateh’ kits, which are to be used during isolation at the Subdivisional Civil Hospital or houses.Covid section in charge Praveen Rani and Ankush Dhawan said they had informed the Senior Medical Officer (SMO) about the shortage.SMO Dr Gagandeep Singh confirmed getting the request for urgent supply to the district administration and hopes to get it fulfilled soon. He agreed that the vaccine was also running short but 3,600 doses were expected soon.Taking cognisance of the situation, the Congress today launched a free vaccination drive at Arorvansh dharamshala. District Youth Congress former president Sandeep Jakhar and MC Mayor Vimal Thatai said health workers inoculated 170 persons. Councillors have been told to motivate more people for vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-short-on-fateh-kits-vaccines-242760
23-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Allow work from home: PCCTU||The Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers' Union (PCCTU) has demanded that teachers should be allowed to work from home to safeguard the staff from Covid-19. In a letter to the CM, PCCTU state president Vinay Sofat said the government should direct the Education Department to allow work from home to prevent the spread of pandemic. Prof Bikramjit Singh, president of PCCTU, Fatehgarh Sahib and Patiala districts, said at present, the teachers were conducting online classes from the colleges. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/allow-work-from-home-pcctu-242761
23-04-2021||---||Jalandhar: 45 Gandhi Vanita Ashram inmates infected||Jalandhar, April 22Fortyfive inmates and five staff members of the Gandhi Vanita Ashram here tested positive on Thursday.The infected staff members — a superintendent, a house mother, a peon, attendant and a woman police constable — are under home quarantine.Notably, the Children’s Home and Children’s Home for Girls are two neighbouring facilities housed within the premises of the Gandhi Vanita Ashram. The twin home collectively houses about 150 inmates with 100 girls at the Children’s Home and 50 at the Children’s Home for Girls.Child Development Project Officer, Jalandhar, Garry Randhawa said, “In all, 45 girls at the Children’s Home have tested positive. The superintendent of the Children’s Home for Girls was the first to get infected after which four other staff members tested positive. The infection might have been spread by the police personnel, who keep visiting there. Meanwhile, all 50 inmates of the Children’s Home for Girls have tested negative.”He said, “The infected girls shall be quarantined in the halls on the ground floor. All of them are asymptomatic.”Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “Rest of the staff and inmates of the ashram have also been tested. The arrangements to quarantine the infected persons are being made on the premises.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-45-gandhi-vanita-ashram-inmates-infected-242762
23-04-2021||Aman Sood & Karam Prakash||Amid oxygen, bed shortage, NCR patients head to Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 22Amid reports of limited supply of medical oxygen across various states, patients from as far as Noida and Delhi are now turning to Punjab to receive Covid treatment.With Delhi hospitals also running low on Covid beds, a number of patients from the National Capital Region (NCR) have got themselves admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital here over the past 72 hours.Doctors at the hospital said these patients had evidently come for Covid treatment owing to the shortage of beds in the NCR. Dr RPS Sibia, in charge, Covid ward at the hospital, said most of these patients had arrived in the past three days. “They say they are here only to receive treatment. They have acquaintances in Patiala, but are residents of Delhi.”What draws them to PatialaSources said in other districts too, outside patients had given local guardians’ addresses for admission here. “I came here after I tested positive in Delhi. I was in touch with my cousin in Ludhiana and he arranged for a bed here. Hopefully, oxygen will not be an issue in Punjab. The situation is getting bad in Delhi,” said a patient from the national capital.Dr Sibia added they would extend treatment irrespective of where the patients belong. “We have been treating patients and will continue to do so. For us, all are equal.”The sources said the hospital still had relatively better facilities. Besides, it has enough stock of Remdesivir, an antiviral drug required for Covid treatment. They said availability of ample Covid beds with ventilator and dialysis machines were key factors drawing patients from other states.It was learnt many patients from Delhi were receiving Covid treatment in private hospitals of Punjab by giving local address.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “Besides Delhi, patients are also coming from Haryana. I have informed the higher-ups about the medical influx to Rajindra hospital. However, we will continue to work for humanity and treat every Covid patient.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-oxygen-bed-shortage-ncr-patients-head-to-punjab-242765
23-04-2021||Kapurthala||Kapurthala's Rail Coach Factory sends 1,210-kg oxygen to Amritsar hospital||Amid shortage of medical oxygen in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis, the Rail Coach Factory (RCF) here has supplied 1,210 kg of liquid oxygen from its plant to Guru Nanak Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar. The medical oxygen has been sent through a gas supplying firm.An RCF spokesperson said: “Though the supply of liquid oxygen will impact it will prove crucial to dealing with the emergency needs of Covid-19 patients. The RCF has a 3 kilolitre liquid oxygen storage tank, used for making argomix, which is used in the manufacture of stainless steel components.”On the instructions of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, the Railways has taken several steps to overcome the shortage of oxygen in hospitals. The Railways is running “oxygen express” trains carrying liquid medical oxygen and cylinders. It has decided to build a green corridor for these special trains, which has resulted in quick supply of oxygen to the various parts of the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kapurthalas-rail-coach-factory-sends-1-210-kg-oxygen-to-amritsar-hospital-242766
23-04-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||4 die in hour at Sriganganagar||Due to the ongoing oxygen crisis, four Covid-19 patients shifted from private hospitals to the district hospital died in Sriganganagar, 40 km from Abohar, today.  The hospital has around 135 Covid beds. Currently, 115 patients were undergoing treatment. CMO Dr Baldev Singh Chauhan said some patients from private facilities were shifted to the hospital in critical condition, of whom four died within an hour. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-die-in-hour-at-sriganganagar-242767
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Govt waives transfer certificate condition||To address problems faced by students and their parents, the Punjab Government has waived the condition of submission of a transfer certificate for admission.A spokesperson of the School Education Department said it had come to the notice of the department that many students were facing difficulties in getting admissions to schools due to the transfer certificate norm. Taking the issue seriously, School Education Secretary Krishan Kumar has issued directions in this regard.Kumar said the condition for transfer certificates was causing unnecessary harassment to the parents who were desirous of changing schools of their children. Therefore, all earlier instructions regarding obtaining the transfer certificate from the previous school had been waived. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-waives-transfer-certificate-condition-242768
23-04-2021||---||Punjab slashes PPSC exam fee||Faridkot, April 22Days after The Tribune highlighted charging of a hefty examination and application fee from candidates bythe Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC), the state government today announced between 30 and 80 per cent cut in fee.The PPSC had been charging Rs 3,000 per exam from all categories of candidates, including those from economically weaker sections, with disabilities, sportsperson and descendants of ex-servicemen. Only SC/ST and OBC categories candidates were paying a discounted fee of Rs 1,125.As per the new orders issued by the Department of Personnel today, the fee for economically weaker section (EWS), those with disabilities and descendants of ex-serviceman has been reduced from Rs 3,000 to Rs 500. The candidates from these categories will pay only application fee of Rs 500 and there will be no examination fee.Further, the fee for general category candidates has been reduced from Rs 3,000 (Rs 500 as application fee and Rs 2,500 as examination fee) to Rs 1,500 (Rs 500 as application fee and Rs 1,000 as examination fee). The fee for SC/ST and OBC candidates has also been reduced from Rs 1,125 to Rs 750.On January 18, PPSC Chairman Lt Gen Surinder Singh (retd) had asked the Chief Minister to reduce fee for various categories, including women, economically weaker sections and persons with disabilities. He had also sent a comparative list of fee charged by the Union Public Service Commission and other state public service commissions for various recruitment exams.The letter had pointed out while Punjab charged Rs 3,000 for an exam from every general category candidate, the UPSC charged only Rs 200 for the same. Meghalaya and Gujarat charge Rs 100, Uttar Pradesh Rs 125, Rajasthan Rs 350, Haryana Rs 1,000 and Himachal Pradesh Rs 1,500.From April 1, 2020, to January 31, 2021, the PPSC collected over Rs 32.60 crore as examination and application fee for various recruitment drives. In contrast, the total expenditure incurred by the commission on conducting exams was only Rs 8.91 crore. The PPSC deposited around Rs 24 crore “profit” with the state treasury a few days ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-slashes-ppsc-exam-fee-242770
23-04-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Building bylaws tweaked to check illegal colonies||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22Facing heat due to increase in the number of illegal colonies, the Punjab Local Bodies Department has amended building bylaws to make housing and commercial projects more lucrative for builders and affordable to the end users.Now, a housing colony for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) can come up on 1.5 acres of land against 5 acres required earlier and a group housing project, under affordable housing, can be built on a half-acre of land against 2 acres required earlier.To further incentivise, the department has cut the land size requirements, while increasing the minimum required road width from 25 ft to 30 ft. The area for parks has been slightly reduced to increase the road width. The built-up or saleable area for residential and commercial projects has also been increased by 10 per cent, subject to certain conditions.Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra said there were differences in norms followed by the department and Punjab’s Housing Department under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act. “We have brought parity in the building bylaws,” he said.Mohindra said the department had gone an extra mile in making affordable housing more attractive so that the users could get incentives offered under the central government’s affordable housing scheme.The bylaws have been amended in consultation with stakeholders and mayors of the Municipal Corporations and chairmen of Improvement Trusts.A government functionary said for affordable residential projects and town planning schemes, the maximum saleable area up to 65 per cent of the site area, subject to the required norms, had been allowed. In case of commercial colonies, the maximum saleable area of 45 per cent has been allowed.New rules||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/building-bylaws-tweaked-to-check-illegal-colonies-242771
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||SSSB nod to result of 48 jail official posts||The Subordinate Services Selection Board has approved the result pertaining to 48 posts of assistant superintendent in the Jails Department. SSSB chairman Raman Behl said the board had invited applications for these posts in November 2020 and a written exam was held on January 31, result of which was announced on February 16. He said physical check-up of selected candidates on the basis of the written exam was carried out on March 2 and 16. This was followed by counselling March 24 to verify the educational certificates. The result was approved at the board meeting today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sssb-nod-to-result-of-48-jail-official-posts-242772
23-04-2021||Jalandhar||Vigilance raids top excise official||A team of the Vigilance Bureau today raided the premises of BK Virdi, former joint director of Excise Department, Jalandhar division, in connection with the goods and services tax (GST) scam. Virdi is under suspension from the post of Additional Excise Commissioner.Following information of Virdi’s presence at his GTB Nagar house, a team of senior bureau officials and policemen, including SSP Daljinder Singh Dhillon and DSP Dalbir Singh, reached the spot. While the house was locked, the police cordoned it off as the family prevented them from entering it.Probing the multi-crore tax evasion racket, the bureau had booked Virdi and six others last year in the graft case.As per officials, the racket had brought to the fore rampant corruption in the excise department. Officials were allegedly found guilty of taking bribe from businessmen and transporters every month for allowing goods in and out of the state without paying the GST. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vigilance-raids-top-excise-official-242773
23-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||4 vehicle lifters nabbed||The police busted a gang of vehicle lifters with the arrest of four persons and recovered six bikes, intoxicant tablets and injections from them. SP (Investigation) Jagjit Singh Jallah said following a tip-off, CIA staff of the Sirhind police busted the gang active in Fatehgarh Sahib and Patiala. They used to target vehicles at gurdwara parking lots and sell these using fake registration plates. The accused are Gauravneet Singh and Bikramjit Singh, both of Bhola Reona; Dilbar Singh of Falori Kalhan; and Gurjant Singh of Rajpura. They have been booked under the NDPS Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-vehicle-lifters-nabbed-242774
23-04-2021||Fazilka||Uproar at maiden Fazilka MC meet||The maiden meeting of Congress-ruled Fazilka MC witnessed uproar over two key proposals, including cancellation of Rs 8 crore tenders floated recently and purchase of luxury Innova cars for newly elected chief and staff today.Sources said when the agenda for purchase of Innova was tabled for discussion, factionalism within the Congress came to the fore as five-time councillor and Block Congress Committee president Surinder Karla opposed the move, calling it extravagant.He said there was no rationale behind spending Rs 20 lakh on a vehicle, saying the amount be spent on slums after buying a cheaper vehicle. However, the resolution was passed unanimously.Officiating president Babu Ram then tabled a non-agenda item calling for cancellation of tenders worth Rs 8 crore for the town’s development and issuance of fresh tenders. Kalra said the tenders were being cancelled due to vested interests. Leader of the Opposition Ashok Jairath opposed it but the resolution was accepted. Jairath alleged BJP councillors were being handed down a raw deal as their wards were being ignored. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/uproar-at-maiden-fazilka-mc-meet-242775
23-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||GST scam: Decide on sanction in 30 days, says CVC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22Punjab Chief Vigilance Commissioner Justice Mehtab Singh Gill has set a 30-day deadline for the office of the Finance Commissioner, Taxation, to take a decision on the issue of granting sanction for the prosecution of Excise and Taxation officials in the GST scam.The matter has been pending for more than six months.In a communiqué to Finance Commissioner A Venu Prasad, Justice Gill asserted the accused had been granted bail as necessary sanction for prosecution was not given. But the cases were pending beforetrial courts for the want of prosecution sanction.“You are requested to decide the issue of prosecution sanction within 30 days positively. As per the law, this responsibility lies with your office, being competent authority…. Kindly ensure needful is done as per law,” Justice Gill asserted.The issue pertains to grant of prosecution sanction of accused in case registered in August last year for cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and other offences under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, and 120-B of the IPC and the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act registered at the Vigilance Bureau Police Station, Flying Squad-1, Mohali.In his communiqué, Justice Gill asserted sanction for prosecution of the officials in the scam had not been received from his department. Referring to Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, as amended in 2018, Justice Gill further asserted the decision on prosecution sanction was required to be conveyed by the competent authority within three months.Justice Gill also pointed to the Punjab and Haryana High Court judgment in which bail was granted to the accused. Among other things, Justice Jaishree Thakur of the HC had on March 31 observed sanction to prosecute had not been obtained so far and the accused were in custody since the registration of the FIR. Some of them were rather in custody since June 2020. The court, under the circumstances, deemed it appropriate to allow regular bail to the petitioners as useful purpose would not be served in keeping them behind bars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gst-scam-decide-on-sanction-in-30-days-says-cvc-242776
23-04-2021||Ferozepur||Ferozepur: Four booked for attack on jail staff||The police have booked three inmates and an unidentified person for allegedly manhandling jail officials following the recovery of intoxicating material on the premises. On April 21, jail warden Kuldip Singh spotted a tennis ball in the backyard of barrack No. 6. When he went to pick it up, an inmate, Bhupinder Singh, grabbed the ball and tried to flee. Then two undertrials, Thomas and Pamma, allegedly attacked the staff.  On examination, 9.50 gm heroin and two packets of intoxicating material were found inside the ball. A case under Sectionsof the IPC and the NDPS Act was registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-four-booked-for-attack-on-jail-staff-242777
23-04-2021||Amritsar||Over 200 Sikh pilgrims test +ve on return from Pakistan||Over 200 Punjab pilgrims who went to Pakistan to celebrate Baisakhi tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. They underwent the mandatory rapid antigen test on their arrival at the Integrated Check Post, Attari. As they were all asymptomatic, they were advised home-quarantine.Edit: Virus ravaging PunjabSome of the pilgrims, however, confronted the health staff after their reports came positive for the infection, said Civil Surgeon Charanjit Singh.High drama prevailed at the ICP as a few of them tore the test reports, saying that when they left for Pakistan their reports were negative.Some pilgrims even took away the official records and forced the health staff to leave their counters at the Attari border, Singh said.The Sikh jatha of 815 pilgrims, sponsored by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, had gone to Pakistan on April 12 to celebrate Baisakhi.Meanwhile, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur appealed to the pilgrims who tested positive to follow the health guidelines and isolate themselves in their homes.The Pakistan High Commission had granted the pilgrims a 10-day visa and they were allowed to visit various Sikh shrines, besides attending the main event at Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Hasan Abdal on April 14.They also visited Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, on April 19 and took out a nagar kirtan from Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Narowal district to Zero Line connecting Dera Baba Nanak on the Indian side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-200-sikh-pilgrims-test-ve-on-return-from-pakistan-242901
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 5,456 COVID-19 cases, Punjab sees another record daily rise||Punjab on Thursday registered yet another record single-day jump of 5,456 cases COVID-19 cases that pushed the state’s total tally to 3,19,719, according to a medical bulletin.Seventy-six more fatalities due to the disease took the death toll to 8,189, the bulletin stated.The number of active cases in the state climbed to 40,584 from 38,866 on Wednesday, it said.Mohali district reported the highest number of fresh cases at 931, followed by 880 in Ludhiana, 462 in Amritsar, 448 in Patiala and 446 in Bathinda.Of the latest deaths, 10 were reported from Amritsar, nine from Gurdaspur and seven each from Ludhiana and Mohali.As many as 3,657 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,70,946, the bulletin stated.While 38 critical patients are on ventilator support, 508 are on oxygen support, it said.So far, 67,92,211 samples have been collected for testing, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-5-456-covid-19-cases-punjab-sees-another-record-daily-rise-242726
23-04-2021||GS Paul||Around 100 pilgrims who went to Pakistan to celebrate Baisakhi test Covid positive on return||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 22Around 100 Indian pilgrims who went to Pakistan to celebrate Baisakhi have tested Covid positive.This was revealed on their arrival at the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post after they underwent the mandatory rapid antigen test (RAT) for Covid. The testing is still on as they approached this side of the border after clearing immigration and customs formalities.Amarjit Singh, assistant civil surgeon, said 98 pilgrims tested Covid positive after RAT was conducted. “We have been conducting RAT, the result of which comes in 15-20 minutes. Till now, around 300 pilgrims have been tested. Only those who cleared the test were allowed to leave, whereas the ones with positive reports were put under observation. It is yet to be decided whether they should be admitted to the Covid isolation wards or home-quarantined.”On April 12, 815 Sikh pilgrims had gone to Pakistan to commemorate the occasion. They all were tested for Covid here and the SGPC had conducted a special two-day camp on its premises as it was mandatory to have a Covid negative report procured 72 hours before departure to another country.They were granted a 10- day visa by the Pakistan High Commission and were allowed to visit various Sikh shrines besides attending the main event held at Gurdwara Panja Sahib at Hasan Abdal on April 14.They also visited Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, on April 19 and took out a nagar kirtan from Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Narowal district in Pakistan to the Zero Line sharing the border of Dera Baba Nanak on the Indian Side.Though the Pakistan authorities had made it mandatory to observe the standard operative procedure (SOP) set for Covid during the pilgrimage and the National Command Operation Centre of Pakistan had categorically directed the local Pakistan Sikh families to avoid their presence during the occasion, sources said the directions were flouted.Also, the Indian pilgrims were told not to leave the shrine premises that were on the itinerary, yet many were spotted doing shopping on the streets of Lahore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/around-100-pilgrims-who-went-to-pakistan-to-celebrate-baisakhi-test-covid-positive-on-return-242658
