26-04-2021||Chandigarh/Bholath||Punjab has left only 1.9 lakh COVID-19 vaccines doses: Balbir Sidhu||With the situation turning distressing after rapidly surging COVID-19 cases, Punjab has been left only 1.9 lakh doses of vaccine due to the lesser supply of the vaccine from the Centre.Out of this available stock, more than 1 lakh doses are expected to be used today.While inaugurating the Guru Nanak Dev Dialysis Unit, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said about 1.5 lakh beneficiaries got vaccinated as on April 25 and Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has already raised the alarming situation of Punjab due to increasing cases of coronavirus and demanded the regular supply of COVID-19 vaccine and oxygen from Government of India. Talking about the Covid vaccination drive, he said that Punjab government is organising vaccination at all the primary health centres, health wellness centres as well as special camps in the rural areas to facilitate the people at their doorsteps where we have capacity of vaccinating more than 3 lakh beneficiaries easily. He said that more than 30,05,083 people have been vaccinated in Punjab so far under which a total of 26,82,393 vaccinated with first dose and 3,22,690 with the second dose.He said the Punjab government has already appealed to the Union government to regularise the supply of vaccines in the state as the trained staff and infrastructure provided by the Punjab government could vaccinate 3 lakh people daily, requiring 15 lakh doses every week.He said that the health department had written a letter to the Union Ministry of Health on April 22 demanding 10 lakh doses of vaccine.He divulged the health department has received the intimation letter from GoI that they are sending only 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine against our demand by tomorrow.Regarding the preparations for vaccination for people above 18 years of age from May 1, he said that Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had asked the department to order 30 lakh Covishield vaccine doses.Replying to a query regarding the shortage of oxygen, he said that the plants of the Punjab government were running at full capacity while the Central government had reduced the liquid oxygen quota of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-has-left-only-1-9-lakh-covid-19-vaccines-doses-balbir-sidhu-244516
26-04-2021||New Delhi||Punjab farmers received Rs 8,180 crore MSP payment via DBT this year: Centre||Farmers in Punjab, for the first time, have started receiving wheat MSP payment directly in their bank accounts and about Rs 8,180 crore has been transferred this year so far, the Union Food Ministry said on Monday.This year, a new chapter has been added in the history of public procurement as Punjab and Haryana have also switched from indirect payment of minimum support price (MSP) to direct bank transfer of the payment to farmers, it said.Currently, wheat procurement is in full swing in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.“About Rs 8,180 crore has already been transferred directly into Punjab farmers’ account,” the ministry said in a statement.About 84.15 lakh tonnes of wheat has been procured from Punjab so far in the ongoing 2021-22 rabi marketing season (April-March), it said.In Haryana also, the MSP payment is being paid directly into the bank accounts of farmers. So far, Rs 4,668 crore has been transferred, it added. About 71.76 lakh tonnes of wheat has been procured from Haryana.Procurement of wheat is being undertaken by central nodal agency Food Corporation of India (FCI) and state agencies.According to the latest data, a total of 222.33 lakh tonnes of wheat has been purchased up to April 25 by these agencies across the country in the current marketing season.Punjab and Haryana are the top two states leading in wheat procurement so far. Third state is Madhya Pradesh where 51.57 lakh tonnes has been purchased so far.“About 21.17 lakh wheat farmers have already benefited from the ongoing procurement operations with MSP value of about Rs 43,912 crore,” the ministry said.“Direct payment of MSP is being rejoiced by the farmers of Punjab/Haryana as for the first time they are receiving direct benefits against sale of their hard toiled crops without any delay...,” it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmers-received-rs-8-180-crore-msp-payment-via-dbt-this-year-centre-244497
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Amarinder against lockdown, says situation expected to get worse in Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh here on Monday said he is against the imposition of a coronavirus lockdown even as he predicted that the pandemic situation is expected to get worse in the state. Also ReadPunjab tightens restrictions, announces daily lockdown from 6 pm-5 amThe chief minister made the comment at a meeting, a day after the daily infection count in the state crossed the 7,000-mark, the highest single-day rise since the outbreak of the pandemic last year.The CM said the situation is expected to worsen, especially in south Punjab, where Ludhiana district alone reported 1,300-plus cases on Sunday.According to a statement, the CM said while stringent measures are being taken to tackle the surge in cases, he is not “proposing” a lockdown in the state as it leads to economic woes and the exodus of migrant workers.The chief minister said at another meeting that the state government is making all efforts to secure medical oxygen to supplement its depleting stocks.Of the 105 tonnes of medical oxygen quota, the state is getting only 85 tonnes as the rest is being diverted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, he said.The CM also directed the Health Department to follow up with the Centre for vaccine supplies as the state presently has only 1.76 lakh Covishield and 22,000 Covaxin doses left.Reacting to reports of threats of a strike by health workers, the CM said such actions will be met with dismissal “as we cannot tolerate this kind of nonsense in a war-like situation”. Meanwhile, the Army Western Command assured to revive the state’s defunct oxygen plants.Lt Gen RP Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Western Command, at a virtual meeting with the CM offered to provide staff to run a 100-bed COVID facility proposed to be set up at the building loaned to the state government by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research for the purpose.Fifteen trained nurses have already been sent to Patiala to support the civic staff, he said. Army officials said though their resources were stressed on account of requirements from other states, they will extend all possible help to Punjab to tackle the situation.The CM later said the government will also approach the Union Home Ministry to provide manpower and ICU beds through the Border Security Force (BSF).Health Secretary Hussan Lal told the CM at a meeting that 2,000 beds will be added at government and private hospitals.While 900 beds will be added at government medical colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot, 542 will be added at private colleges, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-amarinder-against-lockdown-says-situation-expected-to-get-worse-in-punjab-244495
26-04-2021||Ropar||Covid protocol goes for a toss as more than 100 people attend Ropar MC chief's swearing-in||Covid-19 norms went for a toss as Sanjay Verma, the newly-elected Ropar MC chief, took oath in the presence of Punjab youth congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon at Ropar on Monday.While more than 100 people attended the installation ceremony, many of them didn't wear a face mask even as the state government has prohibited the assembly of more than 20 people during any such event.Interestingly, Ropar police arrested a groom Sunday night for organising a party for 40 peopleDhillon, washing his hands of any responsibility in this regard, said he didn't organise the function. He was there only as a guest, he said. The new MC chief Verma said he also didn't invite so many people. They just thronged the venue due to his "popularity".Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary said that organising such functions with a gathering of more than 20 people was an offence said he would take appropriate action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-protocol-goes-for-a-toss-as-more-than-100-people-attend-ropar-mc-chiefs-swearing-in-244477
26-04-2021||New Delhi||Deep Sidhu granted bail in ASI case||A Delhi court Monday granted bail to actor-activist Deep Sidhu, arrested in the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) case pertaining to the Republic Day violence at Red Fort during which parts of the heritage structure were damaged.  Metropolitan Magistrate Sahil Gupta granted relief to Sidhu on a personal bond of Rs 25,000 with one surety of like amount, while directing him to join the investigation as and when asked for.Sidhu was arrested by Delhi police on April 17 in relation to the violence during the farmers' tractor march against the central government's new farm laws, moments after being released from jail in another case related to the incident, in which he got bail on April 16.“I am of the considered opinion that applicant's further incarceration in the present case would bear no fruit and therefore would be unjustified, nor would the restoration of applicant's liberty be detrimental to the investigation being conducted by the police authorities,” the judge said on Monday.Sidhu was arrested in the first case on February 9 in connection with the Red Fort farmers' protest violence on the Republic Day this year. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deep-sidhu-granted-bail-in-asi-case-244462
26-04-2021||---||O2 supplies depleting in Punjab, Capt Amarinder Singh again sends SOS to Centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25With oxygen supplies in the state depleting fast, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today sent an SOS to Union Health & Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan, for the second time in two days, for urgent increase in allocation.He also directed Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to pursue the request for urgent supply with the Centre, with patient load increasing due to influx from Delhi and other states. He further asked the Chief Secretary to rush urgent supplies to Amritsar, where lives were lost yesterday due to oxygen shortage at a private hospital.The Chief Minister has sought a report every four hours from the Principal Secretary, Industries, on the state’s hospital-wise demand-supply situation of oxygen. Today’s SOS came after the Centre failed to increase the allocation to Punjab as per the new quota of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) issued on Saturday.Captain Amarinder had on Saturday written to the Union Health Minister, requesting for an increase in Punjab’s LMO quota to 250 MT daily due to continuous surge in Covid cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/o2-supplies-depleting-in-punjab-capt-amarinder-singh-again-sends-sos-to-centre-244236
26-04-2021||---||Follow norms, avoid non-essential travel: Punjab CM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25In view of the surge of Covid-19 cases in the country as well as in the state, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has urged people to exercise restraint on non-essential travel and local movement in order to contain the spread of the disease and arrest its further spread.Signs of stressThere are signs of stress on the health system with increased demand for oxygen. — Capt Amarinder Singh, CM“We cannot let the situation in the state to go out of hand. Our daily cases are currently ranging around 5,500-6,000 with over 10% positivity in the past one week. There are already signs of stress on the health system with increased demand for oxygen.“The state is also receiving persons from neighbouring states for treatment, some of whom may be relatives of our people. In such a scenario, it is important that we collectively fight the pandemic together,” said the Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/follow-norms-avoid-non-essential-travel-punjab-cm-244238
26-04-2021||---||Punjab to order 30 lakh vaccine doses for 18+||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed the Health Department to order 30 lakh Covishield doses for the vaccination of the 18-45 age group, with directions to use the CM Covid Relief Fund for meeting the vaccine requirements of the poor.The CM asked the department to place an order for the 30 lakh doses with the Serum Institute of India so that the supplies could start coming in at the earliest. As per information provided by the Central government, delivery of vaccines for 18-45 age group was not expected before May 15.To ensure free vaccination of the poor in government hospitals, Capt Amarinder Singh said in addition to the CM Covid relief fund, CSR funds should also be tapped into. The ESIC should be asked to support the vaccination of industrial workers covered under the scheme and the Board for Welfare of Construction Workers for construction labourers, he added.Reviewing the vaccination strategy, the Chief Minister requested the expert group led by Dr Gagandeep Kang to submit the strategy for prioritisation of 18-45 years group (vulnerable groups in high-risk areas — high transmission, high mortality, etc, including construction workers and industrial workers) in its first report by April 29.He also made it clear that in pursuing the 18-45 age group vaccination strategy, the state government would not compromise on vaccination of above 45 age group.The CM said the government would consider approaching AstraZeneca (India) directly to allow the state government to avail the lower price of Rs 162 per dose available to the global community. The state has so far received 29,36,770 doses of Covishield (including 3.5 lakh doses meant for AFMS and Central healthcare workers) and 3.34 lakh doses of Covaxin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-order-30-lakh-vaccine-doses-for-18-244239
26-04-2021||Balwant Garg||Delhi, Rajasthan patients head to Faridkot hospital||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, April 25Amid a severe shortage of ICU beds, medical oxygen and ventilators, Covid-19 patients from Delhi and Rajasthan are rushing to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, a tertiary care and hospitalisation centre, for treatment. As a result, many doctors from civil hospitals in the area are being shifted to the medical college to meet the increasing rush of patients.Low cylinder demandThe plant is playing a major role in meeting the oxygen demand at the hospital. It has reduced the requirement of cylinders from outside. — Prof Raj Bahadur, VC, BFUHSRajiv Sharma, Principal, said while some doctors from civil hospitals had already joined duty, more would arrive soon. With 448 beds for Covid-19 patients and 82 ventilators, the medical college currently has over 200 Covid patients. For treatment and care of these patients, other than postgraduate medical students, the hospital is utilising the services of MBBS interns.The medical college has adequate supply of oxygen. To combat the ongoing crisis, an oxygen plant with production capacity of 1,000 litres per minute was commissioned at the hospital on April 1. The plant meets about 60 per cent of the total oxygen demand.Prof Raj Bahadur, vice chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), said the plant was providing round-the-clock oxygen supply and playing a major role in meeting the oxygen demand in the hospital. It had reduced the number of oxygen cylinders required from outside, he said.The plant was established with the help of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and state government. It generates oxygen from air and delivers it to patients through the gas pipeline system.Further, the microbiology department at the medical college is testing about 9,000 Covid samples every day.The BFUHS has already decided to take online classes of MBBS students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delhi-rajasthan-patients-head-to-faridkot-hospital-244241
26-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Now, Congress’ Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal grooves sans mask||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 25Even as the state grapples with increasing number of Covid-19 cases, a video of Congress’ Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal has gone viral on the social media wherein he is seen dancing sans a facemask at a wedding.Admn: Verifying if permission soughtNo complaint has been filed against the organisers. The police are verifying whether a permission was sought for organising the gathering. — Deepti Uppal, Kapurthala DCFlouting the social distancing norms, the MLA is seen grooving surrounded by two dozen friends and relatives. None of them is wearing a mask. Some other local leaders are also seen in the video.The government order banning mass gatherings too was flouted as more than 20 attendees are visible in the video.As per sources, it was the marriage function of Phagwara former councillor Davinder Sapra’s daughter.The 40-second video clip has drawn sharp criticism from locals and social media users. Though the organisers claimed it was a family function with a limited gathering and all Covid-19 rules were strictly followed, the video suggests otherwise.In a similar incident last year, then SSP Navjot Singh Mahal tested positive a day after he attended the wedding of senior Congress leader Avtar Henry’s daughter. The event was attended by MLAs, bureaucrats and many eminent officials of the district.Dhaliwal could not be contacted for comment. Kapurthala District Commissioner Deepti Uppal said no complaint had been filed against the organisers and the police were verifying whether permission was sought for the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-congress-phagwara-mla-balwinder-singh-dhaliwal-grooves-sans-mask-244243
26-04-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Amid dissent over Kotkapura verdict, CM Capt Amarinder Singh calls Cabinet meet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25With dissent building up within the party over the political and administrative failure of the government in taking the SIT probe into the Kotkapura police firing incident to its logical conclusion due to shoddy handling of the investigation, Capt Amarinder Singh has called a meeting of the Council of Ministers tomorrow.Will brief colleagues on way forwardApart from taking up other issues, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is expected to brief his Cabinet colleagues about the way forward in dealing with the situation, post quashing of IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh-headed SIT probe by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Apart from taking up other issues, the Chief Minister is expected to brief his Cabinet colleagues about the way forward in dealing with the situation, post quashing of former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh-headed SIT probe by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The Chief Minister has been under pressure from his Cabinet colleagues to act firmly against those who created hurdles in bringing evidence against SAD leaders Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal before the court, and the loopholes left in the probe by the former IG.It is learnt the state government was exploring the option of filing a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court against the High Court judgement so that it could continue with the probe and present the 10th challan, naming the Badals. This will also allow the government to proceed with the trial in the lower court. By doing so, the party will be able to undo the political damage it has suffered so far.The second option, favoured by most of the ministers, was constituting a new SIT and conduct a time-bound probe to fulfil its promise ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections.Senior leaders Navjot Singh Sidhu and Sukhjinder Randhawa have already questioned as to why evidence against the Badals was not examined or brought before the court.In the coming days, the CM would also be meeting the MLAs to feel their pulse on the issue as political storm on the issue is building up in the party.In the last meeting with selected Cabinet ministers and some MLAs, the CM had advised all to wait for the HC judgement. “Now, the judgment has come, the CM will have wide discussion on the approach to be adopted,” said a senior party leader. Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa has called for a full house of MLA and MPs by the Chief Minister to debate and plan the way forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-dissent-over-kotkapura-verdict-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-calls-cabinet-meet-244244
26-04-2021||---||Kotkapura firing: After Partap Singh Bajwa, Navjot Sidhu for new SIT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25A day after Congress Rajya Sabha Member Partap Singh Bajwa sought the constitution of a new special investigation team (SIT) to conduct the investigation within a month, senior party leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday, too, demanded a fair investigation by a new SIT to bring out the evidence against the Badals.Badals not free yetThe judgment does not mean that there is no evidence against Badals, it just means investigation has not provided any, why? ... it is a temporary reprieve for Badals until a fair investigation brings them to the dock. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, Congress LeaderBajwa has demanded that the new SIT after a time-bound probe should file the challan before a trial court, requesting for an expeditious trial preferably on day-to-day basis. Justice needed to be delivered to the victims who had been waiting endlessly, he said.Calling upon to fight for justice to the victims of the Kotkapura police firing, the cricketer-turned-politician in a tweet on Sunday said: “The judgment does not mean that there is no evidence against Badals, it just means investigation has not provided any, Why? ... It is a temporary reprieve for Badals until a fair investigation brings them to docks. Not exonerated, only on borrowed time. Let’s fight for Justice!”Besides, former Deputy Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha Bir Devinder said the new SIT to investigate Kotkapura police firing in compliance with the High Court’s recent order would be an eyewash. Moreover the striking indictment of former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh has not only restricted the scope of the investigation; it has rather fettered the options of the SIT, yet to be constituted in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-firing-after-partap-singh-bajwa-navjot-sidhu-for-new-sit-244245
26-04-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||In poll year, gunny bag crunch puts Punjab Govt on defensive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25In an election year and amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic, wheat procurement, which had earned Capt Amarinder Singh accolades last year, has put the Punjab Government on the defensive this year.Why there’s shortage across stateThe mandis are overflowing with wheat and there is an apparent shortage of gunny bags. In an election year, this is proving to be a ready fodder for the Opposition parties, which are demanding that some heads roll for the inability of the state government to arrange requisite number of gunny bags. However, no one is pondering about who is to be blamed for the gunny bag crunch, which is primarily responsible for the slow lifting.Gunny bags are allotted to states by Department of Food and Public Distribution, Government of India, months before the wheat is harvested. Strangely, this year, against a requirement of 5.52 lakh bales of gunny bags or 2,760 lakh bags, the state was allocated four lakh bales or 2,000 lakh bags. But the actual number of bags that have come to Punjab from the poll-bound West Bengal jute mills is 1.48 lakh bales or 740 lakh bags. In addition, Punjab was allowed by the Centre to procure 66,000 plastic bags. But because of Covid-induced restrictions in Maharashtra and Gujarat, a majority of plastic bags could not reach the state in time. Many in the state government attribute this “deliberate short supply of jute bags to the state” to political stand-off of the state government with the BJP-led Centre, because of the ongoing farmers struggle.Interestingly, when the Punjab Government repeatedly took up the matter with the Centre, it was only two days after the procurement began on April 10 that the state was allowed to use the “once used gunny bags”. A tender was called on April 16 for procuring 1.5 lakh bales, but till date, seven bidders that came forward could supply just 700 bales, a senior officer in the Food and Supply department said.“The bags that have come are of very poor quality to the extent that wheat starts spilling from numerous pores in them. I do not know if wheat stored in these bags will remain fit for consumption, as it would be subject to pest infestation and vagaries of weather,” rued Mahinder Krishan Chand Arora, a Rajpura-based commission agent.Punjab Food and Supply Director Ravi Bhagat said the state government was trying its best to arrange more bags at the earliest. “It is a false narrative that the procurement is mismanaged. It is in fact going on smoothly. There is a glut in mandis because the arrival this year is much higher than the last year’s — an increase of 300 per cent today as compared to the same day last year.Of the 86.74 lakh metric tonnes of wheat arrival, 83.71 LMT has been procured and 62 per cent of this has been lifted. The daily arrival of wheat is around 10 LMT, and our average daily lifting is 4.98 LMT,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-poll-year-gunny-bag-crunch-puts-punjab-govt-on-defensive-244246
26-04-2021||Sangrur||Slow lifting plagues  markets in Sangrur||Amid claims of quick lifting of purchased wheat, ground reality seems to be different. Farmers have demanded more arrangements for the speedy lifting of the purchased wheat.Delay deliberate Since the spread of Covid has failed to prevent farmers from joining the protest against the farm laws, the Punjab Government has deliberately been trying to stop us by delaying the lifting. — Kulwinder Singh, Sangrur Farmer“Since the spread of Covid has failed to prevent farmers from joining the protest against the central farm laws, the Punjab Government has deliberately been trying to stop us by delaying the lifting, thus causing space crunch in mandis,” said Kulwinder Singh, a farmer of Sangrur.As per sources, till last evening a total of 8,89,293 metric tonnes (MT) of wheat had arrived, of which 8,59,110 MT was purchased by various agencies, including Pungrain (3,67,465 MT), Markfed (1,91,99 MT), Punsup (1,88,705 MT), Punjab state Warehouse Corporation (1,01,200 MT) and FCI (10,250 MT). Of the total purchased wheat, authorities have lifted 5,12,594 MT from various grain markets of the district.As far as the direct payment in concerned, many farmers are happy with the quick purchase and payment by government agencies. “I had brought my 100 quintal of wheat and received the payment in my bank account directly. I am hopeful that things would improve further,” said Avtar Singh, a farmer from Kammomajra.Sangrur DC Ramvir said they had been making all required arrangements to ensure quick lifting of wheat. “We have released a total of Rs 1,163.56 crore to farmers as payment.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/slow-lifting-plagues-markets-in-sangrur-244247
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal puts off visit to mandis||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has put off his scheduled visits to mandis in Mohali, Ropar and Nawanshahar due to the ongoing lockdown in Punjab.A party spokesperson said deputy commissioners of all three districts had requested Sukhbir to postpone his visit to ‘mandis’ keeping in view the weekend lockdown imposed in the state. Badal would visit the mandis when the situation improves, the spokesperson said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-puts-off-visit-to-mandis-244248
26-04-2021||---||Implement ‘one nation, one policy’ for lifting: Rice millers||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 25Taking forward storage issues in Punjab, a rice millers’ association — Rashtriya Sheller Sangh — has written to Piyush Goyal, Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, seeking a ‘one nation, one policy’ for lifting of foodgrains for public distribution from all the states.Be it a routine distribution or a public welfare relief in the times of need, like the ongoing Covid pandemic, food stock should be lifted age-wise to save it from quality and nutrition degradation, it said.Seeking a fair loading and distribution policy, they have urged the Union minister to review the existing policy to “reduce corruption and bring transparency in FCI operations”. According to the association, whereas foodgrains have been loaded from 2020-21 from one state, Punjab still has those procured from the year 2019-2020. Prem Goel, general secretary of the association, says Punjab has a huge stock of old foodgrains (both wheat and rice) as compared to neighbouring Haryana. “Punjab storage is full of rice from 2019-20 while in Haryana it is almost zero. In Punjab, there are 21.722 lakh tonnes of rice from 2019-20. Some quantity from 2018-19 is also there. Besides, 79.758 lakh tonnes of wheat is also lying from previous years,” he said.Urging Goel to issue guidelines keeping this idea in mind the idea of ‘one nation, one policy’, the association said the quality of old food is getting deteriorated day by day and its nutrition value is also reducing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/implement-one-nation-one-policy-for-lifting-rice-millers-244249
26-04-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Farmers' agitation: Despite Covid, crowds swell at protest sites||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 25The surge in Covid cases has failed to deter farmers from joining in large numbers at protest sites across Sangrur and Barnala. At many places, protesters are terming the Covid surge as an excuse by the government to weaken their agitation. The shortage of medical oxygen has become the latest ammunition against the protest, they claim.No dip in numbersOur protest has been going on for the past over 200 days and we have never seen a dip in the number of protesters. — Baljit Kaur, BKU (Ugrahan) ActivistApart from protesting at the Delhi borders against central agricultural laws, farmers are up in arms against the tardy lifting of wheat in various grain markets of Punjab.“Farmers continue to throng all protest sites, even though the agitation has been long and indefinite. We have not missed the protest even for a day and the number of participants continues to rise,” said Narayan Dutt, a farmer activist from Barnala.Initially only elders and youngsters were visible at protest sites, but as they have to agitate against authorities to ensure timely purchase of their wheat, many families are sending their all members.“Protests against the slow purchase of wheat are also happening simultaneously. The participation of farmers and their family members continues to get better,” said Baljit Kaur, a woman activist of BKU (Ugrahan) protesting at a petrol pump near Lehal Khurd village of Sangrur. Jagdev Singh Mangwal, a farmer protesting in front of a BJP leader’s house at Sangrur, says: “We have blocked almost all roads in Punjab and in coming days, we would block the remaining roads of other states too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-agitation-despite-covid-crowds-swell-at-protest-sites-244250
26-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||For Olympian, selling produce Herculean task||Tribune News ServiceMansa, April 25Farmers are protesting against the government daily over the shortage of gunny bags and lifting of produce in the mandis. Now it has come to the notice that Olympian rowing athlete Swaran Singh Virk is facing problems in selling his produce for the past six days at the Dalelwala grain market in Mansa district.Virk said the Punjab Government had been claiming that the crop would be procured from the farmers within 24 hours, but he had waiting in the market for the past six days. Another farmer Sukhmeet Singh said the government had made poor arrangements in the mandis.District Mandi Officer Rajneesh Goyal said the procurement of wheat was in a full swing. He said Virk’s case had come to his notice and Punjgrain officials had been informed. He said problems of Virk and other farmers would be solved soon.AAP leaders Neel Garg, Navdeep Singh Jeeda said the procurement arrangements, including the supply of gunny bags, were poor in all grain markets across the state. They said the Congress government was betraying the farmers at the behest of the Modi government. They warned that if the government did not make proper arrangements, then they would stage a protest in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-olympian-selling-produce-herculean-task-244251
26-04-2021||Moga||Railway ops normal in Ferozepur division||Trains in the Ferozepur division are operating normally and there is no proposal under the consideration of the Railways to halt the services due to resurgence of Covid cases.“All 67 pairs of mail express and 37 pairs of unreserved mail express in each section of the Ferozepur division will continue to operate as usual,” said Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Manager, Ferozepur Railway Division, on Thursday.The train services suspended on March 25 last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic were resumed on February 22 after a period of more than 11 months. Since then, the trains have been running normally on all routes. The DRM said the Ministry of Railways had announced that the special trains would continue to operate and there was no plan to stop them. He appealed to the migrant workers not to pay attention to any kind of rumours and urged them to go to the railway station and book their ticket from the reservation office.Meanwhile, the Railways has denied the reports of any mass movement of migrants from Punjab, Haryana and other northern parts to their home states. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/railway-ops-normal-in-ferozepur-division-244252
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura verdict: Congress colluding with Akalis, alleges AAP||Senior AAP leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema today alleged the quashing of the SIT probe into the sacrilege and firing incident showed that the Congress government had colluded with the Badal family.Cheema said Capt Amarinder had promised the people of Punjab that after coming to power, he would punish the perpetrators of desecration and firing case. He said more than four years had lapsed since the Congress government came to power, but not a single culprit had been convicted. Questioning Capt Amarinder Singh, Cheema asked why was the CM not challenging the decision of the Single Bench of the High Court before a Double Bench. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kotkapura-verdict-congress-colluding-with-akalis-alleges-aap-244253
26-04-2021||---||Resort sealed after Congress bash in Bathinda||Bathinda, April 25Facing flak, the police today arrested the owner of a resort for allowing Congress leaders hold a party in violation of the Covid norms on Friday night. The owner of Three Palms Resort, Rajiv Kumar, was later released on bail.The police earlier sealed the resort and booked the owner and some unknown persons. However, this action has raised more questions as the name of the Congress leader who organised the party has not been included in the FIR.Several Congress leaders, including councillors, had confirmed they had attended the party organised by Mayor Raman Goyal’s husband Sandeep Goyal at the resort on Friday. Photos of the event had gone viral on the social media.Even photos of Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s brother-in-law Jaijeet Singh Johal and son Arjun Badal attending the event were being circulated on the social media. The FM’s office refused to comment on the issue.SSP Bhupinder Jeet Singh Virk said: “Another function was going on at the resort on Friday night. We are probing the matter. We have sealed the palace and registered a case against the owner and unidentified persons.”A few days ago, the police had booked the parents of a bride and groom for holding a ring ceremony with more than 20 guests at Civil Lines Club here. Questions are now being raised on the police booking only the resort owner and not acting against the host, a Congress leader.A case had been registered against Rajiv Kumar at Thermal police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/resort-sealed-after-congress-bash-in-bathinda-244254
26-04-2021||Archit Watts||Pension of 4,084 restored in Muktsar||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, April 25In 2017, the Department of Social Security and Woman & Child Development, during verification, identified 7,441 “fake” pensioners in the district for having reportedly withdrawn Rs 15.7 crore.Three years on, the pension of 4,084 persons has been restored.valid documentsPensions have been restored on the basis of valid documents.Those who are now withdrawing pension meet the conditions laid down by the government.— Naveen Gadwal, District Social Security Officer, MuktsarThe department gives Rs 750 per month as pension to widows, elderly, destitute children and disabled persons. However, the state government in the Budget this year increased the amount to Rs 1,500 per month from July onwards.In July last year, the department had written to all deputy commissioners about 70,137 illegal beneficiaries in the state and asked them to constitute district-level committees, led by district social security officers, to review the recovery process every 15 days.The recovery is, however, negligible so far.District Social Security Officer, Muktsar, Naveen Gadwal, said, “Pensions are restored on the basis of valid documents. Those who are now withdrawing pension meet the conditions laid down by the state government.”About the recovery of pension withdrawn illegally in the past, he said, “We are awaiting orders from the authorities in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pension-of-4-084-restored-in-muktsar-244255
26-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Brutally raped in Kapurthala, 7-yr-old battles for life in PGI||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 25A seven-year-old girl’s life hangs in the balance after she was brutally raped allegedly by a 26-year-old man trusted by her parents. Admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh, the minor was raped on March 15 allegedly by her father’s acquaintance at the Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala. Over a month after she was brutalised, her condition continues to be serious.Want help for treatment: fatherWe are poor. I just want help for my daughter’s treatment. Once she recovers, I wish to educate her and see her become an officer. I urge government to ensure good treatment for her — Victim’s fatherVictim needs eight more surgeriesThe victim has undergone two surgeries and will need at least eight more due to severe intestinal damage. She was shifted to the PGI because she needed a plastic surgeon for internal corrective surgeries — Kanwardeep Kaur, Kapurthala SSPDaughter of a migrant labourer, the girl was raped by the accused on the pretext of getting her biscuits. While her father found her in a pool of blood in jhuggis outside the RCF, her private parts had been brutalised with a piece of wood. As a result, her uterus had to be removed and a colostomy conducted. Post two surgeries, and several more to go, her condition remains serious.The girl’s father, a daily wager from Bihar, along with his wife has been with her at the hospital for the past one month. The couple have four more children who stay at home alone in Kapurthala.“She is the most intelligent of my kids. Now she cries all day. I had been dreaming of getting her good education. Our dreams have been shattered. She writhes in pain all day, injections provide only momentary solace,” he said.“After the rape, on March 16, her uterus had to be removed at Amritsar (hospital). When her condition worsened, she was referred to the PGI. Now, her ultrasound has revealed swelling in stomach and she can’t urinate. Doctors say she will have to be operated again,” he said.The family received some monetary help from the Kapurthala police and local NGO Anmol, he said, seeking financial aid for her treatment.On March 15, accused Mukesh Kumar (26) came to their shanty at Kapurthala and took their daughter out on the pretext of getting her biscuits. After searching for hours, when he didn’t return, the family finally spotted Mukesh in a market. On being pressed about the whereabouts of the girl, he confessed to the crime.The girl was abandoned in jhuggis near the RCF. An FIR was lodged under Sections 376 A&B and 307 of the IPC and 6 of the POCSO Act. The accused is currently lodged in the Gurdaspur jail.Kapurthala SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said: “A few days ago, Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema donated 1 lakh to the family and our local teams have voluntarily been disbursing rations to the family’s children in Kapurthala.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/brutally-raped-in-kapurthala-7-yr-old-battles-for-life-in-pgi-244256
26-04-2021||---||260 whisky boxes recovered in Jalalabad||Our CorrespondentFazilka, April 25The police claimed to have seized 260 boxes of illicit whisky allegedly smuggled from other states in Jalalabad town. The liquor was concealed in scrap on a truck.The police were alerted about an abandoned truck parked along the Gumaniwala road on the outskirts of Jalalabad. On search, 260 boxes, containing 3,120 bottles, of whisky were found concealed in scrap.Most of the boxes were said to be of ‘Blue Stroke’ brand. The driver of the truck has been booked under the excise Act by the Sadar police.Jalalabad DSP Palvinder Singh said the driver was later identified as Remsh Kumar, a resident of Abohar town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/260-whisky-boxes-recovered-in-jalalabad-244257
26-04-2021||---||Drug smugglers open fire at cops, three arrested||Tribune News ServicePathankot, April 25The police have arrested three drug smugglers after a brief encounter in which several rounds of ammunition were exchanged.SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana said two of the suspects, Karandeep Singh and Mandeep Singh, were history-sheeters and that the police had been on their trail for the past one year.The third smuggler has been identified as Hardeep Singh, alias Saba. All three are residents of Mehma Chak village in Gurdaspur district.The incident occurred around 8 pm last night near Jakholahri on the Dinanagar-Pathankor road. Khurana said a police team led by CIA in charge Navdeep Singh spotted a car without a registration plate at a check post at Jakhlolahri.“When the driver, Karandeep, was signalled to stop the vehicle, he opened fire and tried to speed away. However, the team intercepted the car at some distance and arrested the three occupants,” he said.The SSP said 265 gm heroin, a US-made pistol and five cartridges were found from the possession of the suspects. “A team had been formed to identify the recipient of the drugs. While Karandeep faces several cases, Mandeep too was wanted in six cases, including one related to attempt to murder,” he said.A case under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder), of the IPC had been registered at the Pathankot Sadar police station. A case under the NDPS had also been made out against the accused, he added. Meanwhile, the police got a two-day police remand from a local court. “We are interrogating the three. If the need be, more arrests will be made. Security has been beefed up in the district,” said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-smugglers-open-fire-at-cops-three-arrested-244258
26-04-2021||Moga||2 youths found dead in Moga village||The police have recovered the bodies of two drug addicts from a canal on the outskirts of Kishanpura village in Moga district, police officials said today.While there were no signs of injuries on the bodies, murder could not be ruled out, they said. The victims have been identified as Jagjit Singh (22) of Bagia village in Ludhiana and Harjinder Singh (28) of Kishanpura Kalan village in Moga.Preliminary investigations suggested both were friends and addicted to drugs. It was learnt Jagjit often used to come to Kishanpura village to meet Harjinder, who apparently arranged drugs through local sources.They apparently died of overdose and peddlers might have thrown their bodies into the canal, thepolice said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-youths-found-dead-in-moga-village-244259
26-04-2021||Ropar||3 held for killing petrol station owner||The police have arrested three persons in connection with the blind murder of a petrol station owner, Surinder Singh Bhalla, here.The accused have been identified as Balwinder Singh, Amrik Singh and Jaspal Singh, all from Kiratpur Sahib. Bhalla had gone missing on September 30 last year after he left his petrol station at Bunga Sahib for home in the evening. His body was recovered the next day from the Bhakra canal.Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary, at a press conference yesterday, said questioning of primary suspects did not yield results, following which a special investigation team, comprising SP (Investigation) Ajinder Singh, DSP (Detective) Varinderjit Singh and Anandpur Sahib DSP Raminder Singh Kahlon, was constituted.He said the three suspects were friends and were under debt. They hatched a plan to kidnap Bhalla for extortion. Belonging to the same area, they knew the victim used to carry daily cash collection every evening.On September 30, when Bhalla left his petrol station on a scooty, they followed him in a car and attacked him with wooden planks. After overpowering the victim, they took him to a desolated place and asked him to call his family for ransom. However, the victim identified one of the suspects. Out of fear, the suspects assaulted him and threw him in the canal, added the SSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-held-for-killing-petrol-station-owner-244260
26-04-2021||---||HC dismisses plea of MC poll candidate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court has refused to entertain a writ petition filed by a contestant whose candidature was rejected on the ground of being in illegal occupation of government land. The Bench ruled an election petition was the only remedy available to the candidate as the court could not go into the issues where disputed questions of facts were involved.The ruling by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash came on a petition filed by Manjinder Kaur Cheema against the State Election Commission and other respondents. She had moved the court challenging the order passed on February 4 by the returning officer-cum-tehsildar, whereby her nomination papers as an Akali candidate for election as a councillor to the Kapurthala MC was rejected on the ground that she was in illegal occupation of government land.Referring to a plethora of Supreme Court judgments on election laws, the Bench in its 31-page verdict asserted a cumulative reading made it clear that term “election” embraced in it the entire process, right from the issuance of a notification till the declaration of result.Once started, the election process should not be held up or interfered with at an intermittent stage. Adjudication of disputes affecting the ultimate election result should wait till the process was over. At the same time, a petition challenging any part of the election under Article 226 of the Constitution was not completely barred in case the facts and circumstances demanded so.The Bench added the petitioner countered the plea that she was in illegal occupation of government land by claiming that the house on it belonged to her father-in-law. “Still it is not explicable as to why the petitioner would give address of the house owned by his father-in-law. This question can only be gone into after evidence is led and not while adjudicating a writ petition. Thus, only an election petition would be maintainable and not a writ petition,” the Bench added, while dismissing the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-dismisses-plea-of-mc-poll-candidate-244261
26-04-2021||Bathinda||Road to former CM Badal’s village cries for repairs||The Bathinda-Badal road that leads to former CM Parkash Singh Badal’s village has been lying in utter disrepair for a long time now. During the SAD-BJP regime, this 35-km stretch was well maintained. However, after the change of guard at the top-level, it has fallen victim to apathy.It’s has potholes in many areas, lights do not work and the plants on roadsides have withered. Oleander flowers that once lined the road have now been replaced with weeds and shrubs. Apart from SAD president and former Deputy CM Sukhbir Badal, former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and even Finance Minister in the current Congress regime Manpreet Singh Badal also travel via the road to reach their native village.Executive Engineer Tek Singh said, “The estimates for the Bathinda-Badal road were sent last year and this year as well to the higher authorities. The government can better explain about the situation.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-to-former-cm-badals-village-cries-for-repairs-244262
26-04-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda cops book panchayat for banish order||Acting on a complaint given by the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes, the Bathinda police have registered a case against Virk Kalan gram panchayat under the SC/ST Act for allegedly forcing a man out of the village. The Sadar police said Ram Singh of Virk Kalan was allegedly ousted by the gram panchyat after being accused of theft.It is learnt that Ram Singh shifted here from Jawarhewala village in Muktsar 10 years ago. Around one-and-a-half year ago, a theft was reported and Ram Singh was booked based on some CCTV footage on the complaint of villagers. He was jailed.The complainant mentions that the panchayat members gave him an ultimatum to vacate the village before March 6, 2020, and threatened to throw out his belongings if he didn’t move out.Ram Singh maintained that he didn’t steal anything, but had to land in jail and return to the village he lived in a decade ago. His daughter Navjot Kaur, who is pursuing graduation, rued that the incident left the family deeply broken.Gurcharan Singh, Sarpanch, Virk Kalan village, said, “It was not my personal decision. After organising a gram sabha, the decision to oust Ram Singh was taken by residents unanimously.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-cops-book-panchayat-for-banish-order-244263
26-04-2021||Ravi S Singh||Piped water for rural areas by 2022||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 25The Punjab Government has committed to achieving the target of providing piped drinking water to every rural household by 2022, ahead of the national deadline, under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM).Govt plans 8.87L tap connections This was stated during a meeting convened by a national committee of the Ministry of Jal Shakti to discuss Punjab’s Jal Jeevan Mission Annual Action Plan for 2021-22, which was presented by the state viavideo conferencing.The committee appreciated the state’s efforts in providing 100 per cent tap connections in all schools and anganwadi centres. As many as 9.09 lakh tap connections were provided in the past one-and-a-half years under the JJM.So far, four districts, 29 blocks, 5,715 panchayats and 6,003 villages of Punjab had been declared ‘Har Ghar Jal’. The state has 34.73 lakh rural households, of which 25.88 lakh (74.5 per cent) have tap water supply. In 2021-22, the state plans to provide 8.87 lakh tap connections, thereby providing tap connection to every rural household.Punjab has 1,634 habitations that are arsenic, fluoride and other contamination affected. Of these, 558 have been covered, while in the rest, the state will provide potable water in all quality-affected habitations as a short-term measure. The exercise of discussing and finalising the plan of states/ UTs under the JJM is done by the national committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/piped-water-for-rural-areas-by-2022-244264
26-04-2021||---||Addict sets himself on fire, dies||Our CorrespondentFerozepur, April 25Apparently upset over non-availability of drugs, an addict allegedly died by suicide after setting himself on fire at Sodhi Nagar village in Ghallkhurd block of this district. As per information, Jabar Singh (35) had been working as a labourer for the past few years.His wife Parveen Rani, however, claimed Jabar was humiliated by Mithun, following which he got upset and ended his life. Jabar was referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College at Faridkot with 80 per cent burns.Investigation officer ASI Jasbir Singh said a case under Section 306, IPC, had been registered against Mithun at the Ghallkhurd police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/addict-sets-himself-on-fire-dies-244265
26-04-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Chanarthal Kalan Principal leads by example||Crackdown on bikers for noise pollutionFerozepur: Coming down heavily on two-wheeler riders, especially of motorcycles having modified silencers to amplify sound besides multi-tone horns, the police have removed hundreds of such instruments besides imposing penalty on erring youngsters. SSP Bhagirath Singh Meena said the drive was launched considering increase in noise pollution and eve-teasing cases. “More than 200 such silencers and horns have been seized during the past few days”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chanarthal-kalan-principal-leads-by-example-244267
26-04-2021||Vishav Bharti||Punjab’s 6 districts a worry, positivity rate above 15%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25With Punjab reeling under heavy caseload, high positivity rate in six districts has the health authorities worried.In the past one week, (April 18-24), SAS Nagar, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Fazilka, Mansa and Muktsar reported more than 15 per cent positivity rate (confirmed cases out of total samples tested).The health authorities are conducting around 50,000 tests daily. During this period, 3.68 lakh samples were processed across all districts and 37,198 were found positive. The state’s overall positivity rate remained 10.10 per cent.Also read: Among the worst-hit districts, SAS Nagar tops the chart. The district reported 5,776 cases in one week with a positivity rate of 21.99 per cent. It was followed by Ferozepur (723 cases and 16.7 per cent positivity rate). Fazilka, which is one among districts reporting lowest number of cases, too has a high positivity rate of 16.21 per cent. A high positivity rate indicates the extent of pandemic spread.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-6-districts-a-worry-positivity-rate-above-15-244172
26-04-2021||Amritsar||Patients shifted, probe into Amritsar deaths begins||The two-member committee constituted by the state government to fix accountability for the death of six patients at a private hospital here on Saturday has started the inquiry.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh, who is in the committee, stated that the remaining Covid patients from Neelkanth Multispecialty Hospital, where the incident occurred, have been shifted to the Government Medical College (GMC) here. While the shortage of oxygen at the GMC was first flagged on April 19, the private hospitals too had approached the administration over the scarcity on April 23. Health department officials stated that a few trucks of oxygen were received last night. Oxygen for private hospitals was being rationed and supplied as per requirement.Captain sends SOS to Centre on O2 crisisWith oxygen supply in Punjab depleting fast, CM Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday sent an SOS to Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, second time in two days, for urgent hike in allocation.Pvt hospitals waryMeanwhile, as a direct fallout of the tragedy, a few private hospitals refused admission to patients on Sunday. Some of these hospitals, which had positive patients with them, shifted them to the GMC or other better-equipped private hospitals.Confirming the development, Dr Jaspreet Grover, secretary, IMA-Amritsar, said: “A few private hospitals facing shortage of oxygen have shifted Level-3 (critical) patients to GMC and other hospitals.” Private hospitals were still facing shortage as the supply is much less than the demand, he added.The Civil Surgeon, however, said: “We received oxygen supply yesterday. A few trucks have arrived today too. The GMC has set up a 450-bed Covid wing, which has 50 per cent vacancy.”“Oxygen is being supplied to all hospitals, including private ones. Only those hospitals which have issues related to manpower or infrastructure have shifted patients to other hospitals,” he added.District officials said around 25 tonne of oxygen was needed daily, which was much more than the supply. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patients-shifted-probe-into-amritsar-deaths-begins-244174
26-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers’ stir: 17-year-old Dasuya girl pens Inquilab 2020||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 25Amarveer Kaur (17) from Dasuya, Hoshiarpur, has made her presence felt everywhere, including overseas with her book ‘Inquilab 2020’.The book features various events of farmers’ protest so that future generations can read about the struggle of the farming community. This book is based on research conducted on the Indian Peasants Movement (Kisan Ekta Morcha) from September 2020 to December 2020.In the book, Amarveer has mentioned articles and edits from various newspapers to give it authenticity and more weightage. She has documented day-to-day events and remembers all dates by heart.The 17-year-old has also mentioned other issues, which are prevalent in Punjab. Amarveer, who initially planned to write the book in Punjabi, said, “In Punjab, we all know what is going on. This is not only for us, but for those who reside abroad as well.”An excerpt from the book reads: “Farmers are struggling since September 15 against agricultural ordinances (now laws), the fear of which shall snatch their livelihood in the coming decade. The year 2020, proved to be one of the worst years of civilisation. It did no good, but eventually gave momentum to the farmers’ revolution of 2020. Farmers have stood against the injustice for almost 73 years after Independence and before. It is one of the most revolutionary movement in which, not only men, but women participated, along with poor and rich, young and old. In my words, it’s going to be the most dramatic revolution in an independent democratic rule, where, representatives of people try to become rulers and henceforth, plan to become dictators.”She said she was trying to know and understand the world and things around both analytically and emotionally.An allrounder||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-stir-17-year-old-dasuya-girl-pens-inquilab-2020-244091
26-04-2021||---||Farmers’ protest completes 150 days||Sonepat, April 25The farmers’ protest at the Singhu and Tikri borders completed 150 days on Sunday.“Our protest is an example of unity and commitment towards a just cause. The Centre tried several tactics to defame the protest, but farmers held their ground during the past 150 days.“They will not step back without getting the three farm laws repealed,” said Pargat Singh, a leader of the BKU (Rajewal).Other Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders said farmers had already won the battle ethically and morally by protesting peacefully for five months. “The victory will be complete once the Centre repeals the three farm laws and assures legal guarantee on the MSP,” said Dr Darshan Pal, an SKM leader.Another SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said farmers had already opened one side of the road for emergency services in view of the rising Covid cases and cleaned it today, but barricades put up by the Delhi Police had not yet been removed.On the KMP expressway, meanwhile, the authorities tried to re-start toll plazas again today.Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a BKU leader, said: “No toll will be charged till farmers are protesting. If the state government and toll operators try to charge the toll, they will face protest by farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-completes-150-days-244224
26-04-2021||---||Punjabi lyricist Gill Surjit who wrote ‘Shehar Patiale dey’ dies at 74||Patiala, April 24Renowned Punjabi lyricist Gill Surjit died on Saturday. He had been ill for the past few months.He was 74.He is known for many hit songs, including, ‘Shehar Patiale dey munde muchh watt gabhru’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-lyricist-gill-surjit-who-wrote-shehar-patiale-dey-dies-at-74-243566
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||After Sidhu, Punjab minister Randhawa seeks to know who ‘protected’ Badals in sacrilege case||Joining the league with senior party leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab ministers and MLAs are now building up pressure on the state party leadership to know who in the government prevented former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh-led SIT from adding the name of ex-Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal and his deputy Sukhbir Singh Badal in FIRs related to police firing in sacrilege cases, two years after being named in a chargesheet.The party leaders, while referring to the statements made by the ex-IG, are seeking to know which senior police officer prevented him from adding the name of the two Akali leaders in the FIR when police officers had been named.Answers are being sought as to how technical flaws like registering second FIR, non-issuing of challans against Badals and other issued pointed out by the court were not checked by the Legal Remembrance Office or the technical team contesting the case in the court.  A day after the High Court gave detailed judgment post-quashing of the SIT probe into the Kotkapura police firing case, Sidhu tweeted, “How will we get justice? If two years after naming Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal in chargesheet, no challan was filed against them nor their names were added to the FIR, why evidence indicting the two not examined or brought before court? Who is responsible for delaying and weakening the case?“Sidhu has been consistently taking on Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who also holds the charge of Home Minister.While hitting out at Sidhu for not raising the issue on party platform and keeping silent for two years, Co-operation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa also sought investigation and action against the police officers or senior government functionaries of the Chief Minister’s Office who created obstruction in the path of the probe with the alleged intent to protect the Badals.Randhawa along with Amritsar MLA Raj Kumar Verka and MP Ravneet Bittu have sought intervention of the party high command to prevail upon Sidhu to raise issues on party platform.Taking aim at the ex-IG, Sukhjinder Randhawa, who was instrumental in Kunwar’s appointment in the SIT, sought to know as to how technical flaws in the investigation of not naming the Badals in the challan and FIRs were allowed to creep in and no one in the government was vigilant enough to check them. “In the Congress government, which police officer asked the IG to dissuade from adding the names of Badals in the FIR and why no one in the legal team and police department bothered to check it,” he sought to know.Randhawa’s assertion comes in the wake of reports that ex-IG was directly briefing the Chief Minister on the probe and the ministers after an initial meeting were not kept in the loop.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar has already sought action against those who created impediment in the probe. Another MLA said the ex-IG has been nurturing political ambitions and no Congress leader could see through his designs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-sidhu-punjab-minister-randhawa-seeks-to-know-who-protected-badals-in-sacrilege-case-243561
