27-04-2021||Chandigarh||100 Covid deaths, 5,932 fresh cases in Punjab||Punjab on Tuesday reported 100 coronavirus deaths, the biggest fatality count in a day this year, as 5,932 fresh cases took the state’s infection count to 3,51,282, according to a medical bulletin.So far, 8,630 people have died from the infection in the state. The state had seen 106 deaths, its highest daily death number, in September last year.On Monday, 98 people had lost their lives to the viral disease.The number of active cases rose from 49,894 on Monday to 51,936, the bulletin said.Seventeen people died in Amritsar, 13 in Ludhiana, 11 in Mohali and nine in Patiala, it said. Ludhiana saw the maximum number of cases at 1,136, followed by 828 in Mohali, 636 in Bathinda, 565 in Jalandhar and 492 in Patiala. A total of 3,774 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,90,716, as per the bulletin.There are 83 critical patients who are on ventilator while 677 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 70,54,436 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, the state government said during the night curfew from 6 pm till 5 am, all non-essential activities will be prohibited.The weekend lockdown will start from 5 am on Saturday till Monday 5 am. However, all essential activities will remain exempted, according to an official release. Chemist shops and others dealing in the supply of essential items like dairy products, vegetables, fruits and the manufacturing industry have been exempted from the restrictions, subject to the adherence of the COVID protocols, it further said. On Monday, the state government had ordered the closure of shops by 5 pm besides imposing a weekend lockdown and extending the night curfew by two hours. Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported a record 837 fresh infections, taking its total count to 40,350. With the death of six more persons, the fatality count reached 446 in the city, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases was 5,980.A total of 426 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 33,924, as per the bulletin.A total of 3,94,029 samples have been taken for testing so far, of which 3,52,598 tested negative while reports of 94 are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-covid-deaths-5-932-fresh-cases-in-punjab-245008
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Army moving field hospital from Himachal to Chandigarh for setting COVID centre||The Army is moving a field hospital from Himachal Pradesh to Chandigarh after the UT Administration requested the Western Command for setting up a COVID-19 care centre in view of the spike in infection cases.The 100-bed facility will come up at the International Students Hostel in Panjab University’s Sector 25 campus.The Army will begin moving in the equipment and staff tomorrow and the facility is expected to be fully functional in five days.According to Col Jasdeep Sandhu, Director Civil-Military Affairs at Headquarters Western Command, the Army will be providing medicines, oxygen, ambulances and other supplies for the centre, besides doctors, para-medical and support staff.Specialist medical cover will also be provided by the Command Hospital in Chandimandir.In addition, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Research and Education, Sector 12, and the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, would also be available for any support. Civilian doctors would also be deputed for liaison.A meeting was held by the Governor of Punjab and Administrator of Chandigarh, VP Singh Badnore, with officers from Headquarters Western Command today, where modalities for setting up the centre were discussed.The International Students Hostel was selected by the Army after a survey of several sites as it has over a 100 air-conditioned rooms and open space adjacent to it. The Chandigarh Administration had earlier earmarked it as a COVID care centre on payment basis.The Army is also moving a couple of field hospitals from different locations to other cities in the region, besides working with the civilian administration to make oxygen generation plants functional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-moving-field-hospital-from-himachal-to-chandigarh-for-setting-covid-centre-244991
27-04-2021||Bathinda||Congress party bash: Mayor’s husband, 11 others arrested in Bathinda||The police on Tuesday arrested Bathinda Mayor Raman Goyal’s husband Sandeep Goyal along with 11 people, including two Congress municipal councillors, five husbands of Congress councillors and fiveother Congress leaders, who attended the Congress councillors’ party at Three Palms Resorts in Bathinda on Friday night in violation of COVID-19 norms.Apart from Sandeep Goyal, other arrested persons are municipal councillors Sukhraj Aulakh, Rattan Rahi, Congress leaders Vipin Kumar, former MC Sanjay Biswal, Nand Lal Singla, Charanjit Singh alias Bhola, Gurpreet Singh alias Bunty, Gurmeet Singh, Ram Singh Virk and Megh Raj.SSP Bathinda Bhupinder Jeet Singh Virk said, “We have identified and arrested 11 persons today. They joined in the investigation and were released on bail. Further investigation is going on. The remaining will also be arrested within a day or two.”It is pertinent to mention that Congress leaders organised a largely attended celebratory function at Three Palms Resorts, located on the outskirts of the city on Goniana road in Bathinda, in violation of the COVID-19 norms on Friday night.Efforts were made to hush-up the matter but the photos of the party went viral on social media and media highlighted the issue.Facing flak, Bathinda police registered an FIR and arrested resort owner Rajiv Kumar after sealing the resort and today more arrests have been made in this case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-party-bash-mayors-husband-11-others-arrested-in-bathinda-244974
27-04-2021||Moga||Gurlal Brar murder case: Main shooter arrested along with his accomplice in Moga||In a breakthrough, the Moga police led by Senior Superintendent of Police Harmanbir Singh Gill on Tuesday arrested the main shooter of Bambiha group, who gunned down Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide and state president of SOPU Gurlal Brar outside a night club in Chandigarh last year.While giving this information, SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said the arrested person, identified as Beant Singh, a resident of Maadi Mustafa village in Baghapurana sub-division is also wanted in many other cases of heinous crimes, including ransom and dacoity, in various police stations across the state.Beant was arrested along with his accomplice, identified as Sunil Kumar alias Baba of Moga, who has also been facing over 12 heinous criminal cases.He stated that in a special operation, CIA branch of Moga police managed to arrest both the accused persons after recovering five pistols, including two .30 bore and three .32 bore, a huge amount of ammunition and drug powder from their possession.He said in retaliation for the murder of Gurlal Brar, the Bishnoi group killed one person namely Rana near Muktsar and then another, Gurlal Bhalwan, at Faridkot. During preliminary interrogation, accused Beant Singh has revealed that he along with his accomplices Neeraj Chaska and Mandeep Mandy both residents of Jaito in Faridkot had killed Gurlal Brar to avenge the murder of Lavi Deora (associate of Bambiha group), who was killed by members of Bishnoi gang at a fair in Kotkapura in 2017, said the SSP.“Beant further revealed that a person namely Penta, a present sarpanch of his native village, with whom he had an old rivalry was his next target,” said the SSP adding that the further investigations in the case were on.Meanwhile, a case has been registered under section 25 of the Arms Act and section 22 of the NDPS Act at City-II police station, Moga against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurlal-brar-murder-case-main-shooter-arrested-along-with-his-accomplice-in-moga-244957
27-04-2021||Amritsar||HSGPC, other Sikh bodies to honour ex-IG||The Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (HSGPC) and allied Sikh organisations have announced to honour former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in recognition of his services for the ‘panth’.HSGPC president Jathedar Baljit Singh Daduwal said Kunwar Vijay had conducted an ‘unbiased’ probe into the sacrilege incident that led to the killing of two persons in the police firing. He further said Kunwar Vijay would be presented with a specially crafted gold medal at a programme scheduled at the Golden Temple plaza on April 30.“Though the outcome of the probe was a discouragement, but we believe that this honest officer fell prey to the dirty political game. Yet, his services can never be ignored. We, on behalf of Sikh panth, have decided to honour him,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hsgpc-other-sikh-bodies-to-honour-ex-ig-244554
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt colluding with accused: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today accused Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh of colluding with accused persons/officials involved in the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing cases.State AAP president Bhagwant Mann said SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and his aides were celebrating because of the alleged backing of Capt Amarinder Singh. He rued neither the Guru nor the sangat had received justice and neither had any culprit received the punishment.Badals still in dockThe Badals have not yet received a clean chit. Neither the trial has been held nor the investigation has been completed. —Bhagwant Mann, State AAP PresidentHe said the 10th challan of former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh’s SIT in which the names of the former CM and the Deputy CM (Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal), including other accused, were listed for submission, but before that the probe was quashed under a conspiracy.Mann said the celebrations of the Badals suggested Sukhbir had full confidence in his ‘uncle’ Capt Amarinder Singh, who would not let the Badal family get harmed in any way. He said Capt Amarinder had taken oath holding Gutka Sahib within a week of the formation of the government, the culprits of sacrilege and firing cases would be jailed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-colluding-with-accused-aap-244555
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||CM, ministers must step down, says SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today demanded immediate resignation of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh as well as his Cabinet colleagues for ordering a “political inquiry” into an unfortunate incident by a handpicked officer whose findings have been termed malicious, irrational and absurd by the High Court.Addressing a press conference here, SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said besides the CM, others who had held meetings to frame the chargesheet in the case included Navjot Singh Sidhu, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Kushaldeep Dhillon. He said the CM and ministers should put in their papers immediately, but action should be taken against all leaders who politicised the case.Majithia said former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap was chosen by the CM, his colleagues and senior leaders.Majithia also asserted that AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema was also working in tandem with the Congress to target the SAD and simultaneously protect the former IG. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-ministers-must-step-down-says-sad-244556
27-04-2021||---||Faridkot cops fail to get Bishnoi’s custody||Faridkot, April 26The Faridkot police today failed to get the custody of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, a prime suspect in the Youth Congress leader’s murder case, on a production warrant.On April 22, setting aside the gangster’s apprehension of a fake encounter during transit to Faridkot, the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) court here had asked the police to bring him from the Ajmer jail for production in the local court on April 27.Armed with court orders, the Faridkot police approached the jail authorities in Ajmer today for Bishnoi’s custody but were told a team of Delhi Police had already taken him in custody in connection with a criminal case registered against him in the national capital.Delhi Police get the gangster firstThe police will now have to get a fresh production warrant of the gangster. “We will contact the Delhi Police to know how long they intend to keep him in custody. We will then move an application in the CJM court here for a fresh production warrant,” said a senior police officer.Bishnoi is one of the key accused in the murder of District Youth Congress president Gurlal Singh Pehlwan on February 18. The police have been seeking to get his custody for the past two months.Bishnoi had recently moved an application in court, opposing his production warrant, fearing a fake encounter, after the Faridkot police approached the court for his custody. Bishnoi was demanding questioning through video conferencing.However, dismissing Bishnoi’s plea, the CJM court on April 22 observed there was no reason to distrust the police and it should make formal arrest of the accused and make him join investigation in the case. Custodial interrogation of the accused was necessary as Bishnoi was accused of playing a role in the crime at the back stage, observed the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/faridkot-cops-fail-to-get-bishnois-custody-244557
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||High Court notice to Centre on Arms Act amendment||Amendment to the Arms Act, reducing the number of firearms possessed by a person from three to two, has come under the judicial scanner with the Punjab and Haryana High Court putting the Union of India on notice.The notice to the Union of India, through the Ministry of Home Affairs, was issued by Justices Ritu Bahri and Meenakshi I Mehta came on a petition filed by advocate Tejinder Pal Singh Tung through senior advocate GS Bal. Taking up the matter, the Bench also fixed the case for further hearing in July first week.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Bal submitted that the amendment was being challenged only to the extent it restricted the possession of three firearms to two as it was patently illegal, arbitrary and against the mandatory provisions of Articles 14 and 300-A of the Constitution. He submitted one firearm was required to be surrendered without providing any guidelines or purpose by the virtue of the impugned amendment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-notice-to-centre-on-arms-act-amendment-244558
27-04-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Khaira shares stage with Congress minister, sets political circles abuzz||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, April 26Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira today shared stage with Health Minister Balbir Sidhu as both showed unusual bonhomie at an event to unveil a dialysis unit at the Civil Hospital, Bholath, triggering speculation of the former rejoining the Congress ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls.The event was organised by an NGO run by NRIs from Bholath. As minister Sidhu cut the ribbon, Khaira held it for him. Both leaders’ names were on the plaque. During the event, Sidhu made Khaira sit beside him, as both eulogised one another during their addresses.Bholath MC chief Ved Parkash Khurana, representing the Congress, said: “It may bode well for the party. The youth here are eagerly awaiting Khaira’s comeback. He is a mass leader and will be an asset for the party.”No plan to join partyThere is nothing of the sort. The NRIs who donated for the Civil Hospital invited the minister and me to the function. I was there as the Bholath MLA. —Sukhpal Khaira, Bholath MLAThe Congress had got its security deposit forfeited on the seat in 2017 after Khaira quit the party in December 2015 and joined the AAP.Khaira got elevated as the Leader of Opposition, but left the AAP too in January 2019. Since then, he continues to be the MLA as he has not been disqualified by the Assembly. The Congress, too, has been unable to find a suitable replacement for Khaira in the constituency. Khaira, however, dismissed the speculation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khaira-shares-stage-with-congress-minister-sets-political-circles-abuzz-244559
27-04-2021||Rajmeet Singh||New SIT to probe Kotkapura case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26Fireworks were witnessed during the discussion in the Cabinet meeting today on the situation arising after quashing of former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh-headed SIT probe by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.After discussions, the Cabinet decided to reconstitute the SIT and also file a limited SLP in the Supreme Court with regard to observation and conclusion of the High Court which was “beyond its remit and even at times beyond the law.”Upset over the political and administrative failure of the government in taking the SIT probe into the Kotkapura police firing incident to its logical conclusion due to shoddy handling of the investigation, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar and Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa are learnt to have offered their written resignations. However, the Chief Mnister is learnt to have rejected the same.Ministers want Responsibility fixedJoining the issue, Technical Education and Cultural Affairs Minister Charanjit Channi reportedly told the Chief Minister that the responsibility of giving justice to people of Punjab lied on his (the CM’s) shoulder, provided there was conviction and willingness to do so. The ministers wanted responsibility fixed on the officers who acted as impediment to the probe.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, DGP Dinkar Gupta, Advocate General Atul Nanda, Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) and Justice Ranjit Singh (retd) were also present in the meeting.The issue flared up when the Chief Minister expressed his annoyance over some ministers attacking their own government.“The Chief Minister while praising some of the ministers dealing with the Covid-19 situation said those who do not have faith in him were free to resign from the Cabinet. One of the ministers pointed out that it was the prerogative of the CM to keep or remove any minister,” said a minister.It is learnt that Randhawa also pointed out holding of a pre-Cabinet meeting of some of the ministers by Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Sodhi. The PPCC chief too joined the issue before the Chief Minister prevailed upon them.“Who is responsible for embarrassing the Congress government, when the DGP and AG have said they were not involved in the SIT probe by IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. Why action is not being taken against the IG for leaving gaps in the probe,” said another minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-sit-to-probe-kotkapura-case-244560
27-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab to give e-assistance to runaway couples||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26For runaway couples tying knot with trouble after parting way with their families, help will soon be just a phone-touch away. The State has told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that it is making arrangements for providing e-assistance to couples seeking protection. It has also furnished before Justice Avneesh Jhingan’s Bench a blueprint for making safeguards available to them.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Punjab Advocate General Atul Nanda told Justice Jhingan’s Bench that a “new tab” would specifically be created for assistance of the couples seeking protection in the existing state-level grievance redressal portal.An easy access to the Internet for registering grievances would be provided to them through ‘One-stop Sakhi Centre’ in 22 headquarters. Nanda added a working mechanism was proposed whereby grievances would be forwarded to the Deputy Commissioner within 24 hours of receipt. He, with the help of a committee or the SSP concerned, would assess threat perception within 48 hours and do the needful immediately thereafter.“The scope of two 24x7 helpline numbers would be expanded to include couples, who apprehend threat due to marrying against the wishes of the parents or society,” Nanda submitted.Taking a note of the submissions, Justice Jhingan asserted: “If the inputs are implemented in its letter and spirit at the ground level, it would be a great help in such cases…. It is expected that the state of Punjab would go ahead with implementation of the steps suggested in the input report”. Justice Jhingan also directed the forwarding of the copy of the inputs to Haryana Advocate-General Baldev Raj Mahajan and Member Secretary, Haryana State Legal Services Authority, Parmod Goyal.Justice Jhingan has already made it clear that safe houses were required for the runaway couples in each district of Punjab and Haryana along with the UT of Chandigarh. The HC is flooded with petitions seeking protection from such couples. Rough estimates suggest 70 per cent of the petitions being taken during the current restrictive functioning following the Covid outbreak are filed by couples in a live-in relationship or performing marriage against family wishes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-give-e-assistance-to-runaway-couples-244561
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Govt finalises modalities for giving mobile phones to 2.15L students||To facilitate e-learning in government schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Cabinet today approved modalities for distribution of mobile phones to 2.15 lakh students of Class XII for the 2021-2022 session under the Punjab Smart Connect Scheme.The decision was taken during a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh at Punjab Bhawan here this evening. The state government has allotted a budget of Rs 100 crore to the School Education Department for the scheme for the financial year 2021-22.As many as 1,75,443 regular students (boys and girls) studying in Class XII of government schools were given mobile phones last year. It has now been decided to extend the scheme to the students to be admitted to Class XII of the 2021-2022 academic year.In another decision, the Cabinet gave post facto approval to amend Part-II B of the Punjab Public Service Commission (Limitation of Functions) Regulation, 1955, by putting certain posts into commission’s purview. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-finalises-modalities-for-giving-mobile-phones-to-2-15l-students-244562
27-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Amid oxygen rationing, Jalandhar dist falls short of Remdesivir||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 26With the administration is already rationing the oxygen supply in the district, a shortage of Ramdesivir has now been reported in Jalandhar.For the past four to five days, the Remdesvir stocks have dried up, forcing hospitals to send SOS calls to wholesalers — who too, have run out of supply. The drug department, doctors say, has stopped picking up the calls on Monday.On April 24, the drug department formed the State Remdesivir Injection Monitoring Centre and deputed nodal officers to control the supply and black marketing of injections. But doctors alleged the department had been unresponsive amid drying supplies.No info on stockWe’re not getting any injections. I have no clue when the next stock will arrive. Besides, Remdesivir is being allotted by the drug department. Nodal officers only do monitoring, not allotment. —Lakhwant Singh, Nodal officer for remdesivir monitoringSources said the injection sells for Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 on the black market and calls from individuals keen on hoarding the vaccine for personal use were also common.Dr BS Johal, owner, Johal Hospital, said, “We haven’t received Remdesivir for the past five days. We have reports of Remdesivir being supplied to two-three other hospitals while the rest are left watching. The Zonal Licensing Authority (ZLA) did not take repeated calls on Monday. How are we going to treat patients if we are not getting life-saving drugs?”Meanwhile, Dr SPS Grover, MD, New Ruby Hospital, said, “We don’t have a single vial of Remdesivir. Four days ago, we received six vials by the drug department. We need at least 10 to 15 vials a day. Oxygen is already being rationed, now Remdesivir is also unavailable. These are life-saving drugs on which patients are heavily dependent.”Sharanjit Vij, wholesaler, Pratap Medical Agency, said, “We are getting non-stop calls from all hospitals seeking Remdesivir. But we are not receiving any stock. The last delivery was about five to seven days ago. We received 80 vials, which were quickly disbursed as per the need.”Meanwhile, the ZLA said: “I don't have any information about any hospitals being given Remdesivir last night.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-oxygen-rationing-jalandhar-dist-falls-short-of-remdesivir-244563
27-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala hospital sees 31 deaths in 24 hrs||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 26Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, Patiala’s Government Rajindra Hospital reported 31 deaths due to the pandemic over the past 24 hours. With this development, the total toll at the hospital rose to 1,221 since the outbreak of the disease last year. This is the highest number of Covid deaths at the hospital since the deadly virus emerged.Of the 31 patients, 14 were from Patiala, six from Mohali, four Sangrur, two Ludhiana and one each from Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, SBS Nagar, Ropar and Mansa.Sources said the maximum deaths — 13 — were reported from the ICU of the Covid ward at the hospital. Doctors said 19 Covid patients died within 24 hours of the admission while nine passed away within 48 hours.50 Critical patients admitted in 2 daysWe admitted 50 patients in the past two days. Most of the deaths were witnessed within 48 hours of the admission. People were coming to the hospital in a critical condition. —Surbhi Malik, in charge, Covid isolation wardCurrently, around 300 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital.Meanwhile, Surbhi Malik, in charge, Covid Isolation Ward, Rajindra hospital, said, “We admitted 50 patients in the past two days. A majority of deaths were witnessed within 48 hours of the admission.”She said the people were coming to the hospital in a critical condition.Surbhi said the proportion of moderately sick patients was much higher than those in “very sick” and “critical” condition in the previous wave. “It is reverse now. The level three patients (very sick and critical) are more in number this time.” The hospital had all necessary equipment and facilities, including specialist doctors and ventilators, she pointed out.She said as per the data collected from inside the hospital, the people who had taken two doses of vaccine were hardly among the critical patients. “This suggests that the vaccination goes a long way in reducing mortality and extreme sickness,” she said.Following the rising deaths, the mortuary that has the capacity of 14 bodies is running out of space.Meanwhile, Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, said, “We have enough space at the mortuary. Apart from 14 chambers, we have one more room where more bodies can be kept.”30 Army men to Assist medicsThe Patiala district administration has started utilising the services of the Army. In all, 30 Army men on Monday joined duty and will help manage bodies in addition to looking after the sick. “Thirty Army men will help paramedics look after Covid patients at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala," said DC Kumar Amit while reviewing the arrangements. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-hospital-sees-31-deaths-in-24-hrs-244564
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Only 1.9 lakh vax doses left: Govt||The state is left with only 1.9 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine owing to low supply from the Union Government. Of this, more than 1 lakh doses are expected to be exhausted today.Inaugurating a dialysis unit, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said 1.5 lakh beneficiaries got vaccinated on April 25. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had already raised the red flag, demanding regular supply of vaccine and oxygen from the Centre.On the ongoing vaccination drive, the minister said the state government was vaccinating people at primary health centres and health wellness centres besides holding special camps in the rural areas. “We have capacity to vaccinate more than 3 lakh beneficiaries daily,” said Sidhu.He said more than 30,05,083 individuals had been vaccinated in the state so far. Of these, 26,82,393 had received their first dose, while 3,22,690 had got the second shot.He said the government had already urged the Centre to regularise the supply of vaccines as 15 lakh doses were required every week, given the capability of the trained staff and infrastructure to vaccinate 3 lakh people daily.He said the Health Department had written to the Union Ministry of Health on April 22 demanding 10 lakh vaccine doses. In reply, the Centre said it would send only 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield against the demand by Tuesday, he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-1-9-lakh-vax-doses-left-govt-244565
27-04-2021||Arun Sharma||Norms go for a toss at Ropar MC event||Tribune News ServiceRopar, April 26Covid-19 norms went for a toss during the installation ceremony of newly-elected MC president Sanjay Verma, who took oath in the presence of Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon here on Monday.While the state government had prohibited assembly of more than 20 persons during such events, more than 100 persons attended the ceremony, many of whom were without a facemask.Interestingly, the police had arrested a bridegroom last evening for organising a party attended by 30 persons in his fields near Anandpur Sahib.Dhillon, washing his hands of any responsibility in this regard, said he didn’t organise the function and was there only as a guest. Verma, too, said the invite was not sent to so many people. They just thronged the venue due to his “popularity”, he added.SSP Akhil Chaudhary said organising such functions with a gathering of more than 20 persons was an offence and he would take appropriate action after going through the matter.Meanwhile, 147 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Monday, of which 81 belonged only to Ropar block. Beside, two persons succumbed to the virus during the past 24 hours, taking toll in the district to 256 since the epidemic broke out last year. The number of total active cases in the district stood at 1,088 on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/norms-go-for-a-toss-at-ropar-mc-event-244566
27-04-2021||Surinder Bhardwaj||8 civil hospitals, zero ventilator in Fatehgarh||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 26While Fatehgarh Sahib has three MLAs and a doctor MP from the ruling party, none of the eight civil hospitals in the district is equipped with a ventilator to cater to the urgent needs of Covid and other critically ill patients.With the state reeling under crisis, doctors in the district are helpless in treating emergency cases and are forced to refer them to Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, or the PGI, Chandigarh. Some even die on their way.Dr Baljeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Fatehgarh Sahib, said the district had eight hospitals with capacity of 300 beds. There were 112 isolation wards for level two Covid patients.Will get two soonI have spoken to Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who has promised to provide two ventilators at the earliest. — Amrit Kaur Gill, DCAs none of the hospitals has a ventilator, seriously ill patients were referred to hospitals outside of the district. She said they had written to the Health Department to provide ventilators, but were awaiting response. Three advanced life support system machines donated by NGOs had been installed in ambulances, she said.Dr Kuldeep Singh, SMO, Civil Hospital, said being a district headquarter facility, it direly needed a ventilator. The hospital had five anaesthesia specialists and MD doctors to operate ventilators and platforms had been constructed for two machines. There was no shortage of oxygen, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-civil-hospitals-zero-ventilator-in-fatehgarh-244567
27-04-2021||---||Amid surge, rural docs defer Covid duty boycott||Ludhiana, April 26Rural medical officers, who threatened to boycott the Covid duties from Monday if their demand for Dynamic Assured Career Progression (DACP) of cadre is not fulfilled, have deferred the move seeing the recent surge and assurance by the Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat.Demand equal financial benefitThe rural medical officers are wearing black bands to work as a mark of protest. “Rural medical officers are serving in remote areas of the state since 2006. Earlier, they were on contract and were later regularised in 2011. The cadre has been granted salary and allowances on a par with medical officers of the health department. In 2015, they became eligible for the application of DACP, but it has been delayed and the demand is still unfulfilled,” said Dr JP Narula, state president, Rural Medical Services’ Association.“It has been six years since we are eligible but have been denied our right. We had decided to protest but seeing the rising cases and assurance from the minister concerned, we have deferred our decision,” said a rural medical officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-surge-rural-docs-defer-covid-duty-boycott-244568
27-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjabi NRIs rally behind country, vow to extend help||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 26Punjabi NRI MPs and MLAs in the UK and Canada are concerned over situation in India and have promised to extend help in this moment of crisis.UK MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi tweeted, “Situation in India is desperate, with thousands dying every day and more than 3,00,000 Covid cases detected daily. We in the UK must do everything possible to help India in this hour of need”.UK MP Preet Kaur Gill tweeted, “We must support countries like India, which recorded the highest one-day tally of new Covid cases in the world. We can only do this by providing vaccines and sharing knowledge. Failing to bring the pandemic under control, poses risk of new forms of virus spreading.”To send O2 equipmentRachna Singh, NDP MLA and parliament secretary of British Columbia, Canada, tweeted, “The news of Covid crisis in India is heartbreaking. My thoughts are with my family and friends, but especially with the marginalised who have been gravely impacted.”Rallying behind India, even US lawmakers have urged the Biden administration to provide material and healthcare assistance and save lives from the deadly infection.Senator Mark Warner (Democrat) and John Cornyn (Republican) jointly called on the White House to speed up its assistance to India.US Congresswoman Sara Jacobs said providing support to India, including boosting the vaccine programme, was absolutely the right thing to do. “Moving forward, supporting vaccine programmes around the world will be essential. If the last year has shown us anything, it’s that global health impacts all of us.”Even the global NGO, Khalsa Aid, has also announced that it will provide oxygen concentrators to patients in Delhi free of cost. “There is a huge gap between the demand and supply of oxygen, we want to play a miniscule part to bridge that gap. Though our effort is like a drop of water in an ocean, it is much needed. We were getting requests for oxygen so we managed to procure concentrators for the needy poor patients,” said Amarpreet Singh, director, Khalsa Aid Project (Asia Chapter).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-nris-rally-behind-country-vow-to-extend-help-244569
27-04-2021||Raj Sadosh||NGO members assist kin in last rights of victims||Abohar, April 26With the death toll of Covid patients in Abohar fast rising, volunteers of Nar Sewa Narayan Sewa Samiti are assisting the Health Department almost daily in cremation of the deceased.While three infected patients died on Saturday, one succumbed on Sunday. Two patients died on Monday as well. The last rites of the victims are being performed with help of samiti chief Raju Charaya and his team in the presence of the health workers — Tehal Singh and Jagdish Kumar — and relatives of the deceased.Charaya said the last rites have to be performed as per the guidelines of the Health Department. Some rituals are to be performed only by son or other relatives of the deceased. They have to wear personal protective equipment, but sometimes they are not able to perform last rites. “In view of such problems, we wear the kit and help them in performing the last rites, while the health workers also cooperate and give directions,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ngo-members-assist-kin-in-last-rights-of-victims-244570
27-04-2021||---||Hemkund Sahib pilgrimage deferred||Amritsar, April 26Amid spurt in Covid-19 cases, the pilgrimage to Gurdwara Sri Hemkund Sahib has been postponed till the situation gets better. Last year too, the opening of the portals of the Hemkund shrine was postponed to September from May. It was initiated on September 4, 2020, about three months behind the schedule and the portals were closed on October 10. Around 8,000 devotees visited the shrine then.Narinderjit Singh Bindra, vice-president, Sri Hemkund Sahib Management Trust, said in the wake of Covid threat, the situation in Uttarakhand was not favourable for the annual pilgrimage from May 10. He said the next date for opening the shrine had not been decided yet.“As of now, the trust has decided to postpone the pilgrimage. The situation will be reviewed fornightly and the decision will be taken accordingly,” he said.Manager of Gurdwara Gobind Ghat Sewa Singh said almost two-foot fresh snow had accumulated around the shrine in the past few days, though Army personnel had cleared the three-kilometre stretch recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hemkund-sahib-pilgrimage-deferred-244571
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||AAP: No check on hoarders of medicines||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab Youth Wing president and MLA Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said the Union Government had “failed” to crackdown on those hoarding and over-pricing essential Covid-10 medicines like Remdesivir and oxygen cylinders.Meet Hayer said when doctors and scientists had warned in advance about the re-emergence of the pandemic in the country, the Central government did not provide any necessary medical services and made any adequate arrangements to save the lives of the people. He said now hoarders were looting people on essential Covid medicines and oxygen by charging unreasonably and indulging in black-marketing.“Modi has left the states alone to fight Covid and is making false claims in the name of vaccines. The Centre is discriminating in providing vaccines and other essentials to states and are further boosting the business of some of its crony pharmacy companies by working with them in collusion,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-no-check-on-hoarders-of-medicines-244572
27-04-2021||Abohar||Abohar hospital to increase testing capacity||After reviewing the situation arising out of rapid resurgence of Covid in Abohar, DC Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu today appointed MC Commissioner-cum-ADC Abhijeet Kaplish as the chief nodal officer for the Abohar sub-division. Covid test positivity rate in the area has exceeded 16 per cent in the last few days.The Health Department will deploy additional staff at the Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital here to increase Covid testing from 200 to 400 on Tuesday. Fifty more “Fateh kits” were received today. The waiting list stands at 150 again due to the fresh cases. It takes about five days to provide a test report as of now.To prevent contact infections, officials decided that only Covid tests will be conducted at the isolation ward in the hospital now and the vaccination facility has been shifted to three schools located in different areas. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abohar-hospital-to-increase-testing-capacity-244573
27-04-2021||---||Ex gratia, job for martyred sepoys’ kin||Chandigarh, April 26Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday announced ex gratia of Rs 50 lakh, along with a government job each to the families of Sepoys Prabhjit Singh and Amardeep Singh of 21 Punjab, who laid down their lives in the line of duty yesterday.Extending his sympathies with the bereaved families, Capt Amarinder said their utmost dedication to defend the country’s unity and integrity, even putting their lives to risk would inspire their fellow soldiers to perform their duties with far more devotion and commitment. Reportedly, both the soldiers were killed in an avalanche in Siachen glacier.Sepoy Prabhjit Singh, hailed from Hakamwala village in Mansa and is survived by his parents and an elder brother. While Sepoy Amardeep Singh, a native of Karamgarh village in Barnala, is survived by his father and a younger sister. The mortal remains of the martyrs would be reaching their native places from Leh on Tuesday, added the spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-gratia-job-for-martyred-sepoys-kin-244575
27-04-2021||Vishav Bharti & Sushil Manav||Only 1 oxygen hospital plant working in Punjab, none of six in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26Even as the Centre announced installation of three oxygen plants in Punjab last year, it could set up only one. The Centre was to install 162 plants across the country under the PM Cares Fund. The three plants in Punjab were to be installed at the government medical colleges in Faridkot, Patiala and Amritsar. The plant at the Faridkot college became functional last month.Tanu Kashyap, MD, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, said they had submitted a site preparation certificate to the Centre on December 31 last year. “We were told the vendor who was allotted the contract had backed out and that government agencies would do the needful,” the MD said.Still worse, none of the oxygen plants announced for six Haryana districts — Faridabad, Hisar, Karnal, Ambala, Sonepat and Panchkula — are functional. Machinery for the plants was supplied to the district hospitals nearly two-four months ago. Hisar Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni said the company responsible for the installation was to be blamed for the delay. A senior doctor in Ambala, who did not want to be quoted, said the company had assured them that the plant would become functional by Wednesday. Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal Medical Officer, Karnal Civil Hospital, said the hospital authorities had provided the site for the plant in January and the machinery too had arrived in February. “However, till date , we have no information when the engineers of the company will arrive for the installation work,” Dr Sharma said.Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said the oxygen plants would be functional within a day or two. “I have been informed that merely inspection by a central team is pending. That done, the plants will become functional,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/only-1-oxygen-hospital-plant-working-in-punjab-none-of-six-in-haryana-244684
27-04-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Fireworks at Punjab Cabinet meeting as Jakhar, Randhawa offer to resign over Kotkapura SIT probe issue||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26Fireworks were witnessed at Punjab Cabinet meeting on Monday during over two-hour long discussion on the situation arising after quashing of IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh-led SIT probe by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, as a decision was taken to reconstitute SIT and also file a limited SLP in Supreme Court with regard to observation and conclusion of the high court which were beyond its remit and even at times beyond the law.Upset over the political and administrative failure of the government in taking the SIT probe in the Kotkapura police firing incident to its logical conclusion due to shoddy handling of the investigation, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar and Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa are learnt to have offered their written resignation. However, CM Capt Amarinder Singh is learnt to have rejected the same.Joining the issue, Technical Education and Cultural Affairs Minister Charanjit Channi is said to have told the Chief Minister that the responsibility of giving justice to people of Punjab lied on his shoulders, provided there was conviction and willingness to do so. The ministers wanted responsibility fixed of the officers who acted an impediment in the probe.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, DGP Dinkar Gupta, Advocate General Atul Nanda, Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) and Justice Ranjit Singh (retd) were also present in the meeting.The issue flared when the Chief Minister expressed his annoyance over some ministers attacking their own government outside. “The Chief Minister while praising some of the ministers dealing with the COVID situation said those who did not have faith in him were free to resign from the cabinet. One of the ministers pointed out that it was the prerogative of the Chief Minister to keep or remove any minister,” said a minister.It is learnt that Sukhjinder Randhawa also pointed out a pre-cabinet meeting of some of the ministers called by Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Sodhi. Aiming at Sodhi, the PPCC chief too joined the issue before the Chief Minister prevailed.“Who is responsible for embarrassing the Congress government, when the DGP and AG have said they were not involved in the SIT probe by IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh? Why action is not being taken against the IG for leaving gaps in the probe, if any,” asked another minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fireworks-at-punjab-cabinet-meeting-as-jakhar-randhawa-offer-to-resign-over-kotkapura-sit-probe-issue-244535
27-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Punjab tightens restrictions, announces daily lockdown from 6 pm-5 am||The Punjab Government announced stricter restrictions on movement on Monday, advancing weekday curfew by two hours and announcing a strict weekend lockdown—a development that comes as the state’s COVID cases have stretched its healthcare system to capacity.Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said in a tweet that his government was enforcing lockdown from 6 pm to 5 am on weekdays and a weekend lockdown that would begin at 6 pm on Friday until 5 am on Monday.  His tweet, which comes after a cabinet meeting, said: “Due to continuous & rapid rise of #Covid19 cases in Punjab, Cabinet today has decided to impose daily lockdown from 6 PM to 5 AM and weekend lockdown from Friday 6 PM to Monday 5 AM. Urge you all to stay at home & step out only if absolutely necessary. Seek your full cooperation”.Shops must close by 5 pm. “All shops will remain open till 5 pm from Monday till Friday,” said Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar addressing the press after a cabinet meeting here.Currently, curfew hours are from 8 pm until 5 am.The development comes as the state’s healthcare facilities, like those in the rest of the country, come under immense pressure because of the rising COVID cases and dwindling beds, oxygen, and medicines. The state reported over 7,000 new infections cases on Sunday—the highest the state has seen since its first case in March last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-tightens-restrictions-announces-daily-lockdown-from-6-pm-5-am-244519
27-04-2021||Manav Mander||Pics: In Ludhiana, bodies of Covid patients arrive at crematorium in autos, rickshaws||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 26In a stark reality of how the second Covid wave has hit the health infrastructure, bodies of patients succumbing to the virus are being brought to the crematorium in Ludhiana in autorickshaws and cyclerickshaws without following the safety protocol."Forget beds in hospitals, the deceased are being denied dignity even in death," says the family of a 76-year-old man from Focal Point in Ludhiana who died of Covid on Monday.Unable to arrange an ambulance to carry the body, his wife and other relatives opted for an autorickshaw.“The hospital failed to arrange an ambulance nor could we. Left with no option and after a long wait, we got the body in an autorickshaw. Tough times indeed!” said the deceased's wife said, her voice choking with emotions.A few hours later, another body of a Covid patient arrived at the crematorium in Focal Point--in a covered rickshaw.Kanta Rani (60) was admitted to the Civil Hospital. Her sons narrated the same story of helplessness and failure to arrange an ambulance. "How long could we have waited for an ambulance or a hearse van. The cremation had to be done today," they said.There have also been reports of ambulance owners charging hefty amounts to carry Covid victims--Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 for a few km distance.Ranjodh Singh, president of Ramgarhia Educational Trust and Ramgarhia Shamshan Ghat which is cremating the bodies of Covid victims since last year, said, “The haunting scenes at the cremation grounds depict how we are trapped between a raging pandemic and a crumbling healthcare system."He called as inhuman and shameful the incidents of deceased's families being fleeced by some private ambulance owners. Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, Dr Amarjit Kaur said one such case had come to her notice. “It is a lapse on the part of the staff which handed over the body without following protocol. I enquired and came to know that the family was insisting on taking the body as early as possible. We had nine deaths of Covid patients at Ludhiana Civil Hospital today and the families were asked to wait a little and let the ambulance return. Still, I have asked for an explanation from my staff," she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pics-in-ludhiana-bodies-of-covid-patients-arrive-at-crematorium-in-autos-rickshaws-244478
27-04-2021||Patiala||Patiala's Rajindra Hospital reports 31 Covid deaths in 24 hours, mortuary runs out of space||The mortuary of Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala is running out of space as the hospital reported 31 covid deaths over the past 24 hours.Hospital authorities said that that the toll includes three patients, who died at the isolation ward, whose COVID test results were awaited.This is the highest number of COVID deaths at Rajindra Hospital since the emergence of the deadly disease.Following the rising deaths at the hospital, a mortuary that has the capacity of 16 bodies, is running out of space.Sources said that the maximum number of deaths, 13, were reported at the fifth floor (ICU ward) of the eight-story COVID ward of the hospital.With this development, the total death count at the hospital rose above 1,200 since the outbreak last year.Currently, around 259 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital.Surbhi Malik, in-charge, COVID isolation, Rajindra Hospital, said, “We have had 50 admissions of people in the last two days. Also, the majority of deaths were witnessed in their first 48 hours of admission.”She added that the people were coming in very sick.She said the proportion of moderately sick patients was much higher than those in very sick and critical condition in the previous wave. “It is in reverse now. The level three patients (very sick and critical) are much more in number this time.”This is while the hospital has all necessary equipment and facilities for the patients including specialist doctors and ventilators, she pointed out.She said as per data collected from inside the hospital a few days ago, there was hardly anybody among the sickest patients who was already vaccinated.This suggests that getting two doses of vaccination goes a long way in reducing mortality, she said.Meanwhile, Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, said, “We have enough space at mortuary. Apart from 14 chambers, we have one more room which has air conditioners (AC), wherein, more dead bodies can be accommodated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patialas-rajindra-hospital-reports-31-covid-deaths-in-24-hours-mortuary-runs-out-of-space-244447
