29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal, activists of SAD youth wing booked for flouting COVID guidelines||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal along with several other activists of the party’s youth wing have been booked for allegedly flouting COVID-19 guidelines by holding a gathering at Punjab’s Muktsar district, police said on Thursday.Several activists of the Students Organization of India, a youth wing of the Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday had held a gathering at the residence of Badal in Muktsar.Arshdeep Singh Robin Brar, who was newly appointed as president of SOI, along with other activists of the outfit went to meet Badal. The SAD chief even addressed the gathering of more than 100 people.Police registered a case against four people by name, including Sukhbir Badal and Arshdeep Singh Robin Brar, and 100-150 unidentified ones under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), said SHO of Lambi police station Chander Shekhar.       The Punjab government has imposed a ban on all social, political and cultural gatherings in the wake of a resurgence in COVID-19 infection in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-activists-of-sad-youth-wing-booked-for-flouting-covid-guidelines-245953
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 138 more Covid deaths, 6,812 fresh cases||Punjab on Thursday reported 138 COVID-19 deaths, which pushed the toll to 8,909, while 6,812 fresh cases took the tally to 3,64,910 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose to 54,954 from 53,426 on Wednesday.Twenty-one deaths were reported in Bathinda, 18 in Ludhiana, 14 in Amritsar, 12 in Sangrur and 11 in Patiala, among the fatalities reported in the state on Thursday, according to the bulletin.Ludhiana recorded the highest number of fresh cases at 1,350, followed by 888 in Mohali, 595 in Patiala, 515 in Bathinda, 502 in Jalandhar and 478 in Amritsar, it said.A total of 5,059 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 3,01,047, the bulletin said.There are 97 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 648 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 71,63,789 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, the Union Territory of Chandigarh reported 801 fresh infections, taking the tally to 41,923.The death of eight more persons took the toll to 465 in the city, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases is 6,652. A total of 447 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 34,806, it said.A total of 4,01,411 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 3,58,403 tested negative while reports of 68 samples are awaited, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-138-more-covid-deaths-6-812-fresh-cases-245952
29-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Punjab minister slams Navjot Singh Sidhu for criticising Amarinder||Punjab minister Sunder Sham Arora lambasted Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday for his repeated tirades against Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, saying it showed “indiscipline and irresponsible behaviour”.Sidhu has been attacking the state government and the chief minister over the alleged delay in justice in the incidents of desecration of a religious text and subsequent police firing in Faridkot in 2015. He had accused Amarinder Singh of evading responsibility in the 2015 sacrilege case.Amarinder Singh had castigated Sidhu on Tuesday for continuously attacking his government, calling the outbursts “total indiscipline”.Arora reminded the cricketer-turned-politician that the Congress had registered a massive victory under the leadership of Amarinder Singh, who was elected as the chief minister by the party’s high command.The minister stated the Congress gained more strength in Punjab under the “visionary and able” leadership of Amarinder Singh.Questioning the chief minister’s leadership time and again is equal to challenging the party’s leadership, Arora said in Hoshiarpur.Sidhu could have raised any issue within the party platform but not through social media and statements, which was weakening the party, according to Arora.He advised Sidhu to honour the party’s policies as a disciplined leader of the Congress.Arora said the Congress had extended due respect and honour to Navjot Sidhu and the chief minister gave him a significant Cabinet portfolio despite the fact that he “could not fulfil the aspirations of the people”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-minister-slams-navjot-singh-sidhu-for-criticising-amarinder-245936
29-04-2021||Bathinda||50 vehicles gutted in fire at Mahindra Showroom in Bathinda||A major fire broke out at Mahindra Company’s car showroom located on Mansa road in Bathinda early on Thursday morning. In the initial probe, the reason behind the fire is said to be a short circuit.Around 50 vehicles are learnt to have gutted in this incident. The damage caused by the fire is estimated to be in crores.District fire officer Gurmail Singh said it took 20 fire tenders three hours to control the blaze.The incident took place at AVC Motors at Harbans Nagar at 5.30 am. Eyewitnesses saw the smoke and a huge flame coming out of the showroom and informed the fire bridge and police.Canal police station SHO Ganeshwar Kumar said a short circuit sparked the fire.“Besides new cars, vehicles parked in the service area were also burnt. However, there was no casualty,” he said.Kumar said all members of the family that owned the showroom are undergoing Covid treatment at a private hospital in Bathinda city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/50-vehicles-gutted-in-fire-at-mahindra-showroom-in-bathinda-245903
29-04-2021||Bathinda||Oxygen shortage in Bathinda, private hospitals stop new admissions||The ongoing shortage of oxygen supply to private hospitals has left Covid-19 patients staring at a medical crisis, with several hospitals stopping new admissions on Thursday.The shortage has created panic amongst private hospitals, which are claiming that nobody knows how to handle the situation.A private hospital located on Namdev road had to send away 20 patients due to a shortage of oxygen on Wednesday.A private hospital doctor said: “We are very short of oxygen, and was assured that we will get supply by now, but no vendor is responding.”The condition is so critical in Bathinda that a 60-year-old woman was taken to seven hospitals in the city, but she was not given admission as no beds or oxygen were available. She was taken to Bikaner in Rajasthan, where she died at 2 am at night while undergoing treatment.Bathinda IMA president Dr Vikas Chahbra said: “This is a national crisis all across the country, we all along with the Deputy Commissioner were awake last night making arrangements, but oxygen can’t be produced, we have to arrange supply, an oxygen tanker was to arrive here last night, which has not reached till now, due to which problem has been created, if we got the tankers, we would have oxygen for two days”.He also said that some private hospitals have stopped new admissions so as to ensure adequate oxygen supply to the patients admitted who were already admitted.Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said: “Some hospitals are facing problems, while some are trying to keep adequate stock, but we have made teams which will visit and check the stock at private hospitals’.Further, he said yesterday we got oxygen supply, which was supplied to the Adesh Hospital, as around 130 patients are admitted there. We are trying to provide adequate oxygen to all hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oxygen-shortage-in-bathinda-private-hospitals-stop-new-admissions-245891
29-04-2021||Tribune Web Desk Chandigarh||Punjab distributing ration amongst Covid-positive underprivileged families: Capt||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday said the state has started distributing food ration among underprivileged families who have tested COVID positive.We have started distribution of food ration bags containing 10 kg atta, 2 kg sugar & 2 kg channa to underprivileged families who have tested #Covid19 positive. Right now 1 lakh bags have been prepared and if needed we will prepare more. Take care of yourself & stay at home. pic.twitter.com/cQ8ZDYTFSU  In a tweet, Singh said: "We have started distribution of food ration bags containing 10 kg atta, 2 kg sugar & 2 kg channa to underprivileged families who have tested #Covid19 positive. Right now 1 lakh bags have been prepared and if needed we will prepare more. Take care of yourself & stay at home."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-distributing-ration-amongst-covid-positive-underprivileged-families-capt-245876
29-04-2021||---||Congress legislators want CM to act in sacrilege, firing cases||Chandigarh, April 28Being cornered within the party over delay in ensuring justice in the Kotkapura police firing case, more problems seem to be in store for Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh as party MLAs are teaming up to seek time-bound strict action against the perpetrators of sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents.Feeling suffocated Now the effort is to cover up everything. We go to court and issues are compromised. MLAs are feeling suffocated otherwise they would have stood by the Chief Minister.Pargat Singh, Jalandhar Cantt MLA During the second day of interaction of the Chief Minister with MLAs from Doaba and Majha, most legislators sought to know “action or no action” against the Badals if the 2022 Assembly elections are to be fought under his (Capt Amarinder Singh) leadership. As vital time has been lost, the SIT does not matter now but perception among the people matters as it is being seen as betrayal of trust.As the MLAs expressed their concerns to the Chief Minister, Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh on Wednesday made his stand public by stating that instead of beating around the bush, the government should go to the root of the problem and plug it. After meeting the Chief Minister as part of the MLAs group from Doaba, Pargat said instead of conducting surveys of MLAs, the CM should get his survey done to know as to how his image as an able administrator had suffered a dent because the party had won due to image of Capt Amarinder Singh.“Now the effort is to cover up everything. We go in court and issues are compromised. MLAs are feeling suffocated otherwise they would have stood by the CM. We need to correct the perception game or our game for the 2022 elections will be over,” he said to mediapersons.After Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, Pargat Singh has become the second party legislator to target the Chief Minister over the administrative and political failure leading to the SIT probe being quashed. Party sources said with anxiety building up among the MLAs, more of them could go public over the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-legislators-want-cm-to-act-in-sacrilege-firing-cases-245585
29-04-2021||Mansa/Barnala||Tearful adieu to two Siachen martyrs||The mortal remains of Sepoy Prabhjit Singh and Sepoy Amardeep Singh of 21 Punjab Regiment were consigned to flames at their native villages in Mansa and Barnala districts, respectively. The soldiers were killed in an avalanche at the Siachen glacier on Sunday. Prabhjit’s brother lit the pyre of the martyr at Hakamwala village in the Budhlada subdivision of Mansa. A contingent of the Army played ‘The Last Post’ and a gun salute followed. On behalf of Governor VP Singh Badnaur and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner Sukhpreet Singh Sidhu laid the wreath. He conveyed condolences to martyr’s father Jagmel Singh and mother Melo Kaur and ensured all possible help to them. He also said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had announced Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia compensation and a government job for the next of the kin. Others present were Budhlada MLA Budh Ram, former MLA Ajit Inder Singh Moffer, SDM Sagar Setia, Subedar Bhupinder Singh of 21 Punjab Regiment and District Defense Services Officer Col Maninder Singh. In Barnala, the mortal remains of Sepoy Amardeep Singh were consigned to flames with full honour at Karamgarh village. Deputy Commissioner Tej Partap Singh Phoolka said as per the government rule, the 23-year-old soldier’s family would get Rs 50 lakh ex gratia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tearful-adieu-to-two-siachen-martyrs-245586
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure prompt lifting, agencies told||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday directed procurement agencies to ensure prompt lifting of wheat produce and timely payment to farmers through the newly introduced Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system during the ongoing rabi marketing season.Reviewing procurement at a virtual meeting with his Cabinet, the Chief Minister ordered strict adherence to the Covid protocol amid the current surge. He urged all those farmers, arhtiyas, labourers, employees of procurement agencies and other stakeholders over 45 years of age who visit mandis to get themselves vaccinated.On the availability of gunny bags, the Chief Minister was informed by KAP Sinha, Principal Secretary, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, that the issue had been resolved and there was no shortage. As of now, 19.19 crore gunny bags have already been used for wheat packaging. Further, around 30 lakh new bags are being received every day by the agencies and being supplied directly to grain markets across the state, said Sinha.The procurement of wheat commenced on April 10 and in a span of 18 days, 98 LMT wheat has arrived in mandis, of which 95.97 LMT has been procured. Further, 90 per cent of the due payment on the MSP, i.e. Rs 14,958 crore, has been transferred directly into the bank accounts of nearly five lakh farmers. — TNSCabinet hikes aid under Ashirwad schemeThe Cabinet has approved an increase in financial assistance under the Ashirwad Scheme from Rs 21,000 to Rs 51,000 per beneficiary, with directions to clear all payment backlogNod to regularise telecom towersThe Cabinet has decided to regularise all telecom towers installed illegally between December 5, 2013, and December 7, 2020||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-prompt-lifting-agencies-told-245587
29-04-2021||---||Three escape from Patiala jail, probe on||Patiala, April 28In a complete laxity on part of jail officials, three convicts escaped from the Patiala Central Jail early on Wednesday morning by drilling a hole in the cell wall and later escaped by managing to get over a 12-ft wall. The prisons department has now initiated a probe against the jail administration.All three were lodged in the Koratine barrack which houses cells for inmates. The police were investigating how they managed to scale a 10-ft inner wall and then the outer wall which is over 12 ft.“The trio managed to make a hole in the washroom cell wall and later managed to scale outer boundary walls without being noticed,” a source inside the jail said.“We came to know about the escape in the morning. During change of guard, one of the jail guards noticed the hole in the cell wall,” he added. The missing convicts are Sher Singh, Inderjeet Singh Dhiana and Jaspreet Singh Noopi.Sher Singh was deported from the UK to serve a sentence in a drugs case in which he was sentenced to 22 years behind the bars. “He was in the jail for over two years,” said a senior police officer.“There is a hole which they made through the wall of their cell, not the outer wall. We are searching the jail premises as well,” said a senior official. The police have started a probe in the matter. “Raids are on to nab the accused and we have intimated our local police stations,” said SSP Vikramjeet Duggal.IG (Prisons) Roop Kumar Arora said he had initiated a probe and efforts were on to trace those who were in touch with them few days before the escape. “The way they managed to escape points to the fact that they had some external help as well,” he said.Minister should resign, says SADChandigarh: The SAD on Wednesday said the prison break in Patiala was a direct result of the policy of patronage to criminals by the Congress government. It demanded the resignation of Jails Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa on the issue. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-escape-from-patiala-jail-probe-on-245588
29-04-2021||---||Not trying to protect Badals: Amarinder||Chandigarh, April 28Denying that he was trying to protect the Badals in the Kotkapura police firing incidents, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said he had no love lost for them as he was acquitted after 14 years of litigation due to a false case registered against him.Talking in context of allegations of protecting Badals in the sacrilege and police firing cases, the Chief Minister said the name of Parkash Singh Badal would come in the FIR and the challan and it would be put up before the court for trial. The CM who talking to a private channel, he could throw Badals in jail without investigation and proof.Sidhu opportunist Navjot Singh Sidhu is an opportunist. We have reports that he had meeting with AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal. Let him go where he wants. My doors are closed on him. Politics is not all about being a good orator, one has to perform as a minister. — Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief Minister Sharpening his attack on party leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Chief Minister termed him an opportunist. “We have reports that he had meeting with AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal. Let him go where he wants. My doors are closed on him. Politics is not all about being a good orator, one has to perform as a minister. He wanted to be PPCC president or Deputy CM with home portfolio when there are ministers senior to him”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-trying-to-protect-badals-amarinder-245589
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Days after offering to quit, Randhawa skips Cabinet meet||After Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa along with PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar offered to resign during a Cabinet meeting held on Monday, the former was conspicuous by his absence during Wednesday’s meeting.Though present in Chandigarh, Randhawa did not attend the meeting. The Chief Minister has already rejected the offer of Randhawa to resign. Though the minister did not respond to call, sources close to him said not much should be read into his absence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/days-after-offering-to-quit-randhawa-skips-cabinet-meet-245590
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Chief Secy’s death condoled||The Punjab Cabinet, led by CM Capt Amarinder Singh, on Wednesday, condoled the death of former state chief secretary YS Ratra. The CM remembered him as a competent civil servant and a fine gentleman.Capt Amarinder said, “We were commissioned in the Army together, while he took up engineering, I went into the infantry.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-chief-secys-death-condoled-245591
29-04-2021||---||Rs12,817 crore paid via DBT to farmers||Chandigarh, April 28Farmers in Punjab have received over Rs 12,817 crore for their wheat crop through the newly initiated Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), till date.While state government agencies, which have done more than 90 per cent of procurement, have so far paid farmers Rs 12,246.29 crore directly, the Food Corporation of India, which is purchasing wheat directly in 400 odd mandis across Punjab, has paid Rs 571.20 crore to the farmers.While the Punjab Government has released payment for almost 80 per cent of the wheat it has procured, the FCI has released payment for just 41 per cent of the wheat purchased by it.Officials in the central food agency said they were making the entire payment to farmers upfront, and not withholding a part of the dues for packing of wheat or as labour charges. “We are paying Rs 1,975 per quintal to farmers within three days of the purchase,” said a senior FCI official.This is the first time that payment to the farmers is being made directly for the grains procured from them. Though initially there were some hiccups in stabilising the system of making payments, after the information of crop purchase and farmers bank account details was uploaded on the Anaj Kharid portal, state government officials said that the system had stabilised now.DAP fertilisers to be sold at old ratesMoga: The government has directed district-level officers of the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department to ensure that the farmers get phosphatic fertilisers (DAP) at the old rates from the stocks already available with the cooperative societies and private dealers. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs12-817-crore-paid-via-dbt-to-farmers-245592
29-04-2021||Ropar||Ropar school head booked for ‘thrashing’ pupil||The local police have booked Government Girls Senior Secondary School principal Anju Chaudhary for allegedly thrashing a girl student. A video clip went viral last week, in which the principal was seen slapping and pulling the ear and hair of a student on the school stage during assembly hours. While face of the victim was not visible, the video clip seemed to be quite old, as teachers and students were seen in woollens. After the video clip went viral, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla ordered an inquiry with directions to send the accused on forced leave. Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights also sought a report from the District Education Officer. Ropar SHO Rajeev Kumar said a complaint from the district child protection officer had been received. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-school-head-booked-for-thrashing-pupil-245593
29-04-2021||---||Finally, 20K acres of forestland reclaimed, encroachers removed||Pathankot, April 28 Pathankot forest officials have embarked upon a plantation drive on 20,000 acres of forestland, also called the Shahpur Kandi area in the sub-mountainous Dhar block. The drive was initiated following the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order to hand over possession to the forest department after a protracted legal battle between the department and land sharks. Dr Sanjeev Tiwari, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), said in a symbolic start 400 acres of land had been covered with khair, amla and bamboo trees last week. “We expect the entire area of 20,000 acres to be covered by the end of this year,” he added. In 1904, 27,000 acres of forest land was transferred to the Forest department. However, a sizable chunk was encroached upon by politicians, businessmen, hoteliers, bureaucrats, doctors and other professionals after conniving with lower and middle rung revenue officials. In 1986, the department moved the High Court to take ownership rights but a powerful lobby of land sharks managed to get a stay. The stay was vacated in 2014 but the department failed to get control.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finally-20k-acres-of-forestland-reclaimed-encroachers-removed-245594
29-04-2021||Vijay C Roy||98% of oxygen generated by industry in Punjab diverted to hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 28Amid Covid crisis, almost 98 per cent of the oxygen generated by the industry in the state for industrial purposes is being diverted to hospitals. The state has 15 air separation units (ASUs) with a generation capacity of around 60-65 tonnes per day. The remaining capacity is being utilised by pharmaceutical units.According to industry associations, the daily requirement of oxygen by the industry and hospitals during pre-Covid days was 300-350 tonnes per day. “Since the capacity of local ASUs was limited to 60-65 tonnes per day, a bulk of the demand was met from outside the state such as Baddi, Panipat, Dehradun and Roorkee, so we were more dependent on other states for oxygen,” said RS Sachdeva, managing director, Hi Tech Industries. Currently, the use of oxygen for non-medical purposes is not permitted.As an important compound, oxygen is used by industry such as steel-makers, fabrication, pharmaceutical industry and water purification. Steel-makers in Mandi Gobindgarh account for major consumption followed by Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mohali and Dera Bassi. In addition to the industry, there are a few Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation in government hospitals and private hospitals which cater to part of their demands.On an average, the requirement of hospitals was 50-60 tonnes per day during pre-Covid days which has shot upto 250 tonnes now. The daily consumption as per the present caseload for Covid patients is around 200 MT as on April 25, and around 50 MT for non-Covid patients (emergency and other essential requirements that cannot be stopped). This makes the total daily requirement/consumption for Punjab healthcare services of 250 MT of liquid medical oxygen. Currently, out of the total demand, the state would get 165 tonnes from outside the state.250-tonne demandOn an average, the requirement of hospitals was 50-60 tonnes per day during pre-Covid days which has shot upto 250 tonnes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/98-of-oxygen-generated-by-industry-in-punjab-diverted-to-hospitals-245595
29-04-2021||Sameer Singh||Patients want cap on price of medical tests||Tribune News ServiceMansa, April 28With no price cap on medical tests recommended for Covid-19 patients, private laboratories are charging an “exorbitant price” in Mansa district. Patients rued that apart from the Covid-19 test, doctors ask them to get other medical tests done as well, for which they have to go to private labs, as government hospitals do not have the required machinery or equipment.People say the infected patients and those with Covid symptoms undergo a number of medical tests on daily basis as prescribed by doctors. Subsequently, private laboratories are making hay of the situation.Dr Janak Raj Singla, IMA president, Mansa, said, “Apart from RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests, to check the severity of the virus and as per the condition of the patient, on an average six to eight other medical tests are often recommended. Not all are charging arbitrarily. There are some labs that are charging as per the standard rates of medical tests.”Gurdish Singh said, “I have got all my medical tests done from a private lab and I am being charged more than Rs 7,000 for the same. The government must fix charges for these tests.” Dr Sukhwinder Singh, Civil Surgeon, Mansa, said, “We do not require machines for these tests and the government has not fixed rates of these medical tests except for CT scan. We have tied up with a few labs, where tests can be done on fixed rates.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patients-want-cap-on-price-of-medical-tests-245596
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Medical officer dies  of  Covid||Dr Pushpinder Kumar, Senior Medical Officer, Community Health Centre, Bhikhi, succumbed to Covid on Tuesday.Condoling the death, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that it was unfortunate that the Health Department had lost its frontline warrior in fight against the pandemic. He said that Dr Kumar was suffering from comorbidities and had tested positive for Covid on April 23. He was admitted to the ICU at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, April 26 after he started feeling breathless. Dr Kumar recovered briefly, but his condition worsened and he died on Tuesday.The minister said Dr Kumar had received the first dose of vaccine, but before getting the second dose he was infected with the virus. In his condolence message, Sidhu extended his heartfelt sympathies to the bereaved family and relatives of the deceased and prayed to the Almighty to give them the courage to bear grief and grant eternal peace to the departed soul. Dr Kumar is survived by his wife and a daughter, who is pursuing MBBS at Adesh Medical College, Bathinda. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/medical-officer-dies-of-covid-245597
29-04-2021||---||OPDs in 3 govt medical colleges suspended||Chandigarh, April 28The Punjab Government has decided to suspend OPDs in all three medical colleges and hospitals till further orders and reserve all beds in these facilities for Covid-19 patients. However, the emergency services will continue.In a meeting to review the situation of oxygen availability and other requirements here today, Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni instructed the authorities that prompt action was needed if any eventuality came up pertaining to any obstruction in oxygen and any other medical supplies. He said that if any report of oxygen shortage came to notice, then it should be immediately reported to the higher authorities so that necessary steps could be taken.Reiterating the state government was leaving no stone unturned to provide healthcare facilities, the minister directed the Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, to reserve 75 beds in Advanced Cancer Centre, Bathinda, for Covid patients. Stressing that beds in medical colleges and hospitals had been increased, he said the work of installation of oxygen tanks and generation plants was being expedited throughout the state. He also ordered to regularly audit the supply, availability, and usage of oxygen to tap any leakage or pressure drops.CM: Ensure safety of industrial workersMoga: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has asked the Department of Industries and DCs to ensure safety of industrial workers. On the occasion of World Day for Safety and Health at Work, he said the industries must run with the minimum required strength on a rotational basis. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/opds-in-3-govt-medical-colleges-suspended-245598
29-04-2021||Archit Watts||Show of strength at Badals’ residence, FIR against 150||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, April 28Giving two hoots to the Covid-19 guidelines, a large number of SAD workers and activists of its student wing - Student Organisation of India (SOI) – today gathered at the residence of party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal at Badal village here.Sources said they had gathered to thank Sukhbir for appointing Arshdeep Singh Robin Brar as SOI’s president. A number of pictures and videos of the event went viral on social media. In one of these videos, even Sukhbir is purportedly seen standing amid the crowd and addressing them. Further, in a video, Robin Brar is requesting the gathering not to make videos, fearing action for ‘violating’ the Covid guidelines. In these videos, some of them are even seen not wearing face masks. “I had gone to thank Sukhbir Singh Badal for giving me an opportunity to serve the party in a better way. However, my supporters, mostly youngsters, gathered there within no time. I repeatedly told them to follow the Covid guidelines,” said Robin.About today’ gathering, Lambi police station SHO Chander Shekhar said: “A legal action will be taken in this regard.”Covid norms violatedLate on Wednesday evening, the Lambi police registered a case against Robin Brar and nearly 150 unidentified persons for allegedly violating the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the District Magistrate. “A case has been registered,” said SI Chander Shekhar, SHO, Lambi police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/show-of-strength-at-badals-residence-fir-against-150-245599
29-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC extends interim orders till June 30||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 28As India witnessed the world’s highest single-day spike of 3.6 lakh new Covid-19 cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today suo motu extended till June 30 the operation of interim orders, directions and protection granted by it or any other tribunal, judicial or quasi judicial forums subordinate to it. It includes orders requiring compliance by the parties to such proceedings.The Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Suvir Sehgal also made it clear the police would desist from arresting the accused up to June 30, unless it was necessary for maintenance of law and order situation in a cognizable offence prescribing sentence up to seven years. In all, the Bench issued 12 commandments.The Bench added interim orders by the HC or any subordinate court, meant to operate till further orders, would remain in force till modified.The Bench also extended till June 30 the time for filing written statement or “return” in any suit or proceeding pending before any civil court or any other forum, unless specifically directed. The direction would not preclude the parties from filing such written statement or “return” before June 30.The orders of eviction, dispossession, demolition, so far unexecuted, would also remain in abeyance till June 30. Interim protection given in anticipatory bail pleas by the HC or Court of Sessions for a limited period was also extended.Interim bails granted under Section 439, CrPC, specifying an expiry date, were also extended, subject to the accused not abusing such liberty. Parole granted to a person by order passed by a court was also extended. Senior advocate Anupam Gupta was appointed amicus curiae. Among others, Additional Solicitor General of India Satya Pal Jain, Punjab Advocate General Atul Nanda, Haryana AG Baldev Raj Mahajan, Additional AG Deepak Balyan, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain and additional standing counsel Namit Kumar were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-extends-interim-orders-till-june-30-245601
29-04-2021||Muktsar||Fearing lockdown, residents stock up on essentials||While the state government has imposed a lockdown from 6 pm to 5 am on weekdays and planned for a stricter weekend lockdown, locals have resorted to panic buying of essentials.A number of people were seen yesterday stocking up on groceries and other household supplies. “We saw a similar situation last year, hence it is wise to buy essential goods. Now, supplies are available at normal rates. Once the total lockdown is imposed, the prices will go up,” said a local resident, Sonia Kataria.Similarly, Gagan Kumar, another resident, said, “The government had increased restrictions step by step last year. If the situation worsens, the state government may impose a total lockdown.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fearing-lockdown-residents-stock-up-on-essentials-245602
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Former Army chief takes a dig  at CM||A day after CM Capt Amarinder Singh challenged Navjot Singh Sidhu to contest from Patiala and “lose his deposit like Gen JJ Singh (retd)”, the former Army chief hit back saying the CM was hand in glove with the Badals and the 2017 election result was an outcome of that.He joined the issue with Sidhu, who has been hinting at a fixed match between the Chief Minister and the Badals. “You are not acting on the evidence against the Badals in the Kotkapura firing case,” he said, adding Amarinder too had lost security deposit in an election from Patiala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-army-chief-takes-a-dig-at-cm-245692
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 911-cr projects on fast track||The Punjab Government has prioritised projects to the tune of Rs 911 crore for seeking assistance from NABARD during the current financial year.A decision was taken at a committee meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to review the progress of the ongoing NABARD-funded projects in the state here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-911-cr-projects-on-fast-track-245700
29-04-2021||Balwant Garg||Patients in isolation ward flee F’kot hospital, doctors worried||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, April 28Other than taking care of over 250 Covid-19 patients at the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) here, the health department is busy tracking patients, who have escaped from the isolation ward.As many as 96 infected as well as suspected patients are absconding from the medical college here. While some of these are confirmed positive cases, others left before receiving their test report.On Wednesday, there were 10 such patients and suspects, who left the hospital without doctors’ consent. While seven of these ‘absconders’ are confirmed cases, the result of the test of three is awaited.“We are facing this problem on daily basis,” said a senior officer in the GGSMCH. “After a patient or suspect absconds, we immediately inform the health department, so that they can raise the matter before the police. Such incidents pose a massive risk to public health,” he said.The GGSMCH has total 256 patients undergoing treatment. While 200 of these are confirmed cases, the report of 56 is awaited. In the last 24 hours, 15 persons (nine confirmed positive cases and six suspected patients), died here.On Tuesday, there were total 61 new patients, which include 25 infected and 36 suspected.Only eight patients were discharged after curative treatment.25 Beds reserved at Bathinda centreTo deal with the Covid surge, the Baba Farid Univeristy of Health Sciences has decided to reserve 25 beds at its Advanced Cancer Institute at Bathinda. “We have doctors and para-medical staff at this centre and they will take care of patients from Bathinda and Mansa, as they are presently rushing to Faridkot,” said a senior functionary at the university||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patients-in-isolation-ward-flee-fkot-hospital-doctors-worried-245713
29-04-2021||---||Final-yr PG students to continue working as resident doctors||Faridkot, April 28To deal with heavy rush of Covid-19 cases, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has issued instructions to all medical colleges and institutions to continue to utilise the services of final-year postgraduate students as resident doctors (MD and MS) until fresh batches of PG students join the institutions.Due to the pandemic, the admission to PG courses in all medical colleges has been delayed this time. The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test-Postgraduate (NEET-PG) exam for admission in MD/MS courses which was scheduled to be held on April 18 has been postponed for indefinite time.“Consequently, the delay in admission will lead to the delayed starting of academic session 2021-2022 of the PG students and the new batch of these students will join their respective colleges only after counselling which will happen after NEET-PG is held,” said Dr RK Vats, secretary, NMC.Despite them completing practical hours of their course, the PG students are unable to complete their course so far as the final year exams of PG courses have been delayed in many colleges.According the NMC sources, there are 75,236 postgraduate students, 26,969 senior residents, 19,998 non-PG junior residents and 7,748 PG students in super speciality studies in India. All medical colleges in the state, tertiary care centres, are presently facing shortage of doctors in view of increasing rush of Covid patients.Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot which is presently treating over 265 Covid patients and facing shortage of doctors has already invited applications for the walk-in-interview to fill 59 posts of senior resident and senior tutor, junior resident and tutor in various departments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/final-yr-pg-students-to-continue-working-as-resident-doctors-245723
29-04-2021||Fazilka||Oximeters in  short supply as pandemic rages||The shortage of pulse oximeters in the market has left the residents high and dry when the district has been witnessing more than 150 positive cases daily. Hoarding and black marketing of oximeters is stated to be reasons behind the shortage.The investigations conducted by The Tribune revealed that the Chinese-made pulse oximters, which was available in the market for Rs 300 to 400 per piece till last week, is available for Rs 1,000 to 1,200. Similarly, the moderate branded oximeter, which was available for Rs 1,000 to 1,200 per piece, is available for Rs 2,000 to 2,200. Pulse oximeters are reportedly not being supplied with fresh “Fateh kits”.“Traders in Delhi have been demanding three to four times high price for the device which was available at much lesser cost last week,” said Mohinder Sachdeva, a wholesale dealer.Civil Surgeon, Fazilka, Dr Harjinder Singh said he was seized of the issue and had brought it to the knowledge of the higher authorities. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oximeters-in-short-supply-as-pandemic-rages-245728
29-04-2021||Abohar||Vax drive resumes in Abohar||Covid vaccination drive that was suspended after the centre ran out of stocks on Tuesday resumed today. Only 300 people could be inoculated at three centres yesterday.Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital Senior Medical Officer Dr Gagandeep Singh said of the 2,000 doses received today, 500 were given to eligible persons. The vaccination camps at three schools will function normally from 9 am to 2 pm from Thursday onwards. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vax-drive-resumes-in-abohar-245731
29-04-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Struggling hotel industry suffers another blow||Tribune News ServicePathankot, April 28Hundreds of hotels across the state are on the verge of closure following the Covid-induced restrictions even as hoteliers have demanded the cancellation of bar and banquet licence fee till March 31 next year.Nitin Laddi Mahajan, president, Pathankot Hotel and Restaurant Association, said, “The virus has infected our industry so badly that it is virtually on a ventilator. The Punjab Government should give us tax concessions and ensure that power charges are imposed based on industrial tariff and not on commercial basis as being charged at present. Already 50-60 per cent hotels in Punjab have closed down while others are in the process of doing so.”Nitin said the state government had made it clear that hotels would be charged for power on industrial rates. “However, we are being charged at commercial rate which, in any case, is exorbitant. The least government can do is to exempt our bar and banquet fee till March 31 next year,” he added.“In Gurdaspur, the situation has gone from bad to worse following the construction of bypasses, which lets the traffic flow to the neighbouring states of J&K and HP without touching the city,” said Romesh Mahajan, president, Gurdaspur Hotels’ Association.“Earlier, people proceeding to Vaishno Devi, Jammu, Leh, Ladakh, Srinagar, Dalhousie, Dharamsala and other cities of Himachal used to take a break here. However, that is no longer the case,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/struggling-hotel-industry-suffers-another-blow-245732
29-04-2021||---||Education department  re-launches Covid awareness drive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 28On the directions of School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, the School Education Department has re-launched an awareness campaign on the Covid-19 pandemic.Disclosing this, a spokesperson said the Education Minister was concerned about the dire situation due to the pandemic. He has instructed the department to make the public, especially students, aware of the epidemic. The department has started an online and door-to-door awareness campaign. Teachers are being updating the students during online classes about the precautions to be taken against the disease. The department is using social media for the campaign and promotional material is being posted on various social media platforms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/education-department-re-launches-covid-awareness-drive-245734
29-04-2021||Faridkot||ASI held for taking bribe||A special team of Vigilance Bureau today nabbed an ASI of the Punjab Police red-handed while accepting bribe.ASI Balveer Bhatti was nabbed while accepting bribe from the complainant. He allegedly demanded Rs 20,000 to close the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-held-for-taking-bribe-245735
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||142 succumb in Punjab||Punjab on Wednesday recorded the biggest daily jump of 142 fatalities due to COVID-19 that pushed the death toll to 8,772 while 6,472 fresh cases took the cumulative tally to 3,58,186, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases in the state increased to 53,426 from 51,936 on Tuesday, the bulletin stated.Of the latest fatalities, 22 were reported from Gurdaspur, 18 from Amritsar, 17 from Sangrur, 15 from Ludhiana, 12 from Mohali and 10 from Patiala, it said.Ludhiana saw the highest number of fresh cases at 952, followed by 867 in Mohali, 614 in Jalandhar, 597 in Patiala and 501 in Amritsar, among other districts. As many as 5,272 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,95,988, the bulletin said.There are 97 critical patients in the state who are on ventilator support while 700 are on oxygen support, it said.So far, 71,07,801 samples have been collected for testing, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/142-succumb-in-punjab-245473
29-04-2021||---||After Sidhu, Cong MLA Pargat Singh targets Amarinder govt over Kotkapura case probe||Chandigarh, April 28After former Punjab Cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Jalandhar Cantt Congress MLA Pargat Singh has targeted his own government over shoddy investigation in the Kotkapura police firing case.After attending MLAs’ meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Pargat Singh on Wednesday said it was a political and administrative failure and accountability should be fixed for the lapse. He said he told Amarinder that the latter’s graph as CM had gone down as the government was failing to deliver the promises made in the 2017 elections.Pargat becomes the second MLA after Navjot Singh Sidhu to target the government over the failure to give justice to families of the victims of Kotkapura police firing cases. Earlier also, Pargat has been critical of the government over failure to deliver.Meanwhile, the Punjab Cabinet led by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday condoled the death of former state chief secretary YS Ratra.The Cabinet placed on its record its appreciation for Ratra’s service and contribution to Punjab, with the Chief Minister remember him as a competent civil servant and a fine gentleman.Amarinder recalled Ratra, a long-time friend, as a great civil servant. “We were commissioned in the Army together, while he went to Engineering, I went into the Infantry,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-sidhu-cong-mla-pargat-singh-targets-amarinder-govt-over-kotkapura-case-probe-245432
29-04-2021||---||Amarinder was hand-in-glove with Badals and  2017 Assembly election result was outcome of that: Gen JJ Singh||Chandigarh, April 28A day after Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh challenged Navjot Singh Sidhu to contest from Patiala and "lose his deposit like Gen JJ Singh (retd) had done", the former Army chief hit back saying the CM was hand-in-glove with the Badals and the 2017 Assembly election result was an outcome of that.He joined the issue with Sidhu, who has been hinting at a fixed match between the Chief Minister and the Badals.“To pay them back, now you are helping them by acting on the evidence against the Badals in the Kotkapura police firing case,” Gen Singh (retd) tweeted.Gen Singh (retd) said time keeps changing as Amarinder too had lost security deposit in an election from Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-was-hand-in-glove-with-badals-and-2017-assembly-election-result-was-outcome-of-that-gen-jj-singh-245413
