30-04-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Punjab sees 114 more deaths, 6,132 new cases||Punjab on Friday recorded 114 deaths, taking the toll from the pandemic to 9,022, while 6,132 fresh cases raised the infection count to 3,70,973, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 54,954 on Thursday to 55,798.Twenty new deaths linked to the virus were witnessed in Ludhiana, 17 in Amritsar and 12 in Patiala.Mohali recorded a maximum of 857 fresh COVID-19 cases, followed by 792 in Ludhiana, 696 in Bathinda and 544 in Jalandhar.A total of 5,106 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the recovery count to 3,06,153, according to the bulletin.There are 99 critical COVID-19 patients who are on ventilator support while 669 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 72,21,431 samples have been collected for COVID-19 testing so far in the state, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-sees-114-more-deaths-6-132-new-cases-246386
30-04-2021||Ravneet Singh||Pics: Punjab farmers seeking higher compensation for acquired land block roads leading to CM's house||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 30Farmers associated with the Road Kisan Sangharsh Committee on Friday blocked the connecting roads to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh's residence from YPS Chowk and the Main Road here as part of their protest against the state and Union governments, alleging acquisition of their land for the Delhi-Katra expressway at low compensation.The farmers have also decided to carry out a march in the city starting from the Fountain Chowk.The protest, planned days ago, shaped up as over 500 farmers reached Patiala on Thursday in their tractor-trolleys. The farmers associated with the committee have set up their tents near the CM's residence and have been protesting for over 35 days now. This also forced the city police to block all roads leading to the CM's residence for over a month now.Traffic from areas adjacent to the CM residence was also affected as a section of farmers blocked other roads too.Coordinators of the farmers' protest said they had decided to jam all roads of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pics-punjab-farmers-seeking-higher-compensation-for-acquired-land-block-roads-leading-to-cms-house-246305
30-04-2021||Manav Mander||No ‘Fateh kits’, patients approach dispensaries||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, April 29Not getting ‘Fateh kits’ on their doorstep, Covid positive patients in Ludhiana have been visiting dispensaries and healthcare centres for the same after desperate calls to the Civil Surgeon’s office. Not only family members, but patients too have been visiting nearby dispensaries.Violators bookedAmid the surge in Covid cases, the district health officials have clearly failed to ensure ‘Fateh kits,’ consisting of 18 items — including a pulse oximeter, thermometer, steamer, face mask, sanitiser, gargle solution, cough syrup and multi-vitamins — to those infected.A 22-year-old patient from Dugri said he repeatedly called on 104, but to no avail. “Left with no other option, I myself went to the nearby health centre to collect the kit,” he said. The staff at various dispensaries and healthcare centres admitted to people coming to them for the kits.Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said rapid response teams had been constituted in every block, cities and villages to aid those in home isolation. He said the district had received 16,230 ‘Fateh kits’ of which 4,784 had been distributed during this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-fateh-kits-patients-approach-dispensaries-246142
30-04-2021||Saurabh Malik||Investigate illegal detention case, court tells DGP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the Punjab Director-General of Police to probe the illegal detention of a woman and her child by a police officer. Dubbing as “depreciable” their unlawful confinement by the “person in uniform”, Justice Jaishree Thakur made it clear that the DGP would look into the matter at his “personal level” or to refer it to an appropriate authority, not below the rank of an Additional DGP.Directions were also issued to Muktsar Senior Superintendent of Police to forthwith escort the detainee and her child to her matrimonial home. The direction came after the woman appeared before Justice Thakur’s Bench through videoconferencing from the SSP’s office in his presence.In response to Justice Thakur’s query, the woman told the Bench that they were residing with respondent ASI-Bohar Singh. The woman added she was forcibly made to sit in the car along with the ASI on the threat of harming the child. She categorically stated that she would like to return to her matrimonial home and did not wish to reside with Bohar Singh, who had forcibly detained her.In her order, Justice Thakur asserted it was “interesting” to note that ASI Bohar Singh chose not to put in an appearance before the court through videoconferencing even though notice was served on him. “The act does not bode well for him,” Justice Thakur added.The matter was brought to the court’s notice after a habeas corpus petition was filed by the woman’s in-laws against the State of Punjab and other respondents for releasing the woman and their grandchild from the ASI’s illegal detention and to take legal action against him.The Bench was told that Punjab Police personnel came to their house and took away their son on the ground of a complaint against him. Eventually, he was sent to the Faridkot Central Jail. The petitioners along with the daughter-in-law and grandson went to meet him where Bohar Singh was present. Subsequently, he came to their house at night. Next morning, the daughter-in-law and grandson were not around. On enquiry, the petitioner came to know that Bohar Singh had taken them and had implicated their son falsely.Habeas corpus pleaThe matter was brought to the court’s notice after a habeas corpus petition was filed by the woman’s in-laws against the State of Punjab and other respondents for releasing the woman and their grandchild from the ASI’s illegal detention and to take legal action against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/investigate-illegal-detention-case-court-tells-dgp-246041
30-04-2021||Amritsar||Ahead of Parkash Purab, SGPC holds ‘path’, wants curbs relaxed||Amid the Covid crisis, ‘gurmat’ programmes were declared open by the SGPC to mark the 400th Parkash Purab (birth centenary) of Guru Teg Bahadur. An ‘akhand path’ was organised at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal, the birthplace of the Guru, followed by ‘gurmat’ events at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall on the Golden Temple complex. On the first day, ‘bhog’ of 20,000 ‘sehaj paths’ was held in the presence of a small gathering. In view of the Covid scare, symbolic events were held. Bibi Jagir Kaur, SGPC president, urged the devotees to embrace righteousness. A ‘nagar kirtan’ will be taken out from Sri Akal Takht Sahib to Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal on April 30 as part of the event. It will start at 12 noon. On the centenary day on May 1, the ‘bhog’ of ‘akhand path’ will be held at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal and a function will be held at Diwan Hall Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib. “The sangat should not be stopped. The government should also consider giving one-day relaxation from lockdown on Saturday,” said Bibi Jagir Kaur. Earlier, ‘akhand path’ was inaugurated at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal. Bhai Rajdeep Singh offered prayers on the occasion, while Giani Jagtar Singh, head granthi of Golden Temple, recited the holy Hukamnama. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-parkash-purab-sgpc-holds-path-wants-curbs-relaxed-246042
30-04-2021||Parvesh Sharma||PWD plans axing of trees for road widening, Sangrur residents fume||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, April 29After axing trees from internal roads of Sangrur, the proposal of the PWD to cut more trees from the outskirts of the city, has angered the residents again.“Majority of Sangrur city roads have become without trees in the past three years. Now, the PWD officers have decided to axe full-grown trees from the outskirts. The officers should transplant these trees at other locations instead of axing them,” said Inderpal Singh, AAP founder member.The PWD has decided to widen roads, including the stretch from Patiala gate to Patiala road, while another from Police Lines to Barnala road.“Despite being well-aware of the fact that we must plant more saplings to save the environment, the PWD officers are axing trees without any mercy. The CM must look into the matter,” said Hardeep Singh, a local resident.Earlier, on almost all roads there were numerous trees. But they were axed during construction of various roads. Harmale Singh, SDO, PWD (NH), said they had deposited Rs 66 lakh with the Forest Department to convert 2.315 hectares of forest land into into non-forest land. “We have got the first approval. We are waiting for the second approval from the Union Government. We will ensure adequate plantation to maintain the green cover after four-laning of road from Khurana to Barnala bypass,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pwd-plans-axing-of-trees-for-road-widening-sangrur-residents-fume-246043
30-04-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Poll results, CM-Sidhu verbal duel keep state Cong on tenterhooks||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 29Political circles in the Congress are abuzz with a strong link between the impending May 2 poll results in four states, especially Assam and West Bengal, and scaled up intensity of war of words between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu over the delay in giving justice to the families of Kotkapura firing victims.Closed for reconciliationIt is being said the poll results would not only impact the party at the national level but also have a direct bearing on the permutation and combinations in the state Congress, especially in light of party MLAs teaming up to seek time-bound action from the Chief Minister against the perpetrators of the sacrilege and the subsequent police firing incidents.In an apparent anticipation of party high command’s intervention in Punjab after the May 2 poll results in the four states, the cricketer-turned-politician has stepped up his attack on the Chief Minister while riding on the emotive issue of Sikhs that saw two people dying in the Kotkapura police firing.Steps up attack on Captup his attack on Capt Amarinder over the emotive issue of the Kotkapura police firing caseOn the other hand, the Chief Minister by taking Sidhu’s rant against him as gross indiscipline, has closed doors on him for any reconciliation. “To ensure that Sidhu leaves the party at the earliest, leaders close to the Chief Minister are expected to increase their attack on him before the party high command intervenes and balances out things in the state Congress,” said a source in the party. The attack on Sidhu could be scaled up to a level as had happened in 2019, before he resigned as the Local Bodies Minister from the Council of Ministers.Ministers, MPs and other MLAs who speak against the CM also amount to indiscipline, it is being pointed out. Sources close to Sidhu said he was digging in his heels, hoping timely intervention by the party high command. Being a tall leader, the party high command seems to have no alternative to Capt Amarinder Singh. This could result in median-line approach to handle the crisis as the new body of the PPCC has to be announced.The party high command through Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat had been trying to rehabilitate Sidhu in the mainstream politics. The CM has already stated that he did not agree to Sidhu’s demand for the post of PPCC president or Deputy CM with portfolio of Home Department as there were other senior ministers and leaders in the party. So far most of the ministers and MLAs are silent on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poll-results-cm-sidhu-verbal-duel-keep-state-cong-on-tenterhooks-246044
30-04-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Post Pargat’s outburst, Brar ‘eyes’ Jalandhar Cantt seat||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 29After reports of Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh directly hitting out against Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today, political circles remained abuzz that he too was contemplating to quit the Congress along with Navjot Singh Sidhu. Overnight, the Congress leaders who had been eyeing his Assembly seat have become active in the area.There are already reports that CM’s close aide and Jalandhar Cantt ex-MLA Jagbir Brar had already started meeting people in the Assembly seat currently represented by Pargat. Kartarpur Improvement Trust chairman Rana Randhawa, who too is in the race to contest from the seat, went on to demand disciplinary action against Pargat for going public against the CM.He alleged, “For more than four years, Pargat has not nurtured his own constituency. Being a hockey Olympian, he even did not pay proper attention to the needs of the Sansarpur hockey stadium. The village, which has given 14 Olympians in the past, of late became more popular for drug practices.”The party MLAs from Doaba, who were present at the meeting with the CM yesterday, said Pargat seemed aggressive and showed a lot of disenchantment over the Kotkapura firing incident follow-up. Since Pargat also came out and addressed the media taking potshots against the CM, his stand clearly seemed stronger.The association of the hockey Olympian with Sidhu, with whom he had made an entry into the Congress just ahead of the 2017 polls, is also well-known. Pargat had quit SAD as Jalandhar Cantt MLA and both had formed Aawaz-e-Punjab forum ahead of their joining. “If Sidhu quits, which seems quite likely at the moment, Pargat too will surely walk out,” said a party insider.The CM had promised Brar the Cantt seat well before the last Assembly polls, but after Sidhu-Pargat entry was made after a prior commitment of allocating Cantt seat to Pargat, he was forced to move to Nakodar from where he lost. Brar is close to Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, with whom he has family relations.On way out?Political circles are abuzz that Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh too is contemplating quitting the Congress along with Navjot Singh Sidhu. Overnight, the Congress leaders who had been eyeing his Assembly seat have become active in the area||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-pargats-outburst-brar-eyes-jalandhar-cantt-seat-246045
30-04-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||7L farmers bereft of financial aid under PM-Kisan scheme||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 29Over seven lakh farmers in Punjab are bereft of the financial assistance provided under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-Kisan) Yojana. This is because the state government is still trying to figure out the process to verify those who have self-registered for this assistance are genuine land-owning farmers.Till date, over 24 lakh farmers in the state have registered to get the minimum income support from the Government of India under the scheme. While the 17.50 lakh farmers, who had signed up for the scheme through the cooperative societies have been getting the benefit and have received seven instalments of the assistance (Rs 2,000 in each one), the remaining seven lakh are still waiting to avail the benefit.The scheme provides income assistance of Rs 6,000 per annum to farmers. This assistance is given in three instalments in a year, and registered farmers have already received seven. Many farmers vent their ire on the state agriculture department for the administrative delay in getting them onboard as beneficiaries under the PM Kisan Nidhi.Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union Ekta Dakaunda, said though the minimum income assurance provided under the scheme was a pittance, it was still shocking that lakhs of farmers were denied the help under the central scheme because of administrative/governance issues. “Punjab has a high suicide rate among debt-ridden small and marginal farmers. If provided an assured financial assistance, this section of farmers could be prevented from taking any extreme step,” he said.Officials in the state Agriculture Department said they were trying to integrate the details of the seven lakh self-registered applicants under the scheme with their land records. They said those farmers who had registered through the cooperative societies have received seven instalments, and the eighth was expected to be released to them by the GoI soon.Director Agriculture Punjab, Sukhdev Singh Sidhu said the department was trying to put in place a system for the integration of details given by applicants with their land records. “A meeting for finalising the same has been scheduled in the next 10 days. Once this integration is done, patwaris will just have to verify and the eligible beneficiaries will be enrolled,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7l-farmers-bereft-of-financial-aid-under-pm-kisan-scheme-246046
30-04-2021||---||Over 100 LMT of wheat procured||Chandigarh, April 29Punjab has successfully crossed 100 lakh metric tonne (LMT) in wheat procurement despite several challenges, especially the ongoing second wave of amid the pandemic.Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said nearly 77 per cent of total procurement operations had already been accomplished within 19 days after commencement of wheat procurement from April 10. He said of the total estimated arrival of 130 LMT of wheat, the state mandis recorded the arrival of 101.86 LMT so far, of which 100.17 LMT had been procured during the ongoing rabi marketing season (RMS).Nearly 164 per cent more wheat arrived in mandis this year as compared to corresponding period of last year, with 62.44 LMT of wheat had arrived till date in the previous Rabi Marketing Season.Ashu further stated 10.12 LMT of wheat has alone arrived in the mandis of Sangrur district, of which 10.04 LMT had been procured till April 28. He said after Sangrur, Ludhiana and Patiala are amongst the districts with maximum arrival of wheat in the state i.e. 8.25 LMT and 8.16 LMT, respectively. He also stated that 16.48 lakh passes have been issued so far to the farmers through arthiyas to ensure staggered movement of wheat in mandis.He pointed out that the payment worth Rs. 15500 crore has also been paid to 603602 lac farmers under the newly implemented DBT system.RBI extends CCL for state up to May-endChandigarh: The RBI on Thursday extended Cash Credit Limit (CCL) for Punjab up to May for the wheat procurement season. The RBI has extended the CCL of Rs2,953.46 crore till the end of May. With this, the sanctioned limit of Rs21,658.73 crore for April-end has been enhanced to Rs24,612.19 crore up to end of May, according to a spokesperson. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-100-lmt-of-wheat-procured-246047
30-04-2021||---||Nod to Rs2,941-cr proposal for govt schools’ upgrade||Chandigarh, April 29To further strengthen and consolidate the school education in the state, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan approved a proposal of Rs 2,941.83 crore for upgrading the infrastructure, modernisation, and strengthening allied facilities at the government schools under the annual work plan and budget (AWP&B) for 2021-22.Chairing the third meeting of the executive committee of Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, here, the Chief Secretary directed the School Education department to focus on providing the qualitative and competitive education to equip the students with latest education modes and in turn instil the sense of self-confidence among them in this competitive era.Sharing details of the proposal, Mahajan said Rs 591.25 crore will be used for strengthening and upgrading schools, Rs 250.84 crore will be incurred under ICT and digital initiatives, and Rs 1,296.14 crore has been allocated for the major components of the AWP&B such as pre-primary education, teacher training, salary, vocational, inclusive education, and providing uniforms and textbooks to the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nod-to-rs2-941-cr-proposal-for-govt-schools-upgrade-246048
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt to join ‘ardas’ virtually||Owing to the pandemic, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh will virtually join people in offering ‘ardas’ from his residence on the 400th Parkash Purb celebrations of Guru Teg Bahadur on May 1.A spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said the celebrations would begin from the residence of Tourism and Cultural Affairs Minister Charanjit Singh Channi at Morinda from 11 am with ‘gurmat sangeet’, followed by the Anand Sahib ‘paath’, ‘ardas’ for ‘Sarbat Da Bhala’ and ‘Hukamnama’ at the residence of the Chief Minister at 11:45 am.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-to-join-ardas-virtually-246049
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||AAP: CM in pact with Badals in sacrilege cases||Upping the ante against the Congress government, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann today alleged the Capt Amarinder Singh government had been operating under the ‘Dubai Agreement’ in the Bargari and Behbal Kalan-Kotkapura cases. He said as per the ‘Dubai accord’, the Badals were being protected in desecration and killing cases.Mann said Capt Amarinder Singh had stood with the criminals instead of standing with the Guru and the sangat. He said people of Punjab would never forgive the Congress and make it pay in the forthcoming Assembly elections, the same way they taught the Badals a lesson in 2017. “Instead of taking action against the culprits of the Bargari and Behbal Kalan-Kotkapura firing cases, the emphasis was on saving them,” alleged Mann.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-cm-in-pact-with-badals-in-sacrilege-cases-246050
30-04-2021||Bathinda||Dry canals delay cotton cultivation in Malwa dists||Cotton farmers in the Malwa region are perturbed as the cotton cultivation has been delayed due to acute shortage of water. Sirhind canal and Kotla branch canal have been running dry for over a month now. These two canals supply water for irrigation to majority of Malwa districts. Agriculture experts say the period between April 15 and May 15 is the most conducive to start cotton sowing for better yield.With canals running dry and electricity supply to submersible pumps remaining suspended to prevent fire to wheat crop and stubble on fields, there is barely any alternative left for the cotton growers to irrigate their fields. Farmers have threatened if the canal water supply was not restored, they would launch agitation against the state government.“It has been almost a month since water was released in the canal. I am left with no alternative but to wait for either restoration of the canal water or power supply to sow cotton on my five-acre field. It is disappointing to see the crucial period to sow cotton going by. The administration should make adequate provision to ensure farmers get water for irrigation through alternative sources,” said Sukhpal Singh, a cotton farmer from Kot Shamir village in Bathinda.Sarup Singh Sidhu, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal), said: “The government wants farmers to diversify, but it doesn’t want to extend any help. Scores of cotton farmers in the Malwa region are suffering from the government’s indifference. The longer the delay, the more impact it will have on cotton production.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dry-canals-delay-cotton-cultivation-in-malwa-dists-246051
30-04-2021||---||Revive defunct oxygen plants, expedite licensing, says govt||Chandigarh, April 29The state government today directed the Industries and Commerce Department to identify defunct oxygen generating units and other medical supply outlets.Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora said the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government was working to ensure uninterrupted medical supplies, especially medical oxygen and vaccines.“I have already instructed the authorities to identify the industries that have the capacity to produce medical oxygen but don’t have the licence. The government will act swiftly and issue the licence as soon as possible. The supply of oxygen to the industries was stopped and now 98 per cent of it is going towards medical requirements,” the minister said. He stressed the need for making available adequate oxygen because of a high number of oxygen-dependent Covid-19 cases and urged the Centre to ensure adequate supply from other states. The minister asserted that the department and various industry associations were also exploring ways to increase oxygen production.Arora said the department would help identify land and getting consent for establishing a plant, if anyone wanted. He also appealed to the industry to come forward as part of its corporate social responsibility. He urged the state-run oil firms to establish pressure swing adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants and procure cryogenic containers for transporting liquid medical oxygen to meet acute oxygen shortage in the country.The minister further disclosed that the state authorities, including the police, had been directed to ensure free movement of vehicles carrying oxygen amid reports of some states diverting vehicles for local use even as hospitals sent out frantic a appeal for emergency supplies. Punjab has 15 air separation units with generation capacity of 60 to 65 tonnes per day.Provide free vaccine from ESIC: Capt to CentreChandigarh: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday sought directives from the Centre for free vaccine from the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) for all its registered beneficiaries in the age group of 18-45. In a letter to Union Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar, the Chief Minister said such an initiative would be a progressive step towards covering the industrial working class of the country. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/revive-defunct-oxygen-plants-expedite-licensing-says-govt-246052
30-04-2021||---||HC pats social media for reaching out to needy patients||Chandigarh, April 29Just about two days after the Centre instructed Facebook and Twitter to delete tweets critical of the its Covid management, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today patted the social media for its exceptional role in reaching out to the people in urgent need of help.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted it was universally accepted fact that the print and electronic media had become the fourth pillar of democracy, which could change the mindset of the citizens regarding hate crime in the society.“Even in the present Covid-19 pandemic situation, this fourth pillar has done exceptionally commendable job in extending help to both the government as well as the needy citizens. Not only this, even social media is doing a great job in reaching out to the citizens, who are in urgent need of help and all the citizens, whether known or unknown, are extending help to each other,” Justice Sangwan asserted.The observations came as Justice Sangwan granted interim anticipatory bail to an advocate, Amit Ghai, in a case of alleged hate speech. The petitioner’s case was that a video clip, uploaded on Facebook and YouTube by a journalist was, in fact, edited in a manner that it gave one-sided version. The conversation between the petitioner and the Press reporter was not intended to hurt the religious sentiments of any community.Seeking anticipatory bail, his counsel contended media’s role was “very responsible towards the nation building”. But a wrong message was given by a reporter to make sensational news by adding his own content. The case will now come up in May last week for further hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-pats-social-media-for-reaching-out-to-needy-patients-246053
30-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Short on oxygen, Bathinda private hospitals refuse admissions||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 29The shortage of medical oxygen supply to private hospitals has Covid patients staring at a medical crisis, with several refusing to admit Level-3 patients on Thursday.The shortage has created panic among private hospitals. A private hospital on the Namdev road had to send back 20 patients due to the problem on Wednesday.A private hospital doctor said, “We are very short on supply. No vendor is responding to our calls.”A 60-year-old woman, Narmada Devi of Paras Ram Nagar, had to be taken to seven city hospitals on Wednesday, but she was not admitted in any due bed and oxygen shortage. She was then taken to Bikaner in an ambulance, where she died at 2 am during treatment. A doctor at a private multispecialty hospital said, “Though we managed to arrange oxygen, we do not have a regular supply. For this reason many hospitals are not admitting Level-3 ventilator patients.”Dr Vikas Chahbra, Bathinda IMA president, said, “An oxygen tanker was to arrive here last night, but it has not reached yet.” Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon, Civil Surgeon, said, “While some hospitals are facing shortage, some are trying to stock up. Private hospitals are not cooperating with us. We have formed teams, which will visit and check the stock of medical oxygen at private hospitals.”“We had oxygen supplied to the Adesh Hospital yesterday. Over 130 patients are admitted there. We are trying to provide adequate oxygen to all hospitals,” he added.Vax camps to cover 312 bathinda villagesBathinda: To ensure maximum vaccination, the district administration, Bathinda, has started organising special camps, apart from administering vaccine in 10 villages daily. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/short-on-oxygen-bathinda-private-hospitals-refuse-admissions-246054
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||8,400 take jab at grain markets||Ensuring the wellbeing of farmers, arhtiyas, labourers and other stakeholders during the ongoing wheat procurement amid Covid-19, the Punjab Government has vaccinated more than 8,400 persons so far during special camps organised at grain markets across the state.Punjab Mandi Board Chairman Lal Singh said special Covid vaccination camps set up in all 154 market committees in the state to administer vaccine to the people above the age of 45 visiting grain markets during the current rabi marketing season. He further said 8,402 eligible persons, including farmers, arhtiyas, labourers, employees of procurement agencies and other stakeholders had been inoculated to date in the mandis across the state and Patiala was leading in this vaccination drive followed by Ferozepur and Jalandhar mandis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-400-take-jab-at-grain-markets-246056
30-04-2021||---||Ropar council chief among 15 challaned||Ropar council chief among 15 challaned  Tribune News Service  Ropar, April 29 Sanjay Verma, newly elected municipal council chief, and two other councillors have been issued challans by the district police for not wearing masks during the installation ceremony of the former. Besides, fine has also imposed on Balwinder Singh, husband of a councillor, and 11 others, said Akhil Chaudhary, Ropar SSP. The incident was highlighted by The Tribune on April 27. On April 26, Verma was installed new MC president and more than 100 persons, including Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon, attended the function on the municipal council office premises despite the government restricting gatherings to more than 20 persons. The SSP said 15 persons not wearing masks during the function had been identified after the scrutiny of pictures and video clips. Each of them has been issued a challan of Rs 1,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-council-chief-among-15-challaned-246057
30-04-2021||Archit Watts||Day later, Sukhbir booked  for flouting Covid guidelines||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, April 29Acting tough on SAD leaders for allegedly violating Covid guidelines and holding a massive gathering at the residence of SAD chief-cum-MP Ferozepur Sukhbir Singh Badal at Badal village here on Wednesday, the Lambi police have booked Sukhbir, former MLA Malout Harpreet Singh, Student Organisation of India’s newly appointed patron Bhim Waraich, its newly appointed president Arshdeep Singh Robin Brar, and over 150 other unidentified persons.A case under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered. A large number of Akalis had yesterday gathered at the Badal residence here to thank Sukhbir for appointing Brar as SOI’s state president.Sukhbir even addressed the gathering, a video of which went viral on the social media. Brar had appealed to the gathering not to make videos, fearing action for violating Covid guidelines. In the videos and photos that went viral, a number of people were seen without face masks.Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s bother-in-law Jaijeet Singh Johal ‘Jojo’, through his posts on the social media, had mounted pressure on the police to register a case in this regard.Ex-MLA, SOI chief held, later released||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-later-sukhbir-booked-for-flouting-covid-guidelines-246058
30-04-2021||Aman Sood||Patiala jailbreak brings to fore gaps in security||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 29Despite crores spent by the state government on security and prison reforms, inmates continue to manage their way out of prisons. Sources said a probe into the Patiala Central Jail escape on Tuesday had led to almost “limited clues so far”, primarily due to the poor placement of CCTV cameras on the jail premises.The missing convicts include alleged mastermind of the escape Sher Singh of Vanike village in Amritsar, Inderjeet Singh Dhiana of Ranipur village Komboa in Kapurthala, and Jaspreet Singh Noopi of Dhadi village in Roopnagar.A top officer probing the case said there was no clue yet how they managed to flee. “Which route they took and who helped them scale the 16-ft outer jail wall needs a thorough probe,” he said.To execute their escape, the inmates broke out of the bathroom of their cell. Despite the presence of jail guards, the three managed to get away without being noticed. “The cell from which they escaped has a watch tower, but it seems it was left unmanned,” sources inside the jail confirmed.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said an FIR had been registered against the three accused at the Tripuri police station and efforts were on to nab the absconders.ADGP (Prisons) PK Sinha said there were some lapses on part of jail administration as the three managed to give a slip to the prison security. “We will probe the incident thoroughly,” he said.NRI murder convict the mastermindOn November 16, 2009, Harpreet Aulakh, a UK-based NRI and a father of two, got his wife Geeta murdered after she sought to end their marriage. Geeta was attacked in London by two hired killers — Jaswant Singh Dhillon of Ilford and Sher Singh, a teenager from Southall. They both were sentenced to 22 years in jail. Sher Singh was recently shifted to the Patiala prison and is considered the mastermind of the jailbreak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-jailbreak-brings-to-fore-gaps-in-security-246060
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Jail Department recruits 43 Assistant Superintendents||In line with the objectives of flagship ‘Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgaar and Karobar Mission’, the Jail Department has appointed 43 new Assistant Superintendents.Due to Covid restrictions, Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today gave appointment letters to the four candidates as a symbolic gesture and exhorted them to make their mark with strict adherence to the principles of probity and professional competence. Remaining 39 candidates were given appointment letters separately.The minister said the Jails Department was undergoing transformation with the sprucing up of the infrastructure in jails across the state, which include installation of CCTVs to prevent any untoward incident. “Under no circumstances would the atmosphere of jails allowed to be vitiated,” said Randhawa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jail-department-recruits-43-assistant-superintendents-246061
30-04-2021||Abohar||Five bookies arrested||Five persons were held as the police in Hanumangarh, 60 km from Abohar, raided a hotel. Sub-inspector Shambhu Dayal said a case was registered against the accused under relevant scetions of the IPC. Cops also seized two LED TVs, a setup box, two remote gadgets, two chargers and Rs 38,000. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-bookies-arrested-246062
30-04-2021||Abohar||170-kg poppy husk seized||The police seized 160 kg of poppy husk near Hanumangarh and 10 kg in Abohar.  Cops intercepted a truck near Makkasar village on the Suratgarh-Hanumangarh road and seized 160 kg of poppy husk that was reportedly concealed in salt bags. Driver Avtar Singh Nainewal Barnala was arrested under the NDPS Act but owner Pradeep Singh Dhanaula managed to flee.  The police seized 10 kg of poppy husk by intercepting a truck near Abohar and held  driver Mahinderjit Patti and cleaner Sher Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/170-kg-poppy-husk-seized-246064
30-04-2021||Pathankot||Bhatia elected Pathankot Mayor||Panna Lal Bhatia, a five-time councillor, was chosen as the Mayor of the Pathankot Municipal Corporation at an ‘election’ held today, while the posts of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor went to Vikram Mahajan and Ajay Kumar, respectively, both loyalists of MLA Amit Vij. The election was reduced to a mere formality once the news spread yesterday evening that PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar and Vij had given their stamp of approval to Bhatia’s candidature. Caste equations were thrown to the winds as the party thought it prudent to stick to seniority and loyalty. Nitin Laddi Mahajan, whose community holds 35,000 votes in the Hindu dominated Pathankot seat, and Gaurav Wadhera, a Khatri, were strong contenders for two of the three top posts.  The script  saw Vikram Mahajan and Ajay Kumar being catapulted to the top posts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhatia-elected-pathankot-mayor-246065
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Communist leader Dayal passes away||Veteran communist leader Dr Joginder Dayal has passed away in Chandigarh. He was 80.  Dr Dayal, who had been suffering from various health issues for the past five years, had received Covid vaccination last month. He hadn’t been keeping well since then. Dr Dayal, an eye specialist, had been active with the Communist Party of India for the past 50 years. A firebrand leader during his youth, Dr Dayal was called ‘Tiger’ by his contemporaries. During the heydays of communist movement, he served as president of Communist Party of India’s All-India Student Federation as well as president of  All-India Youth Federation.  He is survived by his wife Kanwaljit Kaur and  daughters Aleena, Mankirat and Jasmine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/communist-leader-dayal-passes-away-246066
30-04-2021||---||Low occupancy, trains suspended||Moga, April 29The Railways suspended services of many trains, including a few in the northern states due to low occupancy and surge in Covid-19 cases.According to a spokesperson, the 02013 New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express will remain suspended from May 1 and the 02014 Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express Train from May 2.The 02046 and 02045 Chandigarh-New Delhi-Chandigarh Shatabdi Express trains will also remain suspended from May 1. The 04527 and 04528 Kalka-Shimla-Kalka train service will be suspended from May 1.Similarly, the 04211 Agra Cantonment-New Delhi Intercity will remain suspended from May 2 and the 04212 New Delhi-Agra Cantonment Intercity from May 1.The 12049 and 12050 Jhansi-Hazrat Nizamuddin-Jhansi Gatimaan will be suspended from May 1, the Hazrat Nizamuddin-Pune Express Special Train from May 3 and the 02263 Pune-Hazrat Nizamuddin Express Special Train from May 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/low-occupancy-trains-suspended-246071
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination for all above 18 in Punjab may get delayed: Minister||The vaccination drive for all above 18 years in Punjab may get delayed as the state does not have enough doses of the anti-coronavirus vaccine, its Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Thursday.The inoculation drive for those between 18 and 45 years of age was scheduled to start from May 1."We are not getting adequate doses of vaccines. That is why we are facing problems. We have staff and required infrastructure for vaccination,” Sidhu said addressing the media here.Asked whether the state health authorities will be able to start the vaccination drive for the 18 plus age group from May 1, the minister said, "I feel that we may not start by that time."The state government had placed an order for 30 lakh Covishield doses with the Serum institute of India for vaccination of the 18-45 age group."On Wednesday, we got two lakh doses and prior to that day, we received 1.50 lakh doses. But we do not have any intimation how much we are getting today and tomorrow. If we get at least 10 lakh doses of vaccine, then we can start this programme,” Sidhu said."If we have the vaccine, then we will be able to vaccinate people,” he added.Punjab had earlier also complained of shortage of vaccine for the 45 plus category and had urged the Centre to give 15 lakh doses a week for the state.Due to a shortage of the vaccine, the state government even had to suspend the vaccination drive at several centres.The health minister on Thursday said the state is also facing a shortage of medical oxygen.Against the requirement of 300 metric tonnes per day, the state is getting 105 MT from the Centre and 36 MT from other sources, he said."There is a big gap,” he said, adding that the state government was making all efforts to arrange medical oxygen for COVID-19 patients.The Punjab government has already ordered the closure of industrial operations in order to divert oxygen for medical use.Amid a surge in coronavirus cases and fatalities, Sidhu appealed to people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour.Punjab on Wednesday had reported 142 deaths, the highest ever fatality count in a day since the outbreak of COVID-19, pushing the toll to 8,772.The infection tally on Wednesday stood at 3,58,186. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccination-for-all-above-18-in-punjab-may-get-delayed-minister-245901
