20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, deaths; tally over 900,000||The national capital on Tuesday registered 28,395 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 277 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 905,541 and 12,638 respectively, according to the health department's bulletin. Tuesday figures of cases and deaths in Delhi have been the highest ever since the beginning of the pandemic last year.As many as 19,430 people were recovered/discharged on Tuesday and the total recoveries from the disease are nearing 808,000 while the tally of active cases has gone up to 85,575, the bulletin showed.More than 86,500 tests were done for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours of which 29,802 are rapid antigen and the remaining 56,724 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat, it added. The containment zones in Delhi are at 17,151 while over 40,000 patients continue to remain under home isolation.As the Covid-19 cases in Delhi are increasing rapidly on a daily basis, hospitals are reporting a severe shortage of medical oxygen for the infected patients. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday sought urgent help from the Centre in this regard and said some hospitals are left with few hours of oxygen.Also Read| 'Hospitals have few hours of oxygen': Kejriwal seeks 'urgent' help from Centre"Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen," Kejriwal tweeted. The CM is currently under self-isolation after his wife Sunita Kejriwal tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.Delhi records 28,395 new #COVID19, 19,430 discharges and 277 deaths.Total cases: 9,05,541Total discharges: 8,07,328Active cases: 85,575Death toll: 12,638 pic.twitter.com/ijLx9QFBzKA week-long lockdown has been imposed in the national capital till April 26 with a view to curb the spread of the disease. As per the rules, only essential services and government offices can function while those in private offices are ordered to work from home. Malls, spas, gyms and auditoriums are also closed while groceries, dairies will be kept open during the lockdown period.However, thousands of migrant workers were seen leaving Delhi on Monday night to go back to their native places after the lockdown came into effect. They said the chief minister should have given them more time before shutting down Delhi for a week.Expressing concerns over this, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal urged them to not leave Delhi in panic and assured the government will take care of all their needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-highest-ever-single-day-spike-in-cases-deaths-tally-over-900000-101618937416225.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||'Hospitals left with few hours of oxygen': Kejriwal seeks 'urgent' help from Centre||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal once again expressed concern over reports of oxygen crisis in city hospitals, saying on Tuesday that "hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen."Also Read | Delhi Police create green corridors for movement of oxygen containers"Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen," Kejriwal tweeted on Tuesday evening.Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen."Chaired a review meeting with officials over the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. We're working at war footing to ensure oxygen supply in hospitals and also talking to the central government. A mega effort is also on to increase the number of beds in hospitals," read another tweet posted by the chief minister, translated roughly into English.कोरोना के वर्तमान हालातों पर अधिकारियों के साथ समीक्षा बैठक की, दिल्ली में ऑक्सीजन सप्लाई सुनिश्चित करने के लिए युद्द स्तर पर काम कर रहे हैं, केंद्र सरकार से भी बात कर रहे हैं। बड़े स्तर पर ऑक्सीजन बैड्स बढ़ाने का काम भी जारी है।Kejriwal first expressed concern on acute shortage of oxygen in Delhi's hospitals on Sunday, remarking that it has become an "emergency in Delhi."Del facing acute shortage of oxygen. In view of sharply increasing cases, Del needs much more than normal supply. Rather than increasing supply, our normal supply has been sharply reduced and Delhi’s quota has been diverted to other states. OXYGEN HAS BECOME AN EMERGENCY IN DELKejriwal's tweets come on a day the Delhi high court passed an order, directing "immediate implementation" of Centre's order to suspend supply of oxygen to industries. "Industries can wait, patients cannot. Human lives are at stake," a bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told the central government. The directions came when the bench was hearing a petition regarding Covid-19 tests, which the high court revived on April 19 amid a rise in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | Immediate implementation of order suspending oxygen to industries: Delhi HCOn Sunday, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to state chief secretaries, directing them to take measures to prohibit the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes, except for industries that fall in exempted categories, from April 22. Oxygen is an important element used in the treatment of certain medical infections that arise due to Covid-19. The Centre called the ban "crucial" as there was a demand for liquid oxygen in several states like Maharashtra, Delhi, which have been witnessing a steep rise in their fresh infections of the viral disease.Also Read | Oxygen for industrial use to be diverted for Covid-19 patients: CentreLast week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired several meetings to review the current situation of oxygen supply to various states. Indian Railways has also started special "Oxygen Express" to transport liquid medical oxygen to states.Delhi began a six-day lockdown on Monday night which it will exit at 5am next Monday, as announced by CM Kejriwal. The Capital saw 23,686 new Covid-19 cases on the day, as per a health department bulletin, which took its infection tally to 877,146. The bulletin also showed that 240 more people succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 12,361."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-left-with-few-hours-of-oxygen-kejriwal-seeks-urgent-help-from-centre-101618926506176.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||‘Delhi belongs to you’: Lieutenant governor Baijal urges migrants to not leave national capital during lockdown||As scores of migrant workers were seen leaving Delhi on Monday after the imposition of a week-long lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday urged them to not leave the national capital in panic. Taking it to Twitter, Baijal assured the migrant workers that the Delhi government will take care of all their requirements during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.“All necessary arrangements are being made for you (migrant workers). You run Delhi through with your tireless hard work and the city belongs to you,” he wrote on the microblogging siteEarlier in the day, Baijal had chaired an emergency meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev to take stock of the situation. He directed Kejriwal and Dev to take all steps possible to prevent a reverse migration. The chief minister is currently under self-isolation after his wife Sunita Kejriwal tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.मेरी दिल्ली के सभी प्रवासी नागरिकों से अपील है कि आप घबराहट में दिल्ली छोड़ कर ना जायें।मैं आपको भरोसा दिलाता हूँ कि कोरोना आपदा की इस स्थिति के दौरान सरकार आपकी सभी जरूरतों का ख्याल रखेगी।आपके लिए सभी आवश्यक इंतज़ाम सुनिश्चित किए जा रहे हैं।The Delhi L-G also appointed the principal secretary (home) and the special commissioners as ‘nodal officers’ to handle the overall situation.The government will open shelter homes and also provide free food to migrants in order to ensure they do not leave the city during the period when a lockdown is in place, officials told Hindustan Times on Tuesday. After making the announcement of the week-long lockdown on Monday, Kejriwal appealed to the migrant workers to stay put as it is for a short lockdown and assured that the government will take care of them.However, the distressed migrants said Kejriwal should have given more time before closing down Delhi for a week till April 26. “You should have given us a time period of one to two days before announcing a lockdown so that we could go back home,” one of the migrants told news agency ANI on Monday night after thousands thronged Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal to go back to their native places.Also Read| When will Covid-19 peak in India? Top doctor predictsAccording to the lockdown rules, only essential services and government offices are allowed to operate and section 144 has been imposed across Delhi. Those employed with private offices have been told to work from home. Malls, spas, gyms and auditoriums will remain closed while groceries, dairies will be kept open.Delhi has so far added nearly 878,000 cases and 12,361 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease. On Monday, 23,868 people were found to be infected while 240 succumbed to the disease- the highest single day spike in deaths since the begging of the pandemic last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-belongs-to-you-l-g-urges-migrants-to-not-leave-capital-during-lockdown-101618921084671.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||'Why are we wasting even one vaccine shot?' Delhi HC during hearing on Covid-19||The Delhi high court on Tuesday expressed serious concerns about wastage of Covid-19 vaccines, and stressed on the need to vaccinate more and more people. The court's observations came during a hearing on a petition filed by a lawyer Rakesh Malhotra seeking directions from the court to ramp up tests and take immediate measures to contain the grim Covid situation in the national capital.Citing news reports, the bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said, "The number of vaccines have been wasted is 44 lakh out of 10 crore vaccine. The vials have to be consumed once it has to be opened. Now the once which are not used are being wasted.""Why are we wasting even one shot, why can't we deal with it?" the bench further said.The judges also suggested creating a mobile application consisting of a list of people who can be vaccinated. "Give it to people willing to take it. Those drops which can save the lives, are being wasted," said the court.Talking about the dip in vaccination numbers, the court said, "If we wait for 10 days, the problem may persist. We are losing on valuable and young lives. The pandemic does not discriminate. Whomsoever needs vaccines, give them. Everyone needs vaccination."According to Hindustan Times' vaccine tracker, nearly 5 per cent vaccines are wasted in the national capital.In a meeting with the chief ministers earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that a major part of Covid-19 management is to prevent vaccine wastage and appealed to the youth of the country to help people above 45 to get vaccinated.The Prime Minister said the efforts are being made to improve the maximum manufacturing facility of the vaccine. Meanwhile, the development of new vaccines is also underway, he added.Days after that, Russia's Sputnik V received the approval from India's drug regulator for emergency use during Covid-19 crisis. It will now be used along with Covishield and Covaxin being used in the country for inoculating people as part of nationwide vaccination drive launched on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/why-are-we-wasting-even-one-vaccine-shot-delhi-hc-during-hearing-on-covid19-101618915257368.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police create green corridors for movement of oxygen containers||The Delhi Police created two dedicated corridors on Monday night for smooth passage of two oxygen containers stuck in traffic jams on their way from Greater Noida and Faridabad and prevented a crisis at an outer Delhi hospital, where at least 235 Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment amid depleting oxygen supply. They also arranged 25 cylinders from four hospitals for Sri Balaji Action Medical Institute.“The level of oxygen in our hospital’s liquid oxygen plant was reaching a critical level on Monday night due to a delay in supply through two oxygen containers stuck in traffic jams at Noida and Faridabad borders. As per our protocol, we informed the concerned authorities that provided green corridors and the containers were immediately escorted to the hospital,” said Sunil Sumbli, the institute’s medical superintendent.The containers were carrying around 19,500 litres of oxygen. Also Read | Desperate for help, patients dial police for oxygen, hospital bedsThe Paschim Vihar East Police Station, under whose jurisdiction the hospital comes, formed two escort teams and dispatched them to Greater Noida and Faridabad in separate emergency response vehicles. The teams were directed to contact the drivers of the two containers, find their exact locations, and escort them to the hospital as early as possible. They were asked to keep the sirens and lights of the vehicles on so that motorists could see the emergency and give them clear passage, said a police officer who was part of the operation, requesting not to be named.Additional deputy police commissioner Sudhanshu Dhama said the teams set up dedicated corridors for the containers and escorted them to the hospital. “In the meantime, around 25 oxygen cylinders were also arranged...”The Delhi Police also arranged 20 oxygen cylinders and delivered them to a hospital with 35 Covid-19 patients in outer Delhi’s Nangloi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-create-green-corridors-for-movement-of-oxygen-containers-101618913497626.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Three-fold increase in Covid beds in Delhi since April 3: Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said there has been a three-fold increase in total Covid-19 beds across hospitals in the city since April 3, and around 2,700 more beds will be added within the next six days, even as he expressed concerns about the increase in Covid-19 cases. “The Covid-19 situation in the city is alarming. We are currently recording around 25,000 new cases a day. Going by the rate of increase in cases, it looks like the number of daily cases will soon rise to 28,000 -30,000. In the last 4-5 days, we have been working round-the-clock on providing hospital beds to Covid-19 patients. We are also increasing Covid-19 beds. On April 3, we had 6,071 beds in the city. As of now, we have 19,101 beds. We have increased beds by three times on a war footing in such a short time,” said Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19 management and inter-ministerial coordination, in a video press briefing.Also Read | Kejriwal says will work with MCDs to defeat Covid, blame game begins soon afterHis comments came amid concerns regarding the rate at which hospital beds are getting occupied in the city. As on Tuesday noon, government records said there were 19,124 Covid-19 beds in the city, of which 16,661 (87.12%) were occupied, and there were only 32 ICU beds left in the city – out of a total of 4,447.“On Monday, the DRDO facility opened and all 250 beds got occupied within four hours. In that centre, 250 more beds are awaited. The city’s total Covid-19 bed capacity will increase by around 2,700 in the next 5-6 days,” said Sisodia.He named several Delhi government hospitals -- Burari hospital, Ambedkar Nagar hospital, DDU hospital, Acharya Bhikshu hospital, Raja Harishchandra Hospital and Lok Nayak hospital -- which are likely to witness augmentation of Covid-19 beds capacity in the coming days.On Monday, HT reported that the health department of the Delhi government had issued an order directing the 11 Delhi government-run Covid-19 hospitals to increase their total ward beds by 1,979 and ICU beds by 915. The names of the hospitals cited by Sisodia were mentioned in the order.Addressing concerns over the burden on the healthcare infrastructure, Sisodia said, “We appeal to people not to panic. Don’t rush to hospital on being diagnosed Covid-19 positive. If severe symptoms surface, then consult a doctor and consider checking for hospital availability on the app (Delhi government’s mobile application) and only then go to hospital. Running from one hospital to another exhausts the patients and also burdens the hospitals.”“Also, we have received a large number of complaints from patient attendants that doctors are not monitoring patients regularly. But it is not so. Please understand that you cannot identify doctors clad in PPE kits. So please don’t have such wrong perceptions. Doctors are doing their best and are completely invested in their work, risking their own lives.”In another press briefing, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain also addressed the issue of Covid beds and said, “Nearly 1,000 to 1,500 beds have been increased in the city each day. There were just about 6,000 Covid-19 beds as on April 8, which has now been tripled to over 18,000 beds. But, there has been an unprecedented increase in the number of cases.” He said that the makeshift facility at Radha Soami Satsang Beas is likely to open up on Tuesday, with 600 beds added on Monday at the Commonwealth games village facility. On being asked about patients with severe infection being refused admission without an RT-PCR positive report, the minister said, “There is a shortage of beds in Delhi; over 16,500 beds are already occupied by patients from Delhi as well as outside. Wherever there are beds available, patients are being admitted.” (With inputs from Anonna Dutt)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/threefold-increase-in-covid-beds-in-delhi-since-april-3sisodia-101618904856991.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi L-G holds emergency meeting with CM; govt to provide meals, shelter to migrants||The Delhi government will open shelter homes for migrant workers and provide free meals to them so as to ensure they do not leave the city during the six-day lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the national Capital, senior officials privy to the development said on Tuesday. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has also directed to set up a special committee to tackle the issue of migrant movement from the national Capital and principal secretary (home) and special commissioner of police have been appointed as “nodal officers” for migrant labour welfare.Based on ground reports and visuals that came in throughout the night on thousands of migrant workers wanting to leave through the Delhi-UP border around the Anand Vihar inter-state bus terminal hours after the Delhi government announced a week-long curfew in the national Capital, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal called for an “emergency meeting” with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at 11am on Tuesday. Chief secretary Vijay Dev was also present in the meeting.Also Read | Delhi Metro closes 20 stations to manage crowds amid curfew“The L-G has asked for taking immediate steps to address the issue of panicked reverse migration. He directed the police and district administrations to continuously make announcements saying they need not panic and leave Delhi,” said a senior official who attended the meeting.Chief minister Kejriwal, officials said, assured Baijal that the Delhi government has started making all arrangements for migrant workers. “Existing rain baseras (night shelters) and other DUSIB facilities will be used for housing those who have an issue of shelter. Food will be provided to them. Principal secretary (home) and special commissioner of police have been appointed as nodal officers for migrant labour welfare,” said a second official on the condition of anonymity.The L-G, through advertisements in newspapers on Tuesday, also appealed to people to not leave Delhi and assured that they will be taken care of. “The L-G is closely monitoring the situation and he told CM Kejriwal to meet him again in the evening, if need be,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-holds-emergency-meeting-with-cm-govt-to-provide-meals-shelter-to-migrants-101618901557648.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro closes 20 stations to manage crowds amid curfew||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday, the first day of the week-long curfew in Delhi, closed entry of over 20 stations to manage the peak hour rush. Metro began closing the entry to its stations at 6.30am with New Delhi station, which is near the railway station. DMRC tweeted, “Entry for New Delhi has been temporarily closed to ensure social distancing as part of our crowd control measures. Exit is allowed.” This was followed by Chandni Chowk, Kashmere Gate, Rajiv Chowk, Jhandewalan, RK Ashram Marg, Karkardooma, Preet Vihar, Nirman Vihar, Supreme Court, Anand Vihar, ISBT Vaishali, Shadipur, and Dwarka Mor among others. Also Read | Migrant workers say Kejriwal should’ve given more time before declaring lockdownThere were many stations in the NCR which were also closed as a part of the crowd controlling measure. After the peak hour rush on Tuesday, the DMRC revised its train schedule. A lot of essential service providers, who are eligible to travel by Metro during curfew, were stuck as stations were closed. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “Services during morning (7am-11am) and evening (4pm-8pm) peak hours across the network will be available with a headway (frequency) of 15 minutes. For the rest of the hours of the day, services across the network will be available with a frequency of 30 minutes. In addition, standby trains on each Line will also be available whole day for induction into services as per requirement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-closes-20-stations-to-manage-crowds-amid-curfew-101618896876737.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro shuts entry gates at multiple metro stations to avoid crowding. Check details here||To ensure social distancing, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday temporarily closed entry points of several metro stations.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced a six-day lockdown in the national capital to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases as the city's health system was stretched to its limits. "Entry for the following stations have been temporarily closed to ensure social distancing as part of our crowd control measures: Jhandewalan, R K Ashram Marg, Karkardooma, Preet Vihar, Nirman Vihar, Supreme Court, Anand Vihar, ISBT, Vaishali," the DMRC said in a series tweet.However, exit for all the temporarily closed stations is allowed, it informed the commuters.Other temporarily closed stations are: Shadipur, Dwarka Mor, Tagore Garden, Rajouri Garden, Patel Nagar, Subhash Nagar, Kirti Nagar, Rajendra Place, Moti Nagar, Bahadurgarh City, Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Shyam Park, Raj Bagh and Mohan Nagar.Also, according to the DMRC, restricted entry is allowed for stations such as Rajiv Chowk, MG Road, New Delhi and Chandni Chowk as part of the crowd control measures.Metro trains are running on a reduced frequency during the six-day lockdown in Delhi over an exponential rise in coronavirus cases."Services during morning (8 AM to 10 AM) and evening (5 PM to 7 PM) peak hours across the network will be available with a headway (frequency) of 30 minutes," the DMRC said in a statement on Monday."For the rest of the hours of the day, services across the network will be available with a frequency of 60 minutes only," it added.Metro services can be availed only by the exempted category of people on the production of valid identity proof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-shuts-entry-gates-at-multiple-metro-stations-to-avoid-crowding-101618896361880.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Manmohan Singh's condition stable, under best possible care: Harsh Vardhan||The condition of former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and is admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi for treatment, is stable, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday. "Followed up on Dr Manmohan Singh Ji's health with the medical team attending to him at AIIMS, Delhi. His condition is stable. Best possible care is being provided to him. We all pray for his quick recovery," Harsh Vardhan tweeted.Followed up on Dr Manmohan Singh Ji’s health with the medical team attending to him at AIIMS, Delhi. His condition is stable.Best possible care is being provided to him. We all pray for his quick recovery.The 88-year-old Congress leader was diagnosed with Covid-19 and was on Monday admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre. Several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Sonia Gandhi, wished him a quick recovery and good health. "Wishing our former Prime Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji good health and a speedy recovery," PM Modi tweeted."I am deeply concerned to learn that Dr. Manmohan Singh is unwell & has been hospitalised. On behalf of all of us in the Congress Party I send my good wishes to him for a speedy & complete recovery," Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said in a message, which was tweeted by her party.On Saturday, Singh attended the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting and wrote to Prime Minister Modi and talked about a five ways to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. India on Tuesday reported 259,170 fresh Covid-19 cases and 1,761 deaths, the biggest daily spike in fatalities, as several cities including Delhi and Mumbai are under strict curbs to arrest the surging infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manmohan-singh-s-condition-stable-under-best-possible-care-harsh-vardhan-101618895508974.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi under 6-day lockdown as Covid-19 cases, deaths soar||Delhi went under a complete lockdown from Monday night, which will remain in place till the morning, of April 26, as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city have been rising at a tremendous pace. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made the announcement on Monday as infections have increased by nearly 600% in the last two weeks in the national capital.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“Delhi’s health system is now unable to take in more patients. It is now necessary to impose a lockdown in Delhi from 10pm today to 5am on Monday (April 26). Essential services will remain open, food and medicine shops will be allowed to operate, weddings will be limited to 50 guests,” Arvind Kejriwal said in a media briefing.The massive spike in cases has triggered a shortage of medical supplies in hospitals in the Capital. With hospitals running out of beds, the Delhi government last week requested the Centre to make isolation coaches available at two railway stations, Shakur Basti and Anand Vihar, for Covid-19 patients.Due to the fear of the extension of the lockdown following Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement, scores of migrant workers were seen crowding at interstate bus terminals to leave the city. “We are daily wagers, the chief minister should have given us some time before announcing the lockdown. It takes us ₹200 to reach home, but they are charging ₹3000 to ₹4000 now. How will we go home?" a migrant labourer told news agency ANI.However, Arvind Kejriwal reached out to the migrants in Delhi. "I appeal to you with folded hands. It's a small lockdown, only for six days. Don't leave Delhi and go. I am very hopeful and that we won't need to further extend the lockdown. The government will take care of you," he said.During the six-day lockdown in Delhi, movement will be prohibited unless someone is seeking or providing essential services, medical help, or needs to go to exempted workplaces, such as government offices. People in some of these categories will require an e-pass from the government, while others need to carry an identity card, according to the order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev.On Monday, Delhi reported record of 240 deaths due to the viral disease, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic last year, and 23,686 cases with a positivity rate of 26.12%, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-under-6-day-lockdown-as-covid-19-cases-deaths-soar-101618889737135.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Migrant workers start leaving Delhi, say Kejriwal should've given more time before announcing lockdown||Amid a massive surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital, scores of migrant workers were seen leaving Delhi throughout Monday, hours before the six-day lockdown came into effect at 10pm. Despite Arvind Kejriwal's appeal to the migrant workers to not leave Delhi over what he called a "short lockdown", the distressed workers waiting for hours at the bus stops claimed that the chief minister should have given more time before announcing the lockdown because, in the face of this crisis, the trip back home is now costing 10 times more.Also Read: Record 240 deaths in Delhi, more than 23,000 Covid-19 cases"We are daily wagers, the chief minister should have given us some time before announcing the lockdown," one of the migrant labourers told news agency ANI during their long wait at the bus station. "It takes us ₹200 to reach home, but they are charging ₹3,000 to ₹4,000 now, how will we go home?" they added.Covid-19 protocols and social distancing went for a toss, the news agency reported, as hundreds of migrant workers thronged the Anand Vihar Bus Terminal in Delhi on Monday evening to board the buses for their native places, many of them waiting for hours. Exhausted women and children were seen laying on the ground with their heads on sacks looking numbly at the hustle, as more migrant workers joined the crowd in the bus terminal with heavy loads on their heads and shoulders. Several others were seen climbing atop buses that were leaving the station.The situation wasn't much different in Ghazipur or in Ghaziabad's Kaushambi, where the scene was reminiscent of the mass exodus of people from eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar last year when migrant workers had gathered in thousands at Anand Vihar after the central government announced a lockdown in March.Also Read: 'It's a short lockdown, don't leave Delhi': Kejriwal's appeal to migrant workersDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced a six-day Covid-19 lockdown from 10pm on April 19 till 5am on April 26 and urged migrant workers to not leave the national capital during this period. Kejriwal pointed out that its duration being only six days, the present lockdown was a relatively "short" one, and promised that the government will "take care" of them through this crisis. He also assured that the Delhi government will be working hard to ensure adequate medical facilities in the national capital and remained hopeful that the government won't need to extend the current lockdown any further.Lockdown-like measures introduced by several state governments usually spell a loss of livelihood for many migrant workers working in India’s major cities. These migrant workers, who form an essential part of any city’s economy, faced difficulties when the Centre imposed its first lockdown in 2020 following the first wave of Covid-19. Most of them were unable to find transport and had to walk home in desperation and many died due to exertion and lack of food.Delhi on Monday reported a record of 240 deaths due to Covid-19, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic last year, and 23,686 cases with a positivity rate of 26.12%, according to official data. The national capital has reported 823 deaths due to the infectious disease in the last five days, with the fourth wave of infections being the worst so far in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/migrant-workers-say-kejriwal-should-ve-given-more-time-before-declaring-lockdown-101618884796305.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers refuse to call off stir; Delhi border traffic remains hit||A day after farmer leaders gave the call to intensify the ongoing agitation against the three contentious farm laws, several borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Tuesday.Farmers have refused to call off their stir despite the current surge in Covid-19 cases and the week-long lockdown imposed by the Delhi government on Monday night.For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Commuters can also take Chilla border.The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed.Also Read | Deep Sidhu sent to jail for 14 days in R-Day caseThe traffic police has advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road.Commuters can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, opening between the two states.Meanwhile, one carriageway of NH-9, or the Meerut Expressway, from Delhi towards Uttar Pradesh was opened by the Delhi police on Sunday for the movement of ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-refuse-to-call-off-stir-delhi-border-traffic-remains-hit-101618887516178.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi temperatures likely to fluctuate a bit; AQI moderate||Delhi is likely to see a dust storm or thunderstorm on Tuesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be at 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 37°C.The minimum temperature on Monday was 18.5°C, three notches below normal, and the maximum temperature was 37.8°C -- one degree above normal.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality continued to be in the moderate category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 193. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI was 187, which is in the higher end of the moderate category.Also Read | World running out of time to save climate: UNAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 is satisfactory, 101 and 200 is moderate, 201 and 300 is poor, 301 and 400 is very poor, and 401 and 500 is severe.On Monday, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. PM10 (dust) remains the prominent lead pollutant. Dust emission is likely to increase in the desert regions of Rajasthan and transported towards Delhi region. AQI is forecasted to deteriorate and slip to the poor category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-temperatures-likely-to-fluctuate-a-bit-aqi-moderate-101618886495970.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Record 240 deaths in Delhi, more than 23,000 Covid-19 cases||Delhi on Monday reported record 240 deaths due to Covid-19, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic last year, and 23,686 cases with a positivity rate of 26.12%, according to official data.The national capital has reported 823 deaths due to the infectious disease in the last five days, with the fourth wave of infections being the worst so far in the city.On Sunday, Delhi recorded the biggest jump in its daily Covid-19 tally with 25,462 fresh cases, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74%. On Saturday, 24,375 Covid-19 cases and 167 deaths were reported in the city. Delhi’s total death toll stands at 12,361. On June 16, 437 deaths were added to the city’s toll as the government added deaths it had missed out. The highest daily toll reported during the third wave was 131 and during the June-July surge was 101.“So far, there is hardly any difference in the mortality during this wave and the previous one, proving that the virus is not more fatal. However, the deaths may be higher now because of the health system being overburdened. And, we keep on adding more cases every day...,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at the Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/record-240-deaths-in-delhi-more-than-23-000-covid-19-cases-101618883573095.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||‘Grim reality’: give migrants cooked food at their work site, directs HC to Delhi govt||Pulling up the Union and Delhi governments for “not learning from previous mistakes”, the Delhi high court on Monday directed the state government to provide cooked food to Delhi’s migrants at their worksites during the week-long lockdown in the Capital, in place till April 26.The bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said daily wage labourers “are faced with a grim reality once again”.“We would like that lessons be taken from the past lockdown… Both the state and central governments had miserably failed,” the bench said.The bench also came down heavily on the Delhi government for not utilising ₹3,000 crore from the funds available for the workers under the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act.It said that hundreds of thousands of workers, whose membership of the Delhi construction board lapsed, were not given ex gratia payments, and said if the government is short of funds to give the workers food, it can take money from the funds available under the workers act.Also read: Religious places to open, but no visitors allowed“With the imposition of a curfew till April 26, the daily wage earners, who live hand to mouth and earn on a daily basis are faced with a grim reality.”Senior advocate Rahul Mehra appeared for the state government.“On the last occasion, civil society had come forward to provide food and other necessities to a large section of such needy people. Though Mehra says steps were taken, we may say with our full experience we found that the state failed to utilise thousands of crores in its accounts under the workers act. Lakhs of building workers, whose membership has lapsed due to non-renewal, were not given ex gratia”.The court also directed the state to engage the contractor engaged in providing midday meals in schools.Mehra said money would not be a factor and they would “beg, borrow and steal” to provide food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/grim-reality-give-migrants-cooked-food-at-their-work-site-directs-hc-to-delhi-govt-101618882358672.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 helpline numbers. Check here||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-helpline-numbers-check-here-101618880463667.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown: No panic buying at stores but buyers show anxiety||Retailers in the National Capital on Monday said they witnessed anxiety buying to an extent at their stores after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown. People stocked up staples, processed food, ready to eat and immunity-boosting products in the past couple of days, according to retailers. However, customers have not panicked unlike the last lockdown and as they are assured of their supply and retailers are able to deliver goods at their doorstep after receiving orders either online, through apps and even after a telephone call, in which some are promising same-day delivery. Retailers, who have learnt their lessons in the last nationwide lockdown a year ago, are better equipped from their learnings and have sufficient stocks. "With the announcement of almost week-long curfew in Delhi, we are witnessing anxiety buying at our stores in Delhi today. We have been witnessing a surge in demand for essentials, processed food, ready to eat and immunity-boosting products in the past couple of days and expect this trend to continue," METRO Cash and Carry India MD and CEO Arvind Mediratta told PTI. To help the buyer, METRO Cash and Carry have increased visibility for Covid-related articles and have ensured adequate stock availability in critical articles. "We prioritise the health and safety of our customers and employees and customers, and follow a 30-step stringent safety measures at all our stores that includes social distancing and other requisite hygiene precautions,” he said. While Biz Bazaar said there was no panic buying this time, as people are assured of supply this time through online orders. "This time people are not panicked like the previous lockdown, which was a year before. Earlier people were fearing that they would not be able to get the goods, but now the customers have realised that they can get through home delivery,” said a Biz Bazaar spokesperson. He also assured that the proper stocks would be available at the stores and would be delivered at customers doorstep after getting orders online or calling at stores. V-Mart Retail CMD Lalit Agarwal said that though the recent surge in Covid-19 cases and restrictions would impact the business but assured availability of goods. "There is no panic buying at stores this time as people are assured that they are not going to face any difficulty. This time we have anticipated of lockdown and the availability of goods would be higher than the last time,” he said.Announcing the lockdown in the city earlier in the day, Kejriwal said it was necessary to prevent the health system of Delhi from collapsing under the increasing number of patients as there is an acute shortage of medicines, beds, ICUs and oxygen. In its order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said up to 50 people will be permitted to attend weddings, but they will have to show soft or hard copies of the marriage invitation cards. For funerals, 20 people will be allowed, it said.It further said essential services will be allowed during the lockdown, but private offices and other establishments like shops, malls, weekly markets, manufacturing units, educational and coaching institutes, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, assembly halls, auditoriums, public parks, sport complexes, gyms, spas, barber shops, saloons and beauty parlours will remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-no-panic-buying-at-stores-but-buyers-show-anxiety-101618876812528.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Beds filling fast, city can’t keep up with ICU, oxygen demand||Health care infrastructure in the Capital is under unprecedented stress, evidenced by the fact that the 250 beds operationalised on Monday morning in the army’s temporary hospital were full by the afternoon; Delhi government’s biggest hospital, Lok Nayak, has no beds left for the first time since the pandemic began; and the net availability of ICU beds stood in double digits on Monday despite the addition of 222 beds since Sunday.Of the 134 hospitals that have intensive care unit beds for patients with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), all the beds were occupied in 126 of them as on Monday evening.Only seven hospitals had ICU beds available as of Monday night. Madhukar Rainbow hospital in Malviya Nagar had 24, Sir Ganga Ram 11, ESIC Okhla five, AIIMS and Lady Hardinge four each, Acharya Shree Bhikshu two and Ram Manohar Lohia hospital one, all adding up to 51, according to the government’s Delhi Corona app.Neeraj Gupta was waiting outside west Delhi’s Kalra hospital since Monday morning. His sister and her husband needed admission in an ICU as their oxygen saturation had dipped to 80% (the normal oxygen saturation is 95% to 100%; anything less than 94% for a sustained period is considered to be serious).“The hospital does not have any ICU beds. I’ve called many others but we haven’t received any assurance of an available bed anywhere in the city. We are waiting here because this hospital has told us that beds might become available by 8pm. For now, they are in the car and using the one oxygen tank that I managed to get,” said Gupta.Eight-month pregnant Fareeha Khan was also brought to the emergency department of Holy Family hospital on Monday morning.“Her oxygen saturation had dipped to 82%; the doctors have given her oxygen but they do not have any beds to admit her. We have been calling several hospitals for admission,” said her father IS Khan.The doctors said that the situation was unprecedented and added that they didn’t see anything close to it even during the November surge in cases, which was previously the worst wave of infections in the Capital.“You know what the situation is; the hospital is completely full. We are making place for the sick as patients get discharged. We are keeping some of the others in the observation area,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital.A similar situation existed in the Delhi government-run GTB hospital even though the hospital had 986 beds available on Monday evening, according to the Delhi Corona app.“There are 11 or 12 oxygen ports in the Covid-19 emergency; there are at least 70 patients here. The doctors in casualty are supposed to stabilise the patient, give them oxygen and medicines till they can be moved to the ward or ICU. However, all ICU beds and those with central oxygen supply are already occupied. This has clogged the emergency department,” said a doctor posted in the hospital emergency on condition of anonymity.Also read: 2020 rerun? Migrant exodus begins, againThe doctor said: “The 900 or so beds that are available do not have an oxygen pipeline, but can accommodate patients with oxygen cylinders. The only problem with oxygen cylinders is that they can provide oxygen at a speed of up to 15 litres a minute. They cannot be used to give high-flow oxygen, for which nearly 50 litres of oxygen are needed per minute.”At the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), a senior administrator said, “We already have about 900 Covid-19 patients admitted to the hospital; we do not have the capacity for more. We ask patients who come to the emergency to look for beds elsewhere; we cannot refer them because we do not know where to refer them to.”The administrator added, “Those who can wait, wait. Depending on their condition, they might have to wait anywhere between several hours to a couple of days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/beds-filling-fast-city-can-t-keep-up-with-icu-oxygen-demand-101618873234592.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Local residents chip in with cooked meals||At a time when social media are flooded with desperate pleas for help to find vacant hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen, and other facilities, concerned citizens are stepping in to provide resources ranging from oxygen cylinders to cooked meals to families battling the infection.Anupriya Singh (Anna), a 42-year-old designer who doubles up as an aggregator of home chef services, recently formed another network of home chefs operating through WhatsApp groups to cater to Covid-affected families.“Right now, everyone knows someone or the other who is down with Covid. Seeing the situation, I started reaching out to home chefs so that we could cater to more people and save on crucial delivery time and expenses. As of today, we have over 120 chefs who are serving Covid-affected families. Every day, I create a new list of home chefs who can provide services in different parts of Delhi,” said Singh.She said nearly 40 chefs are joining the network on a daily basis, with requests for food pouring in from different quarters.“We are not allowing the chefs to price their thalis above ₹150. Some chefs are ready to deliver food for free, but recipients insist on paying for it. Money from such services will be used to start a fund through which we plan to support the needy,” said Singh.Also read: Can’t continue to obstruct others, SC tells farm leadersWithin the neighbourhood, chefs are relying on services of friends or security guards to deliver food to families whereas services of app-based aggregators are being availed of to deliver food to far-off addresses. “Some chefs are also sending their family members to deliver food. People are stepping out to make deliveries themselves despite the severity of the prevailing situation,” said Singh.Ankit Gupta, 28, an Urdu poet who has been living in Delhi for the past year, has been using Twitter to connect those seeking Covid-related help. Gupta said concerned individuals have been using Twitter as a platform to respond to calls for help. “Through social media, we have formed a network of volunteers who are reaching out to hospitals and government officials so that patients can be admitted or provided services at the earliest,” said Gupta.Besides queries related to hospitalisation, Gupta has also been receiving requests from those who are hassled by the curfew restrictions. On Monday, Gupta delivered packets of cooked meals to around 1,000 people near Kashmere Gate. “Due to the lockdown restrictions, people have lost jobs and are unable to pay for food or rent. Through social media, we raised money and were able to help such people,” said Gupta.Aryaman Bhatnagar, a resident, is among those who are using social media to verify crucial information and compile resources. Bhatnagar said the network was started on WhatsApp by citizens.“We provide verified leads and credible information -- pertaining to bed availability, oxygen, and medicines -- to those in need. There is a lot of information doing the rounds of WhatsApp and other platforms but, most often, the information is either false or the numbers are not working. Our aim to make sure that a person in need can get verified information on one common list or link,” said Bhatnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/local-residents-chip-in-with-cooked-meals-101618870954744.html
