21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees over 24,000 new Covid-19 cases, day after registering record rise||Delhi on Wednesday reported 24,638 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a health department bulletin showed, a day after a record 28,395 cases were detected in the Capital. Also, as per the bulletin, 249 more people succumbed to the infection on the day, pushing the city’s death toll to 12,887. Currently, cumulative positive cases in the national capital stand at 930,179, as per the bulletin.The slight dip in cases on Wednesday comes alongside a decrease in the number of samples tested for the viral disease on the day. As many as 78,768 samples (including 45,088 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests and 33,680 Rapid Antigen Tests) were tested on April 21, while more than 90,000 and 86,000 tests were conducted on April 19 and 20 respectively. This meant a positivity rate of 31.28% as against 32.82% a day ago.So far, medical workers have tested 16,484,000 samples for the disease in the city and the tests per million count stands at 867,578, the bulletin showed.Also read | ‘Heavens won’t fall’: Court upbraids Centre on Delhi hospitals’ SOS for oxygenActive caseload in Delhi currently stands at 85,364, a slight decrease of 211 cases from the 85,575 reported on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 24,600 patients were discharged on the day which took the overall recoveries to 831,928 and the recovery rate to 89.43 per cent, according to the latest data.The cumulative positivity rate in Delhi, considering the total tests done and the total cases detected, stands at 5.64 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.39 per cent, data from the bulletin showed. As many as 19,624 active containment zones are in effect within the city and 42,768 patients are currently in home isolation.As many as 49,461 beneficiaries received their Covid-19 vaccine shots under the city’s vaccination drive in the last 24 hours. This includes the 34,627 who received the first dose and 14,834 who received the second. So far, 2,722,958 people have been vaccinated, as per the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-over-24-000-new-covid-19-cases-day-after-registering-record-rise-101619028220272.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||‘Heavens won’t fall’: Court upbraids Centre on Delhi hospitals’ SOS for oxygen||The Delhi high court on Wednesday lashed out at the Centre for depleting supply of oxygen at many private hospitals in the national capital. The court was hearing a petition filed by Max Healthcare, which runs many hospitals in Delhi."Today, Max is before us, and we are sure soon there will be other hospitals too. Whatever Inox is supplying, is fine, but we are surprised that despite yesterday's order you haven't done anything," the bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said.The court had on Tuesday directed immediate implementation of an order to stop oxygen for industrial use to meet the demand by hospitals, ramping up of medicine supplies and vaccinating more people.The judges sought to know that why the Centre isn't diverting oxygen from petroleum and steel industries to give to Covid-19 patients who are in dire need of it. "Even if these industries are run at lower capacity since medical oxygen is needed, heavens are not going to fall. But with the stoppage of oxygen at this stage hell will break loose," it said, calling the Centre's decision to not stop the supply of oxygen to the industries as "completely ridiculous"."We don't care, beg, borrow, steal or requisition new plants if you want," said the judges asking the Centre to fulfill the hospitals' need of oxygen, critical for treatment and recovery of Covid-19 patients.Justices Sanghi and Palli also took note of the tragedy in Maharashtra's Nashik where 24 Covid-19 patients lost their lives due to disruption in oxygen supply.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, told the court that oxygen has been delivered at two of the Max hospitals - at Patparganj and Shalimar Bagh. He said that more oxygen is on its way and will reach the hospital shortly. "I have spoken to the highest authority, all efforts are being made to get oxygen supplied," said Mehta.The lawyers appearing for Max hospital hold the court that they have oxygen stock for just eight hours at Vaishali and Gurgaon facilities. The court then said that shortage of oxygen has become a national emergency and called for exercising sovereign power. Mehta replied saying there could be some constraints and that he will talk to the Centre. The court will hear the matter on Thursday.Many hospitals in Delhi, including Sir Ganga Ram, sent SOS to the government about their depleting stocks of oxygen. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also held a press conference where he pleaded the Centre to intervene and ensure adequate supply to the hospitals in the city.He also asked for increasing the oxygen quota of Delhi, which was okayed by the Centre late on Wednesday. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal thanked the Centre for it."Why is the Centre not waking up to the gravity of the situation? We are shocked and dismayed hospitals running out of oxygen but steel plants are running," the high court said.Meanwhile, the Centre said on Wednesday that of the total 7,500 metric tonnes of oxygen being produced in India per day, 6,600 metric tonnes, as on date, is being allocated to states for medical use and assured that efforts are being made to increase its supplies in the coming days.At a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul appealed to the states, hospitals and nursing homes to ensure rational use of oxygen.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan further said that a 24x7 control room has been set up where state governments can raise the problems bring faced by them like if their truck is stuck somewhere or the if movement is being hindered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/beg-borrow-steal-delhi-high-court-slams-centre-over-depleting-oxygen-supply-101619019513133.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Urge Centre to increase quota of oxygen in Delhi, says Manish Sisodia as Capital continues to see shortage||As Delhi continues to face a shortage of oxygen to treat the increasing number of patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia urged the Centre on Wednesday to increase the quota of oxygen.Addressing a press briefing, Sisodia said only the Centre has the right to decide the quota of oxygen for each state. “There has been a sudden spike in the demand for oxygen in Delhi due to an exponential rise in the number of patients from Delhi as well as from neighbouring states such as Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan among others,” he added.Pointing out the severe need for more oxygen, the Delhi deputy chief minister requested the Centre to increase the 370 metric tonne (MT) quota to 700 MT.“However, the Centre has not taken any steps in this regard. Since last year, the entire country has together fought against Covid-19. State governments, central government, societies, colonies cannot fight this on their own and everyone has to join hands and fight this together. The Centre has always supported us (Delhi) and I request them to keep up this spirit and increase the quota,” Sisodia said.Also Read| Only 5 hours of oxygen left at Ganga Ram hospital as Covid-19 crisis worsensHe also alleged that the set quota of oxygen is unable to reach Delhi. Sisodia referred to a report which stated some hospitals in Delhi faced scarcity of oxygen during the day because an official from Haryana government stopped the trucks which were coming from a plant in Faridabad to deliver the gas meant for Delhi and other states."Today the Centre intervened and then the oxygen was released from the plant in Faridabad," the Delhi deputy CM said and highlighted another similar incident from Tuesday where a central minister had to intervene to resolve the issue.Addressing an important press conference | Live https://t.co/yDBSUws32oFew hospitals in Delhi have managed to receive basic but insufficient quantities of oxygen to handle the increasing number of cases. The Ganga Ram hospital on Tuesday night got 10,500 cubic metres of oxygen while the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital received 10 tons of the gas. Both hospitals have said these supplies are insufficient.Delhi, one of the worst hit-regions in the country has so far added 905,541cases and 12,638 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease. On Tuesday, the national capital saw the highest ever single spike in its cases and deaths after 28,395 people tested positive and 277 died, according to the health department’s bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-urge-centre-to-increase-quota-of-oxygen-in-delhi-says-manish-sisodia-101619007592421.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi hospitals receive medical oxygen after CM, deputy CM flag shortage||Hospitals in Delhi, which were facing acute shortage of medical oxygen, putting lives of serious patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at risk, received its supply on Tuesday night hours after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia expressed concern over the issue on their Twitter accounts.The national capital’s Ganga Ram hospital said it received about 4500 cubic metres of oxygen from a private vendor and 6000 cubic metres from Inox Air last night. The total requirement, the hospital said, was 11,000 cubic metres.“Indian Oxygen Limited and Inox have said that they will refill tanks during the day,” officials told news agency ANI on Wednesday.The Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital, meanwhile, received 10 tons of oxygen, hospital officials said. The stock is sufficient for the current situation, they further said.There have also been reports of trucks transporting medical oxygen to Delhi from the neighbouring states being forced to take a detour as three key borders of the national capital have been blocked by farmers protesting against the three contentious central agricultural laws since November 26 last year.#WATCH Delhi | Alipur Police Station, Outer North District police facilitated the movement of Oxygen tanker from Singhu Border, which was stuck at Kundli Border today. The tanker was scheduled to arrive at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Rohini.(Source: Delhi Police) pic.twitter.com/ndKptJ3nUZEarlier on Tuesday, the Delhi high court directed that the Centre’s directions on April 18 suspending supply of oxygen to industrial units, except for those under exempted categories, be implemented “immediately.” Initially, the order was to come into effect from April 22. “Industries can wait, patients cannot. Human lives are at stake,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said.Also Read | Immediate implementation of order suspending oxygen to industries: Delhi HCAmid reports of shortage of medical oxygen in several states, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired several key meetings last week to review its supply. Indian Railways is also running special “Oxygen Express” trains to deliver oxygen to states. Oxygen is an important element used in the treatment of certain medical conditions which arise due to the Covid-19 disease.Delhi, which, on Wednesday, is observing a second full day of a six-day lockdown, is in the middle of an unprecedented rise in its daily cases of the viral disease. On April 20, the city logged 28,395 fresh infections, its highest-ever single-day rise, taking the infection tally to 905,541 as per a health department bulletin. There were 277 related deaths as well, taking the death toll to 12,638. The positivity rate is at its highest at 32.82%.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 20th April 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/WIkthNPBX3The lockdown began at 10pm on Monday and will conclude at 5am next Monday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hospitals-receive-medical-oxygen-after-cm-deputy-cm-flag-shortage-101618999166529.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Compassion first: Home chefs take to serving Covid patients||With so many families getting afflicted with Covid-19, getting a home-cooked nutritious meal often becomes difficult, even though it’s crucial. Most can’t cook on their own when unwell, and many are unable to get such food home delivered. Pitching in with help are home chefs and some newly turned home cooks, across NCR, who are coming forward to support Covid-19 patients and families, as an alarming number of people get gripped by the virus in the second wave. “A lot of Covid-19 patients complained that eateries have been declining their food orders because of them testing positive and their maids had stopped coming; the patients were themselves too weak to cook. That is what propelled us to step in,” informs Suman Tamang, a chef at Mini’s Home Kitchen, adding, “We prepare the meals in advance, and have shared our menus across Delhi and Gurugram to help as much as we can. We also customise the meals according to individual health requirements. Since the pandemic struck, we’ve served more than 100 families.”Gurugram-based Shachi Jain has been serving Covid-19 patients across Delhi-NCR, since last September. “I used to feed four to five families per day. That number has grown to eight families per day in the second wave,” says Jain, adding, “We’ve to be careful when serving someone who is Covid-19 positive. The nutritional value of the food, allergies, etc needs to be kept in mind. Their taste buds are so terribly disturbed, so one has to make the food look attractive without using much spices.” “Covid-19 itna fael chuka hai ki catering the home quarantining patients is on top priority for me right now. My phone doesn’t stop ringing... We need more people to show humanity and come forward to serve others at such a time,” says home chef Chiranjip Dabra, who, too, has had her hands full. She adds, “Whatever I serve to my own family is what I deliver to the clients. Covid-19 patients have a lot of throat issues, which I keep in mind. Khichdi, pulao, daliya are soothing for the stomach. One thali starts from ₹100 and goes up to ₹145. The delivery is completely contactless, and package is taped.” A Delhi-based primary school teacher, Megha Anubhaw Prasad, who is delivering food as a means to help people, says, “I’m getting a lot of orders from my society and neighbouring societies, too. I served for a month last year, and have started again since there are so many cases now. I’m serving them chapati, rice, dal and one vegetable and salad or egg curry to those who like it. Main jitna kar sakti hoon, utna koshish kar rahi hoon. This is my way to help anyone in need, while I work from my home kitchen.”Noida-based home chef Poonam Arora, who used to run a catering business, has also shifted her focus to help out Covid-19 patients. She says, “It’s more important to be human right now rather than concentrate on minting money! I’ve put out a Facebook post, with my direct contact number, to help cook meals for patients, and people have been contacting me. Whatever they require, I cook and send it.”Another Gurugram-based home chef Sonali Chatterji does about 100 meals per week and endeavours to serve good quality, value-for-money food. “In such deliveries, I don’t make profits. And it’s okay. I’m sending food all the way to Ghaziabad, twice a week. There are people who want dal, roti, sabzi, and some want continental non-spicy food, high on protein... I avoid making it too oily or spicy,” she shares.“I do about 100 meals per week,” says Sonali Chatterji, another Gurugram-based home chef. Talking about how the orders have increased, she says she endeavours to serve good quality, value for money food. “This is a lot of responsibility. In such deliveries, I don’t make profits. And it’s okay. I’m sending food all the way to Ghaziabad, twice a week. There are people who want dal, roti, sabzi, and there are some who want continental non spicy food that’s high on protein. Two of the people who I’m sending food to, requested for fish and chicken, and I prepare all this without it being too oily or spicy.” Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/compassion-first-home-chefs-take-to-serving-covid-patients-101618997509067.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Driven to save lives : Sunil Masta||“Jeevan daan sabse bada daan hota hai. If god has given me a second chance at life by healing me from Corona, it is my duty to use this life to save the lives of others who are battling the virus, by donating my plasma.” These words are of a plasma hero who saved lives of critical patients through plasma therapy, by donating his plasma sixteen times over, after conquering Covid, last year. Meet 54 years old Sunil Masta, a Haryana resident who apart from being a plasma donor amid the pandemic, has also been a blood donor from the age of seventeen, saving lives of children suffering from cancer through his donation. Masta first donated plasma, when a youngster from his office called him, requesting for plasma donation for his parents who were admitted in ICU because of Covid. Ever since then, Masta keeps going for regular check ups to donate plasma to save more people’s lives. Project Plasma is a Fever Network initiative to celebrate the super power of Covid recovered plasma donors like Masta, who are stepping forward amid the second wave of Covid, to donate their plasma to save lives of other infected patients. Driven to save lives and in search of a genuine NGO enabling plasma donation, Masta came across the Kamla Arora Blessings Welfare Foundation on social media. Founded by Bhawna Arora to continue her mother’s legacy of charity and service, this foundation has been working rigorously with the government to serve Covid infected patients amid the pandemic. It has enabled over three thousand plus plasma donors to donate their platelets and save the lives of infected patients through plasma therapy.Despite the earnest efforts of such foundations, however, there still remains a dearth of plasma donors. “There’s a dire need of plasma right now, in the second wave of Corona. The demand for plasma is much more than the supply. People should come forward and donate if eligible! My doctors told me that the more you donate, the more antibodies against the virus are built in your body,” says Masta, encouraging Covid recovered persons to come forward, use their power to save lives and become plasma heros.Inspired by an incident when a few strangers showed kindness and saved Masta’s father’s life by taking him to the hospital after the latter met with an accident, Masta feels compelled to save lives,”I understand the value of the life of a family member to their family and so, jab tak hai jaan aur jab tak hai antibodies main toh plasma donate karte rahoonga aur zindigiya bachata rahoonga.” Talking about how plasma donors needn’t be afraid of anything, he says, “There’s no risk in donating plasma. It’s as easy as donating blood. People are afraid of donating plasma because of the fear of catching the infection again. But they need to understand that donating plasma in a blood bank is the safest because blood banks are the most hygienic part of the hospital! Just carry a sanitiser, wear a mask and you’ll be perfectly fine, you already have antibodies against Corona.”Calling on Covid recovered people to show empathy, and donate their plasma to enable plasma therapy for others Masta says, “Put yourself in other people’s shoes who need plasma right now and are hanging by a thread for their lives. If you were in their shoes and you needed plasma, how would’ve you felt if no one came forward to help you? If you’re an eligible donor, use this opportunity to save a life.”You are a superhero if you have recovered from Covid 19 because you have the power to save a life! Call on 8800570768 to donate plasma and save lives.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/driven-to-save-lives-sunil-masta-101618991504010.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi under lockdown, migrants rush to home states | In Photos||Delhi is observing a six-day lockdown, which ends on April 26 morning, to arrest the fourth wave of Covid-19 pandemic in the city. While most streets wore a deserted look, bus stops were massively crowded as migrants were seen rushing to their home states fearing the extension of the shutdown.Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the state governments on Tuesday to reach out to migrants and ensure their well-being. While announcing the shutdown on Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too had appealed to the migrants to stay back in the national capital as it is only a “short lockdown.” “I appeal to you with folded hands. It's a small lockdown, only for six days. Don't leave Delhi and go. I am very hopeful and that we won't need to further extend the lockdown. The government will take care of you," the chief minister said.On Tuesday, Delhi witnessed a spike of 28,395 coronavirus cases and 277 deaths, according to the data released by the Delhi government's health department.Here’s a look at the Delhi lockdown in photos||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-under-lockdown-migrants-rush-to-home-states-in-photos-101618984758164.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Above 18 happy to get the Covid jab? Well, mostly!||Excitement, nervousness and a few apprehensions — the news that all adults above 18 could get the jab in “a liberalised and accelerated Phase 3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination” from May 1, has brought mixed reactions from the young. ‘We need to have faith in the system’After India reported a new record high of around 2.73 lakh cases in a day, the news of the vaccine becoming available to everyone above 18, came as a sigh of relief to many such as 19-year-old Political Science student Abhir Bhalla. He feels this decision was “much needed”, and adds, “Young people, after all, are the ones who are out and about the most and are carriers and spreaders of the disease. That’s also because people had started to believe that the young are somewhat immune from the virus, which is certainly not the case. If we look at what doctors have been saying, the second wave has witnessed a lot of youngsters with severe cases. Undoubtedly, there are apprehensions because there has been speculations around the efficacy of the vaccines and the whole situation with blood clots and all, but I think we need to have faith in the system.” A 24-year-old Aniketh Sircar, Delhi-based MBA student, shares the sentiment and adds that he will certainly take the shot “irrespective of the side effects and the probability of still contracting the virus”. “If the government had approved of the vaccine, it would’ve been for a reason, and hence I’m looking forward to the availability of the vaccine for the youth as well,” adds Sircar. “I have three main reasons to get the vaccine,” says Ruchir Gupta, a corporate professional, adding, “Firstly it’ll help us achieve herd immunity, secondly it’ll open up options for travelling for both work and leisure and thirdly, psychologically I would be relieved that I’ve taken the jab!” A “small discomfort” shouldn’t have bearing on the decision, feels Akshay Kumar, a 29-year-old business architect, who is glad that the government has announced the vaccination for the youth. “I would rather get vaccinated than get caught by the virus with no way to recover! A small discomfort would be far better than landing in an ICU,” he says. ‘No one can assure there won’t be long term side effects’ And then there are those that have certain apprehensions for taking the jab. “I feel very hesitant in getting vaccinated,” says 22-year-old Jacqueline Joseph, a BEd student in Noida, adding, “Most people who are getting vaccinated are also contracting Covid, which is a very alarming concern since it negates the purpose for which the vaccine was created! Since the beginning of the pandemic last year, I’ve pretty much stayed put at home. Fortunately for the time being I can work remotely. Although that still comes with constraints and worries.”18-year-old Chiquitta Oberoi says she would like to get vaccinated, but wishes to see some results of the vaccine before going ahead. She says, “I’ve seen my family and friends getting bad body aches, head aches, high temperature, cough etc. Since the Covid vaccine is really new in the market, no one can assure that there will be no long term side effects on the body, which also makes me sceptical.” Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/above-18-happy-to-get-the-covid-jab-well-mostly-101618981843563.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi enters day 2 of week-long Covid-19 lockdown amid exodus of migrant workers||Delhi has entered the second day of its week-long curfew on Wednesday as the Capital steps up its effort to stop the transmission of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Visuals shared by news agency ANI showed Delhi Police officials checking vehicles and IDs of people inside cars as they tried to ensure strict implementation of the curfew. The weeklong curfew, which came to effect from 10pm on April 19 will continue till 5am, April 26.The Delhi Police on Tuesday issued fines to several people who stepped out of their homes, though the number was not very high as the curfew in the capital has mostly received a positive response.Police commissioner SN Shrivastava appealed to people to remain inside their homes and assured them that essential items will be available. “I appeal to the citizens of the national capital to stay inside their homes. Lockdown has been announced from 10 pm on Monday till 5 am on April 26. Essential commodities will be available,” Shrivastava said. People who were roaming unnecessarily were also issued challans and sensitised about Covid-19 preventative measures.On Tuesday night, the Capital saw an exodus of migrant workers crowding the interstate bus terminals to leave for their native states. Despite assurances from Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his speech on Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and city police commissioner Shrivastava, workers are unsure about their future in the lockdown down Capital.Delhi which has been reporting more than 25,000 cases for the past few days is also facing a shortage of medical oxygen and is experiencing a tough situation to accommodate patients as hospital beds and medicine shortages continue to affect citizens. Delhi’s test labs are also facing an uphill battle as the rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases coupled with large numbers of requests for either RT-PCR or antigen tests forced many private labs to halt the collection of swab samples, news agency ANI reported. Delhi’s positivity rate jumped to 32.82% indicating that every third sample taken in the Capital came out positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-enters-day-2-of-week-long-covid-19-lockdown-amid-exodus-of-migrant-workers-101618976429261.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi-Haryana border points remain closed||Tikri and Singhu, two important border roads between Delhi and Haryana, remained fully closed on Wednesday as farmers continued with their agitation against the three farm laws despite the current surge in Covid-19 cases and the week-long lockdown imposed by the Delhi government on Monday night.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana since November last year.For commuters coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Commuters can also take Chilla border.The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed. The traffic police have advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road.Commuters can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, opening between the two states. Meanwhile, one carriageway of NH-9, or the Meerut Expressway, from Delhi towards Uttar Pradesh was opened by the Delhi Police on Sunday for the movement of ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-haryana-border-points-remain-closed-101618973801821.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi private labs halt Covid-19 test services for 2 days over delay in results||A rapid rise in Covid-19 cases and exceeding requests for either RT-PCR or antigen tests has abruptly forced a majority of private laboratories to stop collecting swab samples even from testing centres for at least two days.As per a government bulletin on Tuesday evening, in the last 24 hours, Delhi conducted 86,526 tests. Despite having sufficient infrastructure and equipped with machines and testing kits, many labs are closing themselves for three to four days citing overburden and shortage in manpower.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here As per ICMR guidelines, the data of results have to be uploaded within 24 hours. Centres overburdened with pressure are even failing to provide results even within 48 hours of collecting the swab samples.To keep pace with the Covid-19 surge and to check the delay in providing results, the Delhi government on April 16 issued an order stating, "Keeping in view the above and to ensure that districts (and Government hospitals) have an adequate number of slots available in labs to get their samples processed within a stipulated time frame (preferably 24 hours and latest within 48 hours) through the Gold Standard Test in continuation of order 1 tF.No.253/DGHS/PLIW-IV/COVID-19/ NCDC/2020/ 12205-12274 dated 15/01/202 the linkage of public and private sector lab with each District of NCT of Delhi is amended with immediate effect."However, failing to provide the results within the said time limit of 48 hours, labs are being forced toward closure for at least two days.Dr Gauri Agarwal, Founder-Director of Genestrings Diagnostic Center, Malviya Nagar told ANI, "My team and I have not slept for 72 hours. We are doing a collection of 8,000 to 10,000 samples per day and the only issue we are struck with is manpower. Most of the labs have proper infrastructure, be it machines or testing kits. We are running short of manpower. A lot of our technicians are contracting the virus. However, there is a continuous hiring process and also we have to keep training them.""The home calls have increased by about four to five times. We are trying our best but the home collection is not possible for all. I would request people to come to the centre for swab testing that helps in getting results faster," she said.Shyam Singh Chandel, Patient Relation officer of a private lab said, "The management system of hospitals and laboratories is deteriorating. Cases are increasing and hence the demand for tests is also propelling faster. We used to do 500 tests earlier, now we are not able to meet the demand even at 5000 tests, testing results are being delayed too. The burden has gone to such an extent where we were forced to stop home collection."Delhi is also witnessing a serious shortage in its oxygen capacity.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, "Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge the centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen."Delhi recorded 277 deaths in the last 24 hours, the highest since the pandemic began over a year ago, and 28,395 new cases of Covid-19. There are currently 85,575 active cases in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-private-labs-halt-covid-19-test-services-for-2-days-over-delay-in-results-101618973273006.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi likely to see partly cloudy sky, light rain today: IMD||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky along with light rain or drizzle on Wednesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 33°C. The minimum and maximum temperatures on Tuesday were 19.5°C and 33.8°C respectively. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 159. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 191 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve and remain in the moderate category on Wednesday and Thursday. Subsequently, it is likely to remain largely in the moderate category over the next five days.On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are high and South-Southwesterly. Under the influence of a Western Disturbance, isolated thunderstorms and gusty winds are likely. Increased dust emission for a short time is likely today and AQI is forecasted to slip to the poor category for tomorrow. In case of rainfall, dust washout and partial improvement in AQI is expected. AQI is likely to slip to the moderate to poor category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-likely-to-see-partly-cloudy-sky-light-rain-todayimd-101618973321472.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police demarcates corridors for oxygen containers held up in traffic||The Delhi Police created two dedicated corridors on Monday night for smooth passage of two oxygen containers stuck in traffic jams on their way from Greater Noida and Faridabad and prevented a crisis at an outer Delhi hospital, where at least 235 Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment amid depleting oxygen supply. The city police also arranged 25 cylinders from four hospitals for Sri Balaji Action Medical Institute at Paschim Vihar.“The level of oxygen in our hospital’s liquid oxygen plant was reaching a critical level on Monday night due to a delay in supply through two oxygen containers stuck in traffic jams at Noida and Faridabad borders. As per our protocol, we informed the concerned authorities, which provided green corridors and the containers were immediately escorted to the hospital,” said Sunil Sumbli, the institute’s medical superintendent.Also read: Weekend lockdown in Ghaziabad, NoidaThe two containers were carrying around 19,500 litres of oxygen.The Paschim Vihar East Police Station, under whose jurisdiction the hospital comes, formed two escort teams and dispatched them to Greater Noida and Faridabad in separate emergency response vehicles. The escort teams were directed to contact the drivers of the two containers, find their exact locations, and escort them to the hospital as early as possible. They were asked to keep the sirens and lights of the vehicles on so that motorists could see the emergency and give them clear passage, said a police officer who was part of the operation, requesting not to be named.Additional deputy police commissioner Sudhanshu Dhama said the teams set up dedicated corridors for the containers and escorted them to the hospital.“In the meantime, around 25 oxygen cylinders were also arranged...”The Delhi Police also arranged 20 oxygen cylinders and delivered them to a hospital with 35 Covid-19 patients in outer Delhi’s Nangloi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-demarcates-corridors-for-oxygen-containers-held-up-in-traffic-101618968933367.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Give more beds in central hospitals: HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the Centre to immediately allocate more beds in their hospitals in the city for the Covid-19 patients after the Delhi government said that it was not being given enough beds by the Union government despite a massive surge in the cases and fatalities.A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli agreed to the submission of senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, that the cases in the current wave were far more than any other phase of the pandemic. Delhi reported 28,395 fresh cases of the infection on Tuesday at a positivity rate of 32.82%. As many as 277 people died of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours.“We direct the Centre to look into this aspect seriously. Considering the fact that the number of Covid patients, is far greater than the number that had come last year, the Centre should immediately allocate more beds from their hospitals for Covid patients,” the court said in its order.The directions were passed in a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, petitioner-lawyer, who had sought ramping up of tests in the city.The petition, which was disposed of, was again revived by the HC on Monday, noting that the virus has raised its “ugly head” once again and that the “healthcare infrastructure is at the stage of imminent collapse”.According to Mehra, the Centre had given only 2,000 beds as compared to 4,000 in November, when the cases were one-third of the current tally now. He said that in the wake of shortage of beds in the city, 8,000 beds be allocated to the Delhi government, even if for a week, to meet the crisis situation.“We are asking it for just for one week. Please ask the central government hospitals to give 8,000 beds. We don’t want it forever; we only need it for some time. The Centre has the capacity of 11,500 in all its hospitals..,” Mehra said.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma told the court that the Centre is taking every possible step to provide assistance to the Delhi government. He said that 250 ICU beds have been operationalised by DRDO and another 250 beds shall be operationalised by Thursday.“lt has been further decided to provide 25 medical officers and 75 paramedics to the centre set up by DRDO from Central armed paramilitary forces,” he said, adding that there are facilities like the Radha Soami Satsang Beas which has given its land in Chhatarpur for a Covid care centre; and the Railways which have also made beds operational in train coaches.Roli Khare, the director of hospitals, ministry of health and family welfare, told the court that the Centre was trying a makeshift arrangement where beds could be increased. But, they can only be increased up to a certain limit as it has to be done keeping in view the demand for trained staff to manage the beds.She said that till now 2,105 beds are currently available to Delhi in central hospitals, including AIIMS, and that by Tuesday, they will be increased 4,091.The bench also said that immediate action needs to be taken by the Centre to ramp up testing by simplifying the process. It said the current practice of mandatory filling a form despite the Aadhaar card of the individual being provided, is a waste of time and should be done away with.It also said that the officers should be sensitised and there should be urgency in completing work and giving clearances for setting up of new lab equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/give-more-beds-in-central-hospitals-hc-101618968573914.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Metro trains every 15 minutes during lockdown||The Delhi Metro on Tuesday reworked its schedule for the week-long lockdown and doubling the frequency of trains during peak hours, after several users complained of long waits, as officials shut access to over 20 stations in a bid to control crowds, despite the service being limited to workers involved in essential services and those with valid e-passes.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) began temporarily disallowing entries into some stations from 6.30am, soon after it kicked off the day’s operations.Several users said they had to wait outside New Delhi, Dwarka Mor, RK Ashram, Rajiv Chowk, and other stations, since entry was stopped for a while in the morning. Officials said the situation normalised by 10am.Despite the lockdown, crowds were reported outside several stations as a result of DMRC’s reworked train schedule, in which trains left every 30 minutes during peak hours (8am to 10 am and 5pm to 7pm).Some of the other stations that were temporarily closed include Chandni chowk, Kashmere Gate, Rajiv Chowk, Jhandewalan, Karkardooma, Preet Vihar, Nirman Vihar, Supreme Court, Anand Vihar, ISBT Vaishali, and Shadipur.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said: “Services during the morning (7am to 11am) and evening (4pm to 8pm) peak hours across the network will be available with a frequency of 15 minutes. For the rest of the day, services will be available with a frequency of 30 minutes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-trains-every-15-minutes-during-lockdown-101618967966069.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi to get 2.7k more Covid-19 beds: Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said there has been a three-fold increase in the number of Covid-19 hospital beds in the city since April 3, and added that around 2,700 more will be added over the next six days, even as he expressed concerns about the increase in Covid-19 cases.“The Covid-19 situation in the city is alarming. We are currently recording around 25,000 new cases a day. Going by the rate of increase, it looks like the number of daily cases will soon rise to 28,000 -30,000. In the last four or five days, we have been working round-the-clock on providing hospital beds to Covid-19 patients. We are also increasing the number of Covid-19 beds. On April 3, we had 6,071 beds in the city. As of now, we have 19,101 beds. We have increased beds by three times on a war footing in a short time,” said Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19 management and inter-ministerial coordination..The Capital recorded 28,395 fresh cases on Tuesday.His comments came amid concerns regarding the rate at which hospital beds are getting occupied in the city. As of 7pm on Tuesday, 86% of Delhi’s 19,538 Covid-19 beds were occupied. Worryingly, 99.3% of the 4,585 Covid-19 ICU beds were occupied as well.“The DRDO facility opened on Monday, and all 250 beds got occupied within four hours. In that centre, 250 more beds are to be added. The city’s total Covid-19 bed capacity will increase by around 2,700,” Sisodia said.Also read: Centre targets 25% jump in oxygen supply by weekendHe was referring to the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s (DRDO) Covid-19 hospital in Delhi Cantonment that was reopened on Monday.He named several Delhi government hospitals — Burari hospital, Ambedkar Nagar hospital, DDU hospital, Acharya Bhikshu hospital, Raja Harishchandra Hospital and Lok Nayak hospital — that are likely to get more Covid-19 beds in the coming days.Addressing concerns about the burden on health care infrastructure in the city, Sisodia said, “We appeal to people not to panic. Don’t rush to hospital on being diagnosed Covid-19 positive. If severe symptoms surface, then consult a doctor and consider checking for hospital availability on the app (Delhi Corona) and only then go to hospital. Running from one hospital to another exhausts the patients and also burdens hospitals.”He said the government received some complaints that doctors were not attending to patients, and that these charges were unfounded.“Doctors are doing their best and are completely invested in their work, risking their own lives,” he said.The Delhi government on Tuesday issued an order notifying that the Covid Care facility at the Radhasoami Satsang Beas’s Chhatarpur campus will be attached to the Madan Mohan Malviya hospital – which will provide doctors, nurses, paramedics, and at least 10 dedicated ambulances for this centre.The centre is slated to have 5,000 beds for Covid-19 patients at capacity. Of these, 250 were functional as on Tuesday evening, official said. The centre will have facilities such as medical oxygen and testing. It can house patients with mild to moderate symptoms who will be under round-the-clock supervision of medical teams.(With inputs from Anonna Dutt)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-2-7k-more-covid-19-beds-sisodia-101618967197948.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||CM isolates after wife tests positive for Covid-19||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday quarantined himself after his wife, Sunita Kejriwal, tested positive for Covid-19, according to a Delhi government spokesperson.“Sunita Kejriwal, wife of CM Arvind Kejriwal is Covid-19 positive. She is being treated under home isolation. The Cm also has quarantined himself and a team of doctors are monitoring the situation with all precautions,” the government spokesperson said.In June last year, Arvind Kejriwal was tested for Covid-19 after he developed a sore throat and fever. He, however, tested negative at the time.Over the past two days, Kejriwal was conducting inspections by visiting various government hospitals and covid care centres to oversee Covid-19 arrangements and management of resources.On Tuesday, however, he remained at home and took all meetings, including one on migrant workers with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-isolates-after-wife-tests-positive-for-covid19-101618962574879.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Capital gasps for oxygen amid 28k new Covid-19 infections||Delhi on Tuesday sounded the alarm over exacerbating shortage of oxygen, a crucial tool in the fight against the worsening Covid-19 crisis, as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said some hospitals were left with only a few hours of life-saving supplies, and appealed to the Centre to urgently boost deliveries to prevent the health care system from being overrun.The national capital, which is under a lockdown to control the alarming transmission of the infectious disease, has reported precariously low levels of oxygen, crucial drugs and critical care beds. On Sunday, Kejriwal said the oxygen shortage in Delhi had turned into an “emergency”.“Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge the Centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen,” Kejriwal tweeted shortly after holding a review meeting with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and several senior government officials.Medical oxygen is a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases, and the pandemic has accelerated the global demand for it. The need for oxygen has increased to 1.1 million cylinders in low to middle-income countries alone, according to the World Health Organization.Sisodia said there will be chaos in the city if the stocks are not replenished by Wednesday morning. He posted a note on Twitter mentioning the status of oxygen stocks in various hospitals. According to the note, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Burari Hospital, Ambedkar Hospital, Sanjay Gandhi Hospital, BL Kapoor Hospital and Max Hospital in Patparganj were among those that had only “eight to 12 hours of oxygen left”.Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said its oxygen stock was to last till 1am. The hospital has 485 Covid-19 beds, of which 475 are occupied. “6,000 cubic metres of it is left, which at the rate of current consumption will last till 1am. Need urgent replenishment,” its chairman DS Rana said.With Delhi logging more than 100,000 Covid-19 cases over the past four days, the strain on the Capital’s oxygen supply continued to grow, with several hospitals having to discharge Covid-19 patients, restrict new admissions, and cancel routine surgeries.Daily cases of Covid-19 continued to soar as the city recorded its biggest single day spike of 28,395 new infections, pushing the total number of confirmed cases past 900,000. This was the fifth time in the past week that the city has set a new single-day case record. The seven-day average of daily cases in Delhi is now 22,198. This number, which denotes a region’s case curve, was just 9,299 a week ago – a growth of nearly 140% in just one week. If this rate of growth continues for one more week, then Delhi appears set to breach the 50,000 mark for daily cases.Average testing positivity rate – the proportion of tests that return positive for Covid-19, which serves as a good barometer for an expanding outbreak – has touched 24.2%. This means that one out of every four samples tested in the past week has come back positive. At a daily level, the positivity rate is soaring even higher – it has nearly sextupled in just two weeks. On Tuesday, 32.8% samples tested came back positive, against 4.9% of all samples on April 6. In early February, this number had to dropped a low of 0.2%.Underlining the efforts by his government to tackle the crisis, the Delhi CM tweeted: “We are working on a war footing to ensure oxygen supply in Delhi, and are also talking to the central government. An increase in the number of oxygen beds is happening on a large scale.”The chief minister said the government was purchasing medical oxygen from Noida in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to meet the shortage. He also directed officials to increase the number of beds with oxygen facilities for Covid-19 patients across hospitals.Deputy CM Sisodia tweeted: “All hospitals are sending SOS calls regarding oxygen supply. Suppliers are being stopped in different states. The Centre has to stay sensitive and active to ensure that there is no jungle raj among states regarding oxygen supply.”“Most hospitals in Delhi have only 8-12 hours of oxygen left. We have been urging the Centre for the past one week that to increase the quote of oxygen supply. If adequate supplies are not given to the hospitals by tomorrow morning, it would be chaos,” he added.In an address to the nation on Tuesday night, Prime Minister Narendra Modi noted that the surge in Covid-19 cases led to sharp increase in the demand for oxygen in different parts of the country. He said the work to increase oxygen production was taking place at several levels. “The Centre, state governments, private sector are trying to make oxygen available to all those who are in need of it. Many steps are being taken in this direction,” he said.Also read: Delhi sees highest ever single-day spike in cases, deaths; tally over 900,000On Sunday, the Delhi chief minister wrote to the Prime Minister, seeking his help in improving the supply of medical oxygen in Delhi. In a separate letter to Union minister of commerce and industries Piyush Goyal, he highlighted that the central government sending oxygen to other states by engaging a company which happens to be a “major supplier” in Delhi was at the root of the problem.Goyal later said: “Demand-side management is as important as supply-side management. Containing Covid-19 spread is the responsibility of state governments and they should fulfil this responsibility.”A statement issued by the Delhi government after Tuesday’s review meeting by the CM said: “Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday raised serious concerns over acute oxygen shortage across various Covid-19 facilities in Delhi. He urged the central government to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi since some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen. CM Arvind Kejriwal convened a review meeting today, wherein he directed the officials to increase oxygen beds across several facilities in Delhi… Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said that there should be no jungle raj between the states on the supply of oxygen, for this, the central government will have to be very sensitive and alert.”A senior home ministry official, who did not wish to be identified, said: “The central government is working on ensuring smoother supply of medical oxygen for Delhi as requested by the Delhi government.”A senior official in the central government who did not wish to be identified said that 241MT of oxygen was supplied to Delhi on Monday and 355.33 MT on Tuesday (till 3pm) by five manufacturers, and the total stock of oxygen in the city’s hospitals was 508 MT.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said in a tweet: “Media people are asking about oxygen supplied to Delhi. 240 Mt and 365 Mt oxygen supplied to Delhi on Mon & Tue against requirement of 700 mt per day. Stock position in most of the hospitals is not more than 10 to 12 hours. Every day we require 700 mt oxygen.”The Delhi high court said on Tuesday sufficient oxygen was not being supplied to Covid-19 patients in the national capital and asked the Centre if supply could be diverted from industries.“Industries can wait. Patients cannot. Human lives are at stake,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told the central government, while monitoring the Covid-19 situation in Delhi through a plea on testing.The bench said it heard that doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital were being forced to reduce oxygen being given to Covid-19 patients.One of Delhi’s biggest government hospitals, Safdarjung Hospital, was running low on oxygen. All elective or planned surgeries were cancelled on Monday morning after its oxygen supply ran low. “No elective surgeries to be performed due to deficiency of oxygen supply in the hospital till further orders. This is an urgent request,” a notice from the hospital’s anaesthesia department said.A senior doctor at the hospital said on condition of anonymity: “The demand for oxygen has increased manifold due to the increase in the number of Covid-19 patients who need high flow oxygen. There was a delay in supply and stocks are sufficient only for a few hours more.” The hospital, however, received more oxygen supplies by the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-gasps-for-oxygen-amid-28k-new-covid-19-infections-101618945964888.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Gurdwara body polls postponed over surge||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections have been postponed in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases and the week-long lockdown imposed in the national capital to check the spread of the virus.“Gurdwara elections in Delhi, to be held on 25 April, have been postponed due to corona and ongoing curfew. Hon’ble CM sends the proposal to Hon’ble LG,” Sisodia tweeted, along with an image of the proposal which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal sent to lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday.A senior official at the L-G’s office said even though the file was not received till this report was filed, the L-G is going to approve the proposal and the elections will be postponed.The proposal said it will not be prudent to hold the elections during the lockdown, and added that polling booths may become “hot spots”.Referring to a high court case, the proposal said the Delhi government has stated in the court that the election process will be completed by April 29. The court has directed it to adhere to the schedule with a permissible variation of two weeks, it said.Therefore, the elections should be postponed as it can be conducted by May 13 as per the court order, the government proposal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sikh-gurdwara-management-committee-polls-postponed-101618944999037.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||In meeting with L-G Baijal, BJP says migrants need urgent attention||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, in a meeting with Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Tuesday, flagged the problem of migrant workers in the Capital, and stressed that there was an urgent need to set up temporary shelters and ration camps to prevent them from leaving in city en masse, as they had when the national lockdown was announced in March last year.The party also accused the Delhi government of “not involving” the Opposition in the fight against Covid-19.Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.In a video conference meeting with the L-G, BJP leaders said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government should allow the three municipal corporations, which are governed by the BJP, to set up dedicated Covid-19 sections in their hospitals as well as open up quarantine centres in community halls and schools.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said: “The three municipal corporations in Delhi [North, East and South] have significant staff strength and infrastructure, which can be used to ramp up facilities for Covid-19 patients. But the Kejriwal government is not ready to involve the opposition.”He added, “The municipal corporations played a prominent role in helping people during the Covid lockdown last year. But the Delhi government is not involving them this year. The corporations request to allow them to form Covid sections in their hospitals is not being approved. They are also not being allowed to set up quarantine centres.”Also read: Delhi govt steps up efforts to boost jabsGupta said, “Past experience tells us that if these migrant workers leave the city, it will take months to reorganise the economy. It is important that ration and temporary camps be provided for them.”The meeting with the L-G on Tuesday was attended by BJP members of Parliament Ramesh Bidhuri (South Delhi), Meenakshi Lekhi (New Delhi), Parvesh Verma (West Delhi), Gautam Gambhir (East Delhi) and Manoj Tiwari (North East Delhi), as well BJP MLAs Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and Vijender Gupta.Referring to the present Covid-19 situation in the city, BJP MP Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “We have demanded that the government ensure medical counselling for patients in home isolation and a centralised facility to provide them medicines at home.”The L-G’s office did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-meeting-with-l-g-bjp-says-migrant-workers-need-urgent-attention-101618944940517.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt steps up efforts to boost jabs||District administrations have stepped up efforts to mobilise people, especially in lower-income groups, for Covid-19 vaccinations and ensure that there is no significant drop in inoculation numbers due to the six-day-long curfew.While there was a slight drop in the number of walk-ins at vaccination centres in some districts on Tuesday, the first day of the week-long curfew, officials said the drop was negligible.District officials said the government’s decision to do away with e-passes for vaccination, which was mandatory for travel, even to the vaccination centre, during the earlier weekend curfew, has helped in mobilising people — especially from the lower income group — to get vaccinated.As per the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) order, “persons who are going for Covid-19 testing or vaccination, can do so on production of valid identity card.”“There are nearly 80,000-100,000 people getting vaccinated daily. It is not possible to issue so many e-passes. As most vaccination centres are located near residential areas, people can just walk down to the centres,” said a senior revenue department official, asking not to be named.Also read: Spike renders tracing near-impossibleOn the first day of the curfew, administrations provided vehicles to take residents to vaccination centres and teams of ASHA (accredited social health activists), ANMs (auxillary nurse midwives) and civil defence volunteers were deployed to get people to the centres.A senior New Delhi district official said, “There is no major change in vaccination coverage due to the curfew. We are providing vehicles to bring beneficiaries to the vaccination centre and field staff (ASHA, ANM) are working in their areas to get people to the centres.”A senior north-west district official said, “Close to 50% of the people coming to the centre are walk-ins. Today, there is a slight drop in the number of walk-ins. But that could be due to the festival period (last day of Navratras and the ongoing Ramzan fasting).”In the Central district, the administration is running registrations camps near densely populated lower income group areas where people can register before being taken to vaccination centres.In the private sector, too, hospitals such as BLK hospital, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and Max Healthcare said there was no major impact on vaccination due to the curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/districts-mobilising-people-for-vaccination-curfew-fails-to-affect-numbers-101618944939239.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt schools shut for summer, city guest teachers left without work||The Delhi government has discontinued the services of nearly 20,000 guest teachers in its schools, according to an order by the Directorate of Education (DoE).The Delhi government has advanced summer vacations this year by 15 days in view of Covid-19 cases and fatalities spiralling out of control. The government has also suspended online and semi-online activities for students up to Class 9 till the last day of summer break on June 9.This leaves guest teaches with no work, and there is little chance of them getting any during the summer break.In a circular, issued on Monday, DoE said, “All the heads of schools are hereby directed to discontinue the services of all the guest teachers engaged in their school w.e.f. 20.04.2021...all the guest teachers shall be paid up to April 19, 2021, and in summer vacations only if they are called for the duties.”Shoeb Rana, secretary of All India Guest Teachers’ Association, said around 20,000 guest teachers engaged in 1,030 Delhi government schools are paid on a daily basis. “In normal circumstances, Delhi government schools organised summer camps for students where the majority of the guest teachers were deployed. However, since last year, there have been no summer camps due to Covid-19. The guest teachers survived without any income for over three months last year. The situation is the same this year,” he said. “The government should have planned something for us as well, taking a cue from last year. Where do we go now?”Also read | Centre’s vaccine policy hollow: Mamata to PMHT reported last May that several guest teachers resorted to alternative livelihoods, including selling vegetables, repairing bicycles, and working in fields, after schools remained closed amid the pandemic.Wazir Singh, 34, an English teacher, who sold vegetables last year to make ends meet for around four months, said, “My school used to call me for Mission Buniyaad classes and entrepreneurship classes during the 201 summer break. Things have completely changed. There is a lockdown in the city, otherwise I would have found some home tuitions. What will I do for the next 2-3 months?”A senior official of the Delhi government’s education department said the government has authorised schools to call guest teachers as per requirement during the summer break. “Every year, the guest teachers are paid on a need basis during summer break. They may be called for admission and examination related work. But the government cannot guarantee it. Under the prevailing situation it is difficult to accommodate so many teachers,” the official said.Several principals said they will not need guest teachers during the summer break this year due to Covid curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-delhi-govt-schools-close-for-summer-holidays-guest-teachers-left-without-work-101618944938551.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Spike renders tracing near-impossible||With nearly 15,800 cases on average reported daily over the last two weeks — the seven-day average in Delhi on Tuesday stood at 22,197 — it has become almost impossible to trace contacts of the Covid-19 patients because of the number of people that need to be screened in such an exercise, according to two district surveillance officers who asked not to be named.They said that until the last week of March, or even the first few days of April, all district surveillance officers (DSOs) and their teams called patients who tested positive, asked for 10 close contacts, checked with all 10 of them for Covid-19 symptoms, and then advised them accordingly.“The jump in cases is more than 10 times compared to previous months. We’re only focusing on tracing contacts of those who live in containment zones. But, very soon, this will also become impossible given the increase in the number of containment zones. If 20,000 persons are testing positive every day, then ideally, we have to trace 10 contacts of each person, which means we have to trace 200,000 people over the phone. Till the end of March and early April, contact tracing of everyone was happening, but now it’s not possible. We are focusing on people who live in containment zones,” said a district surveillance officer.In February, Delhi reported an average of 150 cases daily, which increased to 747 in March . Between April 4 (when cases started rising) and April 19, the city has reported an average of 12,978 cases every day. On Tuesday, according to the state government’s health bulletin, Delhi reported 28,395 new cases of infection.All the 11 revenue districts of Delhi have a district surveillance officer who works with a team of officials from the district magistrate’s office and the district health department.Also read: Delhi sees highest ever single-day spike in cases, deaths; tally over 900,000The officer cited above said that as cases are spreading rapidly, it is more important to trace the spread in containment zones and curb it right there so that there is no large hot spot.The number of containment zones has also increased. On February 1, Delhi had only 1,068 active containment zones. This dropped by nearly half to 596 on March 1, making it easier for district teams to identify people who could possibly be carrying the infection.But the active containment zone number has reached 17,151 on April 20, according to government data.“During the first wave of the infection last year, especially after nearly 2,000 people linked to the Nizamuddin Markaz were found to be spread in different parts of the city, we had roped in Delhi Police too for contact tracing. It was the lockdown period, so the traffic police personnel were relatively free, and helped in contact tracing. These days, the responsibility of tracing contacts lies with the district magistrate and the district health team. The manpower needed is not adequate,” a second DSO said.In districts such as South West and Central, more volunteers have been roped in to help with the contact tracing process.“In these two districts, government school teachers have been brought in to the district surveillance officers team. The teachers are part on Covid duty and are making calls. Based on their input, the local authorities act accordingly,” a senior health department official said.A senior officer from the South revenue district said, “ We are taking help of technology. Earlier we had only 10 telephones. Now we have 25 phones. Civil defence volunteers have also joined the team. Earlier we worked in two shifts. Now they are working round-the-clock in three shifts. “Senior Delhi Police officers, too, confirmed that they are not a part of the contact tracing exercise anymore.Dr Puneet Mishra, professor, department of community medicine, AIIMS, said that not being able to trace contacts of Covid-19 patients, it is not a major worry at the moment. “The government should stop contact tracing or creating new containment zones as the infection is now widespread across the city. If the infection was only in a specific area, it would make sense to trace contacts of people in that particular area; contain the place so that it does not spread elsewhere. But the circumstances are different now. The main job now is to save lives, improve the infrastructure. Citizens themselves have to be disciplined and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-severe-surge-in-cases-contact-tracing-near-impossible-say-officials-101618944878446.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||AAP says MCDs not collecting waste from homes of patients in isolation||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) were failing in the collection and disposal of medical waste from the residences of home-isolated Covid-19 patients.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and accused the AAP of engaging in “blame game” during a crisis.“The BJP is failing in Covid-19 management in every aspect. The BJP-led MCDs are failing to ensure that waste is collected and disposed of from residences of home isolated Covid-19 patients. More than 37,000 people are in home isolation in Delhi. There is a massive risk of the disease spreading if the waste is not taken care of at the earliest. Only the BJP will be responsible if things go south,” said Durgesh Pathak, AAP leader in charge of municipal affairs.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) guidelines for the management of Covid-19 biomedical waste says refuse from patients’ houses must be collected daily, in colour-coded and sealed bags, to prevent any spread of infection. Household biomedical waste has to be put in yellow bags. And, in every locality, it has to be done separately. In Delhi, the MCDs are in charge of the waste collection and disposal.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These are baseless allegations. The AAP is engaging in a blame game to hide their own failure in Covid-19 management. All three MCDs have been properly collecting and disposing of waste from the residences of home isolated patients since the beginning of the pandemic, and as per guidelines. The MCDs have also started a helpline for waste collection, the number of which is shared with patients in home isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-accuses-mcds-of-not-disposing-of-biomedical-waste-properly-not-true-says-bjp-101618944760101.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Migrants continue to trickle out of Capital on 1st day of lockdown||The exodus of migrants from the Capital to their home towns in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jharkhand via buses from the Anand Vihar bus terminal, and across the border from Uttar Pradesh’s Kaushambi terminus, continued on Tuesday, the first day of the lockdown in Delhi.The crowd at the two stations, however, was much less than on Monday, when nearly tens of thousands left the Capital in buses, officials said.The scenes on Monday were reminiscent of the migrant exodus last March, after the nationwide lockdown was declared. The foot-overbridges connecting Kaushambi and Anand Vihar ISBTs, and the railway station and the Metro station, were packed through Monday and in the early hours of Tuesday.Covid-19 protocols fell by the wayside as people stood in close proximity, and many did not wear masks properly.Officials attributed the drop in Tuesday’s numbers at the transit hubs to the enforcement of the curfew in Delhi and “confidence-building” measures they have undertaken to ensure migrants do not leave.Also read| Delhi to get 2.7k more Covid-19 beds: SisodiaThese, officials said, included the announcement by the Delhi government on Tuesday that shelters will be opened for migrant workers, and they will be given free meals and medical aid.The state government is also going to start providing financial aid of ₹5,000 to at least 170,000 workers registered with the Delhi workers welfare board.Puneet Sethi, state manager of ISBT Anand Vihar, said more than 25,000 people caught buses out of the city on Monday itself. There was a sharp decline in passengers since Tuesday morning and not more than 200 passengers were seen at any given time at the bus terminal.“The crowd on Monday was mostly migrants who panicked after the curfew announcement. We arranged 400 extra buses to manage the situation. A majority of passengers had left by early Tuesday,” Sethi said.Officials at the Kaushambi terminal said more than 60,000 passengers left in over 1,200 buses on Monday. The numbers came down to fewer than 10,000 passengers by Tuesday evening.“The gatherings swelled on Monday. Nearly 90% of them left by 3.30am on Tuesday. The situation is normal now,” said Narendra Kumar, assistant regional manager, Kaushambi terminal.To manage the crowd and to ensure they followed Covid protocol, nearly 400 police and civil defence volunteers were deployed in and around the bus terminals, said additional deputy commissioner of police (east) Sanjay Sehrawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crowds-thinner-at-isbts-but-many-still-make-a-beeline-for-buses-out-of-city-101618944758463.html
