22-04-2021||Delhi||Oxygen supply exhausted in 6 hospitals, 7 others have under 5 hrs left: Manish Sisodia tells Harsh Vardhan||Six hospitals in the national capital have exhausted their oxygen supply while seven others have less than five hours of oxygen left, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday.In a letter to the Union health minister, Sisodia pointed out that six hospitals — Saroj Super Speciality Hospital, Shanti Mukund, Tirath Ram Shah Hospital, UK Nursing Home, Rathi Hospital and Santom Hospital, have exhausted their oxygen supply.The hospitals that have less than five hours of oxygen supply include — Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, BLK Hospital, Holy Family Hospital, Okhla, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, Max Superspeciality Hospital, Patparganj, Venketeshwara Hospital and Sri Balaji Action Medical Institute, Sisodia pointed out."Police and senior officials of the administration in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are stalling the tankers carrying oxygen, delaying the tankers from reaching Delhi hospitals on time," Sisodia said in the letter."I urge you to ensure that the oxygen allocated for Delhi by the Centre reaches there without any delay to save lives of the patients," he added.Several small hospitals in the city struggled to replenish oxygen supply for coronavirus patients on Thursday morning, even as some big healthcare facilities received fresh stock overnight.The Centre on Thursday directed states to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transport along inter-state borders and said the district magistrate and superintendent of police of the district concerned will be held responsible if there is any violation of its order.The directive under the stringent Disaster Management Act 2005 was issued by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla in the wake of reports that some states blocked supply of medical oxygen to other states amid the sudden spike in coronavirus cases and demand for it.With several private and government hospitals in Delhi running low on medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the Centre raised the national capital's oxygen quota from 378 metric tonnes to 480 metric tonnes on Wednesday.Sisodia, however, said the increased quota has either not reached Delhi or there have been considerable delay.Meanwhile, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) appointed two senior bureaucrats as nodal officers to ensure smooth movement of tankers and facilitate oxygen supply to city hospitals, and directed the Delhi Police to provide security logistics from manufacturers' sites to various health facilities here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-supply-exhausted-in-6-hospitals-7-others-have-under-5-hrs-left-delhi-deputy-chief-minister-manish-sisodia-tells-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-101619115184083.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||3 IAS officers to ensure oxygen supply to Delhi hospitals, police to provide security to tankers||As Delhi hospitals faced a severe oxygen crisis for the third consecutive day, the DDMA roped in three senior bureaucrats on Thursday to ensure a smooth movement of tankers and facilitate oxygen supply to the needy establishments, and directed the police to provide the security logistics from the manufacturers' sites to various health facilities in the city.The move came hours after Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia alleged that the police in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana were blocking oxygen transportation to Delhi and urged the Centre to ensure normal supply even if that meant taking the help of paramilitary forces.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) also set up a round-the-clock control room to redress grievances and complaints from the city hospitals within 30 minutes.All the hospitals will have to appoint an audit committee for supervising and rationalising the use of medical oxygen.Several small hospitals in the city struggled to replenish their oxygen supplies for coronavirus patients throughout the day.Sisodia wrote to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in the evening, saying six hospitals in the national capital have exhausted their oxygen supply while seven have less than five hours of oxygen remaining.In his order, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, who is also the chairman of the DDMA executive committee, said the Delhi Police would keep a record of the entry and exit of all oxygen tankers through various checkposts to monitor their movement.The police will immediately share the record of entry and exit of the tankers at the checkposts with the control room, the order said.The liquid medical oxygen will be distributed among all hospitals run by the Centre, the Delhi government as well as private players under the overall supervision and control of Officer on Special Duty (Delhi health department) Ashish Verma.He will be assisted by two other senior IAS officers -- Vijay Bidhuri and Udit Prakash Rai. Rai will be responsible for ensuring a smooth and seamless movement of the tankers till the borders of Delhi and sorting out all the issues pertaining to the suppliers, the states and the Centre, Dev said in the order.Bidhuri will be responsible for controlling, coordinating and facilitating the supply of oxygen to the hospitals.According to the DDMA order, Delhi Police's Special Commissioner (operations) Muktesh Chander will function as the nodal officer, supervising the green corridor provided to the tankers.He will provide all help, support and security logistics as regards the movement of the tankers from the manufacturers' sites to the hospitals.The DDMA said there will be a help desk at the control room, which will be manned by an SDM-level officer and eight other officials for redressing the grievances and complaints from the hospitals."If the grievances are not redressed within half an hour, Bidhuri will look into it," it added.The hospitals will also appoint nodal officers, who will be available round the clock to redress grievances related to oxygen supply, the order said.Amid a shortage of medical oxygen being faced by the hospitals, the Centre increased Delhi's quota from 378 MT to 480 MT per day on Wednesday.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has said all the suppliers of medical oxygen, who provide Delhi its quota, are based in other states. The government is also trying to airlift medical oxygen from Odisha.A sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases and a high positivity rate have led to a large number of hospital admissions.Many of the patients are on supplemental oxygen and under ICU care and this has led to a quantum jump in the medical oxygen requirement of the hospitals, the DDMA said.In many cases, the existing contractual arrangements have either been disturbed or a hospital's oxygen requirement has exceeded the contractual quantity, causing a "widespread disruption" in the supply chain that has led to a "precarious situation", the DDMA order said."Local supply side disruptions in the neighbouring states is leading to wide variation in day-to-day delivery of oxygen to Deihi," it added.Allocation and supply of oxygen to all health establishments will be strictly regulated in accordance with the allocation orders issued by the government from time to time, the DDMA said.The order will specify the daily allocation in respect of all health establishments as well as the inter-se distribution amongst different suppliers, it added.Delhi logged 24,638 fresh Covid-19 cases and 249 deaths due to the viral disease on Wednesday, while the positivity rate stood at 31.28 per cent, meaning almost every third sample tested positive, amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city.On Tuesday, the city had recorded 28,395 cases and 277 fatalities, both highest since the outbreak of the pandemic. The positivity rate was 32.82 per cent, also the highest so far.The city has reported over 1,350 deaths due to the deadly virus in the last seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-ias-officers-to-ensure-oxygen-supply-to-delhi-hospitals-police-to-provide-security-to-tankers-101619114917281.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 26,169 new Covid-19 cases as tally tops 950,000, positivity rate at record 36%||The national capital on Thursday added 26,169 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 306 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 956,348 and 13,193 respectively, according to the health department's bulletin. A total of 851,537 people have recovered so far while the active cases are over 91,100, the bulletin showed.The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi is currently at a record 36 per cent. More than 72,200 tests were conducted on Thursday of which 23,862 are rapid antigen while the remaining 48,346 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNaat tests, the bulletin added. The containment zones in Delhi have reached 22,000 while 46,585 patients continue to remain under home isolation.As several hospitals in national capital have been reported a severe shortage of oxygen supplies from the past few days, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday it will become difficult to save lives. Addressing a press conference, Sisodia pointed out that some hospitals have already run out of oxygen to treat the infected patients.Also Read| Kejriwal speaks to Khattar on oxygen supply, assured of full supportHe held Haryana and Uttar Pradesh responsible for the shortage of oxygen supplies in Delhi.“Major reason behind Delhi’s oxygen crisis is ‘jungle raj’ for oxygen by Haryana-UP. Their governments, officers and police aren’t letting supply from their oxygen plants come to Delhi. Our officers spoke to them, I tried to speak to GoI but things aren’t changing on ground,” the deputy CM said.Later, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke to his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar regarding this issue. Taking it to Twitter, Kejriwal said Khattar has assured him of full support to facilitate the transport of oxygen tanks from Haryana to Delhi.Meanwhile, 53,673 beneficiaries were administered vaccine doses on Thursday and the cumulative beneficiaries vaccinated so far has climbed to 2,776,631. The Delhi government is all set to inoculate residents above the age of 18 under the next phase of the nationwide vaccination drive which will begin from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-26-169-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-at-record-36-101619110870999.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||1,500 Delhi Police personnel test positive in Covid-19 second wave||The Delhi Police on Thursday said that around 1,500 of its personnel have tested positive in the fresh wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that is wreaking havoc in the national capital, news agency ANI reported. The police force has been involved in frontline duty during the pandemic, which increases the risk of contracting the virus.The number has grown five times since last week, when ANI reported that 300 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19.The Delhi Police has intensified patrolling across the city due to the stringent curbs announced by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in view of spiralling Covid-19 cases. The national capital recorded 24,638 new Covid-19 cases and 249 related deaths on Wednesday.The police have also been handling a multitude of requests from people across the city. Since the surge in cases, police have arranged oxygen for hospitals facing critical shortage, sent the antiviral drug Remdesivir to patients in other states, turned a public park into a hospital for an ailing woman and rushed an elderly patient to hospital in the absence of any relative, among others.“People believe that the police can help them in times of need. We are working hard to do whatever we can to save lives and ease the troubles of patients,” Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north Delhi), told Hindustan Times.According to Delhi Police, SHO Mukherjee Nagar along with his staff arranged three oxygen cylinders in the night from Mayapuri plant and delivered them to a family of three Covid-19 patients.Police said they received a call from a woman who informed them about their condition. The SHO managed to arrange cylinders from Mayapuri and delivered to the house of the patients on Wednesday around 11.45 pm.On the same night, a major crisis was averted after the Delhi Police managed to restore oxygen supply to a hospital which sent an SOS to them for over 350 Covid-19 patients who were undergoing treatment.The police are also catering to a lot of requests for plasma. Almost 90 per cent of the policemen in Delhi have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1500-delhi-police-personnel-test-positive-in-covid-19-second-wave-101619104329554.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal speaks to ML Khattar on oxygen supply, assured of full support||As hospitals in Delhi grapple with shortage of oxygen to treat critical Covid-19 patients, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke to his Haryana counterpart. The two chief ministers spoke about the oxygen supply, with Kejriwal saying he has been assured of full support."I spoke to Hon’ble CM of Haryana Sh Manohar Lal Khattar ji. Sought his support in facilitating the transport of oxygen trucks from Haryana to Delhi. He has assured full support," Kejriwal tweeted.I spoke to Hon’ble CM of Haryana Sh Manohar Lal Khattar ji. Sought his support in facilitating transport of oxygen trucks from Haryana to Delhi. He has assured full support.Khattar said that one of the plants producing oxygen in Panipat has a capacity of 260 metric tonnes (MT). "140 MT oxygen allotted to Delhi. Arvind Kejriwal rang me up today and the matter has been resolved," the Haryana chief minister said.Earlier, Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the main reason behind the oxygen shortage crisis in Delhi is the 'jungle raj' by the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments. At a press conference, Sisodia alleged that despite the Centre's increased oxygen allocation to the national capital, government officials and police of the two states were not allowing the oxygen supply to leave for Delhi.He had made a similar charge on Wednesday too, which was rejected by the Haryana government."No supply has been stopped to Delhi, this is not true," Haryana's Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan told news agency PTI. Faridabad deputy commissioner Dr Garima Mittal denied allegations that oxygen supply to Delhi had been stopped from a plant in Faridabad.The Centre, meanwhile, stepped in to ensure that uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transport along inter-state borders. A directive was issued by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla under the stringent Disaster Management Act 2005 in the wake of reports that some states blocked supply of medical oxygen to other states amid sudden spike in coronavirus cases and demand for it.The order said there should be no restriction on the movement of medical oxygen between the states and transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free inter-state movement of oxygen carrying vehicles.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also chaired a high-level meeting on the issue where he asked top officials to work rapidly on increasing the production of oxygen, boost the speed of its distribution and use innovative ways to provide oxygen support to healthcare facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-speaks-to-khattar-on-oxygen-supply-assured-of-full-support-101619089472447.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||‘Patients will die’: Top Delhi doctor breaks down over oxygen crisis in city hospitals||As several hospitals in Delhi report shortage of medical oxygen, Sunil Saggar, CEO of Shanti Mukand Hospital, broke down in an interview with news agency ANI, saying that only two hours of oxygen was left in his hospital due to which “patients may die”.Also Read | Delhi may transport oxygen via air to save time: CM Kejriwal“We’re hardly left with any oxygen. We have requested the doctors to discharge the patients who can be discharged. Whatever cylinders are there we’re trying to put them on ICU beds,” Saggar said. “Whatever volume of oxygen we have we’ve tried to tweak it so that it can last a little more. If at all something is there, it may be for two hours or something,” he further said.Also Read | Ensure no restriction in supply of oxygen for Covid-19 patients: MHA to statesOn the question of patients who require oxygen, Saggar said there were 110 such patients, of which 85 who need more than five litre oxygen supply per minute. There are 12 patients on ventilator, the senior doctor also said.“There are cancer patients, cardiac patients. It’ll will be very deplorable, unfortunate condition. We as doctors we’re supposed to give life, if we can’t give them oxygen, patients will die,” Saggar said, breaking down into tears.#WATCH | Sunil Saggar, CEO, Shanti Mukand Hospital, Delhi breaks down as he speaks about Oxygen crisis at hospital. Says "...We're hardly left with any oxygen. We've requested doctors to discharge patients, whoever can be discharged...It (Oxygen) may last for 2 hrs or something." pic.twitter.com/U7IDvW4tMGAs daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reach unprecedented high in the national capital, several top hospitals have reported shortage of medical oxygen. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia have both flagged the issue to the Centre, and have even accused the neighbouring state of Haryana of blocking Delhi’s oxygen supply. On Wednesday evening, Kejriwal tweeted that the Centre has increased Delhi’s quota of oxygen.Central govt has increased Delhi’s quota of oxygen. We r very grateful to centre for this.Also Read | 'Will be tough to save lives after some time': Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia's SOS over oxygen supplySeveral hospitals had to move the Delhi High Court seeking directions over restoration of oxygen supply. However, on Thursday, the Supreme Court took suo moto cognisance of the present Covid-19 situation in the country, including oxygen and essential drugs supply, asking the Centre to present a national plan covering various Covid-19 related issues. The matter will again be heard on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/patients-will-die-top-delhi-doctor-breaks-down-over-oxygen-crisis-in-city-hospitals-101619087848630.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||'Ensure compliance with MHA order on oxygen supply': Delhi high court tells Centre||More hospitals in Delhi moved the high court on Thursday, pleading the replenishment of oxygen so that they can continue providing care to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. The fresh one to approach the high court is Saroj Super Specialty in Rohini.The bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli heard a fresh matter by Saroj after a plea from Max Healthcare on Wednesday. It once again asked the Centre what steps have been taken to ensure proper oxygen supply to hospitals.Also Watch: ‘Not a comfortable situation’, Delhi minister Satyendar Jain on oxygen crisisThe Delhi govt told the court that oxygen plants in Durgapur, Rourkela and Kalinganagar (in Odisha) have been asked to deliver oxygen to hospitals in Delhi. "The intention is there, but the plants are at far off places making it difficult for them to bring oxygen. It will take two days," said senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government.The judges then suggested getting the oxygen from nearby plants, saying the some states are not letting the supply of the allocated amount of oxygen. "That is something you have to handle," said the court."What is the use of allocation if it is not going and reaching from where it is required?" said the judges.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre, assured that the requirement for oxygen will be met, and said this is not the time for A government versus B government.The high court directed the Centre to ensure strict compliance of the allocation order issued by the Union home ministry on Thursday, and its own order on April 21."We also direct all the authorities to ensure the strict compliance of the order. We want to make it clear that this order is implemented immediately and action would be taken against the non-compliance," said the bench."We direct that all the oxygen as per the allocating order, to ensure that adequate security is provided to the lorries transporting oxygen and there is no obstruction is created. Special corridor may be created," it further said.The high court's direction came after a home ministry official joined the hearing. The official informed the court that the MHA is continuously in touch with nodal officer of Delhi for smooth supply of oxygen to hospitals.The home ministry on Thursday sent an order to all the states saying that there shall be no restriction on the movement of medical oxygen and stressed that the supply cannot be limited to any particular state.Meanwhile, the Saroj Hospital received oxygen supply after running on backup cylinders for 4.5 hours. The hospital had to discharge patients and stop new admissions.In its petition, the hospital sought direction to the Centre, Delhi government and Inox, which supplies oxygen to hospitals in Delhi, to immediately supply 3000 cubic metres of oxygen and continue the same on a daily basis during the current Covid-19 wave.While haring Max's plea on Wednesday, the high court directed the Centre to beg, borrow or steal or do whatever to supply medical oxygen to hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-a-time-for-a-vs-b-centre-says-in-hc-on-oxygen-supply-101619085131599.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||'Will be tough to save lives after some time': Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia's SOS over oxygen supply||The issue of oxygen shortage is serious in Delhi and it will be tough to save lives after some time, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday. He also said that some hospitals in Delhi have run out of oxygen completely.“We’ve been making internal arrangements for now, but it will become tough to save lives after some time,” Sisodia said at a press conference and added he has been receiving emails and messages regarding the shortage.“Some Delhi hospitals have run out of oxygen completely. They have no options left,” he added.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also accused the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh of blocking Delhi’s oxygen supply.“Major reason behind Delhi’s oxygen crisis is ‘jungle raj’ for oxygen by Haryana-UP. Their governments, officers and police aren’t letting supply from their oxygen plants come to Delhi. Our officers spoke to them, I tried to speak to GoI but things aren’t changing on ground,” Sisodia said.Speaking about the Centre’s decision on Wednesday to increase the supply of oxygen in Delhi and some other states, Sisodia questioned why neighbouring Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were behaving as if they had some dispute with Delhi and added all have to be united against the pandemic.He also urged the Centre to take the assistance of paramilitary forces if required and ensure the supply of oxygen - critical for serious Covid-19 patients - to Delhi.Delhi and Haryana have been engaged in squabble over the oxygen crisis. The Delhi government has accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Haryana of stopping supplies into the national capital.However, the Haryana government termed this allegation as baseless and said the supply was interrupted due to technical reasons. “No supply has been stopped to Delhi. This is not true,” state health minister Anil Vij told news agency PTI on Wednesday and claimed that one of the oxygen tankers going to Delhi from Faridabad was looted by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-be-tough-to-save-lives-after-some-time-sisodia-s-sos-over-oxygen-supply-101619083412378.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi asks for more oxygen amid acute shortage. CM says supply quota not enough||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday reiterated that the national capital is facing an oxygen crisis over the past few days and said that the increased quota fixed by Centre a day ago is still not enough to meet the spiralling demands amid a more infectious second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Kejriwal appealed to the Centre for more oxygen, pointing out that Delhi does not produce oxygen on its own and hence has to depend on other states for supply.Also Read: Delhi may transport oxygen via air to save time: CM KejriwalWith several private and government hospitals in Delhi running low on medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the Centre on Wednesday had raised the national capital's oxygen quota from 378 metric tonnes to 480 metric tonnes. Drawing attention to these numbers, the Delhi chief minister on Thursday said that the union territory needs 700 tonnes per day, so the increased quota of 480 tonnes/day is still not enough.दिल्ली में ऑक्सीजन की कमी ना हो, इसके लिए हम पूरी मेहनत कर रहे हैं। मुझे यक़ीन है कि अगर हम सब एक साथ ‘भारतीय’ बनकर लड़ेंगे, तो हम कोरोना को हरा देंगे | Press Conference LIVE https://t.co/v1pizxm3ZD"Delhi is facing an oxygen crisis for the past few days. Centre fixes oxygen quota for all states. As per the Delhi government's estimate, the union territory needs 700 tonnes/day, the central government had fixed it to 378 tonnes earlier and increased it to 480 tons yesterday. We need more but we're thankful to them for this," news agency ANI quoted Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as saying.The Delhi chief minister further said that in addition to fixing the oxygen quota for several states, the central government also allots companies that will supply oxygen to a particular state. "Delhi doesn't produce oxygen, supply here is done by other states. Some of the governments, in whose states these companies are, had stopped the supply that was to come to Delhi from these companies," he said.Kejriwal's statements come a day after Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia alleged that an official of the Haryana government had stopped oxygen supply to Delhi from a plant in Faridabad. A similar incident took place in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. This led to a crisis in some hospitals, Sisodia had said, adding the oxygen supply was later restored.Also Read: Covid-19: Urge Centre to increase quota of oxygen in Delhi, says Manish Sisodia as Capital continues to see shortageSpeaking in a similar vein, Delhi CM Kejriwal on this day said, "Governments said that they'll use the oxygen in their states first, use Delhi's quota too and that they'll not let trucks come to Delhi. But I would like to thank the Centre and the Delhi high court for their help. Due to this, oxygen has once again started reaching Delhi." He said that under the increased quota, oxygen is scheduled to come to Delhi from Odisha as well, albeit with some delay. "We are making an effort to see if we can bring oxygen from there by the air route," the chief minister said.Hospitals in Delhi have been warning that their supplies of medical oxygen given to severely ill Covid-19 patients are running low. Earlier this day, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that the current stock of medical oxygen may run out in six to 10 hours, depending on the situation in each hospital.Delhi logged 24,638 coronavirus cases and 249 deaths on Wednesday, as the positivity rate stood at 31.28% -- meaning almost every third sample turned out to be positive -- amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city. Only 18 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were available in hospitals across Delhi at 11 pm, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-asks-for-more-oxygen-amid-acute-shortage-cm-says-supply-quota-not-enough-101619074424363.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Situation with medical oxygen in Delhi not comfortable, Satyendar Jain warns||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday pointed out the stark deficit of medical oxygen at hospitals in the national capital and said that the current stock of medical oxygen may run out in six to 10 hours, depending on the situation in each hospital.The minister's statements come amid reports of nationwide shortage in oxygen supply, with hospitals in Delhi warning that their supplies of medical oxygen given to severely ill Covid-19 patients are running low.With several private and government hospitals in Delhi running low on medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the Centre on Wednesday raised the national capital's oxygen quota from 378 metric tonnes to 480 metric tonnes.A day later, the minister has pointed out that a clear-cut crisis over medical oxygen in the national capital has been there for the last three days. When asked by reporters about the situation of oxygen in hospitals, Jain said, "The situation is different in different hospitals. It's six hours in some, eight in others, and 10 in some others. We cannot call this a comfortable situation."Situation is different in different hospitals; 6 hours in some, 8 in others 10 in some others. We can't call this a comfortable situation: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain when asked about situation of Oxygen in Delhi hospitals & how long will Oxygen last in each of them pic.twitter.com/T85WWL8gDIAmid a shortage of medical oxygen in the national capital, the Delhi health minister pointed out that there is a crisis in ICU beds as well. "There is a crisis of ICU beds. We have made a request to the Centre; I think they will give us 700-800 more ICU beds soon. We have demanded 7,000 beds in the central government-run hospitals, they have given us around 2,000," said Jain.He said that Delhi's oxygen quota was "less than requirement", following which the Centre increased it on Wednesday. If the crisis is resolved in a day or two, the number of beds will be increased, the minister said.The Delhi high court had on Wednesday night ordered the Centre to "forthwith" provide oxygen by whatever means to hospitals here facing a shortage of the gas in treating serious Covid-19 patients, observing it “seems human life is not important for the state”.Several small hospitals in the city were seen on Thursday morning struggling to replenish oxygen supply, even as some big healthcare facilities received fresh stock overnight amid spiralling Covid-19 cases. However, several private hospitals complained that no help has reached them.Delhi logged 24,638 coronavirus cases and 249 deaths on Wednesday, as the positivity rate stood at 31.28% -- meaning almost every third sample turned out to be positive -- amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city. Only 18 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were available in hospitals across Delhi at 11 pm, according to a government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/situation-with-medical-oxygen-in-delhi-not-comfortable-satyendar-jain-warns-101619071928023.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Clear sky in Delhi today; AQI remains in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a mainly clear sky on Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department forecast.The minimum temperature is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 35°C.The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 18.7°C, four notches below normal and the maximum temperature was 33.4°C -- five degrees below normal.Also Read | Covid-19 surge: Capital on the brinkMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality continued to be in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 10am stood at 121. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 134, which is in the lower end of the moderate category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clear-sky-in-delhi-today-aqi-remains-in-moderate-category-101619070349165.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Minimum temperature settles below normal in Delhi||The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 18.7 degrees Celsius, four notches below the season's average, on Thursday morning, the India Meteorological Department said.According to MeT officials, the maximum temperature will settled around 35 degrees Celsius.The relative humidity was recorded at 60 per cent.The weather office has predicted mainly clear sky during the day.The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the moderate category. The air quality index (AQI) was 121 at 9 am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minimum-temperature-settles-below-normal-in-delhi-101619065203358.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi border routes remain closed, traffic diverted||Tikri and Singhu, two important border roads between Delhi and Haryana, remain fully closed on Thursday as farmers continue with their agitation against the three farm laws. Along the Delhi-UP border, one carriageway of the Ghazipur border is open for those travelling to Ghaziabad from Delhi, even as farmers continue blocking the other road of the elevated highway from Ghaziabad towards Delhi. The Delhi Police, in its advisory, have asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Both carriageways of the Delhi-Noida Chilla border are also open for motorists after remaining closed for several weeks until late January.Also Read | Wheat harvest done, Punjab farmers head for Delhi borderSome other entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh borders, also continue to remain closed fully or partially.Motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana can take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad, the traffic police said in an advisory. Farmers have been protesting against the three newly enacted farm laws at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana since November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-border-routes-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101619060028335.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 surge: Capital on the brink||In the last two days, several hospitals in Delhi have raised alarm over depleting oxygen supplies as the number of dependent patients has skyrocketed. Some got the stock only minutes from a disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-surge-capital-on-the-brink-101619042452618.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||With lives on the line, Delhi scrambles for oxygen lifeline||Over 1,000 critically ill Covid-19 patients in Delhi were in imminent danger in the last 24 hours after the hospitals they were in issued distress calls on Wednesday about their oxygen supplies running perilously low, with a bigger tragedy being averted with minutes to spare as frantic interventions by government officials helped secure replenishments.HT is aware of at least 11 facilities, whose executives either sent SOS letters to the government or spoke directly to report low stocks. At least six of them said the crisis was because officials in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana had stopped trucks from leaving the facilities, a problem that deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia too reported.The crisis came into focus late on Tuesday when officials announced GTB Hospital, with 500 patients, was to run out of oxygen by 2am, triggering a scramble that was closely watched on social media where thousands of people counted down the anxious hours. It was around 1.30am when the first images confirmed the arrival of a cryogenic truck from UP.Hours later, officials of Indraprastha hospital, Manipal hospital and Max hospital wrote to the government, flagging the crisis. Max hospital also moved the Delhi high court, which pulled up the Union government, a day after it had criticised it in another hearing over the same issue.“Over the past few days, we have been under extreme duress due to the interruptions and delays in supply of Liquid Medical Oxygen. On the intervening night of April 20 and 21... Their (supplier’s) officials informed us that due to local administration’s intervention in Greater Noida, the supply to Delhi has been stopped. While we used to have three days of oxygen supply in our inventory, this has not reduced to around 10-12 hours of supply,” said a letter from the Indraprastha Apollo hospital to the Delhi health minister, seen by HT.On Wednesday afternoon, Dr John Punnoose, associate medical director of St Stephen’s hospital, made a panicked call to HT. “We have oxygen stock left for just two hours and our supplier has been stopped at Haryana border. There are nearly 300 Covid-19 patients, most of who are on oxygen. In addition, we are running the casualty department and the operation theatres where oxygen is needed. There will a big problem if we do not get the oxygen in time,” he said, expecting to run out of supply by 6pm. The facility used some back-up cylinders, before its supply truck arrived at 6.45 pm.Delhi’s oxygen requirement has soared to nearly three times what is normal as a tsunami of Covid-19 infections has filled up city hospitals with serious and critical cases. The situation has prompted Delhi government officials to send out multiple requests to the central government, which manages oxygen stock distribution, to raise its quota, even the state and its neighbours exchanged allegations of impeding supplies.Big hospitals use liquid medical oxygen pumped through a gas pipeline in their wards. Oxygen cylinders can be attached to the supply line in cases of emergency, but need to be closely monitored and changed frequently.The smaller 34-bed nursing home Irene hospital in Kalkaji, which needs 150 cylinders, received only 30 on Wednesday morning. “We receive around 50 cylinders in three deliveries from our supplier. Today, we were given 30 cylinders in the morning with no assurance for further supply,” said Dr Mohd Shariq, the Covid-19 unit head at the hospital.The hospital sent its staff out to look for cylinders in the afternoon. “The staff has managed to get some cylinders and are on their way back now,” the hospital said at 7.30pm.Similar distress messages were sent by two other nursing homes. Rathi hospital in Najafgarh-Nangloi took to Twitter to announce they were running out of oxygen. The hospital uses up 360 cylinders a day for 78 Covid-19 patients it has. “We have an oxygen station nearby that fills our cylinder every two or three hours. They refused us in the afternoon today; saying they have no oxygen,” said Kaushtub Tiwari, head, marketing and operations at the hospital.After a frantic search, the hospital managed to get 31 cylinders from other nursing homes.At six in the evening, one of the city’s largest private hospitals in Northwest Delhi, Max hospital-Shalimar Bagh, issued a distress message. The hospital just had two hours of oxygen supply with no assurance of replenishment. The facility had run out of oxygen late on Tuesday and had to rely on cylinders sourced from other hospitals in the Max network.“Yesterday night, the oxygen supply to the hospital was disrupted as an oxygen tanker on its way to refill the oxygen tanks at Max hospital, Shalimar Bagh was diverted. This led to a situation where the hospital’s oxygen tanks ran dry,” said a letter from the hospital to the Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.The crisis prompted a war of words between Delhi and Haryana. “We are being forced to give our oxygen to Delhi. First, we’ll complete our needs, then give to others. Yesterday, one of our oxygen tankers which was going to Faridabad, was looted by Delhi government. From now, I have ordered police protection for all tankers,” Haryana health minister Anil Vij said.Later, Delhi’s deputy CM said hospitals had reported that a supplier in Faridabad – which was meant to send the replenishments to Stephens and some of the others — stopped sending trucks since a Haryana official was restricting their departure.“If the oxygen gets over, patients on the ventilators will die within minutes and the others within a couple of hours. This is a matter of life and death,” said Sumit Ray, medical superintendent of Holy Family hospital where 375 Covid-19 patients were admitted as on Wednesday evening. Of these, 325 were either on ventilator or oxygen, and oxygen was expected to last till Thursday, 11am.Later, on Wednesday evening, doctors from Indraprastha Apollo hospital said they were waiting anxiously for their replenishments. “Yesterday, the hospital received its oxygen supply at 3am just an hour before the stock would get over. Today, we have supply till 1am. Now, we have to just wait for the supplier,” said a doctor from the hospital, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-lives-on-the-line-delhi-scrambles-for-oxygen-lifeline-101619038664855.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Row over Gautam Gambhir’s offer of free FabiFlu from his office||A tweet by BJP East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir on Wednesday offering free antiviral drug Fabiflu from his local office triggered a row with the opposition accusing him of hoarding the drug and questioning him if he could distribute it legally.Fabiflu is widely used in managing symptoms of Covid-19 patients and is currently available in short supply in the city with the cases of the viral disease rising at an unprecedented pace.“People of East Delhi can get ‘Fabiflu’ from MP office (2, Jagriti Enclave) for FREE between 10-5. Kindly get Aadhar & prescription,” Gambhir tweeted on Wednesday afternoon. However, the former cricketer-turned-politician didn’t specify how he managed to the get supply of the medicine which can only be bought on a doctor’s prescription.AAP accused the BJP MP of hoarding the medicine. AAP leader Durgesh Pathak tweeted, “Gujarat — BJP president hoarding life saving injections. Maharastra — BJP EX CM fadnavis hoarding remdesivir. Delhi’s part-time BJP MP and full-time cricket commentator hoarding life saving medicines. Public representatives or criminals? You decide,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak tweeted.Senior Congress leader Pawan Khera raised questions on how Gambhir procured the medicine. Khera tweeted, “1) How much Fabiflu do you have in your possession? 2) How did you procure so much of Fabiflu? @GautamGambhir. CC @ArvindKejriwal: 1) Is this legal? 2) Is the shortage of Fabiflu at chemists’ shops due to such unauthorised procurement/distribution?”Gambhir didn’t comment on the matter. However, he posted another tweet in the evening. “Delhi is my home & I will keep serving the people till my last breath. With many requests for beds, oxygen & medicines, we are helping as many as we can!,” he tweeted.Responding to allegations of hoarding he tweeted, “Those who allowed Remdesivir to be black marketed at more than 30 thousand a vial & hospital beds to be sold for 5-10 Lakh in Delhi are concerned that a few hundred Fabiflu strips are being given for FREE to the poor. That’s their understanding of “Hoarding” #HumanLivesMatter”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/row-over-gautam-gambhir-s-offer-of-free-fabiflu-from-his-office-101619037923762.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||HC tells Centre to ensure supply on hospital’s appeal||“We cannot see people dying for the lack of oxygen,” said the Delhi high court on Wednesday as it nudged the Centre into ensuring sufficient quantity of medical oxygen for patients in Delhi along with an unobstructed passage of the cylinders to the national capital from different states.“The citizen can only fall back on the State and it is your duty to provide. Beg, borrow or steal but you must provide. And it is our bounden duty to make sure people’s fundamental right to life is not curtailed,” said a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said in an urgent late evening hearing that started around 8 pm and ended at 10.40 pm.The hearing saw both the judges exhorting the Central government to make certain that no death happens in Delhi due to shortage of supply of oxygen after Max Hospitals complained that they were running short on oxygen and were down to only a few hours of supply in some facilities.“Today it is Max before us but there could be several other hospitals which have the same problem. The shortage is there and it is there for everyone to see. We cannot shut our eyes to this. You can’t say we can’t provide only this much and no more and let people die. That can’t be an answer from a sovereign government and we are not ready to accept such an answer. We can’t see people dying because they don’t have oxygen,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Union government in the matter.It added: “We are in dire straits. Hundreds and thousands of lives are lost because of lack of oxygen. As a sovereign state, it is your responsibility to make sure sufficient oxygen is there. You can’t turn around and say you don’t have more oxygen. You cannot say that we can only provide this and if people are dying, let them die. That cannot be an answer by a responsible and sovereign state. You just draw on oxygen from captive industries and do everything else. And if some of the plants are to be shut, so be it. But people can’t lose lives because of oxygen.”The court also cited the tragedy in a Nashik hospital, where 24 lives were lost due to a leak in an oxygen tank.On his part, the S-G submitted that the Centre was committed to procuring maximum quantity of oxygen from all possible sources and its duty was confined to allocate it equitably to all the states. About Delhi, Mehta informed that the allocation to the capital was increased from 378 MT to 480 MT and it was now for the Delhi government to get its transported from the points of procurement.Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra agreed with the S-G about the hike in the oxygen allocation and expressed his gratitude but sought police protection during the transit.Mehta assured the court that the Centre will ascertain safe passage for the oxygen cylinders to Delhi.The bench then recorded the statement by the S-G about the increase in allocation and the safe passage while deferring the matter for a hearing on Thursday when the issue of diversion of oxygen from captive plants will be taken up.During the hearing, the bench observed that supply of medical oxygen should be stopped for industrial use and even the amendment—that the plants having captive oxygen can continue their production—does not help as it is an “emergent situation”.“Every citizen is entitled to that protection. In such a situation, you are saying that the industry would not be stopped. How are your officers not looking at the situation?” the bench asked Mehta.Mehta said that the order of stopping oxygen to the industries was sought to be earlier implemented from April 22 in wake of the time required for the technical shut down, which was given to implement the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-tells-centre-to-ensure-supply-on-hospital-s-appeal-101619037612695.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police create green corridors for movement of oxygen containers||Police on Tuesday evening again stepped in to create a green corridor and resolve the oxygen shortage at a north Delhi Covid-19 hospital, after being alerted about an agitation by anxious relatives of 80 Covid patients admitted there.Police said it took them exactly 98 minutes to arrange the cylinders for NKS Super Speciality Hospital in Gulabi Bagh.Ever since Covid hospitals started running low on oxygen, the police have been receiving requests from individuals and hospitals to help arrange oxygen.On Sunday, the outer Delhi district police arranged 20 cylinders for a hospital in Nangloi where 35 patients were admitted. The south-east police arranged 15 cylinders for the Holy Family Hospital and Jeevan Hospital.On Wednesday, the police arranged oxygen for several hospitals and individuals across the city. According to the NKS Super Speciality Hospital CEO, DS Chatwal, nearly 80 of the 102 Covid patients there were dependent on oxygen and the supply was depleting by late Tuesday.“We had movable small cylinders as a last resort. Lives of 80 patients were at risk,” said Chatwal.Relatives of these 80 patients grew restless when they got to know of the shortage. “They began agitating and the situation was taking an untoward turn when the hospital made a distress call to the police,” said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north).The DCP and other officers reached the hospital soon after. “We pacified the relatives and then began arranging the oxygen,” said Alphonse.Police got 53 empty cylinders refilled on priority from a unit in Mayapuri Industrial Area, after speaking to its owner. The team set off for the hospital the moment the first set of 15 cylinders were filled. “We set up a green corridor and covered a distance of 13km in less than 20 minutes,” said a police officer. The 15 cylinders reached by 6.08pm and the remaining 38 an hour later, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-create-green-corridors-for-movement-of-oxygen-containers-101619037345426.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||3 Covid care centres for police in Capital||Three Covid care centres are being set up in different parts of the national capital for Delhi Police personnel and their families, even as several men and women in uniform are falling prey to second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.So far, over 8,000 personnel have contracted Covid-19 since the beginning of the pandemic last year. On Tuesday alone, 242 men and women from the force tested positive for the virus, the Delhi Police said.A statement released by the police on Wednesday said Covid care centres have been opened in Shahdara and Rohini, while the one is Dwarka is yet to become operational.The Shahdara Covid care centre is the biggest of the three with 78 beds, of which 20 are equipped with oxygen supply. The Rohini facility has 20 beds, half of which are equipped with oxygen.Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson, Delhi Police, said more facilities are being set up for police personnel and their families. “These facilities, which will work as Covid care centres for Delhi Police personnel and their families, were set up for the immediate relief of patients till the time they get an admission at a regular Covid hospital,” he said.The facility and medicines at these centres will be provided from the police resources. Dedicated ambulances will be stationed at these centres to attend to emergencies, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-covid-care-centres-for-police-in-capital-101619036687907.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||RWAs struggle to run community centres due to shortage of staff||Two days after district administrations identified at least 31 locations to set up community Covid-19 care centres with an aim to add 541 beds with oxygen supply to the city’s health infrastructure, several residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) on Wednesday said they were not being able to start the facilities despite all arrangements being in place due to unavailability of doctors, nurses, and other medical staff.Several RWAs and NGOs on Wednesday said though the district administration was providing them oxygen cylinders or concentrators, they were not able to find staff that could use them. They demanded that the government and district administrations help with human resources to run the facilities.Hardeep Singh Bhalla, president of the Sainik Farms RWA, said a 60-bed Covid isolation centre located in a municipal school in Pushp Vihar, which only caters to asymptomatic patients, has been identified for conversion into a community Covid-19 care centre.“We have only medical support staff working with us 24x7 since all our patients are asymptomatic, and doctors only visit in case of an emergency. But, if we will have to set up beds with oxygen support and admit patients with mild symptoms, we will need professionals. We need a doctor there at least for two hours every day and some full-time nurses,” he said.Arun Kumar, a member of Seva Bharti, an NGO that has agreed to start a community Covid care centre in Paharganj with 30 beds, said: “Some doctors living in the locality have agreed to provide part-time services since they already have prior commitments. We need some permanent doctors.”Some RWAs said that most of the doctors residing in their locality do not have training in handling Covid-19 patients. Dr. Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjeevan Vihar RWA, said, “I am an ophthalmologist and someone else here is a dermatologist... we cannot look after Covid-19 patients. We are more than willing to help. We can arrange for funds, foods, and other things, but without a medical team we cannot run a facility with Covid patients having mild symptoms.”Some groups who have managed to arrange for doctors said it wasn’t easy to find them. Arvind Mehta, president of an RWA in New Rajendra Nagar, who has set up a centre in a school in coordination with the team of area MLA Raghav Chadha, said they have managed to get three doctors for now.Officials in several districts acknowledged that the unavailability of doctors and nursing staff has become a major obstacle in starting community Covid care centers. “Doctors, nurses, and medical staff are already overburdened with work in their hospitals and clinics. We can’t let RWAs or NGOs start facilities without proper doctors,” said an official in the central Delhi district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rwas-struggle-to-run-community-centres-due-to-shortage-of-staff-101619036529171.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Call for help: Residents dial 112 as infections rise||As Covid-19 infections continue to surge across the Capital, residents are calling the police helpline number 112 requesting all sorts of help -- from arranging ambulances and oxygen cylinders for patients to getting tested for Covid-19.According to police control room (PCR) data, seen by Hindustan Times, the 112 number is getting over 500 calls every day for the past few days, and the police expect this to rise over the rest of the week.The calls to 112 are different from those received by the Covid-19 helpline -- 011-23469900 -- launched by police last week. That helpline receives around 900 calls daily, and a majority of them are regarding movement passes during the six-day curfew that kicked in on Monday night, as well as queries about the coronavirus disease itself.The police data is indicative of the scale of the crisis the city is facing. To be sure, there are dedicated helplines for hospitals beds, medicines and medical aid that have been flooded with calls.PCR call data for April shows that the most number of calls were related to unavailability of ambulances. On Tuesday, the control room received 210 calls from citizens who complained that they were unable to get a government or private ambulance. A day before that, the 112 number received 152 calls for ambulance services. Police, without revealing the exact numbers, said crime-related calls have dropped over the past few days, and attributed this to the night curfew and the ongoing curfew.Police said these calls had increased all of a sudden. Data shows that on April 1, there were only three such calls, followed by two on April 2, and three on April 3. The data shows that calls for ambulance services increased after April 5, when the national capital started recording at least 5,000 cases daily -- the 5,000-mark was breached on April 6 with 5,100 cases and cases have been rising steadily since then -- putting a strain on the health facilities.The positivity rate of the disease has also increased to over 30% in the last few days -- it was 32.82% on Tuesday. This means that one in every three persons tested was turning out positive for the disease. Apart from calls for ambulances, police are receiving an average of 10 calls requesting oxygen cylinders. On Tuesday, 15 such calls were received. Police officers manning the telephone lines said these calls were mostly from hospitals short on supply.A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said: “On Tuesday, as reports poured in from the control room and police stations about medical professionals requesting oxygen cylinders, a meeting was held by the police brass at the headquarters. A message was sent to everyone on the field that such calls were to be given priority. Personnel posted in PCR vans were told to wear PPE kits and use the vans as ambulances when needed. Every police station was told to gather information about oxygen cylinders and ensure that it reached hospitals. The traffic police was told to coordinate with other units and open a ‘green corridor’ for vehicles carrying oxygen to hospitals. As soon as the meeting was over, around 3.15pm, a 71-year-old lady who lives alone in Bharat Nagar suffered a critical reduction in oxygen levels -- it dropped below 50, from an optimum of 95% or higher. Our officers went to her house and got her admitted to the Deep Chand Bandu hospital. Such interventions are too many to detail.”On Wednesday, for example, a call was received from doctors of Amarleela Hospital in west Delhi’s Janakpuri. The caller informed the police that the lives of 32 Covid patients were at risk as their oxygen stock was “nearly finished”. Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said,” Our police team immediately contacted oxygen cylinder suppliers in and around the area. They found one in Kirti Nagar. An emergency response vehicle, which is normally used for security reasons, was rushed to the storage point to collect cylinders. They then went to Gole Market and Mayapuri to arrange for more cylinders. They finally managed to find 11 cylinders.”Until Wednesday afternoon, police received four such calls on the day.The PCR vans were also doubling as hearse vans to transport bodies to the crematoriums and cemeteries, officials said.On Sunday, the control room received information about a 93-year-old woman dying of Covid-19 in Dwarka, and her family members searching for a hearse. A PCR van transported her body to the hospital, and later to the cremation ground. Unlike last year, the control room was flooded with calls about lack of food and supplies during the lockdown, this month, police have received only 11 such calls. In the first week of April last year (first two weeks of the nationwide lockdown), the 112 number received at least 100 such calls.“There were no calls related to food or starvation in the past two days. On April 17 and 18, there were three and six calls respectively, but that was more about delivery of food because of the weekend lockdown,” a second officer said, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/call-for-help-residents-dial-112-as-infections-rise-101619036292824.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Coming of age, in the pandemic||He is 13, old enough to realise that “eating my favourite veg pizza is not wise these days”.A typical pizza is expensive, Om Kumar explains, and his craze for it would be a drag on his “Papa’s” diminished resources. His father runs a tea stall in Gurugram’s Sector 14. Chatting this afternoon on WhatsApp video, Mr Kumar, an 8th standard student, gives a bleak picture of his days in the family’s one-room apartment, as the current wave of the coronavirus pandemic is raging on with full blast in the world outside.“My PC (desktop computer) stopped working five months ago. I had a tablet but the battery started having problems a month back. So now I’m attending online school classes on Papa’s mobile.”The family only has one smartphone and it has to be shared between the tea stall owner and his two sons. Mr Kumar’s mother, Bheeba Devi, lives in their native village in Madhubani, Bihar.If there had not been a pandemic, and if his father’s business had remained as stable and reasonably profitable as it was early last year, Mr Kumar might have purchased a new laptop. That would have been useful not only for his immediate studies but also for his long-term goal — his ambition is to become a cyber security expert.But the world is in a dreadful shape, and we can’t take anything for granted any longer, says young Mr Kumar. He talks with the gravitas of a person mature beyond his years. Sometimes, when he would hang out at his father’s stall, “I would survey the ongoing situation by talking to customers, and through them I discovered that things are very bad, and that there is not much hope for better days.”One month ago, exasperated by his younger brother Abhishek’s fondness for chhole kulche and momos, his father was obliged to tell them that he was facing a severe financial crunch, and that it would be “wiser not to spend money on fast food and just eat the meals cooked at home for cheap”.The last time Mr Kumar had his beloved pizza was two years ago, he recalls, in a Pizza Hut outlet. The young man notes that his family has survived the precious year’s pandemic-ridden lockdown by digging into the father’s savings. This time there are no savings, he says.Even so, Mr Kumar remains hopeful for his near and distant future. “Next year I will get a new laptop... and I’m sure I’ll become a cyber security expert, with a good job in my own Gurgaon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-coming-of-age-in-the-pandemic-101619036046536.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Jailed gangster-turned-politician Shahabuddin Covid +ve, admitted to hospital||Gangster-turned-politician Mohammad Shahabuddin, who was lodged inside Delhi’s Tihar jail, has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to a city hospital on Tuesday night, according to senior prison officials privy to the development.Tihar prison officers are now on high alert and tracing the source of the infection because unlike other prisoners, Shahabuddin,57, was lodged in a single cell and did not have any interaction with other prisoners. The only people he was in contact with are jail officers. Prison officers suspect Shahabuddin, a former Member of Parliament from Siwan, Bihar, may have been infected with the virus through an asymptomatic jail officer.Also Read | 17 test positive in Tihar in a day, officials scamper to create isolation spaces“It is scary. There are three prisoners in Tihar, who do not share space with anyone, Shahabuddin being one. The other two are underworld gangster Chhota Rajan and Delhi gangster Neeraj Bawana. They are lodged alone in the most secure part of the prison. Even other prisoners do not interact with them. For the last 20-25 days, the bi-weekly family visits have also been suspended. So, the infection has happened inside only,” a senior prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said.Jail officers are now monitoring Rajan’s health because he may also have contact with the same jail officers. Rajan has co-morbidities, officials said. The three prisoners are lodged in three adjacent cells at a heavily guarded wing inside jail 2.The prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel, confirmed that the former parliamentarian had tested positive and was admitted to a city hospital but refused to disclose details related to the case.Tihar, which is the country’s largest prison complex and houses over 20,000 prisoners currently, has at least 115 active cases among prisoners. There are 14 Covid-positive jail officers too, which include the prison’s doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jailed-gangster-turned-politician-shahabuddin-covid-ve-admitted-to-delhi-hospital-101618991624849.html
