23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports record 348 Covid-19 deaths, 24,331 cases||Delhi reported 348 Covid-19 deaths, in the highest-ever daily jump in fatalities, 24,331 new cases of the coronavirus disease, and 23,572 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the health bulletin showed on Friday. According to the bulletin, 980,679 people have been affected by and 13,541 have succumbed to the coronavirus disease in the Capital, one of India's worst hit cities, which has imposed a lockdown in an attempt to stem the transmission of the surging infections. The national capital on Thursday registered 26,169 Covid-19 cases and 306 related deaths.There are 92,029 active cases of the coronavirus disease and 875,109 Covid-19 patients have recovered so far, according to the bulletin. The Capital’s cumulative positivity rate—the proportion of samples returning positive for Covid-19—was at 5.9 per cent and the case fatality rate was at 1.38 per cent, the bulletin showed.Also watch | PM Modi rebukes Kejriwal during Covid meeting; Delhi CM raises oxygen crisisAlso read | On oxygen shortage plea, HC tells Delhi hospitals to first contact nodal officerSeveral hospitals, including Shanti Mukand in the west Delhi and Max Hospitals, have reported a dire shortage of oxygen—essential for critical Covid-19 patients—with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal raising the issue in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Kejriwal sounded an alarm, saying a "big tragedy" may happen due to oxygen shortage in hospitals as the Capital reported record cases and deaths in the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Also read | 'Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if...': Kejriwal asks PM Modi in Covid meet"People in major pain due to oxygen shortage. We fear a big tragedy may happen due to oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves. Despite being a CM, I am not able to help the people of Delhi. I request you with folded hands to direct all CMs to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to Delhi," the Delhi chief minister said during the meeting. "We need a national plan to deal with the crisis. The central government should take over all oxygen plants through the army and every tanker coming out of the oxygen plant should be accompanied by an army escort vehicle," he said.Authorities have conducted 16631245 tests to detect the coronavirus disease, including 43,711 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests and 31,326 Rapid Antigen Test in last 24 hours. As many as 67,424 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, which have pushed the cumulative figure to 2,844,055. There are 23,561 containment zones in the city.Also read | Govt sets up control room to monitor trade, essentials delivery amid Covid curbsIndia recorded 332,730 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day spike since the pandemic broke out last year, which have pushed the country’s infection tally to over 16.2 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-record-348-covid-19-deaths-24-331-cases-101619199815939.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Khalsa Aid to provide free oxygen concentrators to Covid-19 patients in Delhi||Khalsa Aid India on Friday said it will provide oxygen concentrators to Covid-19 patients in Delhi free of cost.Delhi is facing a severe oxygen shortage for the past few days with several hospitals scrambling to shore up their oxygen supplies.The NGO, which has recently procured 65 oxygen concentrators, said to avail the service people would have to fill up a registration form, and that patients with "low oxygen saturation levels" would be given priority.The volunteers will be delivering oxygen concentrators in all parts of the capital, it said."There is a huge gap between the demand and supply of oxygen, we want to play a miniscule part to bridge that gap. Though our effort is like a drop of water in an ocean, it was much needed. We were getting requests for oxygen so we managed to procure concentrators for the needy under-privileged patients," said Amarpreet Singh, director of Khalsa Aid Project (Asia Chapter).Singh said his organisation will procure more oxygen concentrators in the coming weeks, taking the number from present 65 to 100.Oxygen concentrators, witnessing a massive surge in demand amid the crisis in Delhi, is a portable medical device used for delivering oxygen to individuals with breathing-related disorders. It filters the surrounding air, compressing it to the required density, and then delivers purified medical-grade oxygen into a pulse-dose delivery system or continuous stream system to the patient."Seeing the present situation we are trying to procure more machines to serve maximum (number of patients). The organisation has set up an online Whatsapp registration process to avoid physical contact. We are also trying to procure oxygen cylinders to fight this situation more efficiently," said advocate Puneet Singh, a trustee of Khalsa Aid India. The national capital on Thursday logged a record 306 Covid-19 deaths and 26,169 cases with a positivity rate of 36.24 per cent, the highest since the pandemic began a year ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/khalsa-aid-to-provide-free-oxygen-concentrators-to-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-101619193639633.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi face oxygen shortage even after emergency supply||Some hospitals in the national capital continued to grapple with severe shortage of medical oxygen on Friday even after receiving emergency supplies.The Max Hospital-Saket on Friday morning sent out an SOS, saying it was left with "an hour's oxygen supply" and over 700 patients admitted.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Two hours later, in a tweet, the hospital confirmed that it had received emergency supplies, which will "last another two hours"."SOS - Less than an hour's Oxygen supplies at Max Smart Hospital & Max Hospital Saket. Awaiting promised fresh supplies from INOX since 1 am. @drharshvardhan @msisodia @PMOIndia @ArvindKejriwal @PiyushGoyal @SatyendarJain over 700 patients admitted, need immediate assistance," the Max Hospital had tweeted at 7.43 am.According to the South Delhi DCP, a vehicle carrying oxygen reached Max Smart around 9 am and another vehicle was enroute."Oxygen carrying vehicle has reached Max Smart. Another vehicle is enroute for Max East West. Senior Officers are monitoring the situation," the police said on Twitter.Around 9.30 am, the Max Healthcare said it was awaiting more supplies."Update: We have received emergency supplies at Max Saket and Max Smart which will last another 2 hours. We are still awaiting more supplies," it said.Indian Spinal Injuries Centre in Vasant Kunj also posted on Twitter at 4.20 pm that it was left with only one hour of oxygen and asked for help at the earliest."Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, Vasant Kunj, with 160 #Covid19 patients, are left with another 1 hour of Oxygen cylinder stock. We have been waiting for the supply since last night, but no luck so far. Please help us at the earliest. @PMOIndia @ArvindKejriwal," it said.A senior official of the Batra Hospital said the oxygen situation at their facility is extremely poor."We got a refill around 1 pm. After that, some more refill came from the Delhi government, which is actually pulling us through. We have around 2.5 metric tonnes which can last up to 8:30 pm. Our primary supplier isn't responding to our calls. We hope that the Delhi government bails us out:, the official said.Amid a serious oxygen crisis in the national capital, 25 "sickest" Covid-19 patients died at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here in the last 24 hours, officials said on Friday.Sources said "low pressure oxygen" could be the likely cause for the deaths.A central government source said the SGRH has "sufficient balance of oxygen and a tanker has reached the hospital, which will fill up the storage capacity".The tanker reached the hospital around 9.20 am. The stock can last up to five hours, depending on the consumption, an official at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said.Sources at the Holy Family hospital also told PTI that they had received emergency oxygen supply from the Delhi government but the "stock can last for six hours".AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said an additional vehicle carrying 20 D type oxygen cylinders was sent to the Holy Family hospital."Emergency cryogenic vehicle carrying liquid oxygen has reached Holy Family Hospital. An additional vehicle carrying 20 D type oxygen cylinders was previously sent to cater to interim requirement. Situation is grim- but we are working tirelessly despite obstacles in oxygen supply," Chadha tweeted.Meanwhile, Dwarka-located Aakash Healthcare managed to refill their cylinders through small vendors across the city."We have succeeded to manage this time by refilling our oxygen cylinders from various small vendors in Delhi. We have just received a liquid oxygen tanker which will last for 14 hours," said Dr Kousar A Shah, COO - Aakash Healthcare.St Stephen's hospital in Tis Hazari also said they had received a oxygen tanker in the morning.With the coronavirus situation grim in the national capital, patients and their family members waited outside hospitals, hoping to get a bed.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had on Thursday had said beds would be increased in large numbers once the oxygen crisis was resolved.A government doctor said hospitals in Delhi are wary of admitting more patients amid a serious shortage of oxygen in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-hospitals-in-delhi-face-oxygen-shortage-even-after-emergency-supply-101619184534853.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||On oxygen shortage plea, HC tells Delhi hospitals to first contact nodal officer||Delhi High Court on Friday directed hospitals and nursing homes in the city to get in touch with the nodal officer of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government if they face a shortage of oxygen for Covid-19 patients before approaching it. A bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Rekha Palli was hearing separate pleas of two private hospitals, Bram Healthcare Private Limited and Batra Hospital and Medical Research Centre, flagging the scarcity of oxygen and the condition of seriously ill Covid-19 patients.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereIn its plea, Batra Hospital said that it has currently admitted 352 Covid-19 patients. “The conditions of some of the patients are extremely critical and life-threatening and if they are not provided with a continuous supply of oxygen, it could turn out to be fatal for the patient,” it said. The hospital said that as of Friday 8:30am, the available stock of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) was 1900 litres and said it will last only five to six hours with the present consumption rate. The hospital has been discharging stable patients and has stopped new admissions.The city’s Bram Hospital said it is occupied with more than 150 patients of which more than 100 are on oxygen support. According to the hospital’s petition, they require 125 oxygen cylinders per day but now are left with only 35 cylinders. The hospital informed the court that it has tried to get oxygen everywhere but could not get any response either from the administration or police. “Even the filling station does not have the oxygen,” the hospital claimed and said that in this scenario the oxygen they have will last only for three to four hours.Following this, the Centre, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, submitted that control rooms have been set up to coordinate with the nodal officers of state governments for the management of oxygen supply. The control room has officers from all departments and hospitals can contact the nodal officer, the Centre told the court. Udit Prakash is the nodal officer in Delhi. “This is done so that the Centre can intervene whenever there is any obstruction of oxygen transportation by local authorities,” he said.The bench said if the requirements are not met even after contacting the nodal officer, the hospitals shall contact senior advocate Rahul Mehra and lawyer Satyakam, before approaching the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/on-oxygen-shortage-plea-hc-tells-delhi-hospitals-to-first-contact-nodal-officer-101619182209116.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||No Covid-19 patients yet at isolation coaches at 2 Delhi railway stations: Official||No Covid-19 patients have been admitted at the isolation coaches at two railway stations in Delhi days after the request was made by the Arvind Kejriwal government, Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma said on Friday. “Delhi asked us for 50 coaches (800 beds) which have been placed at Shakur Basti. Twenty-five coaches (400 beds) have been placed at Anand Vihar. However, so far, patients have not come,” the top railway official was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government hasn't commented whether people are being admitted to those coaches. The Delhi government on Sunday urged the Railway Board to make special Covid-19 care coaches available at two railway stations like last year as cases of the viral disease were increasing at a rapid pace in the city. Emphasising that facilities at government and private hospitals available in the national capital were getting strained due to the “tremendous” increase in Covid-19 cases, Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev wrote to Suneet Sharma. “…request you to kindly arrange Covid bed facilities at Anand Vihar and Shakur Basti Railway Stations with full logistical support, requisite medical and para-medical staff and oxygen facilities etc on an emergent basis,” Dev said in his letter.The request was approved by the Centre within a few hours. Union minister for railways Piyush Goyal assured support to the Delhi government and said that over three lakh isolation beds can be arranged if the states demand. “Govt under PM @NarendraModi leading the fight against COVID-19: 50 COVID-19 isolation coaches with 800 beds ready at Shakur Basti Station & 25 coaches will be available at Anand Vihar Station in Delhi. Railways can setup >3 lakh isolation beds across the country on States' demand,” Piyush Goyal wrote on Twitter.As Delhi faces an “extreme” shortage of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the government has also put in a request to the railways to operate 'Oxygen Express' to meet the demand. "We have received a request from Delhi just now, and we are still planning its movement. We will likely get the oxygen from Rourkela," the Railway Board chairman was quoted as saying PTI.On Thursday, Delhi reported a single-day spike of 26,169 cases and 306 fatalities, according to data the latest data provided by the chief minister’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-covid-19-patients-yet-at-isolation-coaches-at-2-delhi-railway-stations-official-101619179290885.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||No instructions, says Kejriwal’s office as it ‘regrets’ live appeal to PM Modi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Friday issued a clarification after a row erupted over his address during the review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, telecast live for some time, during which the Aam Aadmi Party (leader) raised alarm about “a big tragedy" that could happen because of the oxygen shortage in hospitals during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. “Today, the CM’s address was shared live because there has never been any instruction, written or verbal, from the central government that the said interaction could not be shared live,” Delhi chief minister’s office said, according to news agency ANI. “There have been multiple occasions of similar interactions where matters of public importance, which had no confidential information, were shared live. However, if any inconvenience was caused we highly regret that,” it added.Also watch: Heartbreaking scenes outside Delhi hospitals amid deadly Covid wave﻿Prime Minister Modi held a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of 10 states with the most number of Covid-19 cases even as India reported the world's highest daily tally of infections for a second day on Friday. The country, the second worst-affected after the United States, surpassed 330,000 new Covid-19 cases as its health system was overwhelmed by patients and shortages of medical oxygen and drugs. Chief ministers of Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh were among those who attended the meeting.Also read | Centre says Kejriwal used PM meet with CMs on Covid-19 to play politics: ReportDuring the meeting, Kejriwal also said the Centre should take over all oxygen plants through the Indian Army and requested PM Modi to direct chief ministers of all states to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to the national capital. "People in major pain due to oxygen shortage. We fear a big tragedy may happen due to oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves. I request you with folded hands to direct all CMs to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to Delhi," he said during the meeting."We need a national plan to deal with the crisis. The central government should take over all oxygen plants through the army and every tanker coming out of the oxygen plant should be accompanied by an army escort vehicle… The oxygen supply scheduled to come to Delhi from Odisha and West Bengal should either be airlifted or brought through the Oxygen express started by the Centre," he said.Also read | 25 dead in 24 hours, 60 at risk: Sir Ganga Ram hospital sounds alarmThe Centre, according to ANI, later accused Arvind Kejriwal of using the review meeting as a platform to play politics. They said Kejriwal raised the point of airlifting oxygen but was unaware that it was already being done. "(He) chose to spread lies on vaccine prices despite knowing that the Centre does not keep one vaccine dose with itself and shares with states only," ANI quoted a source as saying. "Kejriwal has descended to a new low. For the first time, the private conversations of the Prime Minister's meeting with Chief Ministers were televised. His entire speech was not meant for any solution but for playing politics and evade responsibility,” the source also said, according to ANI.Union home minister Amit Shah, railways minister Piyush Goyal, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and officials of the the health ministry were present at the meeting.Also read | Delhi’s health infra on brink of collapseIndia reported more than 300,000 cases of the coronavirus disease—the world's highest daily tally of infections—on Friday for the second straight day in a row. According to the health ministry, 332,730 Covid-19 cases and 2263 related deaths were reported in the country in the last 24 hours in the highest single-day spike since the pandemic broke out last year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-instructions-says-kejriwal-s-office-as-it-regrets-live-appeal-to-pm-modi-101619170670854.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Police braving the odds to help Delhiites fight back Covid||“Anyone can hold the helm, when the sea is calm, it takes khaki to weather a storm,” tweeted Sanjay Kumar Sain, DCP, North-East. He dedicated this to assistant sub inspector (ASI) Sushil Kumar, who performed the last rites for a man whose family refused to accept his body. But this, is just one of the brave acts, in the face of adversity, of Delhi Police. Since the pandemic erupted, the cops in khaki have been on their toes. Right from attending distress calls for medicines to arranging injections and oxygen cylinders for hospitals and individuals, the cops are going an extra mile to make the Capital’s residents win the battle against the second wave of Covid-19.Like Sushil Kumar, Sub Inspector Dharmender Sharma helped cremate a 93-year-old Covid patient, Gangawati Sharma, in Dwarka. He says, “This is my responsibility.” Intimation was received at PS Dwarka, North regarding her death and the cop arranged an ambulance. “The body was shifted to RTRM Hospital for further procedure, and later for cremation. Since it was difficult for her family members to come, to perform the last rites became my call of duty. Weekend curfew tha toh kisi ko pata nahin tha kaise karna hai. Maine pehle procedure check kiya toh dispensary ke number mile. Then I send all her documents including Covid report and Aadhar card to RTRM hospital, and contacted an ambulance service, after which the cremation could take place. I feel proud that in such circumstances my service gave me this opportunity to help someone in need!”In another incident, Yogender Dhaka, a 49-year-old head constable stationed at Mayur Vihar, timely helped a Covid patient get access to Remdesivir injection. “Mere paas phone aaya ki patient bahut pareshan hai. Maine ek dost ko phone kiya aur arrange karwa diya. It felt really good to help them, and we are trying our best to help as many people we can,” says Dhaka. The families of Covid patients are grateful to Delhi Poilce for their constant support. Anjana Goswami, a resident of Vasant Kunj, says, “I’m extremely thankful to Shukhdev Singh Mann, SHO, Kalindi Kunj who went out of the way to arrange an oxygen cylinder for my 78-year-old mother. She was very serious, and Mann did a wonderful job! The manner in which the Police are saving our lives, and risking their lives for us, is commendable. We salute such people!” Appreciating the efforts of cops on social media, Dr Anil Goyal, a urologist, recently tweeted: “On behalf of Goyal Hospital & Urology Centre, I extend my sincere thanks to Joint CP Shri Alok Kumar and his team for helping on tidying over oxygen crisis today. Together we shall be able to defeat the corona.” Chinmoy Biswal, DCP Crime and PRO, Delhi Police says, “During the first wave of coronavirus, we provided food, dry ration and other essential help to the migrant labourers and those in need. This time also we haven’t failed yet to help with medicines, oxygen cylinders and other requirements for hospitals and individuals. We are going beyond our call of duty to help in this critical situation, but I feel there should be a system in place to take care of all these arrangements.” For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-braving-the-odds-to-help-delhiites-fight-back-covid-101619166236326.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Parts of Delhi receive light rains||Several parts of Delhi received light rains on Friday morning, with the minimum temperature settling at 22 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said.The weatherman has forecast thunderstorms with light to moderate rains over isolated places of north Delhi, southwest Delhi, south Delhi, New Delhi, central Delhi, northwest Delhi and IGI Airport among other areas during the day.The maximum temperature is likely to hover around 34 degrees Celsius, four notches below the normal.The relative humidity was recorded at 54 per cent at 8.30 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-receive-light-rains-101619156937668.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||25 patients dead at Delhi’s Ganga Ram Hospital in 24 hours||Twenty-five patients died over 24 hours at New Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, the hospital’s medical director said in a statement on Friday morning, hours before it was clarified that none of the deaths was due to oxygen shortage.“They were natural deaths; the patients were very serious,” said DS Rana, the hospital’s board of management chairman, in a statement. “But the oxygen situation is such that we did have to switch to manual ventilation in the ICU [intensive care unit] day before when our oxygen supply was depleting because the pressure was less. There is an acute shortage of oxygen across the city but for now, the crisis has been averted.”Hospitals in the National Capital have issued distress messages about dwindling oxygen supply. The crisis prompted the Centre to invoke the Disaster Management Act to ensure its unrestricted supply after Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday blamed police forces of the two neighbouring states for preventing inter-state movement of oxygen tankers.Earlier on Friday morning, the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said in an SOS: “Oxygen will last another 2 hrs. Ventilators and Bipap [non-invasive ventilation] not working effectively. Resorting to manual ventilation in ICUs [intensive care units]... Major crisis likely. [The] lives of another 60 sickest patients in peril. Stop catastrophe. Need Oxygen to be airlifted urgently. Governments please help. We have warned.”Also Read | AIIMS Delhi faces staff shortage, stops contact tracing of exposed medicsPolice said no oxygen contingency arose in the hospital and that there was no dearth of it. The hospital had oxygen stock that would have lasted for three hours, they added. It received 2,000 cubic metre supply in a tanker that arrived there at 9:20 am on Friday. The hospital requires between 9,500 to 11,000 cubic metres daily, the police said.An oxygen tanker was earlier stuck in Rohini as the driver did not know the route and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital staff later escorted it.Deputy police commissioner (central) Jasmeet Singh said the hospital did not make any distress call seeking a green corridor.Police said the hospital informed them they had at least three-hour stock and also one container was on its way.To be sure, a green corridor is not provided to every vehicle. Police provide it only after receiving distress calls. Oxygen vehicles are not stopped in any case.Police stationed a liaison officer at the hospital. One officer from the district administration will also remain in touch for any such emergency situation, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25-patients-dead-at-delhi-s-ganga-ram-hospital-in-24-hours-101619152735131.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi to see another clear sky day; AQI in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a generally cloudy sky with light rains or drizzle on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The Met department has also predicted that the minimum temperature is likely to be 22 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is expected to remain around 33°C, providing some respite from heat. The previous week the maximum temperature had crossed 40°C.According to the IMD, the minimum temperature on Thursday was 18.7°C, four notches below normal and the maximum temperature was 34°C -- four degrees below normal.Also Read | AIIMS Delhi faces staff shortage, stops contact tracing of exposed medicsDelhi’s air quality remained in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 9am stood at 116, which is in the lower end of the moderate category. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 140, which is in the lower end of the moderate category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Friday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category. Surface winds are high and easterly, high ventilation is forecasted for next two days. AQI is forecasted to stay improved in the moderate category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-see-another-clear-sky-day-aqi-in-moderate-category-101619147514955.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||AIIMS Delhi faces staff shortage, stops contact tracing of healthcare workers exposed to Covid-19||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi informed on Thursday that the hospital is discontinuing the practice of risk assessment and contact tracing of healthcare workers exposed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the wake of insufficient resources and shortages of staff to do so amid the pandemic, according to a notice shared by news agency ANI. Moreover, the quarantine of asymptomatic contacts should be discontinued as well, the hospital informed, adding that from now onwards, only the symptomatic healthcare workers should be tested and only those testing positives are to be isolated and managed as per clinical protocols.In view of the current situation of COVID19 leading to insufficient resources for contact tracing & shortage of staff...Only symptomatic health care workers should be tested & only testing positive be isolated& managed as per the clinical condition: AIIMS, Delhi (22/4) pic.twitter.com/UVEqbsWR19India recorded the world's highest daily tally of 314,835 coronavirus infections on Thursday, with the second wave of the pandemic crushing its weak health infrastructure. In Delhi alone, where hospitals are running out of medical oxygen supplies, the daily rise was over 26,000. As many as 306 people were reported to have died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in the national capital and overburdened healthcare resources are forcing people to turn to makeshift facilities.AIIMS Delhi held a Covid-19 review meet at 8:30am on Thursday, under the chairmanship of its director Randeep Guleria, in which the new directives for healthcare workers were issued, as per the notice shared by ANI. "In view of the current situation of Covid-19 leading to insufficient resources for contact tracing, and shortages of staff, the risk assessment and contact tracing of exposed HCW and quarantine of asymptomatic contacts should be discontinued. Only the symptomatic HCW should be tested and only those testing positives be isolated and managed as per the clinical condition," the notice reads.The notice further details prerequisites for the healthcare workers who test positive to rejoin work, once their conditions improve. "HCW who test positive may be able to join work after 10 days' period from the onset of symptoms, provided that they are afebrile for at least the last 24 hours without the use of antipyretics and symptoms (e.g. cough, shortness of breath) have improved. Those who are asymptomatic may join work 10 days from the date of the first positive test," the letter adds.The Covid-19 task force at AIIMS Delhi on Thursday also requested colleagues from other departments to provide 80% of the resident doctors and faculty members for the coronavirus disease management, in view of the rising number of Covid-19 patients and the opening of multiple Covid-19 facilities in the hospital, noting that the need for manpower has increased multi-fold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-delhi-faces-staff-shortage-stops-contact-tracing-of-medics-exposed-to-covid19-101619143565144.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Tug-of-war for oxygen keeps Delhi on brink||Several hospitals in the national capital issued new distress messages about their dwindling oxygen supply as the crisis continued on Thursday, prompting the Delhi government to hit out at what it described as “jungle raj” by neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.The Union government, too, made new interventions, invoking the Disaster Management Act to remind all states that anyone restricting supplies will face punitive action under the law, while the Delhi Disaster Management Authority appointed two senior bureaucrats as nodal officers to ensure smooth movement of tankers and directed the Delhi Police to provide security logistics from manufacturers’ sites to various health facilities.Throughout Thursday, however, hospitals continued to issue SOS messages saying they were short on supply, with some blaming states for supplies being halted there. “This jungle raj has been going on for three days,” said Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, referring to the alleged blockades by the police forces of the two neighbouring states.“Some hospitals in Delhi have run out of oxygen completely. They don’t have any option available. I have been receiving calls, messages, e-mails. We have been making internal, makeshift arrangements, but this cannot continue for long,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, spoke on the issue of oxygen crisis, asking states to come down heavily on hoarding and fix responsibility with local administration in cases of obstruction. He told officials to ensure a “smooth, unhindered” supply of oxygen to various states at a review meeting on Thursday.The problem came into focus early on Tuesday when several hospitals in the Capital said they were on the verge of supplies running out, which would end oxygen support to critically ill patients. The problem recurred on Wednesday and Thursday, with close to 1,000 patients being in danger on both days.On Thursday, multiple hospitals -- including Sir Ganga Ram, Saroj, Holy Family, Aakash, and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty — said they had either run out of their liquid medical oxygen and had switched to back-up cylinders, or were soon in danger of running out. Some even discharged patients and asked them to go to other facilities.“Our officials and even the Central government officials have tried to talk to officials in these states, but the situation on the ground has not changed. Our tankers are still waiting outside the plants. In the plants located in Haryana, only tankers from that state are being allowed to go in for refilling,” said Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 in Delhi.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal later raised the issue with his Haryana counterpart.The Union government increased Delhi’s quota of daily oxygen supply from 378MT to 480MT on Wednesday, but officials said even this may not be adequate and the additional capacity was likely to take time to arrive.“The Centre decides the companies from which we get oxygen. The revised quota that the Centre has allotted to us, a substantial part of it is to come from Odisha. But it will take several days to bring oxygen from Odisha to Delhi by road. We are exploring if bringing oxygen from there by air is possible. We are trying for that,” Kejriwal said.A government spokesperson said supplies may reach the city too late. “What remains a matter of grave concern is that of the 480 metric tonnes, 100 MT oxygen from Odisha (70 MT) and West Bengal (30 MT) will take almost 72 hours to reach Delhi. Our citizens, our hospitals, our city are running out of time. Meanwhile, the 140-metric tonne which Haryana has to supply is yet to leave for Delhi,” said the spokesperson.On Friday, PM Modi is also scheduled to meet chief ministers of regions with a high Covid-19 burden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tugofwar-for-oxygen-keeps-delhi-on-brink-101619127460474.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s health infra on brink of collapse||At 9pm on Thursday, there were a mere 15 ICU beds – of them only four with ventilators – remaining for Covid-19 patients in India’s national capital, the Delhi government’s hospital resource reporting app showed. The vacant beds accounted for 0.32% of the 4,663 ICU beds for Covid-19 cases.Of the 20,443 regular hospital beds for people with the coronavirus, only 10.5% -- or 2,141 – were available at the same time on Thursday.These numbers illustrate the near-collapse of the health infrastructure under the burden of a record number of infections. While these numbers are dependent on how frequently and accurately hospital staff updates them, HT’s monitoring of the Delhi Corona website showed vacanacies at hospitals have significantly dropped in the past two days.In the case of ICU beds, there was a peak of 34 vacancies that was reported on Wednesday morning before the number dropped soon after. For most of Thursday, there were fewer than 20 ICU beds available.The number of vacant beds has followed a clearer fall, dropping from roughly 2,700 available on Tuesday evening to a little over 2,100 late on Thursday.As on Thursday, there were 91,618 active cases in Delhi – the first time this number was above the 90,000 mark. The city added 26,169 new cases in the past 24 hours and recorded 306 more fatalities.Experts say the numbers capture a crisis that has been unfolding for several weeks now and could drive up mortality as lives that can be saved with medical attention are lost.“The situation in Delhi is very bad; it is turning out to be a Brazil-like situation. People are going from hospital to hospital for the want of beds. When hospitals are full and we can’t take care of patients, the number of deaths will go up. I believe they have set up a system in Maharashtra where a centralised helpline takes patients information such as name, age, oxygen saturation, reports of X-ray or CT scans and direct people to hospitals accordingly. There should be a similar system in Delhi,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.A doctor from one of Delhi’s big private hospitals, which is finding it difficult to refer patients out of its emergency department, too, said a centralised system was needed to cut down on the number of deaths.“Every day there are patients who are brought dead to our emergency department. They have been going from hospital to hospital looking for beds. We lose patients because they are lying on the floor instead of the ICU they need. We have more patients than we have oxygen points. A solution would be for the government to take stock of the number of beds across the city and refer patients wherever beds are available. Hospitals such as the one built by the army should be meant for such referral patients,” the doctor said, asking not to be named.“So far, there was hardly any difference in the mortality during this wave and the previous one, proving that the virus is not more fatal. However, the deaths may be higher now because the health system has been overburdened. And, we keep on adding more cases every day for which we need to add more infrastructure every day,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.The situation could ease by a small degree later this week as the Union government decided to revive the Covid-19 case facility in Chattarpur, which will have 500 beds with oxygen support to begin with.The facility, set up during the waves of infection recorded last year, was closed on February 23 when the outbreak appeared to have receded. It is now expected to be opened in three days’ time with the Indo-Tibet Border Police managing operations.“Delhi government has assured us they will set-up the infrastructure in maximum three days and hand over the facility to us. Our team of doctors and paramedics is ready. It will be operational in two-three days,” director general of ITBP, SS Deswal, told HT.The facility, named Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre, is at the Radha Soami Beas grounds.“The Delhi government had sought medical officers and para-medical staff from the ministry of home affairs to man the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre at Chhattarpur, which is being re-operationalised. The Ministry of Home Affairs has designated ITBP as the nodal force for operating the facility,” a home ministry spokesperson said.“It has been decided to provide an adequate number of medical officers and para-medical staff to man 500 oxygenated beds to Sardar Patel Covid centre, Chhattarpur in Delhi,” said an MHA letter reviewed by HT.An officer, who didn’t want to be named, said they are hoping to increase the number of beds to 1,500 by the first week of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-health-infra-on-brink-of-collapse-101619124867420.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Safer policing: None over 58 on PCR van duty, only virtual meets||With the Covid-19 pandemic further tightening its grip on the national capital, the Delhi Police on Thursday removed all personnel aged 58 years and above from the police control room (PCR) van duty, besides advising all station personnel to have only virtual interactions with the public. The force’s in-house meetings are now being held in open spaces within police stations, officers aware of the developments said.Over 8,000 police personnel have tested positive for the virus and 38 have succumbed since the beginning of the pandemic. At least 432 personnel have contracted Covid-19 until Thursday since the current wave of infections started.Given that one in every three people who get tested for the coronavirus disease are turning positive in Delhi, and in view of the week-long curfew to contain the virus spread, police personnel are now acting as frontline workers. They are managing containment zones, enforcing curfew norms , arranging oxygen cylinders and rushing Covid-19 patients to hospitals, apart from maintaining law and order.A senior police officer said, “For now, we have ordered that all persons aged 58 years and above should not be posted on PCR van duty. Compared to other units, the personnel with PCR vans are testing positive for the disease more. The PCR van is the first responder at every spot -- its personnel visit homes when people call 112.”After a meeting of the police brass on Saturday, all personnel were told to keep sufficient stock of PPE kits because police vehicles are also doubling up as ambulances. The 112 number (police control room) is getting over 150 calls requesting ambulances. In the past 48 hours, there were six cases of police vans rushing Covid-19 patients to the hospitals.A station house officer of a south Delhi police station said, “Our meetings with complainants are virtual now. This is being adopted by other police stations, too, and it is safer for complainants as well. All they have to do is to inform one of our designated officer at the station gate. They will get a time and phone number for the video call.This is better than visiting the station, which is a closed space. In-house meetings are now being held on the lawns.”A second senior police officer said that, at the New Friends Colony police station in south-east Delhi, tents have been erected outside the station for visitors. “There is an audio-video system at the gate for the visitor to connect with the station. Every paper (copies of complaints brought by visitors) is disinfected before it is taken inside or handed back to the visitor. Apart from PPE kits, we have also given our personnel, protective eye gear that health care professionals use to shield themselves from the virus,” the second officer said.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said police stations across the city are “adopting different measures to remain safe on the job”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/safer-policing-none-over-58-on-pcr-van-duty-only-virtual-meets-101619124017210.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Prayer, witnessed||It is morning and the newspaper vendor, passing on his bicycle, is carrying front pages filled with dreadful news on Covid-19. The narrow lane is otherwise empty, more or less — it goes past Jama Masjid’s gate no. 2, in Old Delhi. The entrance to the mosque is locked. The popular tea stall nearby is closed. But then the city is under curfew due to the pandemic. The only people to be seen are a few families sleeping on the pavement — they’ve been living here for years. The only other living being around is a brown dog snoozing on a manhole.Now a rickshaw puller enters the scene. He stops his carriage in front of the twin Sufi shrines of Hazrat Sarmad Shahid and Hazrat Hare Bhare Shah, which stand in front of the Mughal-era mosque. The puller is wearing a check lungi, his head covered in a white gamcha. The shrine’s door is open and, inside, a rose seller is perched on his stall. But the puller doesn’t seem like he wants to enter the dargah. He gets off the rickshaw, stands in front of the marble screen of the shrine, and raises his arm as if in supplication. He closes his eyes, his lips moving soundlessly. The man stays in this posture for about five minutes — each passing second feels like a sea wave, coming quickly and receding the next moment, its impact lingering on.The lips finally stop moving. The eyes open. The palms reverently touch the forehead. And the rickshaw puller looks around absentmindedly.Responding to his interlocutor, he reveals that he was praying.For himself?He shakes his head.For his family?I have no family, he says.Then?“I was praying to Baba to take back the bimari,” he says in a low voice. He means the coronavirus.Has he got symptoms?He shakes his head again. “I was praying for all of us.”Reluctant to give away his name, he excuses himself politely, sits back on his seat and pedals away towards Urdu Bazaar. The lane is lifeless again. The homeless families who were sleeping on the pavement continue to sleep. The dog hasn’t stirred a bit. The rose seller is as still as a statue. It is as||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-prayer-witnessed-101619123448967.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, Delhi govt to add 25 CATS ambulances within a week||The Delhi government is expanding its fleet of Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) ambulances to meet the growing demand in the Capital amid the crippling surge in Covid-19 cases, health department officials aware of the matter said on Thursday.A senior official, who asked not to be named, said the government will add 25 ambulances to its 609-strong fleet in a week.Officials said the number of calls on the state government’s 102 ambulance helpline has doubled as compared to January and February, when cases had dipped. The CATS control room, linked with the helpline, has received around 2,400- 2,800 requests every day for the past two weeks. Nearly 60% of these calls are related to Covid-19, said officials.“The number of calls has increased consistently since mid-March,” said a senior official in charge of the control room.Private ambulance operators meanwhile said demand has increased by at least five times compared to the past few months.In January, Delhi reported an average of 314 new Covid-19 positive cases every day. In February, this number fell to 150, but shot up to 747 in March. The surge has hit unprecedented proportions in April.Between April 1 and April 21, Delhi has added an average of 12,750 cases a day.In the backdrop of the surge, residents of the Capital have also called the 112 police helpline in search of ambulances. Officials said the helpline receives at least 150 such requests a day.A Delhi government officer, who asked not to be named, said, “We are in the process of arranging 25 more ambulances, which will arrive within four or five days. We have a dedicated team that analyses the volume of calls from each district. The ambulances are then deployed accordingly, so that no one is denied the service. It takes 20 minutes to reach a location after we get a distress call. It may take longer because of the surge in calls, but not a single call is missed.”Of the 609 ambulances, 229 belong to CATS, and the rest are outsourced to private firms, including GVK EMRI (55 ambulances), Rakshak (100) and MeduLance (75), as well as 150 ePrakriti cabs.According to a CATS operator, the ambulance is sanitised after ferrying a Covid-19 positive patient.Delhi on Thursday lodged a record 306 deaths due to the Covid-19 and registered 26,169 new cases with an alarmingly high positivity rate of 36.2%.Pranav Bajaj, co-founder of MeduLance, said, “There has been a five-fold increase in the demand for ambulances over the past two to three weeks.”MeduLance also operates its own fleet of 250 private ambulances in Delhi.Jasbir Singh, owner of New Life Ambulance service, said, “All my vehicles are booked, but my phone hasn’t stopped ringing. I’m trying to arrange ambulances from other operators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-alarming-surge-in-cases-delhi-government-to-add-25-cats-ambulances-within-a-week-101619117811134.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Barricades on one side of highway at Singhu border will be removed to create passage for services, say farmers||Farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders announced on Thursday that barricades on one side of the highway at Singhu border will be removed for easier passage of services. The decision was taken following a meeting with Haryana government officials, the farmers’ union said.In a statement released Thursday, Samyukta Kisan Morcha -- the umbrella group with 40 farmer unions running the agitation -- said it did not want to cause inconvenience to people.“Leaders of Samyukt Kisan Morcha had a detailed meeting with officials of the Haryana government this evening. In the meeting, it was decided that barricades on one side of the highway at Singhu border will be removed, to give free passage to oxygen tankers, ambulance and other such emergency services,” farmer leader Darshan Pal said.The comments came in the backdrop of several allegations on social media this week that the road blockades on account of farmer agitation were leading to a delay in the movement of oxygen tankers across the state borders. BJP MP Parvesh Sahib Singh tweeted on Tuesday night that due to the road blockade by protesters at the Ghazipur border, oxygen suppliers were facing difficulties in bringing the tankers to Delhi.“... It is the government that is to be squarely blamed for barricading the roads and obstructing free passage, whereas, at all protest sites, farmers have already left such passage for vehicular movement,” SKM said in a statement.The protesting farmers, however, on Thursday showed no signs of calling off the agitation. “A large convoy of protesters in tractor-trolleys will be leaving from Barwasni in Sonepat district of Haryana for the Singhu Border,” SKM said, adding that this was to ensure that government did not try to remove the farmers on the “pretext” of the Covid-19 surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/barricades-on-one-side-of-highway-at-singhu-border-will-be-removed-to-create-passage-for-services-say-farmers-101619117691663.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Hospitals in Delhi scrape bottom of barrel as oxygen supplies run out||More hospitals continued to sound the alarm about their dwindling oxygen supply, with some having run out and switching to temporary cylinders while others moving patients to other facilities in other towns before their stocks ran out.At least 15 hospitals across the city had less than five hours of oxygen on Thursday, according to figures compiled by the Delhi government, which kept going back-and-forth with the Centre and neighbouring states to ensure supply.On Thursday morning, HT received an SOS from Saroj hospital in Rohini, which was to run out of its liquid medical oxygen by 10:30 am – which is did. For the next four and a half hours, the hospital plugged oxygen cylinders to their supply lines so that the 140 Covid-19 patients at the facility could be given the required respiratory support.“We have been managing patients with reserve oxygen cylinders, refilling them and using them again. We need liquid medical oxygen,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of Saroj Hospital. The hospital had to stop new admissions and discharge some stable patients. Oxygen replenishments reached the facility at around 3pm.After Max group, Saroj became the second to move court to ensure timely oxygen supply, following which the Delhi high court issued new orders to ensure supplies are made smoothly.The situation was similar at Karkardooma’s Shanti Mukund hospital, which put up a message stating, “we regret we are stopping admission in the hospital because oxygen supply is not coming.”With increased oxygen demand, the hospital had been simultaneously using liquid medical oxygen, oxygen cylinders, and a concentrator plant. This left the hospital with hardly any backup.The doctors in the hospital urged patients to leave and look for other hospitals that might take them in. However, with less than 20 ICU beds available and hardly any oxygen beds, they had nowhere to go.“We discharged seven patients; the others said we will die on the road anyway, it is better to wait here. This is a horrifying situation, I have never seen anything like this in 45 years of my career,” said Dr Sunil Sagar, CEO, Shanti Mukand Hospital.The hospital last received half its required supply of liquid medical oxygen at 02:30 am after a delay of three hours. “My staff was standing outside waiting for the oxygen tanker. Every time there was some movement on the road, they thought it was the tanker,” he said. The hospital turned down oxygen to its patients to conserve whatever it could till the oxygen arrived. The hospital received supply just in time after having dipped into reserves.Metro hospital in Preet Vihar, which had over 100 Covid-19 patients admitted, had to start moving them to its other centres in Shadipur, Noida and Faridabad after it completely ran out of oxygen. The hospital last received half its supply of medical oxygen on Wednesday night. It has been managing by refilling oxygen cylinders since Thursday afternoon.The crisis has been precipitated by obstruction of supply tankers from Haryana coming to Delhi on Wednesday, which resulted in a critical situation on Thursday, according to a doctor in know of the matter.“The oxygen reserves at most hospitals are running low because of the increased demand – hospitals are accommodating more patients than usual and almost all the patients need a lot of oxygen. Most hospitals had around 8 to 10 hours of back-up and would receive supply in time. The situation got worse on Wednesday because of several tankers being stopped by the Haryana government. It was a domino effect that delayed supply to all hospital. This resulted in hospitals having almost no reserves on Thursday,” the doctor said.He added, “It has become like a game of musical chair – the oxygen tankers are being diverted to whichever hospital is running out of oxygen. This means, the hospital that was to receive the oxygen also goes into a crisis,” the doctor said.The Delhi government estimated that the city would need around 700 MT of oxygen a day due to the increase in the number of patients with Covid-19. On Wednesday, the Centre increased Delhi’s quota of medical oxygen to 480 MT from 378 MT.Yet, tankers of oxygen that were meant for Delhi hospitals were stopped by administrations from neighbouring states, officials said. “Despite the quota being increased by the Centre, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments are stopping oxygen supply to Delhi. Yesterday, Delhi received 177 MT of oxygen against its quota of 378 MT. I urge the Centre to ensure oxygen reaches us even if paramilitary force needs to be deputed,” said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in a tweet on Thursday evening.The Ministry of Home Affairs had to intervene and order all states to ensure allotted quota of oxygen be allowed to be supplied to states other than where the medical oxygen plants are located.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too said that he spoke to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and the Centre to facilitate the passage of oxygen. Of the extended quota of oxygen, majority is from Orissa that might take days to arrive, Kejriwal said, adding that he had a word with the state’s chief minister Naveen Patnaik to facilitate “lifting of Delhi’s quota of oxygen” from the state.Holy family hospital too received its supply of liquid medical oxygen minutes before its stock would have run out. “We already had all of our staff scrambling to gather oxygen cylinders and attaching it to the manifold in case the oxygen runs out. We have attached 35 cylinders and are waiting with bated breaths,” said Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent of the hospital. The hospital received its supply.Aakash hospital had just 1.5 hours of medical supply when it desperately reached out to authorities on Twitter. “We have 233 Covid-19 patients admitted with, of which 75 are dependent on oxygen. My whole team is running around but we have no assurance so far,” said Dr Kausar Shah, COO, Aakash group. The hospital managed to get 50 oxygen cylinders from neighbouring hospitals and half a tanker of oxygen just in the nick of time.Action Balaji hospital also raised an alarm when they had about three to four hours of supply. Again they received a tanker of oxygen only after dipping into their reserves, which is like going beyond the red line on a fuel tank.Even Delhi government hospitals weren’t spared of problems, with Rajiv Gandhi superspeciality hospital in Tahirpur receiving its supply of medical oxygen just 30 minutes before it was to run out. The hospital has nearly 500 Covid-19 patients.At night, Sir Ganga Ram hospital again raised an alarm that it had oxygen left for five hours of normal use, meaning lesser time if high flow oxygen is given to Covid-19 patients. The hospital currently has over 500 Covid-19 patients admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-in-delhi-scrape-bottom-of-barrel-as-oxygen-supplies-run-out-101619117452301.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Cop, 2 others cremate man after kin refuses to go near body||A policeman and ambulance staff cremated a 35-year-old man, after his mother, wife and other relatives refused to touch the body in north-east Delhi’s Gokalpuri, fearing that he’d died of Covid-19, police said on Thursday.The man, police said, repaired air-conditioners for a living. He stayed with his wife, son and mother.Sushil Singh, assistant sub-inspector, said the man fell ill around April 15.“He first visited a local doctor and took some medicines. When he got fever, he visited a private hospital for admission, but was told to approach a bigger hospital. He returned home without any further treatment,” said Singh.On Monday night, he died. “Everyone believed that he died of Covid-19, although he had not got tested for the disease. His family did not approach the body for fear of infection. Someone made a failed attempt at calling an ambulance before dialling the police,” said Singh.Singh reached the house and called several ambulance services, but none responded. He then went to GTB Hospital to request a private ambulance, said Sanjay Kumar Sain, deputy commissioner of police (north-east).The policeman then took the body to a hospital, and from there to the mortuary for autopsy, the DCP said. The family did not accompany him, police said. On Tuesday afternoon, the policeman and the two of the ambulance staff cremated the body. “I have received both doses of vaccine, but I would have done this duty even anyway,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-officer-ambulance-staff-cremate-man-after-family-refuses-to-go-near-body-101619117331840.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||With Delhi’s health-care system stretched thin, tele consultation services hit||With the health-care system in the national capital overwhelmed by the tsunami of Covid-19 cases, tele consultations services of most hospitals have also taken a hit.Many in home isolation complained of unavailability of slots and delayed response time from overburdened doctors, even as beds for Covid-19 patients remained in short supply.Mahant Ahuja, a resident of Alaknanda who was tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, said, “I had very mild symptoms -- slight fever, cough, and sore throat -- during the first two days. We cannot go to hospitals directly in the present situation and that’s why I tried to book an appointment for a virtual consultation. But it took me two days to reach a doctor. I was told that slots were few due to the unavailability of doctors. I am grateful that my condition did not deteriorate in the meantime but the situation is scary for those having moderate to severe symptoms.”Several other Covid-19 patients are facing similar issues. Anamika Kapur, a resident of Green Park, said she placed a request for online consultation with a private hospital for her Covid positive mother on Sunday and did not get a response even after three days. “My mother’s oxygen saturation dropped to 70 (from an optimum of 95%) in that time. Finally, we had to contact a general physician providing telemedicine services in my locality to start her treatment on Tuesday,” she said.Several hospitals and tele consultation services acknowledged that the facility has been hit by the raging pandemic. Dr Alexander Kuruvilla, chief health strategy officer on digital health app ‘Practo’, said the number of requests for tele consultation has increased by five times in the last 20 days.“The spike was mainly for general medicine . There are complaints of unavailability of slots as doctors on board with us are not available -- they are stretched by the existing situation. It was challenging for us to respond to the sudden surge and it takes time to get more doctors on board. The situation is getting better now and it will further improve in the coming days,” he said.Officials at a few private hospitals said they will have to step up measures to meet the increasing demand for over-the-phone consultations. Prashant Singh, Director IT, and CIO at Max Healthcare said the number of patients reaching out for tele consultations has surpassed the number of patients seeking in-person consultations. “Our doctors are fully occupied with Covid patients right now but we do not have any other option other than tele consultations in the present scenario. We have reduced the timing of each slot so that doctors can attend to more patients,” he said.An official at the tele consultation department at Aakash Healthcare Super Speciality Hospital in Dwarka said they have prepared roasters for doctors to divide their time between in-person and tele consultations. “We are trying to connect patients with available doctors on the same day itself. But our doctors are occupied with Covid patients and a few even have Covid cases at home,” said the official.Meanwhile, independent practitioners are also flooded with tele consultation requests. Dr Rachna Kucheria, a general physician in South Delhi, said, “The number of calls I am getting are unprecedented and 98% of those who call have Covid symptoms. Besides Covid-related queries, I am also getting calls requesting beds and oxygen,” she said.Kucheria, founder of DocGenie Telemedicine, said it is important to strengthen tele consultation services to take the load off the health-care system. “It’s time to pool together general physicians at the community level to step up tele consultation services. It’s very challenging for doctors to manage hospital patients and telemedicine consults both,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-delhi-s-health-care-system-stretched-thin-tele-consultation-services-hit-101619117331143.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||CBSE to give more weightage to competency based questions in new academic session||In order to implement the competency based learning, as mentioned in the National Education Policy 2020, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday changed the composition of assessment tasks for students from classes 9 to 12 for the new academic session (2021-22).“While the overall marks and duration of examination shall remain the same, a change in the composition of assessment tasks would help us achieve the desired ends. Therefore, in the forthcoming sessions, a greater number of competency-based questions or questions that assess the application of concepts in real-life/ unfamiliar situations will be a part of the question paper,” director (academics) Joseph Emmanuel said in a circular to all heads of CBSE-affiliated schools.The board added that the decision was taken as the NEP 2020 “has affirmed the need to move from rote learning to competency-based learning, making it more focused on developing the creative and critical thinking capacities of students to meet the challenges of the 21st century.”For instance, the composition of the question paper for classes 9 and 10 was changed to accommodate fewer short or long answer questions (from 60% last year to 50% this year) and to introduce 30% competency-based questions -- in the form of multiple choice questions (MCQs), case-based questions, source-based integrated questions and other types -- instead of the 20% case and source-based questions last year.For classes 11 and 12, the short/long answer questions have been reduced from the earlier 70% to 60% this year and 20% weightage has been given to competency-based questions.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, said, “There is a slight change in the composition of theory paper to enhance competency-based learning through various forms of questions. This can help students score better. The board has also specified that students can expect MCQs or source-based or case-based questions in this session.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cbse-to-give-more-weightage-to-competency-based-questions-in-new-academic-session-101619117212317.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi not receiving oxygen due to ‘jungle raj’ in UP, Haryana: Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said there is a “jungle raj” situation regarding oxygen supply in the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, because of which supplies in Delhi continue to be severely affected, and urged the Central government to deploy paramilitary forces for safe passage of tankers carrying medical oxygen for the national Capital.Addressing a press conference, Sisodia said Delhi on Wednesday did not even get 50% of the old quota of 378MT allocated for the national Capital. “Even if we go by the old quota of 378MT which Delhi was allotted by the Centre, we did not receive even that. Of the 378MT, Delhi received only 177MT yesterday. This is solely because of the dadagiri of Haryana and UP officials. The dire situation that Delhi is in today is only because there is absolute jungle raj in UP and Haryana over oxygen,” he said.Also Read | Top central govt official steps in to ensure smoother interstate oxygen movement“Our officials and even the Central government officials have tried to talk to officials in these states, but the situation on the ground has not changed. Our tankers are still waiting outside the plants. In the plants located in Haryana, only tankers from that state are being allowed to go in for refilling,” said Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 in Delhi.The Delhi government requested the Centre to intervene and ensure trucks from UP and Haryana safely reach Delhi without any obstructions or delay.“Since the police in these respective states are being used to stop our trucks, I request the Central government to provide security to the tankers, even if it means deploying paramilitary forces to ensure seamless passage of trucks. Otherwise the horror that has unfolded over oxygen in Delhi over the past three days will turn more dangerous in the coming days,” he said.The Union government on Wednesday increased Delhi’s quota of medical oxygen from 378MT to 480MT per day. The move to increase Delhi’s quota came after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government sought at least 700MT per day in order to meet demand in hospitals that has surged due to a flood of Covid-19 patients.Sisodia said there is chaos regarding oxygen supply in several states across India because despite the Central government increasing Delhi’s quota, several states are trying to have control the supply.At present, several hospitals in Delhi are facing severe shortage, while in some, there is no oxygen at all. Some hospitals are releasing patients and closing new admissions. Saroj Hospital, Shanti Mukund Hospital, Rathi Hospital, Tirathram Hospital, UK Hospital, Jeevan Hospital sent SOS messages to the Delhi government on Thursday saying their oxygen stocks are over.“We are trying to arrange oxygen for them at war-footing by diverting it from hospitals that currently have oxygen in excess compared to the demand. But such internal and makeshift arrangements last only for about 2-3 hours. Delhi’s government and private hospitals have oxygen supplies for the next 4 to 12 hours only. The question is when the Central government has clearly allocated oxygen quota to all states, why are states such as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana acting as if there is a fight between them and Delhi,” Sisodia said.Day before yesterday a truck from Uttar Pradesh’s Modi Nagar was not allowed to leave the oxygen plant after district authorities and local police stopped the truck.“When that matter was resolved and oxygen supply resumed from Uttar Pradesh, then officials from the Haryana administration went and sat at the plant in Panipat and obstructed timely supply to Delhi. District officials of Haryana sat at the plant in Panipat and did not allow Delhi-bound trucks to leave. It was only at midnight that the truck was allowed to leave the facility,” the minister said.According to the updated allocation schedule, oxygen will be supplied to Delhi by at least five vendors from plants in Kalinga Nagar, Panipat, Rourkela, Roorkee, West Bengal, Bhiwadi, Barotiwala, Ghaziabad, Surajpur, Kashipur, Modinagar and Selakui.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-not-receiving-oxygen-due-to-jungle-raj-in-up-haryana-sisodia-101619089430007.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi may transport oxygen via air to save time: CM Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Delhi government is considering bringing oxygen from far flung states such as Odisha and West Bengal by air instead of road in order to save time and meet the increasing demand in hospitals across the city.Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal thanked the Delhi high court and the Central government for intervening and increasing the city’s quota of oxygen from 378 metric tonne (MT) to 480MT, even though he reiterated that the Capital needs 700MT. He, however, said it is the Centre which decides not just the quota but also the companies and places from where the oxygen is to be sourced.“Delhi does not produce oxygen, it sources it from plants in other states. The Centre decides the companies from which we get oxygen. The revised quota that the Centre has allotted to us, a substantial part of it is to come form Odisha. But, it will take several days to bring oxygen from Odisha to Delhi by road. We are exploring if bringing oxygen from there by air is possible. We are trying for that,” he said.Also Watch | ‘Very grateful’: Kejriwal as govt increases Delhi’s oxygen quota amid crisisSenior officials in the health department said despite the increase of 102MT per day, Delhi would be better placed if it received about 700MT every day. “There will be still a shortfall of 220MT per day which we will have to make up for by ensuring proper demand-side management and plugging oxygen consumption wastage. Also, in times of utmost crisis, oxygen is diverted from low-demand hospitals to high-demand ones, but that is supposed to be the last resort,” the official said.According to the updated allocation schedule, oxygen will be supplied by at least five vendors from plants in Kalinga Nagar, Panipat, Rourkela, Roorkee, West Bengal, Bhiwadi, Barotiwala, Ghaziabad, Surajpur, Kashipur, Modi Nagar and Selakui.“What remains a matter of grave concern is that of the 480 metric tonnes, 100 metric tonne oxygen from Odisha (70 metric tonne) and West Bengal (30 metric tonne) will take almost 72 hours to reach Delhi. Our citizens, our hospitals, our city is running out of time. Meanwhile, the 140 metric tonne which Haryana has to supply is yet to leave for Delhi,” said the government spokesperson.Kejriwal said Delhi faced a severe oxygen crisis over the past few days with some state government’s stopping tankers meant for Delhi to use in their states. “Night before last, a truck was supposed to leave from a neighbouring state to provide oxygen to Delhi government’s GTB hospital. But, that truck was not allowed to start from there. We contacted a Union minister at night for help and got the truck released. We thank the Central government and the Delhi high court for all their help and interventions,” said Kejriwal.With states clamouring for oxygen supplies, Kejriwal appealed to all states to put up a united front against Covid-19. He urged all states to help each other and assured if Delhi has oxygen in excess, the government would give it to other needy states.“Going by the number of Covid-19 cases, India is now the worst-hit country across the world. This is a very big catastrophe. In such as situation, if now we act in a divided way and think about our own states, then India will not survive. Right now, we should help each other. We have to be an Indian first and be humane. This is the time to help each other as only then India will survive. This disease does not spread on the basis of borders,” he said.Kejriwal reiterated that the Delhi government is preparing for more beds, oxygen and other medical supplies during this ongoing lockdown which is scheduled to be lifted at 5am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-may-transport-oxygen-via-air-to-save-timecmkejriwal-101619077369889.html
