24-04-2021||Delhi||AIIMS Delhi reopens admissions to emergency ward after halting it for an hour||The All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Delhi on Saturday said admissions to its emergency department has resumed after it was restricted for an hour earlier in the day. Officials of the premier hospital confirmed “admissions are open and [the] emergency department is functional” after some users on Twitter said that new admissions were not being allowed.Admissions were earlier restricted due to the oxygen pipelines being reorganised in the emergency department, according to the officials. “The admissions in the emergency were restricted for an hour as the oxygen pipelines were being reorganised due to increased requirement of oxygen for COVID-19 patients. Currently, around 100 coronavirus infected patients are already receiving treatment at the Emergency. This is in addition to more than 800 patients who are already admitted at various centres of AIIMS,” an official said.Also read | After PM Modi’s high-level meet, Centre waives off basic customs duty, health cess on oxygen, Covid-19 vaccines“#Breaking : AIIMS emergency closed due to low supply of Oxygen in Delhi,” one user tweeted on Saturday afternoon. Few other users of the social media platform also tweeted on similar lines, claiming that new restrictions were not being accepted in the hospital.Many hospitals in the country, including those in the national capital, have complained of a shortage of medical-grade oxygen due to the rising number of infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The second wave of the pandemic has caused a rapid increase in the number of active cases in the country which have burdened the hospitals, causing the demand for oxygen to swell.Watch | ‘Can’t let Covid enter villages’: PM Modi on vaccination drive in villagesEarlier in the day, Saroj Hospital in Delhi also announced it was not admitting new patients due to a shortage in oxygen, news agency ANI reported. “We are closing the admissions because of an oxygen shortage. We are discharging the patient,” ANI quoted the hospital’s Covid-19 in-charge as saying. A few hours later, the in-charge said, “We have not received backup oxygen supply yet. We have 70 patients who are in critical condition and need oxygen. If we do not get oxygen supply there could be a big disaster. We have started discharging patients.”Amid the ongoing crisis, the Centre on Saturday waived off the customs duty and health cess on the import of Covid-19 vaccines and medical grade oxygen for a period of three months effective immediately. The Centre’s decision followed a meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the pandemic situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-delhi-reopens-admissions-to-emergency-ward-after-halting-it-for-an-hour-101619271212580.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal writes to all CMs, requests them to send oxygen to Delhi ‘if they have spare’||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday wrote to his counterparts in other states and Union territories requesting them to send the surplus of oxygen they may have to the Capital as the city faces acute shortage to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients. “I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though Central govt. is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate,” he wrote on Twitter.I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though Central govt. is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate.The Delhi chief minister asked his counterparts from other states and UTs if they could provide the national capital with any oxygen, along with tankers, from their state or any organisation in their state, his office said in a statement. “He also wrote that due to the severe rise in COVID cases in the last few days, many Delhi hospitals had run out of oxygen,” it added.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here He informed the states that Delhi does not produce any oxygen and due to the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases in the last few days, many hospitals in the city have run out of the critical element. “Daily supplies of oxygen to Delhi are woefully short of our requirements,” he claimed.Arvind Kejriwal’s plea comes on a day when as many as 20 patients at a hospital in Delhi’s Rohini died due to a shortage of oxygen and several others approved the high court informing about similar challenges.“We lost 20 patients almost all of whom were in critical care unit and on a high flow of oxygen. Our liquid medical oxygen was over by about 10 pm and then we switched over to the oxygen cylinders attached to the main gas pipeline. There was a drop in pressure and the patients could not survive,” said Dr Deep Baluja, medical director of the Jaipur Golden Hospital in Rohini.As hospitals reached the high court seeking its immediate intervention to save the lives of Covid-19 patients as their oxygen stock would last for 30 minutes to a couple of hours, the bench headed by justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Rekha Palli rapped the Delhi government for lacking action in arranging tankers for the transportation of liquid oxygen. "The problem is you think allocation is done so everything will be served at your doorstep but that's not how it works. After allocation have you made any effort for the tankers to collect oxygen?” the court asked.Kejriwal has already broached the issue of oxygen shortage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who met the chief ministers of 11 worst-affected states and UTs on Friday. Kejriwal told PM Modi that the shortage of oxygen could lead to a “big tragedy”, and requested him to order states to not obstruct the passage of tankers. He, however, was criticised by Modi for publicly broadcasting the closed-door meeting.Delhi has been reporting an extreme shortage of oxygen for patients with scores of citizens and city hospitals taking to social media platforms seeking oxygen cylinders for Covid-19 positive patients both in hospitals as well as home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-writes-to-all-cms-requests-them-to-send-oxygen-to-delhi-if-they-have-spare-101619269913300.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||‘This isn’t a wave, it’s a tsunami’: HC pulls up Delhi over Covid preparedness||The Delhi high court on Saturday asked the Centre and the Delhi government about their preparedness to deal with the peak of the second Covid wave expected by mid-May, terming the mounting cases a “tsunami” and warning that it will “hang any person” who tries to obstruct oxygen supplies to hospitals.Talking tough, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said this during a special three-hour hearing on the escalating crisis in city hospitals on a day when 20 patients died at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden Hospital for lack of oxygen. The bench asked both the Centre and the Delhi government to “interact and co-ordinate” with each other for ensuring adequate supply of oxygen.The Centre called the Delhi government a “cry baby” before the court and said it was the latter’s “incompetence” that led to the deaths of people. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, asked the Delhi government to manage the procurement and distributions of oxygen on their own and not depend on the Centre for everything.Mehta said the state governments were responsible for the transportation of the oxygen from various sources and the Delhi government had to do it on its own.“So far we have ensured that nobody in the country was left without oxygen. States and Union territories which do not have industries have also arranged for tanks but the Delhi government has yet not coordinated with the suppliers,” Mehta said.The bench questioned the Delhi government over its citing of the shortage of cryogenic tankers to procure oxygen from Durgapur, Rourkela and Kalinganagar.“We make it clear that the efforts the GNCTD (government of the national capital territory of Delhi) has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised, and they should not leave it entirely to the central government to act in this regard,” the court recorded in its order while directing the Delhi government to arrange tankers and other logistics for timely procurement of oxygen.“Citizens cannot be allowed to die like this… In case cryogenic tanks are less in supply, we are hopeful that the Centre may work this out in coordination with the GNCTD, who cannot leave it completely on the Centre,” it said.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said the city government did not have enough cryogenic tankers because Delhi is not an industrial state.“We got 309 metric tonnes yesterday as against the 480 MT allocated by the Centre. It’s a chaotic situation with disorderly function. Some incidents are bound to happen. We fear we will lose many people... human lives are being lost every day,” Mehra said.During the proceedings, four city hospitals — including Jaipur Golden, where the tragedy took place a few hours ago — complained that there was nobody to coordinate with them on oxygen and essential medicine supplies.“We have already lost 20 lives. We are literally gasping for breath and pleading. The cases are slipping out of our hand. We are trying to ask every authority but to no avail,” senior advocate Sachin Datta for Jaipur Golden said.The bench expressed concern over this as Mehra informed the court that the Delhi government had constituted a team of officers to coordinate with hospitals. As Mehra said the government was not getting information about the quantity of oxygen supplied from suppliers and re-fillers, the court directed the suppliers and re-fillers to give all such information to the city government.During the hearing, the court also directed the Centre and the Delhi government to submit their plans on preparedness after it cited a report by IIT Kanpur predicting that the peak of cases would be hit in mid-May.Mehta told the court that this was being considered and the country had to be prepared for the worst. He said steps had been taken to streamline the passage of oxygen and a strong message had been given to the suppliers in this regard by the top leadership.The court also suggested providing Delhi Police security to hospitals as patients were being discharged from there due to the lack of oxygen supply.“Let’s face the reality. If admissions aren’t being made, we know how people react. We don’t want a law-and-order situation. If riots break out at hospitals, what will happen? There are deaths taking place,” it said.The matter will now be heard on Monday, April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/this-isn-t-a-wave-it-s-a-tsunami-hc-pulls-up-delhi-over-covid-preparedness-101619263626242.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Speedy transportation of oxygen by Delhi Police saves lives in GTB hospital||Amid the acute shortage of oxygen in the national capital due to surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Police on Saturday helped avert a major crisis at the Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital by swiftly transporting two oxygen tankers to the hospital.An urgent message and call for police assistance was received from Vikram Singh, the GNCTD appointed Nodal Officer for GTBH for the transfer of two tankers from the Inox oxygen plant in Modinagar, Ghaziabad.The tanker and driver details were shared and the police immediately swung into action.Deputy Commissioner of Police, Shahdara immediately contacted DIG police and SP rural of Ghaziabad and started coordination for swift transportation with police escort.Meanwhile, a team was dispatched from the GTB Enclave Police Station which met the UP Police team midway. The team took over and escorted the tanker through the shortest possible route.The tanker finally reached GTBH within an hour of dispatch through a green corridor.The hospital administration thanked DCP Shahdara and his team profusely for timely help which saved 700 lives at stake, said police in a media release.Over the last few days, several hospitals have repeatedly flagging acute shortages in oxygen supply.The highest single-day death toll was recorded on Friday in Delhi, with 348 deaths and 24,331 fresh cases.There are now 92029 active Covid-19 cases in the city while the death toll has mounted to 13,541.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-speedy-transportation-of-oxygen-by-delhi-police-saves-lives-in-gtb-hospital-101619253832630.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||'Help families of those who died of oxygen shortage': Rahul Gandhi urges govt||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday condoled the death of critically ill patients at a hospital here amid a serious oxygen crisis and appealed to the Delhi government to provide all possible assistance to the families of the deceased.Twenty critically ill patients died overnight at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi amid a serious oxygen crisis, officials said."The oxygen pressure has dipped as we are running out of stock," Dr D K Baluja, the medical director of Jaipur Golden Hospital, said."The news of the death of several patients due to lack of oxygen in Jaipur Golden Hospital, Delhi is extremely tragic," Gandhi said on Telegram."My deepest condolences to the families of the deceased. I appeal to the State Govt and Congress workers to provide all possible assistance to their families," the former Congress chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/help-families-of-those-who-died-of-oxygen-shortage-rahul-gandhi-urges-govt-101619252050590.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||20 patients die at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden hospital due to oxygen shortage||Twenty patients suffering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19), most of who were admitted to the critical care unit of Jaipur Golden hospital in Rohini, Delhi, died due to low oxygen pressure as the hospital’s oxygen stock ran dry, hospital officials said. “We lost 20 patients almost all of whom were in critical care unit and on a high flow of oxygen. Our liquid medical oxygen was over by about 10 pm and then we switched over to the oxygen cylinders attached to the main gas pipeline. There was a drop in pressure and the patients could not survive,” said Dr Deep Baluja, medical director of the hospital. The hospital was to receive its quota of oxygen at 05:30 pm but the supply did not reach it till midnight. Even then, the hospital just received 40% of its allocated quota and is again in a situation of crisis. “We are again in a situation of crisis, 200 lives are on the line. Last night we were at least able to save most patients. We will not be able to do that today. We have exhausted our backup,” said Dr Baluja. The hospital has probably another 30 minutes of supply left. Also read: In a new high, India records 3,46,786 Covid-19 cases, 2,624 deaths in 24 hoursThis comes a day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal flagged the severe oxygen crisis faced by the national capital and “catastrophic” events that may follow if Delhi’s demand for liquid medical oxygen is not met. Kejriwal said some state governments are stopping tankers meant for Delhi to meet their requirement.“Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if there is no oxygen-producing plant here? Please suggest whom should I speak to in Central Govt when an oxygen tanker destined for Delhi is stopped in another state?” Kejriwal said during the Covid-review conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/20-patient-die-at-delhi-s-jaipur-golden-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101619241779360.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Distress calls every few hours: Hospital’s plight sums up mess||Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital raised alarm on Friday morning about depleting oxygen levels and its ventilators not working properly, marking the fourth consecutive day the premier institution was facing critical shortages.The hospital received supplies in the morning, but by evening, again, medical authorities were making frantic calls to ensure they receive oxygen on time, mirroring a similar crisis in facilities. At the time of going to print, the hospital had enough oxygen to last till 1am. The hospital sent out an SOS message at 8.16am that said 25 “sickest” Covid-19 patients had died and oxygen would last for another two hours only. “Major crisis likely. Lives of another 60 sickest patients in peril,” a message from the hospital’s medical director, Dr (Brig) S Katoch, said.The hospital later clarified that the 25 deaths were not connected with the oxygen shortage and were natural deaths of patients who were in a very serious condition.“But the oxygen situation is such that we did have to switch to manual ventilation in the ICU [intensive care unit] day before when our oxygen supply was depleting because the pressure was less. There is an acute shortage of oxygen across the city but for now, the crisis has been averted,” said DS Rana, the hospital’s board of management chairman, in a statement.At 8.16am when the hospital sent out an SOS message, an oxygen tanker sent by the supplier was stuck in Rohini in north Delhi and the driver did not know the route to the hospital. Meanwhile, doctors were preparing to lower the pressure of the main oxygen tank to conserve oxygen.“Fortunately, we did not have to do that today. When the oxygen pressure is reduced, the ventilators and non-invasive machines like Bipap do not work effectively. So, doctors have to manually ventilate the patients to ensure proper breathing,” said a hospital personnel.At 9.20am, the hospital received 2,000 cubic metres of oxygen that the hospital said would last till Friday evening. The next tanker arrived at 10.30pm, when supply had run to less than 800 cubic metres.“Tanker has brought half tonne oxygen which will last for only 1.5 hours. Hopefully by that time Inox tanker should come . Long night,” the hospital PRO said after the 10.30pm refill..The hospital has 675 beds of which 519 are earmarked for Covid-19. It uses anywhere between 9,500 to 11,000 cubic metres of oxygen every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/distress-calls-every-few-hours-hospital-s-plight-sums-up-mess-101619213618828.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||UK variant cause of Capital surge, says official; 348 more die in city||The city reported over 300 Covid-19 deaths for the second day in a row as hospitals in the city continued to reel under a severe shortage of oxygen, even as an official cited an analysis of genome sequencing over the past four months that showed that the variant of the Sars-Cov-2 first seen in the UK — B.1.1.7 — was behind the present surge in the national capital.The Capital on Friday recorded 348 deaths of the infection, while adding 24,331 fresh cases on the back of 75,037 tests, as the positivity rate dropped marginally to 32.43%.So far, 13,541 people have died of the viral infection in the city as per Friday’s health bulletin released by the Delhi government. In comparison, one of Delhi’s worst Dengue outbreaks in 2015 killed 60 people in the entire year.At least 400 cases of the UK variant, and 76 of the so-called “double mutation” variant were detected in Delhi.“In Delhi we are finding a different type of scenario: we do find the UK variant and B.1.617 variant, but the scenario is still unfolding. We have seen a rise of the UK variant from 28% in the second week of March to 50% in the last week of March. And if we just try to correlate the surge which we have been observing in Delhi, it directly coincides with the type of variant,” said Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, director National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which is the nodal lab for Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG).Dr Singh was speaking during a webinar on genome sequencing organised by the department of biotechnology (DBT) that was responsible for putting together the network of 10 nationally advanced laboratories in December last year, for the purpose of augmenting genome sequencing of positive Sars-Cov-2 samples.In Punjab too, the UK variant was found to be behind the surge in cases.In Maharashtra, the B.1.617 variant, also known as the double mutant, was found in proportions of over 50% in many cities, the INSACOG analysis shows.Of the total 1,770 samples sequenced, 64 were of the UK variant, six of the South African one (B.1.351), one of the Brazilian (P.1) variant. The “double mutation” variant, or B.1.617, was found in 427 cases.So far INSACOG has sequenced 15,133 sars-cov-2 genomes from Covid-19 international travellers as well as from the community.Of the all samples sequenced, 2,000 were of travellers.Meanwhile, experts say the sharp increase in deaths in the Capital can be attributed to the unprecedented rise in the number of cases and the collapsing health infrastructure.“There is an unprecedented increase in the number of cases; we have never seen anything like this. All the hospitals are running full and patients are running from here and there, this is adding to the mortality. We receive several patients who are brought dead to our hospital after going to several other hospitals. There has to be centralised system and ambulances have to be placed at all major hospitals to transport patients to where the beds are,” said a senior doctor from one of city’s private hospitals.However, the city has almost run out of beds. There were just 22 ICU beds available across the city as on Friday night and 1,855 normal beds, according to the Delhi Corona app.The city has reported over 20,000 cases for seven days now, with the highest number of cases (28,395) being reported on April 20. Although the absolute number of cases has gone down since, it is largely because of fewer tests conducted over the last three days.Just over 75,000 tests were conducted on average over the last three days in comparison to over 93,000 tests conducted each day on average over the last seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uk-variant-cause-of-capital-surge-says-official-348-more-die-in-city-101619213247374.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||₹5,000 welfare aid, Covid helpline for construction workers in capital||The Delhi government on Friday said 210,684 workers in the construction sector will be granted a financial assistance of ₹5,000 by the welfare board in the coming days in light of the Covid-19 pandemic and the ongoing week-long lockdown, which has affected their livelihood. The government also said that, in the next three days, it will set up a helpline for migrant workers to find hospital beds, get medicines, and locate food distribution centres and night shelters.On Tuesday, the Delhi government said it will once again start providing financial assistance of ₹5,000 to workers registered with the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (DBOCWW) – which also registers electricians, plumbers, carpenters and people in occupations associated with the construction sector.The government also said it will provide free shelter, food and medicines at 205 night shelters across the city after the lockdown triggered anxieties of a repeat of 2020 and prompted thousands of migrant workers to leave the city.In a statement on Friday, the government said, “A total of 210,684 construction workers will be granted disbursal under this scheme. So far, the Delhi government has disbursed ₹52.88 crore to 105,750 construction workers...“The Delhi government is also taking rapid action in setting up a helpline for construction, daily wagers and migrant workers, which will be active in the next two or three days. Through this all-encompassing helpline, any worker in Delhi will be able to access information on availability of beds in hospitals, food distribution centres, availability of medicines, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5000-welfare-aid-covid-helpline-for-construction-workers-in-capital-101619211672235.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A tale of two years||Year 2019, winter, a few months before the coronavirus pandemic hit the country.Rajinder had moved up in life, he would say (the photo is from that optimistic time). With the help of a generous bank loan, he had bought a gleaming new auto rickshaw costing ₹3 lakh. Earlier he was a beldar, a labourer, and “I used to be covered in dust”, but as an auto driver it was no longer like that.Rajinder’s ambition was to eventually move to driving a cab, which he had calculated would take him about two years. He would first have to pay back the bank loan in monthly instalments. Since he earned about the same amount of money that he used to make as a labourer—about ₹12,000 a month—he and his wife have had to make severe cuts to their household budget, including a total ban on eating outside, and curtailing the buying of new clothes. They also moved from their comfy room in Gurugram’s Raj Nagar (monthly rent: ₹4,000) to a smaller one in Gandhi Nagar ( ₹2,600). There were challenges but the family looked forward to happier days. They even hoped of buying a plot of land in the Millennium City to build their own house.Year 2021, late April.Because it was difficult to find passengers in the pandemic, Rajinder explains on phone that he couldn’t keep up with the instalments to the bank. Last month his auto was taken back by the lenders, he says. Rajinder has again become a beldar, doing “labour work” all day long. “I leave for work at 8 in the morning and usually come back home by 7... sometimes I work on the road and sometimes on the building sites. Now I again get covered with dust by the day’s end.”Rajinder reasons that the months of the pandemic and its recent surge has forced his life to move back to where it was some years ago, when he had first moved to Delhi from his village in Bihar. “It has become worse than before,” he clarifies, before expressing satisfaction that he continues to earn enough to keep his wife and two kids well-fed. “But our dreams are over,” he says. “We don’t complain about our fate... we just want to survive.” As if in consolation, he notes thoughtfully that “everyone’s luck is failing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-tale-of-two-years-101619211243739.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Amid surge, nursing staff in Delhi rue lack of respite, say they are exhausted||The avalanche of Covid-19 patients reaching hospitals, the strain of family members and colleagues falling sick, and the crippling shortage of beds, oxygen and other medical essentials across hospitals in Delhi have left nursing staff in the city “drained” and “emotionally strained”.The second wave of Covid-19 across the country — and the fourth wave in Delhi — has turned out to be deadliest one yet with hundreds of thousands testing positive for the virus and over 2,000 succumbing to the infection every day. The virus has not spared health care workers — many have tested positive and are in need of oxygen support themselves.A senior nursing officer at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital, asking not to be named, said around 120 of her colleagues are currently infected. “What we saw last year is nothing compared to what we are witnessing now. The number of patients we are getting is unprecedented and with many of our colleagues testing positive for Covid-19, the whole situation has become more difficult,” she said.She said emotional breakdowns among nurses have become more frequent in Covid wards these days.“We feel absolutely helpless when people beg us for beds and oxygen for their loved ones and we have to say no. Three days ago, a 24-year-old patient succumbed to the infection. Several nurses, who have children about the same age, started weeping. It’s so difficult to see young people die. Last year, at least young people were not getting affected like this,” she said.When Covid first struck in 2020, health care workers used to work for 14 days at a stretch and then quarantine themselves for another 14. There is no such guideline this time and medical professionals say they are currently working without a break.Akhilesh Sharma, a nursing officer at Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital, said he feels overwhelmed by the long queues of waiting patients, requesting beds every day.“It’s so difficult to say no to a person in that state. The situation is so dire that even if any staff member tests positive for Covid-19 today, they won’t be able to get a bed. I have been on Covid duty since March last year, and I’m exhausted. It is emotionally draining to see your patients, with whom you have worked so hard, dying in front of your eyes,” he said.A nursing officer at Lok Nayak Hospital, who wished not to be named, said, “I have seen many patients die while waiting for a bed outside the hospital in the past few days. I feel helpless. Many of our doctors and nursing staff sometimes come out to attend to these people, but how can we take care of so many?”Several nursing staff also have Covid positive family members. Babita Rani, a senior nursing officer at the Covid maternity ward at the Employees’ State Insurance Model Hospital in Basaidarapur, said her husband is Covid positive at present. “I, my husband and our 15-year-old son are currently living in three different rooms without seeing each other. It has become so difficult to juggle my husband’s care and my nursing duties. It’s like I am doing the same thing 24x7 -- taking care of Covid patients at the hospital and home,” she said.Rani said nurses are facing another dilemma -- to communicate to others nurses the condition of their loved ones receiving Covid treatment. “Nurses know the survival chances of patients with severe infection. Yet, we are placed in a challenging situation where we have to console our own colleagues and give them assurances about their loved ones even when they, and we, know that the chances are grim,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-surge-nursing-staff-in-delhi-rue-lack-of-respite-say-they-are-exhausted-emotionally-drained-101619206016848.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Four held for black marketing Remdesivir, 81 vials recovered||Cracking down on persons allegedly hoarding and black marketing Covid-related life saving drugs, Delhi Police on Friday said it arrested four men belonging to two separate interstate gangs over the past three days and recovered from them 81 vials of Remdesivir injection. Further searches are being conducted in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi by teams of the crime branch to nab other members of the two gangs and make more recoveries, police said.“The racketeers were well aware of the scarcity of Remdesivir and other drugs used in Covid treatment across the country. They started hoarding these drugs and sold them in the black market at exorbitant rates. They have a set network of persons who supply the injections on demand. They were selling Remdesivir injections for ₹25,000 to ₹40,000 per vial. The key players are still absconding,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.Bhardwaj said the crime branch had been receiving information that some gangs were hoarding Remdesivir and other life saving drugs as the demand for these medicines rose manifold due to the sharp increase in Covid cases. The crime branch teams -- tasked to identify and crackdown on these racketeers -- used dummy customers to strike deals with the racketeers and catch them red-handed. One such customer contacted a person who assured delivery of one vial of Remdesivir injection for ₹25,000 at Parmanand Chowk near GTB Nagar in north Delhi.On April 21, the team caught Talwinder Singh alias Sajan, belonging to Amritsar in Punjab, and recovered from him three vials of Remdesivir injections. Questioning revealed that members of his gang were supplying injections across India using a courier company in Chandni Chowk. Police searched the company’s office and arrested Jitendra Kumar, who charged ₹2,000 as commission for delivering each Remdesivir injection. Their questioning led to the recovery of 68 more vials.“The duo revealed a network of persons involved in hoarding and supplying these drugs. They charge the customers according to their financial status. Even when in our custody, Singh received a request from a person who was ready to pay ₹50 lakh as several members of his family were Covid positive,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be identified.In the second operation, another team arrested Shaoib and Mohan with 10 vials of Remdesivir injection from outside Batra hospital in south Delhi. They belong to a different gang that also procured such drugs from Punjab and Haryana.“Questioning of the four arrested persons have led to the recovery of 81 vials of Remdesivir. We feel that the arrest and interrogation of the key players of these syndicates may lead us to any pharma company from where these drugs are illegally re-routed to these people,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-held-for-black-marketing-remdesivir-81-vials-recovered-101619205957469.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Rush forces Ghazipur crematorium staff to hold mass funeral in parking lot||Until three days ago, the vacant plot adjacent the Ghazipur crematorium in east Delhi was where visitors used to park their vehicles. On Thursday night, when Hindustan Times visited the spot, it no longer housed vehicles, but funeral pyres -- about 40 of them -- most of which continued to burn till late night.With Covid-19 bodies arriving at the crematorium without a break — at least 85 Covid-19 bodies were brought there on Thursday, said officials — the crematorium staff said they started setting up pyres on the parking lot next to the road, with no more than a three-foot gap between bodies.The designated funeral platforms are about 400 metres from the parking space and can dispose of only 36 bodies at a time, facility staff said. With the ceaseless arrival of dead bodies on Thursday, crematorium staff said they had to burn bodies round-the-clock at every available space.Civic body officials said that 100 at least bodies were brought to the crematorium on Friday. “We stopped counting after that,” said an official.Before the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year, the crematorium would handle a maximum of 25 bodies a day, and around 10-15 on average.“We cannot follow protocol anymore because of the rush. We are left with no option but to burn Covid and non- Covid bodies in the same space. Had we not used this space, people would have to wait for days to complete the last rites of their loved ones. Two days ago, several grieving families had to be told to take bodies back as the pyre platforms were full and people were already in queue. That is when we decided to use the parking space,” said one of the officials at the crematorium, who identified himself by his first name Manoj.Around 11.50pm on Thursday, there were at least 40 bodies burning side by side on the parking lot. There were at least five more families waiting outside the crematorium with bodies of loved ones, the staff member said.Another official at the crematorium said on condition of anonymity, “ We hardly got 15 bodies a day in January and February and now the number has suddenly risen to 80 a day. The mortuaries are not storing the bodies of Covid-19 patients and families cannot take them home. Although the Hindu faith does not advise burning bodies after sunset, the situation is different now. We work even past midnight these days. People do not mind even if the bodies are burnt on the ground instead of the raised platforms.”The analysis of the Covid-19 fatality data in Delhi, as recorded in the state government’s daily health bulletin, shows a steady increase in death count from April 1. As per the state bulletin, in January, 10 persons, on average, died of Covid-19 daily while in February, the number dropped to two a day, before increasing to four in March.It was in April, when the fourth wave of the infection swept through Delhi, that the numbers shot up exponentially. At least 98 persons, on average, started dying of Covid every day (April 1 to April 22 ). Delhi has reported 1,838 Covid-19 deaths in the past 10 days alone.As deaths started increasing, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), which runs the Ghazipur crematorium, on April 16 ordered that the facility remain open 24x7. But even that did not suffice in the days that followed. Two CNG furnaces, which were announced by the east civic body to cater to Covid-19 deaths and minimise the rush, are yet to open.East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain confirmed they had set up pyres at the parking lot.“We also created 10 pyre platforms to meet the demand, over and above the 36 platforms that were in place already. The CNG furnace will be operational by the first week of May.”At midnight, while the bodies burned at the parking site, another group of labourers were at work to start the two electric crematoriums. “ It will take us another 10 days to complete the work. Looking at the present situation, even if the government installs 10 CNG furnaces, they may not be enough,” one of the workers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rush-forces-ghazipur-crematorium-staff-to-hold-mass-funeral-in-parking-lot-101619205778436.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Can allot space if any organisation willing to set up Covid care centre on campus: DU||Amid a surge in cases of coronavirus in the capital, Delhi University officials on Friday said the varsity is ready to allot space if any organisation is willing to set up a Covid care facility for students and staff on the campus. Registrar Vikas Gupta said the university did not have the infrastructure to maintain these Covid care centres and pointed out that there were a lot of specialised requirements to put in place. “Our medical colleges are attached to hospitals so it will not be feasible to use their services for the centre. We have been holding deliberations and are open to offering university space to organisations that may be willing to run it. We can give our grounds and stadiums for this purpose,” he said.So far, the university has run vaccination camps in north and south campus for its teachers and officials.On Thursday, a group of DU teachers had written to the administration asking them to set up Covid care facilities in the wake of increasing cases. “We are facing far worse situation [than last time] and hundreds of teachers and employees are running from pillar to post for a single bed in hospitals. Some of them have lost their precious lives and many of them are struggling. In such a situation, the university should extend help to students, teachers and employees,” said former executive council member Rajesh Jha, a professor at Rajdhani College.Teachers’ group Academics for Action and Development, of which Jha is a member, said it had written to the university administration on the matter last year. “In our earlier emails, we have suggested attaching the university guest houses to World University Services (WUS) health centre and develop the facilities for Covid-infected university employees. Efforts should be made to develop some beds with Level-3 facility, if not more than that. For this purpose, we can seek help from our own medical and nursing colleges,” the teachers’ group said in its letter to the university administration.Several other teachers also said they had pointed out the lack of medical facilities on campus earlier. Pankaj Garg, convener of the Indian National Teachers’ Congress (INTEC), said he had to try for three days to get an RT-PCR test done by a private lab.“A testing centre can be established at least using existing resources so that teachers don’t have to run from pillar to post to get tested. A Covid care centre can be set up because we already have at least 15 doctors at the university’s health centre. These doctors can be used to set up a temporary centre. Mild to moderate cases can be monitored there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/can-allot-space-if-any-organisation-willing-to-set-up-covid-care-centre-on-campusdu-101619205776810.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Battle against O2 shortages rages on as hospitals take drastic steps||Hospitals across the city continued to battle an acute shortage of liquid medical oxygen for the fourth consecutive day on Friday, with one facility reducing at least 150 beds from its capacity, another moving court, some others asking patients to leave, and several more sending distress messages to the city’s new control room to handle oxygen supply logistics.According to officials, at least 24 hospitals reached out to the control room set up by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, which began functioning on Friday to coordinate urgent oxygen supply delivery and routing. The problem, which first began on Tuesday, has remained acute despite the Union government announcing enhancements in the city’s daily oxygen dispatches on Wednesday.The Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital in Tahirpur, which faced supply problems for the past two days, on Friday reduced the number of beds from 500 to 350. The DDMA control room had allocated the hospital a quota of 6,000 cubic metres of oxygen. With almost all its beds full, the hospital was using up 8,000-9,000 cubic metres of oxygen.“For the last two days, the oxygen reached us just minutes before we would have dipped into our reserves. Now, the government has allocated us a quota of 6,000 cubic metres which will not be enough to manage all the 500 beds because all are beds are like ICU and use up a lot of oxygen. So, we have reduced the number of beds,” said a senior doctor from the hospital, asking not to be named.A second doctor confirmed the situation, saying: “Over the last two days we stopped new admissions and have been discharging stable patients to reduce the numbers.”In addition to reaching out to the DDMA control room, several hospitals sent SOS messages to government officials, health minister and on Twitter.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal raised the issue in his meeting with the PM. “People in major pain due to oxygen shortage. We fear a big tragedy may happen due to oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves. Despite being a CM, I am not able to help the people of Delhi. I request you with folded hands to direct all CMs to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to Delhi,” he said during the meeting.In the morning, an official at Sir Ganga Ram said 25 of the “sickest” Covid-19 patients had died in the last 24 hours, and the lives of another 60 were at risk due to the oxygen supply, before the head of the hospital issued a statement to say the fatalities were not due to the shortage.“The staff strength of the control room is 10 for an eight-hour shift. The control room has been entrusted with ensuring the quickest supply from sources within the city. Till 6pm, we received 24 calls from hospitals in the city which told us that their oxygen stock would not last for two hours. All distress calls were resolved,” said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified.In Max and Max Smart hospitals in Saket, officials said Friday was a tense day with stocks running precariously low at least thrice, with emergency replenishments arriving in the nick of time.The hospital raised the first SOS around the same time as Sir Ganga Ram hospital in the morning. While Sir Ganga Ram Hospital received 2,000 cubic metres of oxygen, both the Max hospitals together received 2,000 cubic metres. The hospitals had over 700 patients, of which 550 were Covid-19 patients.Both Max hospitals and Sir Ganga Ram ran short of oxygen again at night, before receiving replenishments with minutes to spare.“The hospitals started running low on oxygen and the doctors were on the edge again in the afternoon. And, then again now,” said a Sir Ganga Ram hospital staffer at around 9 pm. The hospital in the morning had decided to stop admissions across its centres in Delhi-NCR, but then rescinded the order.Batra hospital in Tughlakabad Institutional Area too reported a tense day, and approached the Delhi high court in the morning. After an SOS message, the hospital received an emergency supply of 700 litres of oxygen as their tanks were about to run dry at 02:30 pm. One-and-a-half hours later, the hospital received another tanker of oxygen, which was first meant to deliver oxygen at 10pm the previous night.“They were supposed to give us 4,000 litres of oxygen but they gave us only 1,700 litres. We need around 7,000 litres of oxygen a day. And, in the last 30 hours we have received only received 1,000 litres of oxygen,” said Dr SCL Gupta, medical director of the hospital. “We had to cancel all non-emergency surgeries. A patient had travelled here from Kashmir for a heart surgery that is extremely important; we had to send him back,” he said.By night, the hospital was again running low on stock. The Delhi HC asked hospitals and nursing homes to first approach the nodal officer at the control room.Holy Family hospital, which had to raise an alarm on Thursday, sought help on Friday morning as well after which it received an emergency 500 litre of oxygen. “All our staff was waiting in the ICU with bated breaths looking at the oxygen monitor to see whether the levels were running low, whether they had to take over. We had also put the oxygen cylinders in the manifold room so that it could take over if the oxygen ran out. But, with the unprecedented use of oxygen, we did not know how long these could run,” said Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent of the hospital.For the second day in a row, Aakash hospital too had to raise an alarm. The hospital received 14-hours of supply 2.5 hours after they ran out. “We have been managing with cylinders we have; getting them refilled and using them again,” the hospital spokesperson said.The situation was more serious for Indian Spinal Injury Centre, which has at least 100 beds on oxygen cylinders, which they ran out of. “We managed to get 18 cylinders through our contacts. Now, we are moving more of our patients to the central gas pipeline run by the liquid medical oxygen where we have stock till morning,” said Jasleen Kaur, the hospital’s head of marketing and communications.Late on Friday, Jaipur Golden hospital issued an SOS on social media saying it had run out of oxygen and switched to oxygen cylinders that the hospital estimated would last for 30 minutes. The hospital has received news that a tanker was being diverted from BSA hospital.After receiving almost no oxygen in 24 hours, officials at Metro hospital in Preet Vihar said they were thinking of discharging patients. “We have been running using refilled cylinder so far. We are waiting to hear from our oxygen supplier, if we do not hear from them soon we will have to ask the patients to look for beds elsewhere,” said a senior official from the hospital, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/battle-against-o2-shortages-rages-on-as-hospitals-take-drastic-steps-101619205656866.html
24-04-2021||Delhi||Oxygen shortage hits Delhi govt’s plan to boost capacity of Covid care centre||The severe shortage of oxygen in Delhi has adversely affected the government’s plan to bolster the capacity of Covid-19 care facilities, especially the major centres in Chhatarpur, Commonwealth Games Village and Yamuna Sports Complex – during the ongoing six-day lockdown.On Thursday, these three facilities collectively had 1,390 total beds – of which 400 beds were equipped with oxygen. As per the government’s augmentation plan, these three centres should have had 1,875 oxygen beds by Tuesday (April 20), said a senior government official.The centre set up at the Radhasoami Satsang Beas’s Chhatarpur campus is vacant right now, despite being reopened on April 20 with 250 beds. In an April 20 order, the Delhi government said the Chhatarpur facility will be attached with Madan Mohan Malviya hospital, which will provide the centre with doctors, nurses, paramedics and at least 10 dedicated ambulances.“The district administration has not been able to provide the facility with oxygen beds. We plan to reopen the centre again by Saturday with 500 oxygen beds. Oxygen supply is likely to be normalised by then,” said a senior revenue department official.Similarly, plans to run temporary care facilities at the CWG village and Yamuna complex — that collectively have 1,140 beds, of which 400 are oxygen-equipped — have also been interrupted by the shortage, which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia, and health minister Satyendar Jain have flagged repeatedly over the past few days.These two shelters should have had 1,375 beds – all with oxygen facilities – by April 20, said the first government official.The care centre in the CWG village was opened on Wednesday with 460 beds, of which 200 have oxygen facilities. Similarly, the centre in Yamuna Sports Complex was also opened on Wednesday, with 680 beds, of which 200 have oxygen facilities.“All oxygen beds are occupied in the two centres, and we are also facing a major shortage of oxygen. There is little scope of increasing the number of oxygen beds unless the shortage is resolved,” said a senior official in the district administration of east Delhi, where the two centres are located.As Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the lockdown on Monday, he said the curbs would help the state government augment the city’s health care infrastructure, which has been brought to the brink by the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths. Delhi on Thursday added 26,169 cases and 306 deaths. Of the 20,448 Covid-19 beds in the city, 18,282 were occupied as of 7pm, the Delhi Corona app showed. Alarmingly, only 18 of the 4,684 intensive care unit beds were vacant, the portal showed.Delhi’s demand for medical oxygen has nearly tripled due to the devastating surge, with hospitals forced to send out distress calls to authorities, which have pitted the Capital’s government against the administrations in neighbouring Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, forcing the Centre to intervene.The Centre on Thursday meanwhile ordered that there should be no restrictions on the movement of medical oxygen between states, and that transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free inter-state movement of vehicles carrying oxygen.However, state officials said they cannot add oxygen beds at Covid care centres till supply bottlenecks are overcome.A Delhi government spokesperson said: “We have the required infrastructure to augment beds in Covid-19 facilities. The problem is the supply of oxygen. The augmentation plan will face no difficulties if they supply of oxygen is stable. Supply of oxygen across the country is regulated by the central government and every state has an allocated quota. Delhi has been facing a major shortage of medical oxygen. While the central government has increased the state’s allocation to 480 MT (from 378 MT) per day, the city’s current demand is more than 700 MT per day. Secondly, Delhi is also not getting the allocated oxygen because authorities in neighbouring states such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are stopping oxygen tankers, interrupting the supply. We have urged the central government to immediately intervene in this regard. Yesterday, Delhi received only 178 MT oxygen against the old quota of 378 MT.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-shortage-hits-delhi-government-s-plan-to-boost-capacity-of-covid-care-centre-101619117211764.html
