25-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Ganga Ram Hospital achieves normal oxygen pressure after 3 days||With nine metric tonnes of oxygen supplied to it on Sunday, officials at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here said it is the first time in three days that all patients are getting the life-saving gas at "normal pressure".The elite hospital in central Delhi received three oxygen refills, totaling 9 MT, between 4:30 am and 6:30 pm."The oxygen pressure remained below normal for the last three days. This is the first time in this period that normal pressure has been achieved," an official said.The hospital received 3 MT of oxygen around 6 pm, which will last up to midnight."The hospital did not have to press the panic button the whole day. No SOS calls were made. We hope the night also passes peacefully," the official said.The hospital had raised an alarm at 10:30 pm on Saturday, saying its oxygen stock would last only an hour. There were 130 patients in the ICU, including 30 on invasive ventilation, when the SOS was sent.Around 12:20 am, it received a tanker, with the help of local AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, which supplied one metric tonne of oxygen, averting an impending crisis."It should last two hours," a hospital spokesperson had said around 12:45 pm.According to him, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital's primary supplier in Faridabad was supposed to send a tanker before 3 am.The tanker finally arrived at 4:15 am and delivered 5 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, the highest volume that the hospital has received in the last three days in one refill, he said.Another tanker delivered one MT oxygen at 12:24 pm.A third tanker arrived around 6 PM and delivered three MT of oxygen, which should last up to midnight.Some hospitals in the national capital continued to grapple with severe shortage of medical oxygen on Saturday even after receiving emergency supplies with the help of the Delhi government and the police.While some hospitals have managed to make short-term arrangements, there is no immediate end to the crisis in sight.At least two private hospitals in Delhi -- Saroj Super Speciality Hospital in Rohini and Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad Institutional Area -- on Saturday asked families of patients to shift them to other healthcare facilities in view of oxygen shortage.Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Friday reported the death of 25 of its "sickest" patients as the administration grappled with depleting oxygen supplies."I appeal to both the Centre and the state to help. On one hand, they increased COVID beds and on the other, they can't supply oxygen in sufficient quantity. How are we supposed to work?" the hospital's chairman Dr D S Rana said."If this is COVID tsunami and the government has invoked the Disaster Management Act, then they should work according to it. We need immediate intervention," he said.Dr Rana also said, "The government is doing its best but, perhaps, they too are helpless. But then they should admit it and reduce patient intake."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-ganga-ram-hospital-achieves-normal-oxygen-pressure-after-3-days-101619366189141.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s daily Covid-19 count dips slightly with 22,933 cases; one-day toll at 350||Delhi on Sunday reported a single-day surge of 22,933 Covid-19 cases, slightly less as compared to what the city has been reporting for the past few days, and the toll from the viral disease in the last 24 hours stood at 350, according to the latest data released by the health department.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The daily positivity rate which was at 32.27% on Saturday slipped to 30.21% on Sunday. The low figures, however, may be attributed to the reduced testing in the national capital. While the daily Covid-19 testing count was at 85,620 last Sunday, it now stands at 75,912. The number of people infected by the coronavirus in Delhi has gone up to 1,027,715 following which the government, earlier in the day, announced an extension of lockdown in the city till May 3 morning.Hospitals in Delhi have reported a shortage of oxygen and beds for several days now even as the Aam Aadmi Party-led government has been seeking support from the Centre as well as other states. Amid the acute shortage of oxygen, hospitals have also started to turn away patients and shift those already admitted for treatment. Hospitals as well as citizens of the national capital have been taking to social media to seek help in availing oxygen, key drugs like Remdesivir, and also finding ICU beds and those with oxygen.On Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to all states and Union territories requesting them to send oxygen that they may have in spare so as to assist the treatment of critically ill patients. Kejriwal also reached out to the country's top industrialists over the oxygen shortage. “Please help the Delhi government if you have oxygen and tankers... Help us in whatever way you can,” he wrote in a letter, according to news agency ANI.As Delhi reels under the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre has been sending supplies of oxygen to hospitals in the city and has also arranged for four tankers of the gas that are likely to arrive by Monday night on an Oxygen Express from Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-count-dips-slightly-with-22-933-cases-one-day-toll-at-350-101619366808841.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||‘Please help us in whatever way you can’: Kejriwal to industrialists amid Delhi oxygen crisis||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday requested the country’s top industrialists to help deal with the shortage of oxygen in the national capital as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to mount. “Please help the Delhi government if you have oxygen and tankers... Help us in whatever way you can,” Kejriwal wrote in a letter, reported ANI.Delhi is struggling to cope with a record number of Covid-19 cases as hospitals faced an acute shortage of oxygen for the fifth consecutive day on Sunday, and began to turn away patients and shift those already admitted for treatment. The chief minister has also written to his counterparts all over the country, urging them to send oxygen to Delhi.“Delhi does not produce any oxygen. Due to the severe rise in corona cases in the last few days, many Delhi hospitals have run out of oxygen. Daily supplies of oxygen to Delhi are woefully short of our requirements.” Kejriwal told other chief ministers in his letter which he asked to be treated like an SOS message.Delhi has been allocated a daily oxygen supply of 480 MT by the Centre, which Kejriwal says is falling short since the current requirement is near 700 MT per day. “The central government is also helping us a lot in this regard. However, the intensity of the spread is so severe that it is proving inadequate. Therefore, I would be grateful if you could provide us with any oxygen, along with tankers, from your state or any organisation in your state. I would be personally grateful for your support,” Kejriwal wrote in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/please-help-us-in-whatever-way-you-can-kejriwal-to-industrialists-amid-delhi-oxygen-crisis-101619363062090.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||90% of Covid-19 patients will recover at home: Dr Naresh Trehan||A top doctor on Sunday dispelled rumours around the coronavirus disease and said that Covid-appropriate behaviour will help break the chain of surging infections across the country. Dr Naresh Trehan of Medanta - The Medicity said 90 per cent of those who have contracted the viral disease will recover at home if they take their medication on time. “As soon as your RT-PCR report comes positive, my advice would be to consult your local doctor. All doctors nowadays know the protocol and will begin your treatment accordingly,” Dr Trehan said.Dr Trehan also said Covid-19 patients can also try other things to keep fit. "Yoga's 'anulom vilom' exercise is very effective in expanding our lungs because when you take a deep breath, the exchange of oxygen is more,” he added.Also read | Bharat Biotech seeks extension of Covaxin’s shelf life. All you need to knowTrehan was among four senior doctors who spoke on ways to step the fight against the pandemic as India on Sunday reported a record daily rise of 349,691 new infections, taking its overall tally to 16.96 million infections. As many as 2767 people also succumbed to the disease on Sunday, according to the health ministry data, taking the death toll to 192,311. Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), head of department of medicine at AIIMS Dr Naveet Wig and director general Health Services Dr Sunil Kumar, also addressed issues related to the coronavirus pandemic.Also read | Don’t panic and stock oxygen, Remdesivir at home: AIIMS chief to Covid patientsDr Trehan said also said the demand for oxygen shot up by three times due to the spike in the Covid-19 cases and that the issue is related to its transportation. "This is a challenge. The steel industries, which are the biggest manufacturers of oxygen for their own consumption, offered to provide oxygen. But the issue is related to oxygen transportation. For this, special tankers have been ordered and the government is helping them in transportation. The supply chain can improve in five to seven days," he said, according to news agency ANI.The Medanta chairperson said there is no need to panic. "The understanding of patients, wastage of oxygen and judicious use of oxygen by the hospitals can bridge the supply of oxygen. We have to use the resources carefully," he said.Also read | ‘Glaring lapses...’: Parliamentary committee report flagged concerns over oxygen supply last yearHe also said doctors should ensure that the oxygen should be used in a judicious manner. "Patient's lungs' condition, blood test reports, comorbidities and age create a scenario under which we can say if it is right for them to be hospitalised... I would like to tell doctors to keep in mind that who has to be recommended to hospital,” he said regarding the hospitalisation of those who have tested positive for Covid-19."The balance between Covid care centres run by hospitals and hospitals must coordinate. This will rationalise the use of oxygen, increase the availability of beds and the public will not panic,” he said. “We can win the war if the public will support us. The government is responding to the demands…” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/90-of-covid-19-patients-will-recover-at-home-dr-naresh-trehan-101619352555078.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Good samaritans extend help: Langar at doorstep, Iftari for the needy||The new wave of Covid-19 has gripped humanity so tight that it’s difficult for most to move out and help others in need. In these hard times, and amid the surging Covid cases in the Capital, there are a few noble souls who are serving the Almighty, by helping mankind. Doorstep delivery of langar The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management committee (DSGMC) besides serving langar to a large number of underprivileged and migrant labourers, has started langar delivery service for Covid affected families in the Capital. “To help people tide over this wave of coronavirus, we have started delivery of langar to houses of families affected by Covid, especially the old people who have no caretakers. The meals are prepared in a hygienic manner at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, whereas deliveries are coordinated from Bangla Sahib, gurudwara Moti Bagh and Rakab Ganj Sahib. We’re also providing 20 rooms at Guru Arjun Dev Ji Sarai with beds and oxygen arrangement,” says Kashmir Singh, manager, DSGMC, informing that the committee has also offered the government to convert langar halls in various gurdwaras into Covid facilities. Celebrating the spirit of RamzanDuring the month of Ramzan, the committee at Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah has initiated a food drive to aid the underprivileged families in the area around the dargah. “We are providing food to more than a thousand people, including the daily wage workers whose source of income has been affected due to the pandemic,” says Peerzada Altamash Nizami, joint secretary of the committee, adding, “We’re distributing the food boxes while following all SOPs. Around 1,000 boxes, which contain samosa, pakodi, jalebi, mixture, juice, dates, dal and wafer are prepared everyday in the complex by our volunteers and then distributed.” Senior citizens and pregnant women firstIn Delhi’s Dwarka, ISKCON temple is extending support to the Covid patients, in the fight against the pandemic. “We are delivering nutritious food, in southwest Delhi, to Covid patients, and specially focus on the needs of elderly people and pregnant women. We’ve just launched a helpline (+919717544444) and are getting over 200 calls each day,” says Ram Kishore Das, who manages the Food for Life department at the temple. He adds, “There are around 20-25 people involved in making these meals. When people ask us if they need to pay anything for the meals, we just tell them — Prasad khao, Corona ko harao!”Author tweets @bhagat_mallika For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/good-samaritans-extend-help-langar-at-doorstep-iftari-for-the-needy-101619350091968.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Lockdown in Delhi extended for another week. Check what's allowed||The Delhi government on Sunday decided to extend the existing lockdown in the national capital till May 3 as the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to surge. "Lockdown is the last weapon wielded against coronavirus. It was important to use this weapon since the cases are out of control. So we have extended lockdown in the city by a week till 5 am on Monday (May 3)," chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said during a press conference.Here is what is allowed and what not during the lockdown that has been extended for another week due to the massive surge:Pregnant women and patients for medical health facilities can travel with the production of a valid identity card. People going to get vaccinated against Covid-19 are also exempt and will have to show a valid ID card.Central government officials, judicial officers, officials working in the offices of diplomats of other countries as well as persons holding any constitutional post are also exempt with a valid ID card.All essential services providers like medical personnel, staff, people working in banks, insurance offices, stock-related offices, telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and delivery of essential goods like food, pharmaceutical are allowed with a valid ID card.Also read: Delhi's Covid situation not improving, says Kejriwal, announces oxygen portalPeople coming from or going to airports, railway stations/SBTs are exempt on the production of valid ID cards.Electronic and print media, students appearing for exams and people moving for wedding-related gatherings up to 50 people and funeral or last rites related gatherings up to 20 people are also allowed with a valid ID card or admit card in case of examinations.Private security services, manufacturing units of essential services and units of nonessential goods having onsite workers production units or services, which require continuous process, cold storage and warehousing services are also allowed to open.Religious places are permitted to be open however visitors are not allowed and public transport is allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity.Intra-state and inter-state movement of essential goods is not prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-in-delhi-extended-for-another-week-check-what-s-allowed-101619340262420.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Tears, prayers, police, JCB: How Delhi's Saroj Hospital saved over 100 lives||On a gloomy Saturday afternoon, the staff at the Saroj Super Specialty Hospital in Delhi broke down and started praying anxiously as lives of more 100 patients hung by a thread amid rapidly depleting oxygen supply.An oxygen tanker had reached the hospital after the staff spent hours running around in search of supplies and making frantic calls to the government and police.But it could not enter the area where the hospital's oxygen tank is. The problem: its larger-than-normal size. The solution: an excavator, which broke down a portion of a wall.The hospital ran out of oxygen in the afternoon and the supply from the vendor never came.The situation was tense amid fears of a repeat of the tragedy at the Jaipur Golden Hospital, where 20 patients died due to lack of oxygen."We really didn't know what to," Pankaj Chawla, the owner of the hospital, said."This was the time we started discharging patients. We told families that we don't have oxygen and they can take their patients to some other healthcare facilities," Chawla said.The hospital, run by a trust, discharged 34 patients during this time. Since the rest were on ventilators, their families were asked to arrange oxygen cylinders."Most of the patients said, 'we will stay... it's the same situation everywhere. Let's see what happens'. Thirty-four were medically okay to go," Chawla said.The hospital went to the high court to get an order for urgent relief, but help still did not come immediately. It borrowed oxygen cylinders from various healthcare facilities, while some Delhi government officials worked in the background.Later, the city government allotted a tanker to it on a sharing basis."The tanker came to the hospital, but it was so big that it couldn't get into the area where our LMO (liquid medical oxygen) tank is," Chawla said. "We started breaking down a wall and a ramp with electronic hammers and whatever we had, but it was taking time and the tanker had to go to the Tirath Ram Shah Hospital."Government officials told the hospital that the tanker would come back after an hour."That is the time everybody thought nothing can save us. All of us, my doctors, my staff started crying. We were running out of luck, too," Chawla recalled.The hospital staff and some police personnel rushed to get some cylinders filled.Twenty cylinders were brought to the hospital in a Delhi Transport Corporation bus. Those cylinders lasted 40 minutes and actually saved the day, he said."In the meanwhile, we called the mayor, fire department... brought in a JCB (excavator), which broke a portion of the wall and the ramp," Chawla said.The police brought the tanker back after delivering oxygen at the Tirath Ram Shah Hospital.At present, there are over 100 patients at the hospital, majority of them on oxygen support."It could've been another Jaipur Golden tragedy, perhaps, of a bigger size... All this time, the families were there, helping us," Chawla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tears-prayers-police-jcb-how-delhi-s-saroj-hospital-saved-over-100-lives-101619338499183.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Connecting people one plasma donor at a time||While you may recognize him as the digital content creator who leaves you in splits with his viral memes and reels, 29 year old RJ Abhinav has also been driving home smiles by being a plasma enabler, connecting eligible plasma donors with recipients through the power of his social media. The Delhi boy has been attempting to put together a data base of plasma donors to help critical patients in need. Abhinav’s insta handle is full of videos, stories and post about plasma donation, busting myths and creating awareness. “Plasma donors in Delhi are very less, nobody is coming forward. Everyone is scared. Jinko Covid hokar theek ho gya hai they are scared to come out because of the fear of getting infected again. However, they should understand that they can take precautions and donate plasma. Something is bigger than their fear and that is - the value of the life, that they can save through donating their plasma. There are so many plasma requests but they aren’t able to find the right donors. That’s why I am asking people to send me details. Even if I get one or two donors, I can help those who are in urgent need. I am also a part of a group that includes social media influencers and people who are active on social media, and we share details and maintain an excel sheet of plasma donors.” Project Plasma is a Fever Network initiative to celebrate the super power of Covid recovered plasma donors, who are stepping forward amid the second wave of Covid, to donate their plasma to save lives of other infected patients.The power to save someone’s life is truly a superpower. Encouraging the youth to step forward without hesitation Abhinav says, “Millennials enjoy watching Superhero movies because they admire the power of these superheroes saving other people’s lives. Donating plasma if you have antibodies against Coronavirus is your superpower to save someone’s life. You get to be the superhero / heroine of the patient’s life!” Abhinav, a plasma hero trying to bridge the gap between plasma donors and recipients has been collating and sharing the data of plasma requests and donation with a group of like minded troopers, while protecting the privacy of donors. “There are people from different states and we are trying our best. We don’t broadcast the number of donors anywhere. Because once you put up the number, that guy or girl who wants to donate receives calls from all over the places. I request people to message in my inbox. When there is any need, we match the donor and help them. I don’t have the exact number of people I have helped since everyone who is a part of the group is updating the list and using it to help others, I presume, the number must be between 20 to 30,” says Abhinav. There are people who can donate plasma but the panic about visiting the hospital and donating plasma is stopping them. “Fear is genuine. But if you face antibodies, there is least chance you will get Covid again till the degree that it will harm you. You have an advantage of having those antibodies over others who are struggling with their lives. There are people who need you. Hospitals are making sure that you donate in an environment which is free from people and much safer. Take all the precautions, a slight risk and convince yourself. A doctor calls for a plasma donation when they don’t find any other alternative. When somebody is calling for plasma, the condition is critical. You have antibodies, you have defeated and koi aur nahi kar pa rha hai so why not help him or her,” asks Abhinav.You are a superhero if you have recovered from Covid 19 because you have the power to save a life! Call on 8800570768 to donate plasma and save lives.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/connecting-people-one-donor-at-a-time-101619339045932.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's LNJP hospital receives oxygen refill, Pentamed seeks urgent supply||Amid an acute oxygen crisis in the national capital, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital here received a supply of the life-saving gas in a cryogenic tanker around 10 am on Sunday, officials said.It came as a huge relief for the hospital which was running on its backup stock of oxygen.However, the situation is grim for hospitals like Pentamed in Model Town that had sent an SOS on Twitter around 11.30 am saying oxygen stock was left for 30 minutes only.The hospital officials claimed they didn't get any refill even after sending an SOS on oxygen shortage last night also. There are around 50 patients in the hospital and most of them are on oxygen support.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageLNJP Hospital's Medical Director Dr Suresh Kumar said, "We had exhausted our oxygen stock and were using the backup which would have lasted for two hours only."AAP MLA Raghav Chaddha, who is also the chairman of LNJP Hospital's Rogi Kalyan Samiti, had earlier tweeted about the cryogenic tanker on its way to refill oxygen stock in the hospital."Within the next 30 minutes, LNJP will receive liquid oxygen supply via cryogenic tanker. The tanker is on its way," he tweeted around 9.55 am on Sunday.Chaddha had also helped Sir Ganga Ram Hospital get one metric tonne of oxygen around 12.20 am. The hospital has also received five metric tonnes of oxygen in the early hours of Sunday.The Delhi High Court on Saturday asked the Centre and the Delhi government to coordinate on the issue of making medical oxygen available to hospitals treating COVID-19 patients, observing that citizens cannot be left to die.The court also made it clear that the efforts which Delhi government has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised and they should not leave it entirely to the central government.While some hospitals have managed to make short-term arrangements, there is no immediate end to the crisis in sight. Metro Hospital, in Gurgaon's Palam Vihar, which claims to be in its "last leg of medical oxygen", had made an urgent appeal for help to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and other ministers."INOX commitment to replenish liquid medical oxygen remain unfulfilled . Only 1.5 hours to go. Please help us urgently," the hospital tweeted around 10.41 am tagging the Prime Minister Office, PM Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Haryana chief minister Mahonar Lal Khattar, Railway Minister PiyushGoyal, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij among others.Delhi recorded the highest single-day rise in its COVID-19 deaths with 357 more people succumbing to the viral disease on Saturday as well as over 24,000 fresh cases. The city has reported nearly 2,500 deaths due to the deadly virus in a 12-day period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-lnjp-hospital-receives-oxygen-refill-pentamed-seeks-urgent-supply-101619338183818.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 and crematorium: Delhi's slum dwellers grapple with smoke, stench, and fear of disease||The smoke hangs in an ash grey cloud over their homes and the acrid smell from more than 200 cremations a day doesn’t leave, they say, permeating as it were their very pores. For the residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Camp, living next to a crematorium is as much a struggle as keeping Covid-19 at bay.Being in such close proximity to a crematorium is never easy, say the residents of the slum colony in west Delhi. But when the number of bodies being burnt goes up from about three to four a day to about 200-250, it’s about visitations of death and also the fear of the contagion looming large over every aspect of their lives.They wake up to the smell of burning bodies and sleep to it at night, said Saroj, one of the 1,500 odd people living in the 900 shanties in the slum colony located just a few metres away from the Paschim Puri crematorium."It is a very scary situation. We keep seeing ambulances pass by and constantly there is smell and smoke, whether it is day or night,” the 38-year-old ragpicker told PTI.The fear of contracting Covid-19 is constant and the glowing fires from the crematorium that now operates 24X7 allows neither peace of mind nor sleep, she said.On the night of April 14, a fire broke out in the slum cluster and Saroj and scores of her neighbours are still recovering from that. There were no casualties but 30 shanties were burnt.Half of Saroj's house also got burnt in the fire. And just as she was recovering came the weeklong lockdown aimed at breaking the chain of Covid-19 transmission.Though there are no official figures, Saroj’s neighbour, 35-year-old Kakoli Devi, said about 300 bodies were cremated on Thursday. In the last two days, about 200-250 bodies were cremated. "We have arranged for a truck and we will leave this place for our village in Maharajganj (in Uttar Pradesh). At least we will be spared this constant looming feeling of death," Kakoli said."Everyone is holed up inside the house. We don’t even switch the fans on because we fear we will get corona through the air. The atmosphere has been particularly traumatic for children," said the widow with three children. Many others, mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, are also planning to leave for their villages. Several people had left earlier as the second wave of Covid-19 gathered pace and those that are left fear their homes won’t be livable for much longer given the continuous smell and stench. Many residents said it was not so bad earlier because the cremations took place at the far end of the crematorium. Now with the numbers going up – Delhi on Saturday recorded 357 deaths, its highest yet, and over 24,000 fresh cases – the entire area is being used. When the residents protested, officials, they said, told them they have government orders to do so.Saroj, who lives with seven family members, including three children, is also planning to go back to her village in Uttar Pradesh. With the cases rising, she has lost her job as a ragpicker."Some days we just drink water, some days we get food through NGOs. The situation is terrible." The stigma of living adjacent to a crematorium has also led to some people losing their jobs as domestic workers in the upscale Paschim Vihar colony near by.A 16-year-old girl, who worked as a part-time domestic help, said her employers asked her not to come to work because her house is close to a ‘shamshan ghat’."They fear we will carry corona with us so we are thinking of returning to our village. But even that costs money. We will need ₹2,000-2,500. How can we afford it?” she asked.Another 12-year-old said some have the option of returning to their villages but he doesn’t have any place to go. This is where his family has lived for decades."Where do we go? if we leave, what will we earn? Already our earnings have drastically reduced in this corona pandemic," said the young boy who does part-time domestic chores in Paschim Vihar.Vijay Kumar, a social worker at child rights NGO CHETNA, said many children are into substance abuse and are being roped in by crematorium workers to help in carrying the bodies."They are not given any protective gear and are being tempted with money - the more the number of bodies they carry, the more they money. It is very risky for them," he said.Sanjay Gupta, director of CHETNA (Childhood Enhancement Through Training and Action), is worried about the long-term impact.Children, already living in tough lives, are seeing corpses of Covid patients being burnt day and night in front of them. “This will leave a deep impression on their mental well-being and thinking,” he said.With this fear, the children are ready for migration along with their whole family as the people of the community are also involved in this cremation process which can be an active source of spreading corona,” Gupta added.He said it is time for people to come forward and help children. Instead of cremating corpses inside cities, the government should make arrangements somewhere outside, maybe in border areas, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-and-crematorium-delhi-s-slum-dwellers-grapple-with-smoke-stench-and-fear-of-disease-101619332324285.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown extended in Delhi by a week till May 3: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday the ongoing lockdown in the national capital has been extended by another week and will continue till May 3 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal said, “Covid-19 is rapidly increasing in Delhi. In view of this, we had earlier imposed a six-day lockdown which was supposed to end tomorrow at 5am. Lockdown is the last weapon to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. At present, the situation is not improving. Many people suggested the lockdown should be extended. Now it (lockdown) has been extended for one more week till Monday (May 3) 5am.”The rules of the lockdown will remain the same. Only essential services and government offices will be allowed to function. All those employed with private offices will have to work from home. Malls, spas, gyms and auditoriums will be shut during the lockdown period while groceries, dairies are allowed to be kept open.Also Read| Delhi's Covid situation not improving, says Kejriwal, announces oxygen portalKejriwal also pointed out on Sunday that during this lockdown, the Covid-19 positivity rate climbed to almost 36 to 37 per cent. However, he said the rate went down in the last 1-2 days and today it went down below 30 per cent. “I’m not saying that Covid-19 is ending. We will have to observe for a few more days. The positivity rate might go up or come down.” the Delhi chief minister added.Citing the severe shortage of oxygen supplies in the national capital from the past few days, Kejriwal said a quantity of 700 tonnes (MT) of oxygen is currently needed and the Centre has allotted 490 tonnes till now. “However, the full allotment has not reached Delhi yet. Yesterday, 330-335 tonnes of oxygen managed to reach Delhi. There is a requirement of 700 tonnes and only 330-335 tonnes has arrived till now. This is a major reason for the oxygen shortage in hospitals,” the Delhi CM added.Also Read| Send us whatever O2 you can spare: Kejriwal to CMsWith a view to ensure better management of oxygen supply, he said the Delhi government has started a portal which will be updated by oxygen manufacturers, suppliers and hospitals.Also Watch| Delhi extends lockdown by a week, CM Kejriwal says 'alarming positivity rate'Delhi has so far added 1,004,782 Covid-19 disease cases and 13,898 deaths, according to the health department’s bulletin. On Saturday, 357 deaths were reported, the highest ever single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic last year while 24,103 more people tested positive. Recoveries are nearing 898,000 while the active cases have climbed to 93,080, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-extends-covid-19-lockdown-by-a-week-till-may-3-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101619331377541.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Minutes away from disaster||Hospitals in Delhi continued to send SOS messages on running out of oxygen supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minutes-away-from-disaster-101619295044226.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 cases hit 1 million||An unprecedented spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi in its fourth wave – the worst so far – pushed the number of total infections in the national capital so far past the one million-mark, with the latest 250,000 cases coming in just 11 days as the city’s health care infrastructure creaked under the massive caseload and hospitals made urgent appeals for life-saving supplies.On Saturday, Delhi reported 24,103 cases and record 357 deaths. The positivity rate – the proportion of tests that are positive for Covid-19 – continued to soar at 32.27%, with nearly one out of every three samples tested across the Capital returning positive.The authorities scrambled to get oxygen tanks to hospitals where Covid-19 patients were gasping amid the world’s worst Covid-19 surge, as many criticised alleged government negligence over the public health crisis spiralling out of control.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged his counterparts in other states to provide oxygen to the national capital, saying all available resources were proving to be inadequate owing to the severity of the latest surge. “I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though Central govt is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate,” Kejriwal tweeted.The first case was reported in Delhi on March 2 last year. It took 419 days for the tally to touch one million. While the first 250,000 cases took 205 days, the second 250,000 cases came in 57 days – Delhi’s tally crossed the half-million mark on November 18, 2020.From there, as the pace of infections came under control, the third phase slowed down considerably – it took 146 days for the tally to cross 750,000.However, pushed by the mammoth surge of infections in recent weeks, it took only 11 days for the latest 250,000 cases.Across the country, 349,158 infections were reported on Saturday. The active cases in the country have crossed the 2.5 million-mark.In Delhi, there are 93,080 active Covid-19 cases, taking the total Covid-19 tally of the city to 1,004,782. The death toll in the national capital mounted to 13,898. The positivity rate in Delhi stood at 32.27% and the case fatality rate was at 1.38%. As many as 74,702 tests, including 42,346 RT-PCR and 32,356 rapid antigen tests were done, according to the official health bulletin.A total of 22,695 people also recovered from the disease, taking the total number of recoveries to 897,804.On Saturday, 20 people died at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden Hospital as the facility waited for oxygen to be replenished.With the worsening of conditions at the hospital, the Centre announced exemption of basic customs duty on import of Covid-19 vaccine, medical-grade oxygen and related equipment to boost domestic availability and directed the customs department to clear all import consignments, including life-saving drugs and equipment used in Covid-19 treatment on priority.The decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to boost oxygen availability in the country.“The PM emphasised that there was an immediate need to augment the supply of medical grade oxygen as well as equipment required for patient care both at home and in hospitals. The PM stressed that all ministries and departments need to work in synergy to increase the availability of oxygen and medical supplies,” a statement said.A day after 25 patients died at the Ganga Ram Hospital, one of the city’s biggest and most high-profile health facilities, the Delhi high court asked the Centre about the preparedness to deal with the expected Covid-19 second wave peak in mid-May, terming the mounting cases as a “tsunami”, and also warned it will “hang” any person who tries to obstruct oxygen supplies to hospitals in the Capital.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said this during a special three-hour-long hearing on a holiday on the issue of the escalating oxygen crisis in various hospitals in Delhi. “We will not spare anyone,” the bench said.Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said: “The number of infections is likely to start coming down soon. The high mortality will continue for another week after that. However, the number of new infections coming down is still no good news because the absolute numbers would be high and the health care system is overwhelmed.”(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-cases-hit-1-million-101619293272284.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||20 die as O2 pressure dips in Rohini hospital||Twenty Covid patients, mostly admitted to the critical care unit of Jaipur Golden hospital in Rohini, died on Friday allegedly due to low oxygen pressure as the hospital struggled with depleting oxygen stock, officials said. Despite this, officials said the hospital received the requisite supply of oxygen only on Saturday, after it raised the alarm twice.“We lost 20 patients almost all of whom were in the critical care unit and on a high flow of oxygen. Our liquid medical oxygen stock was over by about 10pm (on Friday) and then we switched over to the oxygen cylinders attached to the main gas pipeline. There was a drop in pressure and the patients could not survive,” said Dr Deep Baluja, medical director of the hospital.For over 1.5 hours, officials said patients were completely dependent on the backup oxygen cylinders.According to officials, Jaipur Golden hospital was supposed to receive its quota of oxygen at 5.30pm on Friday but got an emergency supply at around midnight after raising alarm. While it received an additional 1,500 cubic metres of oxygen -- 40% of its quota allocated by the government -- later, officials said it was facing a crisis again by morning.“We are again in a crisis situation, 200 lives are on the line. Last night, we were at least able to save most patients. We will not be able to do that today. We have exhausted our backup,” said Dr Baluja.Along with representatives from Maharaja Agrasen, Batra, and Saroj hospitals, Dr Baluja approached the Delhi high court on Saturday to secure supply of oxygen.With oxygen levels depleting, officials said the hospital somehow managed to hold on till 1.30pm on Saturday when they received another 1,000 cubic metres of oxygen. By 7.15 pm Saturday, the hospital again had to tweet an SOS, “Next impending oxygen crises in Jaipur Golden Hospital. Over 200 lives at stake if liquid medical oxygen is not supplied by 9:00 pm tonight.” The hospital said it received another 1,000 cubic metres of oxygen around 9 pm, which it said will last till at least 5 pm on Sunday.The appeal comes a day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal flagged the severe oxygen crisis faced by the national capital and “catastrophic” events that may follow if the demand for liquid medical oxygen is not met. Kejriwal said some state governments are stopping tankers meant for Delhi to meet their requirement.“Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if there is no oxygen-producing plant here? Please suggest whom should I speak to in Central government when an oxygen tanker destined for Delhi is stopped in another state?” Kejriwal said during the Covid-review conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday.A police officer, who did not want to be identified, said that around 11 pm on Friday, police had received information regarding the deaths of 20 Covid patients due to oxygen shortage at Jaipur Golden Hospital. The police contacted the district administration that was also unaware of the deaths.“Both the agencies contacted the hospital management but it denied that any deaths had taken place because of (lack of) oxygen. However, they flagged the oxygen crisis in the hospital by saying that they only had half an hour stock,” the officer said.“It’s to be probed if the 20 patients died before the oxygen supply was made or after it. As of now, we have not received any complaint from any concerned agency or from the family of any dead patients,” the officer added.Security beefed upMeanwhile, the Delhi Police’s intelligence unit (special branch) alerted the Rohini district police about a potential law and order problem and suggested deployment of adequate security personnel at the hospital. Within minutes, nearly 50 police personnel, led by an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) and inspectors, reached the hospital premises and joined the private security guards to ensure law and order was not disrupted.The police are on high alert to ensure no violence breaks out after several hospitals reported that lives of patients are at stake because of inadequate oxygen supply.A senior police officer said, “Since the hospital management (Jaipur Golden Hospital) declared that 20 patients died on Friday night due to low oxygen pressure which resulted from the hospital running out of its oxygen supply, we anticipated a backlash from the family and relatives of the deceased. Also, after the hospital issued an SOS about the lives of 200 other patients, we reviewed the situation and accordingly deployed police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-die-as-o2-pressure-dips-in-rohini-hospital-101619292917720.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Will hang anyone blocking oxygen supplies, warns HC||The Delhi high court on Saturday asked the Centre and the Delhi government about their preparedness to deal with the peak of the second Covid wave expected by mid-May, terming the mounting cases a “tsunami” and warning that it will “hang any person” who tries to obstruct oxygen supplies to hospitals.Talking tough, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said this during a special three-hour hearing on the escalating crisis in city hospitals on a day when 20 patients died at Delhi’s Jaipur Golden Hospital for lack of oxygen. The bench asked both the Centre and the Delhi government to “interact and co-ordinate” with each other for ensuring adequate supply of oxygen.The Centre called the Delhi government a “cry baby” before the court and said it was the latter’s “incompetence” that led to the deaths of people. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, asked the Delhi government to manage the procurement and distribution of oxygen on their own and not depend on the Centre for everything.Mehta said the state governments were responsible for the transportation of the oxygen from various sources and the Delhi government had to do it on its own.“So far we have ensured that nobody in the country was left without oxygen. States and Union territories which do not have industries have also arranged for tanks but the Delhi government has yet not coordinated with the suppliers,” Mehta said.The bench questioned the Delhi government over its citing of the shortage of cryogenic tankers to procure oxygen from Durgapur, Rourkela and Kalinganagar.“We make it clear that the efforts the GNCTD (government of the national capital territory of Delhi) has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised, and they should not leave it entirely to the central government to act in this regard,” the court recorded in its order while directing the Delhi government to arrange tankers and other logistics for timely procurement of oxygen.“Citizens cannot be allowed to die like this… In case cryogenic tanks are less in supply, we are hopeful that the Centre may work this out in coordination with the GNCTD, who cannot leave it completely on the Centre,” it said.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said the city government did not have enough cryogenic tankers because Delhi is not an industrial state.“We got 309 metric tonnes yesterday as against the 480 MT allocated by the Centre. It’s a chaotic situation with disorderly function. Some incidents are bound to happen. We fear we will lose many people... human lives are being lost every day,” Mehra said.During the proceedings, four city hospitals — including Jaipur Golden, where the tragedy took place a few hours ago — complained that there was nobody to coordinate with them on oxygen and essential medicine supplies.“We have already lost 20 lives. We are literally gasping for breath and pleading. The cases are slipping out of our hand. We are trying to ask every authority but to no avail,” senior advocate Sachin Datta for Jaipur Golden said.The bench expressed concern over this as Mehra informed the court that the Delhi government had constituted a team of officers to coordinate with hospitals. As Mehra said the government was not getting information about the quantity of oxygen supplied from suppliers and re-fillers, the court directed the suppliers and re-fillers to give all such information to the city government.During the hearing, the court also directed the Centre and the Delhi government to submit their plans on preparedness after it cited a report by IIT Kanpur predicting that the peak of cases would be hit in mid-May.Mehta told the court that this was being considered and the country had to be prepared for the worst. He said steps had been taken to streamline the passage of oxygen and a strong message had been given to the suppliers in this regard by the top leadership.The court also suggested providing Delhi Police security to hospitals as patients were being discharged from there due to the lack of oxygen supply.“Let’s face the reality. If admissions aren’t being made, we know how people react. We don’t want a law-and-order situation. If riots break out at hospitals, what will happen? There are deaths taking place,” it said.The matter will now be heard on Monday, April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-hang-anyone-blocking-oxygen-supplies-warns-hc-101619292701316.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi may be extended by a week||The Delhi government will extend the lockdown in Delhi by at least one more week, senior government officials said on Saturday.“An order to extend the lockdown will be issued on Sunday by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The decision has been taken owing to the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases and the high positivity rate which has led to a large number of hospital admissions and an oxygen crisis. In such a situation, if the lockdown is lifted, there could be a serious law and order situation,” said a senior government official privy to the development.On April 19, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown that is supposed to be in force in Delhi till 5am on April 26 (Monday). This is now likely to be extended by another week, officials said.Residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and traders’ associations on Saturday demanded an extension of the restrictions, quoting the high number of daily cases being reported in the Capital.“We have been demanding that the lockdown should be imposed for at least 14 days. Delhi is reporting at least 25,000 fresh Covid-19 cases every day even as the number of tests is coming down. There is such a crisis for oxygen, in such a situation one cannot even imagine opening up economic activities,” said Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary United Residents of Delhi (URD) — a joint forum of RWAs.In a statement, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said more than 100 leading associations from across the city have decided to observe “voluntary self-lockdown” of Delhi markets from April 26 to May 2.“Trade leaders of Delhi have opined that opening of markets in the city would be a suicidal step. In case the markets stay open, and if any trader or any other person gets infected with Covid-19, they will not even be able to get the required medical facilities. Over and above it will be an extra load on the government which is already fighting for restoration of proper medical facilities with the help of the Central government. So, it has been unanimously decided that it will be appropriate to continue closure of shops for one more week from Monday,” said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of CAIT.Government records state that a high proportion of patients in Delhi currently are on supplemental oxygen and under ICU care which has led to a quantum increase in medical oxygen requirement in various Covid-related health establishments. On April 22, the DDMA even stated that in many cases, the existing contractual arrangements with suppliers have either been disturbed or the health facility’s oxygen requirement has exceeded the contractual quantity, thereby leading to “widespread disruption” in the supply chain leading to a precarious situation. “Furthermore, local supply side disruptions in the neighbouring states is leading to wide variation in day-to-day delivery of oxygen to Delhi,” it stated on April 22.While the restrictions are not entirely a curfew, movement will be prohibited unless someone is seeking or providing essential services, medical help, or has to go to a handful of exempted workplaces, such as government offices. People in some of these categories will require an e-pass from the government, while others will need to show an identity card. The rules are almost identical to those for the weekend and night curfews imposed in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-in-delhi-may-be-extended-by-a-week-101619292436290.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Send us whatever O2 you can spare: Kejriwal to CMs||With Delhi hospitals on Saturday turning away Covid-19 patients on account of the acute oxygen shortage being faced by them for the fifth consecutive day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote an urgent SOS to chief ministers of all states, requesting them to send to the national capital whatever surplus oxygen and tankers that they could spare.Requesting that his letter be treated as an SOS, the chief minister said, “Delhi does not produce any oxygen. Due to the severe rise in corona cases in the last few days, many Delhi hospitals have run out of oxygen. Daily supplies of oxygen to Delhi are woefully short of our requirements.”While Delhi’s daily oxygen allocation is 480MT, Kejriwal has said that the city currently requires about 700MT, given the surge in fresh Covid-19 cases -- the national capital has been reporting nearly or over 25,000 cases every day for the past one week at least.Kejriwal said he would be grateful if chief ministers could provide Delhi with any oxygen, along with tankers.“The Central government is also helping us a lot in this regard. However, the intensity of the spread is so severe that it is proving inadequate. Therefore, I would be grateful if you could provide us with any oxygen, along with tankers, from your state or any organisation in your state. I would be personally grateful for your support,” he wrote.Kejriwal’s letter came on a day when the Central and the Delhi government, in a first, sent empty tankers to Durgapur in West Bengal, via an Indian Air Force C17 carrier, to be filled with liquid medical oxygen and brought to Delhi by rail, even as several hospitals continued to send SOS messages to the city administration requesting urgent oxygen supply to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients.The Delhi chief minister also tweeted: “I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi if they have spare. Though Central govt. is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate (sic).”On April 22, Kejriwal, in a press conference, had appealed to all states to put up a united front against Covid-19.He urged all states to help each other and assured them that if Delhi had oxygen in excess, his government would supply it to other needy states.OXYGEN LOGISTICSA senior Delhi government official said the city administration is arranging supply tankers on war footing and is also preparing a proposal for the Central government, suggesting a reallocation of oxygen to Delhi from plants that are nearer to Delhi than from cities such as Durgapur (West Bengal), Kalinganagar and Rourkela (both in Odisha) which are about 1,300-1,600km from the national capital.“Airlifting empty tankers and bringing filled ones to Delhi via rail will take around three days. But sending and bringing back tankers only via rail will take up to four days as a goods/tanker train moves at a speed of 50 kmph. Delhi’s situation is such that we need the full quota of 480MT oxygen supply every day, which is not possible till the time these far-flung areas are dropped from Delhi’s list and nearer (oxygen) plants are allocated to us. Till then, Delhi will continue to have a shortfall of about 100MT, no matter how much effort the government puts in. Also, Delhi’s current need for medical oxygen is around 700MT,” the official said, asking not to be named.“Hence, we are trying to arrange tankers from these far-flung areas itself so that we can save a day or two at least (in transporting the tankers to these areas), until a new arrangement on allocation of oxygen is devised by the Central government,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/send-us-whatever-o2-you-can-spare-kejriwal-to-cms-101619289578138.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||ITO graveyard to stop Covid burials||Amid an unprecedented surge in Covid fatalities, Delhi’s biggest burial ground at ITO has run out of space to bury those dying of the infection and may not take in more bodies from Sunday, graveyard officials have said. Since April first week, when cases started rising, the burial ground has accommodated around 230 bodies.Though there are other burial grounds in Mangolpuri, Madanpur Khadar, Okhla and Shastri Park, which are also being used for burying Covid-19 victims, the Ahle-Islam Qabristan at ITO takes in the maximum load of Covid and non-Covid deaths.At the ITO cemetery, a nearly three-acre plot was set aside last year when the pandemic broke out for burying those dying of Covid. Since March, the graveyard has seen at least 1,200 Covid-related burials, officials said.Covid fatalities have increased rapidly in the last three weeks. In January, Delhi reported an average of 10 deaths daily, which reduced to 2 in February and 4 in March. The average daily deaths is 109 this month.Mohammad Shamim, supervisor of the burial ground, said, “We have completely run out of space... We will not be able to take Covid bodies from Sunday... So, we have written a letter to the Delhi Waqf Board and government officials to allot space in other areas for Covid burials.”Delhi Waqf Board is the custodian of most graveyards in Delhi.Arshad Ali Fehmi, member of the 10-member managing committee of the ITO graveyard, said, “We have been writing to multiple agencies asking for another land... At ITO, we have run out of space...”Graveyard officials have also requested authorities to send Covid bodies to other graveyards in Rohini, Dwarka, Nizamuddin and Seelampur. “Before Covid, we used to get around 8-10 bodies every day. But now, we are getting nearly 50 bodies on an average...,” said Fehmi.Delhi Waqf Board chairman Amanatullah Khan said they have not received any letter from the officials running the ITO burial ground. “We will make arrangements, if they approach us,” he said.Jai Prakash, mayor of North MCD, said they wrote to the Delhi Waqf Board earlier this month. “We asked them to identify land for burial but nothing has happened on that front so far. We have increased around 300 platforms for Covid cases in multiple cremation grounds...,” the mayor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/itograveyard-to-stop-covid-burials-101619289415563.html
25-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi runs low on oxygen, high on cases for fifth day||Delhi woke up on Saturday to the news of at least 20 Covid-19 patients dying due to alleged low oxygen pressure at a private hospital in the city as the government scrambled to move medical oxygen to city hospitals amid a raging surge in Covid-19 cases and four medical institutions moving the high court to demand replenishments.For the fifth day in a row, Delhi hospitals and nursing homes posted SOS messages on the social media and wrote to the government, warning their oxygen supplies were running precariously low.Jaipur Golden hospital in Rohini, where twenty patients under critical care died, raised alarm twice on Saturday to get oxygen supply. Two other private hospitals in the city completely exhausted their supply and requested their patients to either get an oxygen cylinder or look for beds in other hospitals.This was at a time when there were just about 12 ICU beds vacant across city hospitals, according to the Delhi government app.One of the biggest Delhi government-run hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur, had to reduce the number of beds from over 900 to 700 on Saturday due to the high oxygen requirement. According to senior officials, the hospital oxygen plant had been running over capacity due to the high load of Covid-19 patients.“When a hospital is planned, it is estimated that 20 to 30% of the beds will need oxygen supply. But, since we take in only very sick Covid19 patients, 100% of our beds need oxygen support. And, 50 to 60% of the beds need high flow oxygen. This was putting too much pressure on our plant. So, we decided to reduce the number of beds,” the official said.Admission to the emergency department of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences was also restricted for an hour so that the hospital could manage its gas pipeline to meet the increased requirement for oxygen.Saroj hospital in Rohini, which needs around 3,500 cubic metres of oxygen a day, received 2,250 cubic metres. On Saturday morning, the hospital informed the relatives of the patients to either look for oxygen or oxygen beds in other hospitals.The family of a 45-year-old patient admitted to the hospital arranged two oxygen cylinders and an oxygen concentrator to ensure that he received continuous care. “What is the hospital supposed to do if they are not getting oxygen? The government should arrange all this,” said the brother of the patient, who did not wish to be named.At 2.30pm, when the hospital’s oxygen tank ran dry, a team of 180 doctors and nurses were deputed to administer oxygen to patients with small cylinders, usually used while transporting patients.“We somehow managed to help all our patients. There was a team of 180 doctors and nurses who kept monitoring the oxygen of each patient. The stable ones – not on ventilator or high flow – were given oxygen intermittently to conserve oxygen. The oxygen tanker came to the hospital in the next 35 minutes. If it hadn’t, we wouldn’t have lasted long,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of the hospital.Batra hospital ran out of oxygen at 2.30pm on Saturday. The hospital had to refill 210 of its oxygen cylinders thrice to keep the patients going till 4.45pm when it got a refill of medical oxygen. The hospital raised alarm bells at 9am, with oxygen being supplied only to patients on ventilators or dependent on high flow. The rest were being given oxygen through cylinders. Even after receiving the supply, the hospital has decided to keep the flow to the building with non-ICU patients low.Sir Ganga Ram hospital said healthcare workers had to manually pump oxygen for half a day to at least 29 critical patients who were on ventilator due to reduced oxygen pressure.“The whole administration is busy in making frantic calls. Patients are suffering. To run ventilators, oxygen reservoir should have 3,000 cubic metres of pressure. We are getting supplies of 500 to 1500 cubic metres only . We have 516 Covid patients, 129 of them in ICU and 29 on invasive ventilation. These 29 patients are on manual ventilation since midnight,” said Dr DS Rana, chairman, Sir Ganga Ram hospital.Referring to the hearing in the high court, the office of Delhi health minister said as against 480 MT of oxygen allocated to Delhi, only 309 MT was received on Friday, which is the main cause behind the crisis. “Delhi government has also stated that the root cause of this issue was that in the revised allocation plan devised by Central government, for the first time ever, 102 MT of supply for Delhi has been allocated to plants far away in Odisha and West Bengal, more than 1,000 kms away. This was done without Centre making any corresponding arrangement for tankers to supply this oxygen or any consultation with Delhi government,” the health minister’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-runs-low-on-oxygen-high-on-cases-for-fifth-day-101619288982023.html
