26-04-2021||Delhi||Farmer unions to hand out food packets, essential items to hospitals in Delhi||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farm unions spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three agricultural laws, on Monday said they will distribute food and essential goods to hospitals in the national capital.According to a statement releases by the SKM, farmers sitting on several borders of Delhi will distribute food packets and other important goods to hospitals in the city.Already, farmers on the Ghazipur border are distributing food at the bus terminals, railways stations and hospitals in Delhi. The packing process will be started on Tuesday at the Singhu border as well, it stated.A group at Tikri border announced essential services will be provided and asked people to contact the SKM if any needy person in Delhi is not able to get food, the statement said.Volunteers are helping vehicles carrying medical oxygen or other services that are coming in the way of the farmers protest to reach the destination with full support, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmer-unions-to-hand-out-food-packets-essential-items-to-hospitals-in-delhi-101619458014331.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||In home isolation? Restaurants provide quarantine meals at doorstep||Restaurateurs, chefs and food aggregators are doing what they do best — cooking and feeding the hungry. And in the second wave of the pandemic, they’re continuing to do so by providing healthy home-style meals to those recovering from Covid-19.While some eateries have suspended services and takeaways but are delivering free Covid-19 meals, others have launched special daily tiffins and 14-day quarantine meal plans at nominal charges.“The only way I know to help the community and contribute to these tough times right now is by cooking. And it’s one thing I’m good at it,” says chef-owner Radhika Khandelwal at Fig & Maple, who made a conscious decision to suspend all delivery and takeaway services and provide free meals to all households battling Covid-19 in Greater Kailash 2. She says, “We are offering a set menu of nutritious, safely packed meals. The service is free, however, one can opt to pay as they like or contribute to our free meal programme,” who is fully booked for the week, catering to meals for 57 families along with her partner Ravish Bhavnani. She’s also willing to do grocery runs and lend books.As a gesture to give back to the society, another restaurateur Neha Gupta, founder, Beyond Designs Bistro is also helping those in distress. “The idea is that government has allowed us to have delivery and takeaways, and as our bistro kitchen is open and chefs are working, and we got several messages on our social media from families who had been affected, so we are just using the opportunity to lend a hand in these times, ” says Gupta who has prepared healthy, safe and home-style daily tiffins at nominal charges for 70-80 families so far. Whereas some have a fixed menu for the week to choose from, chef Sareen Madhiyan, executive chef, Punjab Grill is preparing and customising meals as per the need and taste of customers. He says, “We’ll be speaking to the customers and prepare a healthy menu accordingly. The idea behind is to provide meal for people who are suffering from Covid-19 and are staying alone by themselves.” The lunch and dinner options are offered at an affordable price and delivery is available all over Delhi-NCR.Moreover, there are a few who are catering to only those in NCR. Richa Kharbanda, owner, Quirky Perky, says, “We saw so many posts on social media from Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore where restaurateurs and chefs came forward to help those affected by Covid-19, so we decided to take the initiative in our area [Ghaziabad] at marginal costs. Kharbanda who sends out 38-40 thalis in a day is also taking requests from those abroad and want fresh produce delivered to kin here. Apart from restaurants and cafe, recently, food aggregator Zomato announced quick delivery for Covid-hit. Deepinder Goyal, founder tweeted, “Today, along with thousands of our restaurant partners, we just rolled out a “priority delivery for covid emergencies’’ feature on the Zomato app...Thousands of restaurants have pledged to prioritise these orders in their kitchen above all others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-home-isolation-restaurants-provide-quarantine-meals-at-doorstep-101619440099958.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||State govt responsible for tankers: Gambhir slams Kejriwal over oxygen crisis||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Gautam Gambhir on Monday sharpened his attack on Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal over the ongoing shortage of oxygen supply in the national capital. Gautam Gambhir said that the state government is responsible for the oxygen tankers while the Centre’s job is to make the gas available. The Delhi government earlier claimed the major reason for the oxygen crisis was the obstruction of tankers from the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Gambhir also alleged on Sunday that eight oxygen plants were supposed to be set up in Delhi but only one has been installed by the Aam Aadmi Party-led (AAP) government till now. “Whose responsibility is this? Is this the responsibility of the BJP? Despite getting funds from the PM Cares Fund for setting up oxygen plants, you (the Delhi government) should have installed eight of them. But you have managed to install only one. And now you’re saying there is a shortage of oxygen,” Gambhir was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read| Oxygen Express with 4 tankers heads to DelhiThe BJP leader and former cricketer announced on Sunday that his foundation—the Gautam Gambhir Foundation—will distribute oxygen cylinders and the antiviral drug Fabiflu to the Covid-19 disease patients across Delhi. They were only being distributed in his East Delhi constituency before that. According to PTI, those in need of cylinders and the anti-viral drug from Gambhir’s foundation will have to submit a doctor’s prescription and their Aadhaar number.As several hospitals in Delhi have been facing issues in getting oxygen supplies on time for the past one week due to which patients have died, Kejriwal said on Sunday that out of the total requirement of 700 tonnes, the Centre has only given 490 tonnes to the Capital. He also said he has also written to chief ministers of other states to help Delhi. After Kejriwal’s appeal, the railways ministry said on Sunday an Oxygen Express from Chhattisgarh carrying four cryogenics tankers carrying Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) will soon reach Delhi Cantonment railway station on Monday night.Also Read| Covid Crisis: 7 steps India took to ramp up oxygen supply amid shortageDelhi on Sunday saw a slight fall in its daily Covid-19 tally after 22,933 cases were reported in the last 24 hours and 350 more people died. The caseload has climbed to 1,027,715 including 14,248 deaths and there have been nearly 919,000 recoveries and 94,592 active cases. The six-day-long lockdown which was supposed to end on Monday has now been extended to another week till 5am on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/state-govt-responsible-for-tankers-gambhir-slams-kejriwal-over-oxygen-crisis-101619433244070.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||The Robin Hood Army : The army of plasma enablers||Even in the darkest moments, there’s always a glimmer of light. This glimmer shines brightly in the hearts of good samaritans who, amid the second wave of the pandemic, have been helping Delhiites survive and battle the deadly coronavirus infection. One such person is 30 years old Yugank Kapila, Head of Strategy and Operation, The Robin Hood Army, who spends his day dedicated to helping infected patients get better by receiving plasma donations. He does this with the help of his team of driven volunteers, who he terms as his Robins. “Basically since a couple of weeks the situation has become extremely bad and the demand for plasma has surged. To tackle this, the Robin Hood Army has started initiatives in various cities instructing it’s volunteers to go to people that they would know have been Covid positive in the recent past and convince them to donate plasma. From friends, families, house help to guards, the volunteers scan their entire inner circle to identify potential plasma donors and then convince them to donate plasma,” says Kapila.Project Plasma is a Fever Network initiative to celebrate the super power of Covid recovered plasma donors, who are stepping forward amid the second wave of Covid, to donate their plasma to save lives of other infected patients.Kapila, a SAP Consultant in an IT company by profession, understood early on that in order to tackle the chaotic plasma requests on the net, there has to be a process to it. “We have been getting surplus and overwhelming number of plasma requests and we have recruited teams to streamline the process. There’s one team that’s verifying the requests, then the other team collates the request in a particular format and shares it across groups. We then screen eligible plasma donors and connect them to the recipients. We started this initiative thinking even if we could help one person, that would be great,” he says.Motivating potential plasma donors by dispelling their fears, Kapila informs, “A lot of donors are afraid of getting reinfected. But we try to explain to the donors that we will help you take all the precautions when you donate plasma. Don’t be afraid. Think that through this you will be able to save someone’s life. The fear of donating is nothing compared to the value of someone’s life. We try to motivate plasma donors. If the plasma donors have a problem with transportation, we help them with that too.”With plans to utilise the rising curve of infection to save future lives, Kapila says, “The donors on ground aren’t able to match the number of requests from infected patients because the number of infected cases are too many. However, we have been maintaining the database of infected patients who can become potential plasma donors too.”No fear is as big as the joy one gets from saving someone’s life. Kapila concludes, “Please come forward and donate and save people’s life. The joy that you get once you donate is unimaginable. The situation is really bad on ground, and if you are eligible to donate plasma, please do come forward and do it, because you have the power of making a difference and saving a life.”You are a superhero if you have recovered from Covid 19 because you have the power to save a life! Call on 8800570768 to donate plasma and save lives.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-robin-hood-army-the-army-of-plasma-enablers-101619424730524.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Free Covid vaccine for all adults in Delhi from May 1: Kejriwal||Delhi will provide free Covid-19 vaccines for all adults in the National Capital from May 1, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday. He also urged vaccine manufacturers in the country to reduce their prices, even as he, once again, pushed the Centre to consider a “one nation, one rate” policy for Covid-19 vaccines. The chief minister’s office stated that the free vaccines will be available in all government-run Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi while those who opt for private centres will have to pay for the jabs. Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal said his government had, on the same day, approved procurement of 1.34 crore [13.4 million] vaccine doses with various manufacturers to boost a massive vaccination drive. The announcement came ahead of the third phase of India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive from May 1. In this phase, the Central government has allowed vaccination for all citizens above the age of 18 years. Registrations for vaccination are going to open on the CoWin app from Wednesday. Also Watch | Oxygen Express with 4 tankers to reach Delhi amid shortage in hospitals“As we are seeing, Covid-19 has wreaked havoc in the country. There is only one solution to this pandemic and that is vaccination. Delhi government has decided to give free Covid-19 vaccines to those who are 18 and above,” Kejriwal said. While he did not specifically say that the third phase of the vaccination drive will be rolled out on a massive scale from May 1 itself, the chief minister, however, did say that the government is drafting its vaccination plan on how registered adults can be inoculated on a rapid scale and in large numbers. “Today morning, we have given approval to buy 1.34 crore [13.4 million] vaccines for Delhi. We are trying to procure these doses as soon as possible so people are vaccinated quickly. It has been found that those who have taken the jabs either do not get Covid-19 or have very mild symptoms upon contracting the infection. Mostly those who get Covid-19 even after vaccination do not require hospitalisation, and even if some of them do get admitted, their condition does not become serious. If everyone gets vaccinated, Corona will be like an ordinary disease,” Kejriwal said. He gave the example of how the United Kingdom controlled its surge in Covid-19 cases by conducting mass vaccination. The Delhi chief minister, once again, flagged his demand for uniform rates for the Central and state governments in vaccine procurement. “One of the vaccine manufacturers is offering a rate of ₹400 a dose to state governments, while the other is quoting ₹600. But both the companies are offering their vaccine at ₹150 to the Central government. My demand is that the rates should be the same for state and central governments,” he said. Also Read | Covid-19: 8 states account for almost 70% of India’s active caseload, says govtKejriwal said the manufacturers are earning a lot of profit by selling their vaccines at ₹400 and ₹600 to states. “This is the time to show humanity. This is not the time to earn profits. Across the country, the Centre and states have capped the prices of various medicines and treatments. I appeal to the vaccine manufacturers to reduce their prices to ₹150. You (manufacturers) have a lifetime to earn profits. This is not the time to earn profits from people when the pandemic has hit the country so hard. I also appeal to the Central government to cap the prices of vaccines in the coming days,” he said. He also urged the Central government to consider a vaccination plan for children. “We have seen that a lot of children and adolescents are also getting infected by Covid-19, and some of them have died. So, the time has come to think of them as well. If the available vaccines are safe for them, the Centre should allow it for them. If they are not safe, then other vaccines should also be developed,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister said beds are being increased further in Delhi to treat Covid-19 patients. “I inspected the Covid care centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas campus in Chhattarpur which has been opened for patients today from 10am. It has started with 500 beds, which will be increased by another 500 in about two days, then 2,000 and finally, it will be ramped up to 5,000 beds. In addition, we are also arranging 200 ICU beds there. We are increasing Covid-19 beds across Delhi this way. I hope this will help people in this crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-covid-vaccine-for-all-adults-in-delhi-from-may-1kejriwal-101619424010441.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Ramp up Covid-19 testing infrastructure, HC tells Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Monday asked the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government to upgrade the infrastructure related to testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital. The HC asked the government to set up more testing centres and streamline the sample collection process as the caseload in Delhi has been rising exponentially for the last few days.The order was issued by a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh after lawyers representing the Centre said they were facing difficulty in getting tested as labs were delaying the sample collection process due to the pressure, according to news agency PTI. They also claimed that the number of daily tests had gone down to around 60,000 from 1 lakh.Also Read: Covid-19 lockdown extended in Delhi by a week till May 3Delhi on Sunday reported a single-day surge of 22,933 Covid-19 cases, slightly lower than what the city has been reporting for the past few days. The dip in numbers is being attributed to the reduced testing in the national capital. While the daily Covid-19 testing count was at 85,620 last Sunday, it was at 75,912 a week later.As the virus spreads, killing around 300 people every day for the last few days, the medical infrastructure of Delhi is in tatters. Hospitals have reported a shortage of oxygen and ICU beds for some days now, and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday wrote to his counterparts in other states and Union territories asking for help.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though the Central govt is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate,” he tweeted.In an attempt to curb the spread of the virus, Kejriwal extended the Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi by a week on Sunday. The lockdown will now continue till May 3. “Covid-19 is rapidly increasing in Delhi. In view of this, we had earlier imposed a six-day lockdown which was supposed to end tomorrow at 5am. Lockdown is the last weapon to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. At present, the situation is not improving. Many people suggested the lockdown should be extended. Now it (lockdown) has been extended for one more week till Monday (May 3) 5am,” the CM announced on Sunday.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ramp-up-covid-19-testing-infrastructure-hc-tells-delhi-govt-101619423237758.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi records minimum temperature of 16.7 degrees Celsius||The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 16.7 degrees Celsius, seven notches below the season's average, on Monday morning, the India Meteorological Department said.Relative humidity was recorded at 47 per cent and the maximum temperature is expected to settle around 38 degrees Celsius, it said.The weatherman predicted mainly clear sky during the day.The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the "poor" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 217 at 9.05 am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-minimum-temperature-of-16-7-degrees-celsius-101619412951699.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Mercury to rise marginally today; Delhi AQI dips to poor category||Delhi is likely to see a mainly clear sky on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38°C.The minimum temperature on Sunday was 18°C, five notches below normal and maximum temperature was 37.7°C -- one degree below normal.Also Read | ‘Vital medical equipment’ on its way to support India in Covid-19 fight, says UKMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality dropped to the poor category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 210. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 192, which is in the higher end of the moderate category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Sunday, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category. Surface winds are high and north northwesterly. AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate and in the moderate category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-to-rise-marginally-today-delhi-aqi-dips-to-poor-category-101619408349648.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Several Delhi borders continue to remain closed||Several borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three farm laws.Farmers have refused to call off the stir despite the current surge in Covid-19 cases and the lockdown imposed by the Delhi government till May 3. They have, however, vacated one carriageway of the Kundli highway at Singhu border.Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Sunday wrote to Delhi Police, asking that the barricades on Delhi side be removed for smooth passage of oxygen, tankers, ambulances, and other essential services.Also Read | Key farm leader says there’s no Covid-19 pandemic, refuses to call off stirFor those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Commuters can also take Chilla border.The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed.The traffic police has advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road.Commuters can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, opening between the two states.Meanwhile, one carriageway of NH-9, or the Meerut Expressway, from Delhi towards Uttar Pradesh was opened by the Delhi Police on Sunday for the movement of ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-several-delhi-borders-continue-to-remain-closed-101619407569842.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Centre trying to hide 'failure' in setting up PSA O2 plants in Delhi: AAP||Calling the Centre's claim of Delhi government delaying the site readiness for installing eight Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants in the national capital with the support of the PM CARES Fund as "outrightly false", Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal-led government on Sunday said only one plant has been made operational till date."It is extremely unfortunate that at a time when Delhi government is working closely with Centre to bridge the gap in Centre's allocated quota of oxygen for Delhi, Central government is giving outrightly false statements to hide its abject failure in setting up of PSA oxygen plants in Delhi," the Kejriwal government said in a statement.The Delhi government said it is well known that the Central government decided to set up 162 PSA plants all over India and issued tenders for the same in October 2020."The plants were to be set up by Union Health Ministry through PM Cares fund, and not a single rupee was given to state governments. All these plants were supposed to have been installed by December 2020 and handed over to state governments. However, the Central government gave the contract for 140 of these plants to a single vendor, who ran away. As a result, across India not even 10 of these 162 plants have been made operational till date," it added.Talking about Delhi, the Kejriwal government said that seven of the eight plants in the national capital were to be set up at Delhi government hospitals, and one at Central government hospital - Safdarjung."After multiple follow-ups with the Central government, plants for five hospitals were delivered in early March 2021. Typically these plants take three to four days for installation. However, once again, the vendor was non-responsive and after multiple follow-ups with the Centre, only one of the five plants has been made operational to date," it said.The Delhi government alleged that for the remaining two hospital locations, the plants have not even been received on site."We are shocked to learn that Central government is now making the excuse of site certificate not being available from the Delhi government as a reason for delay in plants. This has never been brought to Delhi government's notice and is an outright lie," it added.The Kejriwal government also said, "The fact that the PSA plant has not been made operational at even Centre's own Safdarjung hospital shows that Centre is caught in the web of its own lies."In order to augment the medical oxygen capacity of Delhi amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, eight PSA oxygen generation plants are being installed in the national capital with the support of the PM CARES Fund, official sources had told ANI.These plants will enhance the capacity of medical oxygen by 14.4 metric tonnes. Of the eight PSA plants to be installed in Delhi, one was already installed at Burari Hospital, Kaushik Enclave on March 17.Four plants, one each at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Lok Nayak Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Rohini and Deepa Chand Bandhu Hospital, Ashok Vihar are expected to be completed by April 30.The sources said it is the Delhi government that delayed the site readiness despite weekly reviews since November last year. For Ambedkar Nagar Hospital, Dakshinpuri, the site has been readied as late as April 19 by the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government.The site readiness certificate of Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra Hospital, Narela has not been submitted by the Delhi government yet, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-trying-to-hide-failure-in-setting-up-psa-o2-plants-in-delhi-aap-101619404219547.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown extended by a week on public opinion: CM||Delhi on Sunday extended by a week its lockdown, a “last resort” measure put in place to arrest the alarming spread of Covid-19 in the Capital, as the health care infrastructure remained overwhelmed by a massive surge in infections, with complaints of shortages of medical oxygen and hospital beds pouring in from across the city.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown last Monday, citing a relentless surge in Covid-19 infections that inundated hospitals. While he hoped that the lockdown would not have to be extended, the Delhi chief minister on Sunday indicated the battle to control the fourth and the worst wave of infections was far from over.“The situation is concerning. Last week, we imposed a six-day lockdown in the light of the Covid-19 situation which should have ended tomorrow (Monday). The lockdown was necessary. This is our last weapon against the rapidly spreading pandemic. The unfortunate thing is that Covid-19 is still spreading. Delhi recorded a positivity rate of around 36% this week. Even though the positivity rate has today dropped to slightly below 29%, we need more time to observe the trends,” Kejriwal said in a digital news briefing.“In the light of the current situation, we have decided to increase the lockdown by another week. The lockdown now applies till 5am next Monday (May 3),” he said.The chief minister added that the decision was in accordance with public sentiment. “The public opinion is for extension of lockdown,” Kejriwal said.On Sunday, Delhi added 22,933 new Covid-19 cases and recorded 350 deaths, taking the city’s total tally to 1,027,715 and toll to 14,248. The Capital’s positivity rate -- the proportion of samples testing positive for Covid-19 -- was 30.21%, exponentially higher than the 5% threshold that experts say is the sign of an outbreak under control.Essential activities, including the sale and supply of food items, groceries, medicines, etc., are allowed in the lockdown. There are no restrictions on the movement of health care workers, frontline workers, government staff, judicial officials, journalists and those seeking medical attention.With the extension of the lockdown, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) order – HT has seen a copy – included some new categories of exemption. They include: services provided by self-employed persons such as plumbers, electricians and those engaged in repairing of water purifiers; courier services; shops that sell educational books for students; and those selling electric fans. However, they will be allowed with a valid e-pass for movement.Kejriwal said: “Delhi is facing a severe shortage of oxygen. We need 700 MT of oxygen every day but the city’s current quota – after recent increase – is 490 MT. Secondly, even the amount allocated to us by the central government is not reaching us. Yesterday (Saturday) we received only 335 MT. The central government has been helping a lot in this regard. I have also written to chief ministers in other states to help us. The chaos, we hope, will be sorted in a few days.”The city has reported nearly 2,500 deaths due to Covid-19 in a 12-day period. Several hospitals in the national capital are grappling with severe shortage of medical oxygen. On Saturday, 20 people died at a Delhi hospital as the facility said its stock of oxygen was running dangerously low.Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia recently alleged that states such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were obstructing the movement of oxygen tankers, and sought the help of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in getting the issue resolved.The Delhi high court on Saturday asked the Centre about the preparedness to deal with the expected Covid-19 second wave peak in mid-May, terming the mounting cases as a “tsunami”, and also warned it will “hang” any person who tries to obstruct oxygen supplies to hospitals in the Capital.With the worsening of conditions at the hospitals, the Centre has announced exemption of basic customs duty on import of Covid-19 vaccines, medical-grade oxygen and related equipment to boost domestic availability and directed the customs department to clear all import consignments, including life-saving drugs and equipment used in Covid-19 treatment on priority.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his monthly radio address on Sunday that India had been shaken by a “storm”, and called on people to get vaccinated and not “get swayed by any rumour about the vaccines”.In his briefing, Kejriwal said: “At this point, management of oxygen is the key. We have issued an order directing all hospitals and oxygen vendors to provide the government real-time updates on oxygen stock, consumption, and details on departures from plants, arrival in Delhi, etc., every two hours. The situation is tough but I am sure we will overcome this health emergency.”The lockdown order issued on Sunday also specified that there will be no restrictions on the interstate and intrastate movement of all types or goods, cargoes and empty trucks. They don’t need any separate movement passes.Under the previous lockdown order issued on April 19, such an exemption was applicable on interstate and intrastate movement of only essential goods.Earlier in the day, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) too urged the Delhi government to extend the lockdown. “We @CAITIndia urge Delhi LG Shri Anil Baijal and Delhi CM Shri ArvindKejriwal to extend lockdown till 2 May though we know that traders will be the worst sufferers but nation first, Delhi first,” Praveen Khandelwal, secretary-general of CAIT, tweeted.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “Delhi should have imposed a series of restrictions by mid-March. Now the situation has gone out of hand. The government is not left with too many options now than extending the lockdown. They have to scale up bed capacity, increase ICUs and do something about the oxygen crisis. For all that to happen, the spread has to be controlled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-extended-by-a-week-on-public-opinion-cm-101619389572852.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt portal to track supply and stock of oxygen in real time||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the government has developed a portal in which all stakeholders involved in the supply chain of medical oxygen will have to feed real-time updates on consumption, stock, departure and arrival of tankers, etc every two hours, even as, his office said, he wrote to several industrialists in the country seeking their help in addressing the oxygen shortage amid a massive surge of Covid-19 in the city.“Availability of oxygen is a major problem now. So, it has become very important to manage what we have with us. We have opened a portal in which all stakeholders in the supply chain – from manufacturers, re-fillers, vendors to hospitals – will have to update their oxygen stock position in every two hours. The information that needs to be provided include real-time update on oxygen stock, consumption, and details on departures from plants, arrival in Delhi, etc,” Kejriwal said in a video press briefing on Sunday.The chief minister’s comments came a day after the Delhi High Court expressed concerns over four hospitals in the city – including Jaipur Golden hospital, where an incident of oxygen shortage on Friday night led to death of 20 critical Covid-19 patients earlier in the day – complaining that there was nobody to coordinate with them on supplies of oxygen and essential medicines.The Delhi government informed the court on Saturday that they had constituted a team of officers to coordinate with hospitals, but they were not getting information about the quantity of oxygen supplied from suppliers and re-fillers, following which the court directed the suppliers and re-fillers to give all such information to the city government.As he extended the ongoing lockdown in Delhi by a week, Kejriwal also said on Sunday, “Delhi is facing a severe shortage of oxygen. We need 700 MT of oxygen every day but the city’s current quota – after recent increase – is 490 MT. Secondly, even the amount allocated to us by the central government is not reaching us. Yesterday, (Saturday) we received only 335 MT. The central government has been helping a lot in this regard. I have also written to CMs in other states to help us.”Government records showed that Delhi recorded receiving 380 MT oxygen on April 22, 309 MT on April 23, 335 MT on April 24. The data for Sunday was yet to be summarised, said a senior official in the CM’s office.On several occasions last week, Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia alleged that states such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were obstructing oxygen tankers headed for Delhi and sought the help of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard.Later, on Sunday, Kejriwal’s office released a press statement that said, “Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday wrote to the most prominent industrialists of India, seeking their help in combating the ferocious second Covid-19 wave in the country. CM Kejriwal said that he would be grateful if the leading industrialists, involved in using or producing oxygen and can help with transporting oxygen in cryogenic tankers, come to Delhi’s assistance in its time of need. He wrote that due to an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, it was falling woefully short of our oxygen requirements and asked for this request to be treated as an SOS. He wrote that Delhi did not produce any oxygen, and currently faces an acute shortage of oxygen.“I understand that your organisation either uses, produces or can come in possession of oxygen. I would be grateful if you could provide us any stocks of oxygen, along with cryogenic tankers for its movement. We would also welcome any help in import of cryogenic oxygen tankers from any other country. Kindly treat this as an SOS. I would be personally grateful for your support,” read the statement citing Kejriwal’s appeal, even though the government did not specify who are the industrialists the chief minister has reached out to.HT has learnt that the CM has written to Ratan Tata, Kumar Mangalam Birla, Rahul Bajaj, Mukesh Ambani, and Anand Mahindra.The Delhi government on Sunday also issued an order appointing senior officers and allotting them hospitals in which they will personally keep track of oxygen consumption, arrivals, re-fills, and stocks on a real-time basis. These officers will now act as point of contact between the hospitals and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s control room for distress call regarding oxygen shortage. The officers are also directed to “acquaint themselves with the oxygen suppliers of their allotted hospitals and create a channel with them to follow up and facilitate oxygen deliveries and allotted quantities by directly interacting with their representatives,” said the order, a copy of which HT has seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-portal-to-track-supply-and-stock-of-oxygen-in-real-time-101619387179382.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Hospitals keep checking their supply meters||Hospitals in the national capital on Sunday continued to remain on edge, operating with precariously low oxygen supplies, waiting endlessly for refills and resetting the clock again to count the hours for which the replenishment will last.The Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital — the biggest Covid-19 facility in the city — was running on backup stock after running out of its main supply. The hospital received supply around 10am when it had just two hours of stock. The medical director of Jaipur Golden Hospital where at least 20 patients in critical care died of alleged low oxygen pressure on Sunday, had to refuse new admissions over erratic supplies.The Pentamed hospital in Model Town sent out an SOS on Twitter around 11.30am, saying it had oxygen stock that will last only for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, after an all-night scramble for an oxygen refill, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital received five metric tonnes of medical oxygen in the early hours of Sunday, hospital officials said.The Delhi high court on Saturday asked the Centre and the Delhi government to coordinate on the issue of making medical oxygen available to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, observing that citizens cannot be left to die. The court also made it clear that the efforts which Delhi government has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised and they should not leave it entirely to the central government.While some hospitals have managed to make short-term arrangements, there is no immediate end to the crisis in sight. Metro Hospital, in Gurgaon’s Palam Vihar, claiming to be in its “last leg of medical oxygen”, made an urgent appeal for help to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and other ministers on Sunday.The Delhi government on Sunday announced setting up a portal on which real time information relating to oxygen supply and stocks will be made available.“Availability of oxygen is a major problem now. So, it has become very important to manage what we have with us,” Kejriwal said in a video press briefing on Sunday.Referring to the oxygen supply issues at Lok Nayak hospital, medical director Dr Suresh Kumar said, “We had exhausted our oxygen stock and were using the backup which would have lasted for two hours only.” AAP MLA Raghav Chaddha, who is also the chairman of LNJP Hospital’s Rogi Kalyan Samiti, tweeted about the cryogenic tanker on its way to refill oxygen stock in the hospital.“Within the next 30 minutes, LNJP will receive liquid oxygen supply via cryogenic tanker. The tanker is on its way,” he tweeted around 9.55am on Sunday.Officials at the Jaipur Golden Hospital in Rohini said they continued to face oxygen supply problems and denied admission requests from more patients on Sunday, a day after it reported 20 deaths amid shortage of the life-saving gas.“We are having to deny SOS admission requests for COVID patients requiring hospital care,” the hospital tweeted. Around 6pm, hospital’s medical director DK Baluja said he had been assured by officials that an oxygen tanker would reach within half an hour.Gautam Singh, the head of Shri Ram Singh Hospital and Heart Institute, also posted a video message on social media, requesting an oxygen refill for his 100-bed healthcare facility in east Delhi.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-keep-checking-their-supply-meters-101619386991932.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Food, medicines, hospital beds: Residents step up in face of crisis||In the midst of an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases across the city, as social media platforms emerge as national helplines, several citizens and small-scale collectives have taken up the mantle of helping fellow residents in distress and responding to SOS messages sent by them seeking hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, plasma, and medicines.The second wave of the pandemic across the country — and the fourth in Delhi — has turned out to be the deadliest one yet.For the past 10 days, Jamia Nagar resident Shariq Hussain’s phone hasn’t stopped ringing. Desperate calls for help from affected families have kept the 29-year-old social activist on his toes. Hussain has been providing free oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 patients ever since cases in the city spiralled out of control.“On a daily basis, 500-700 people are getting oxygen refilled from my house. People from Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, and Bulandshahr have been visiting us for oxygen. I am trying to help as many people as we can,” said Hussain.The service is provided without any cost and the expenses for procuring oxygen are being borne by Hussain alone. “Even as we speak, hundreds of people are standing outside my house. Besides calls from individuals, I also get calls from Delhi Police who divert requests to us,” said Hussain, who lives in Jamia Nagar’s Batla House.The one-man army has hardly slept in the past week and continues to help people while observing fasts during the month of Ramzan. “We are trying to help as many as we can. At times, people die before they can reach us. Dealing with such instances is painful,” he said.Shubham Chawla, a 26-year-old, along with his mother Veenu Chawla and brother Anuj started Mom’s Kitchen — an initiative that provides free meals to Covid patients. The marketing professional’s extended family members are undergoing treatment for Covid and had a tough time securing beds in the city. Dismayed by the perilous situation in hospitals, he decided to divert his energy towards helping those who were in need.“My brother-in-law and grandmother are ill due to Covid. Their condition is quite serious and we were unable to find beds for a long time. We were helpless. After many efforts, we were able to find beds and got them admitted. During the hospital visit, I saw the situation on the ground and the true extent of the crisis hit me. I realised that I was not contributing in any way and felt the need to do something constructive. My mother loves cooking, so I thought we could start by delivering 15-20 free meals in nearby areas to help people,” said Chawla, a resident of Pitampura.Starting with five orders on the first day, the numbers increased to 50, then 100 and currently touch anywhere around 200-250. From people in dire stress to influential families, Chawla has been receiving calls from all across the city.“People often cry on the phone. Some of them even offer money but we refuse any monetary help,” said Chawla. The mother-son duo is also getting help from friends and relatives who assist in handling the growing reach of the food service. They leave food outside houses as a precautionary measure.Yogita Bhayana, a child rights activist, works round the clock with her team of seven to respond to SOS messages they receive on Twitter.“Our volunteers personally go to hospitals to check the availability of beds and wherever they get a lead they inform the patients. There are so many requests and we are not being able to help everyone. I have also started collecting empty oxygen cylinders from families who lost their loved ones and distributing them among those who want them. We are also helping them refill cylinders,” she said.Several citizen groups are also helping with ambulances.Himanshu Kalia and his cancer-survivor wife who runs Shaheed Bhagat Singh Help And Care in north Delhi’s Pratap Nagar have been providing free ambulance services in the National Capital Region.“For the past three or four days, we have been receiving nearly 200 phone calls a day. The frequency of calls we are receiving even at night has increased,” said Himanshu.Despite having 16 ambulances in their fleet, the Kalia couple is able to help move only 20-30 patients to hospitals every day.India Care, a collective that was initiated last year to help people in need amid the pandemic and helped migrant workers extensively, is now working on connecting plasma donors with those in need.Sabita Chandna, a Delhi-based life coach and volunteer at the collective, said they have been inundated with calls and SOS messages in the last week.“Our IT people pick requests we are tagged in on Twitter and put them on our groups of Telegram and WhatsApp. From there, our volunteers pick these requests and work on them. We have also started online registration for plasma donors requesting people to come forward and donate plasma. My inbox is full at present,” she said.One among the multiple networks that have taken shape to aggregate information from social media in the past two weeks is the Covid Citizen Action group — a volunteer initiative that was started by concerned citizens to crowdsource information on the availability of beds, medicines, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, plasma donors, among others. The network is using social media to verify crucial information and provide verified leads and credible information – pertaining to bed availability, oxygen, and medicines – to those in distress and follow up on critical cases.(With inputs from Shiv Sunny)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/food-medicines-hospital-beds-residents-step-up-in-face-of-crisis-101619386632357.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Illicit sale of vital Covid drugs hurts desperate buyers||On Saturday, 47-year-old Ganesh Upadhyay, a Janakpuri resident, drove around the city while simultaneously making enquiry calls, to get hold of six doses of remdesivir for his 42-year old wife who was admitted to a private hospital with Covid-19. While the antiviral drug was unavailable at most pharmacies, a neighbour connected him with a dealer in north Delhi, who offered to supply him with the medicine for ₹25,000 a vial. Chemist bodies in the city said the drug retails for between ₹1,000 and ₹2,700.“I tried contacting authorised remdesivir dealers using the list released by the Delhi government, but many numbers were unavailable, while others did not have any stock,” Upadhyay said.Even common pills like paracetamol were hard to come by, he said.With increasing instances of hoarding and black marketing of drugs being reported in the Capital at least five chemist associations in Delhi-NCR on Saturday issued notices to members asking them to stay vigilant against such practices.These notices reiterated that medication used to treat Covid-19 patients such as remdesivir, favipiravir, ivermectin, and others, are to be sold only after a buyer produces a prescription and the patient’s Aadhaar card, to avoid their black-marketing.“This is a very crucial time and there is a shortage of supply of medicines. In fact, many of our members have said they are also running out of regular flu medicines because people are panic-buying. However, in case of any Covid-19 specific medication, we have issued directions that the drugs are to be sold at the maximum retail prescription and only with valid prescription and ID cards,” said Kuldeep Singh Channa, secretary of the Southwest Delhi Chemist Association.Chana said that for instance, a 17-tablet strip of 400mg Fabiflu, which is the most prescribed brand of favipiravir, is to be sold at an MRP of ₹1,224. However, in the black market, this is now being sold for as much as ₹4,000 a strip.Residents across the city said there is a shortage of non-Covid medicines and equipment too.“My mother is a chronic diabetic, and I have been buying insulin syringes from a local shop for years. But supplies of these syringes have dried up for the past week. Since the owner of the shop knows us, he delivers it to our house as soon as he manages some, but the situation is really bad,” said Himanshu Agarwal, a resident of south Delhi’s Munirka.Suresh Yadav, the owner of a pharmacy in Dwarka Sector 6, said supplies have been hit because a large share of the stock of medicines is being diverted to hospitals and pharmacies near Covid care centres.“In the last three hours at least 50 people have come in asking for paracetamol tablets. I am already out of it. People are taking these medicines without a prescription, as a prevention against Covid-19, which is another reason they’re out of stock,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/illicit-sale-of-vital-covid-drugs-hurts-desperate-buyers-101619386236236.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Police told to shore up security outside distributors’ offices||The Delhi government has asked the police to ensure adequate security arrangements outside the offices of Remdesivir distributors, as demand for the antiviral drug soars, with several doctors prescribing the medicine to treat Covid-19 patients.In a letter to Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava on April 22, the state government’s special health secretary and drug controller Udit Prakash Rai wrote, “…steep increase in demand of the said formulations (remdesivir) has resulted in long queues… which are now becoming unmanageable and resulting in law-and-order problems… you are requested to provide adequate security arrangement and police staff at these sites.”The Delhi government on April 19 allowed a few distributors to sell Remdesivir injections to those with valid prescriptions.Distributors said they have been bombarded with calls from relatives of Covid-19 patients and are unable to meet the demand.Sandeep Nangia, organising secretary of the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD), said, “There are queues of nearly 200-300 people outside the offices of these few remdesivir distributors. But we don’t have enough medicine to meet the demand. This has resulted in a major problem at the distributors’ offices. We asked the drug control department for more security. It has become extremely difficult for these distributors because their contact information has now been made public, even though only a few are allowed retail sales of the medicine.”There are 30 Remdesivir distributors in Delhi.A senior official with the government’s drug control department said there have been complaints from distributors of people queuing outside their offices and misbehaving with them.“We allowed a few distributors to sell the medicines directly to people. But this has resulted in a law-and-order situation outside some offices. This is why we have requested the police to provide adequate security,” said a senior government official aware of the matter.“We are constantly monitoring the situation at all drug centres and hospitals. The local police are sensitised in these areas and appropriate arrangements will be made as required,” said the Delhi Police’s spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-told-to-shore-up-security-outside-distributors-offices-101619386018392.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Airlines fly in O2 concentrators amid shortages||As hospitals across the country struggle with oxygen shortages, a Boeing 737 operated by SpiceJet airlifted 800 oxygen concentrators from Hong Kong to Delhi on Saturday, said airline officials aware of the matter.This week, Air India is also scheduled to bring oxygen concentrators from San Francisco and Chicago to Delhi. Police have also made arrangements at the Delhi airport to ensure smooth and uninterrupted delivery of the Covid-related consignments to their destination.Avani Singh, CEO of SpiceHealth, said the aircraft landed at the Indira Gandhi International airport with the consignment of oxygen concentrators via Kolkata around 7pm on Saturday.A SpiceJet spokesperson said the airline is gearing up to bring as many as 10,000 oxygen concentrators this month from across the globe.An Air India official said that their aircraft is expected to bring in oxygen concentrators from the USA to Delhi this week.An official from the Delhi airport said the customs department has also been told to expedite customs clearance for these incoming consignments. “All Covid related parcels will be subject to speedy clearance on high priority by the custom, be it drugs, oxygen concentrators or any other medical equipment,” said the officer said requesting not to be named.Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson of Delhi Police, said whenever required, they are prepared to escort any vehicle carrying emergency drugs or equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/airlines-fly-in-o2-concentrators-amid-shortages-101619385571918.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Activist Umar Khalid tests Covid-19 positive in Tihar||Jailed activist Umar Khalid tested positive for Covid-19 and has been kept in isolation within the prison complex, according to officials of Delhi’s Tihar jail.Khalid, who was arrested and charged for his alleged involvement in the February 2020 Delhi riots, was lodged inside a cell in jail 2. He is among 240 prisoners who have tested positive for the infection since April 1.The prison complex has 227 active cases of infection among prisoners and 60 among jail officials.On April 20, gangster-turned-politician Mohammed Shahabuddin, another inmate of jail number 2, tested positive and was admitted to a hospital, where he is still being treated.The prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel confirmed that Khalid tested positive and said he is in isolation.Khalid’s friend Banojyotsna Lahiri, on Sunday said they received a call from the jail informing them about the test result.“We had approached court demanding an RT-PCR test for him. The court asked Tihar to submit a status report on Monday. They got his rapid antigen test result at GTB on Saturday, and was diagnosed positive, with mild symptoms. They gave him medicines and sent him back. So far, he is in good health.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/activist-umar-khalid-tests-covid-19-positive-in-tihar-101619384973697.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Cops work to keep oxygen flowing||The Delhi Police spent much of their last 24 hours — from Saturday evening to Sunday evening — escorting oxygen tanks to hospitals, helping individuals with transportations and medicines and even arresting three men allegedly involved in blackmarketing of essential drugs and oxygen.“The police prepared green corridors and made other arrangements for the safe and quick movement of oxygen tankers to several hospitals such as Dharamshila Hospital in Vasundhara Enclave, Safdarjung Hospital, Batra Hospital and St Stephen’s Hospital,” said Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson of Delhi Police.Oxygen cylinders were also arranged for ESI Hospital in Vivek Vihar, Jeevan Hospital in South-East Delhi and Batra Hospital until a tanker arrived there.On Sunday, the police were busy helping individuals in different capacities.In East Delhi’s Mayur Vihar, for instance, the police helped two elderly people move to a hospital after receiving a request from a Singapore-based man on Twitter. In Lajpat Nagar, they cremated a body found under a tree.The police also cracked down on a group of people allegedly involved in black marketing of Remdesivir vials, oximeters and small oxygen cylinders.According to deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj, Alok Tyagi, Somel Gupta and Abhishek were arrested with three vials of Remdesivir, an antiviral drug, which were allegedly being sold for ₹40,000 each, 100 oxymeters and 48 small cylinders. Bhardwaj said that the trio,arrested from east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar on Sunday, got fake press ID cards to roam around the city.The national capital has been reeling under the devastating impact of a fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, with the city on Sunday adding 22,933 fresh cases of the infection, while 350 more people succumbed to the virus, even as the test positivity rate fell marginally to 30.2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-work-to-keep-oxygen-flowing-101619384765460.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||11k workers to receive financial aid: Delhi govt||The Delhi government on Sunday said it has disbursed financial assistance of ₹5,000 to 200,000 construction workers in the city and 11,000 more such workers will receive the amount in the coming days.In a press statement, the government said, “A total of 210,684 construction workers will receive the cash-transfer as a form of aid, of which 200,000 have already received aid of ₹100 crore and 11,000 workers will be granted the disbursals in the coming days. To help migrant workers, daily wage and construction workers, the government has set up 150 food distribution centres in schools and construction sites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/11k-workers-to-receive-financial-aid-delhi-govt-101619384601552.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Woman killed by landlord’s son in outer delhi for refusing his sexual advances||25-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her landlord’s son at her rented accommodation in outer Delhi early on Saturday for refusing to give in to his sexual demands, police said.The woman, her husband and their seven-month-old adopted daughter had moved into the rented room on the third floor of the building in outer Delhi only four months ago. Her husband works at a printing unit.According to a senior police officer, the woman’s husband was staying at his workplace due to restrictions on movement. “The 29-year-old son of the building owner noticed the absence of the woman’s husband,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parminder Singh. The suspect is a graduate and works in a private firm.The DCP said the suspect called his friends over on Friday night and had dinner on the terrace. “His friends left after dinner around midnight. He was the last to leave the terrace,” said Siingh adding the suspect was drunk at the time of the crime.While walking down to his house on the first floor, the suspect noticed the door of the woman’s room open and entered. The woman was sleeping beside her daughter. “He sought to establish physical relations with the woman who threatened to report him to police. The suspect then picked up a kitchen knife and slit her throat,” the DCP said, adding that he then returned to his own room.“Around 11.30am on Saturday, the woman’s young nieces found the door ajar. They walked in to find the woman dead and the baby crying,” the officer said.While investigating the murder, police realised the room had only one entrance and the access to the floor was controlled by the house owner, the DCP said.“When we questioned the landlord’s son, he initially tried to pass the blame on his friends who came for dinner. Eventually he confessed to killing the woman,” said the other officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-killed-by-landlord-s-son-in-outer-delhi-for-refusing-his-sexual-advances-101619383566676.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Oxygen Express with 4 tankers heads to Delhi||The first ‘Oxygen Express’ train for Delhi, with four cryogenic tankers carrying liquid medical oxygen (LMO), is scheduled to depart from Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) steel plant in Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh on Sunday night, said officials from the railway ministry aware of the development.“One Oxygen Express train carrying four tankers (around 70 metric tonnes of LMO) will depart tonight for Delhi Cantonment from JSPL, Raigarh,” said a spokesperson from the railway ministry.Suneet Sharma, chairman of the railway board, said at a press conference on Sunday that so far, the Indian Railways has transported 10 tankers carrying around 150 metric tonne of oxygen.“Indian Railways is going to deliver more than 140 MT liquid oxygen in next 24 hrs. Currently, nine tankers are already on the run, out of which five will reach Lucknow by tonight (Sunday) and remaining four containers of LMO, which have already started from Bokaro, are expected to reach Lucknow tomorrow (Monday),” read a statement from the railway ministry.The ministry has also asked the Delhi government to obtain more cryogenic tankers. The Railways is also ready to transport oxygen containers on container wagons from Durgapur to Delhi, said officials from the ministry.The move comes at a time when hospitals in Delhi are struggling with an acute shortage of oxygen for the sixth consecutive day, with some even turning away Covid-19 patients. On Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote an urgent SOS to heads of other states, requesting them to send whatever surplus oxygen and tankers they can spare for the national capital.While Delhi’s daily oxygen allocation is 480MT, Kejriwal has said the city currently requires about 700MT of oxygen. The national capital has been reporting nearly 25,000 or more Covid-19 cases every day for the past one week.According to a statement by his office, Kejriwal on Sunday wrote to some prominent industrialists, who were not named in the statement, seeking their help in combating the ferocious second Covid-19 wave in the country. CM Kejriwal said that he would be grateful if the leading industrialists, involved in using or producing oxygen and can help with transporting oxygen in cryogenic tankers, come to Delhi’s assistance in its time of need.According to the statement, CM Kejriwal wrote that while the central government is helping Delhi in this regard, the intensity of the spread is so severe that the quantity is proving inadequate.As many as 350 people died of Covid-19 on Sunday, according to the Delhi government’s bulletin. The city also reported 22,933 fresh cases of the infection.Plagued by the acute shortage of oxygen due to a significant rise in Covid-19 cases, more states are seeking the railways’ assistance for delivering LMO via the ‘Oxygen Express’ trains. The national carrier has planned more Oxygen Express trains to Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Delhi and MP in the coming weeks.The first Oxygen Express train departed from Mumbai to Vizag on April 19. Four such trains have also made round trips from Lucknow to Bokaro from April 22 to 24, said railway officials, adding that so far, around 10 oxygen tankers (each having a capacity of 15-16MT) filled with LMO have been transported in these trains.Last week, the Indian railways decided to deploy first-of-a-kind ‘Oxygen Express’ trains to transport LMO and oxygen cylinders in bulk along key corridors, amid high demand from states grappling with the second wave of Covid-19.With several states reporting a shortage of oxygen, the government last week directed them to ensure uninterrupted movement of vehicles carrying medical oxygen along their borders and said they must not impose any curbs on production and supply of essential commodities of public health.A meeting was held between Railway Board officials and state transport commissioners and representatives of the industry on April 17 on issues related to the transportation of liquid medical oxygen.Last week, the railway ministry also approved the transportation of liquid medical oxygen in cryogenic tankers under its ‘roll on-roll off’ model as a special case following a request from the Maharashtra government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-express-with-4-tankers-heads-to-delhi-101619382787280.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Traders want curbs on market timings||Representatives of the Capital’s wholesale markets after a meeting on Sunday said they will write to the Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and CM chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, demanding a series of steps to control the spread of Covid-19 in markets, including limiting market timings, weekend shutdowns of these wholesale outlets, and vaccinations for workers.Representatives from at least eight wholesale markets across the city, including Azadpur mandi, Ghazipur mandi, Flower Mandi, Chaudhart Chetram mandi, Murga Machhi mandi, Okhla mandi, Narela mandi and Najafgarh mandi discussed these measures, they said, which will ensure these markets do not turn into Covid-19 hot spots.Stakeholders said the letter is likely to be sent to the L-G and CM on Monday.“The number of cases is growing fast, so the government needs to ensure that preventive measures are taken for crowd control at wholesale markets. During the meeting, representatives from all the mandis put forth their opinions, and we are going to send these to L-G Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal,” said Anil Malhotra, member of the Azadpur Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC).Malhotra said that since the bulk of vegetables are sold between 11pm and 11am, and fruits between 5am and 11am, the wholesale should be open only during these hours, and can stay shut for the rest of the day.During the lockdown last year, authorities put in place a slew of measures like drone surveillance, passes for entry into markets, designated spots for loading and unloading of stocks, to keep crowds under control.Meanwhile, retail vegetable and fruit sellers in the city said they were facing problems transporting their stock from the wholesale markets to their shops amid the lockdown.While they said the demand for fruits and vegetables has increased, barricades and checks were delaying deliveries.“People remember the problems during the lockdown last year and started panic-buying early on. Another problem is that because so many people are falling ill, we do not have enough workers to meet the demand for home deliveries. Most of the sale is happening through home deliveries these days and being a small-scale supermarket, we do not have the resources for it,” said Madhukar Tripathi, owner of a supermarket in southwest Delhi’s Palam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traders-want-curbs-on-market-timings-101619382535038.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Hospitals should not raise alarm on O2 shortage unnecessarily: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday urged hospitals in Delhi not to raise the alarm unnecessarily over oxygen shortage and appealed to the media to verify claims before reporting.Such acts hamper efforts to provide help to hospitals that really need assistance, said Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 management in Delhi.“This morning, I got an SOS call from a hospital that had 18 kilo litres of oxygen in stock,” he tweeted.The hospital requires 4.8 kilo litres of oxygen a day and has a storage capacity of 21 kilo litres, meaning it still has three days of supply left, said the minister.Citing another such incident, Sisodia said a small hospital raised the alarm over oxygen shortage, but it was later found that it had been given 30 cylinders, of which 20 were still to be used.“I request hospitals not to raise alarm unnecessarily. Such acts hamper efforts to provide assistance to hospitals that really need help. The media should cross-check before reporting such cases,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-should-not-raise-alarm-on-o2-shortage-unnecessarily-sisodia-101619382255994.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Pandemic postcard||The evening breeze is cool. The blue sky is darkening. A pale moon has already surfaced. The air is filled with the incessant sound of ambulance sirens. The roads on which those ambulances are running cannot be seen amid the thick tree cover, but these desperate vehicles must be heading to nearby Safdarjung Hospital, or to All India Institute of Medical Sciences.If you count out the sound of sirens, then this corner of south Delhi’s Hauz Khas Village is picture postcard perfect. Stony remains of the 14th century are speckled across an expanse of green. The Hauz Khas lake is glimmering in the distance. The village’s lanes are completely empty due to the pandemic-era curfew. The cafes are closed. The aggressive nightclub bouncers and touts who would crowd the Main Street in less deadly times have disappeared. A few stray dogs are snoozing here and there, immersed in peace. The monument’s rusting metal gate is also locked, with nobody inside but for a lone gardener watering the grass with a long green hose, and a handful of uniformed security guards.The only antidote to the continuous wail of ambulance sirens is the continuous chirping of birds — mostly pigeons. They are settled on one of the monument’s domes, as if it were a community club, standing as close to each other as we humans would in cinema halls before the pandemic. Suddenly, for no apparent reason, the birds all at once scatter away. Some go towards the balconies of the monument-facing village houses, many of which have been turned into AirBnB rooms. Some go towards an amaltas tree that will only bloom next month, with its golden yellow flowers. And some head to a rooftop cafe that was blaring pop music late into the night as recently as last month—which is like another lifetime.Few moments pass. And suddenly a great flock of pigeons fly back from those many directions and settle upon the same dome. Perhaps they are the same birds. This intermittent communal merry-go-round continues for a long time. Finally, the night sets in. The moon is the only visible thing in the black sky. The birds have disappeared. The village is deathly quiet. But the air is still pierced by an ambulance siren now and then, not letting the village residents forget about the city’s unfolding tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-pandemic-postcard-101619381794381.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||I am a true Punjabi through and through: chef Dipna Anand||Cooking is all about experimenting with flavours and pairing together ingredients, chef Dipna Anand believes. She says, “It is about making everything work together. It’s also about enjoying the experience of creating new innovative dishes and I have always found that to be quite addictive.” She grew up in London among a family of chefs and has been cooking passionately since the age of 18. The chef visited India recently and shares her secret of cooking. “I am one of these chefs who does like a little bit of fusion, however if you ‘fusionise’ something so much, it confuses the dish and over-complicates the flavours, thus when I am cooking a dish and want to give it an Indian twist, I believe in doing so by adding the maximum amount of flavour yet without muddling up tastes too much. This theory for me has always worked. A classic example is my mandarin cheesecake which is lightly spiced with spices such as green cardamom and fennel and the flavours work wonders together,” says Anand. The chef won National award from The British Nutrition foundation for The Best Food Technology project in the country. She says, “The project focussed on low fat Indian cooking aimed at people who had heart disease or were trying to control their diet. I wanted to prove that Indian food could be tasty without causing strain on the waistline and problems to your health and by doing this project I did just that. My award winning dish in the project was soya and aalu stuffed giant flat masala mushrooms. A baked dish stuffed with a masala flavoured soya and potato mix, packed full of flavoursome spices giving the dish taste and added health benefits that our Indian spices give. In the project I experiment curry dishes also, for example managed to make a low calorie chicken tikka masala, a few Indian vegetarian dishes and also a few dessert dishes. I chose to carry out this project as my dad had suffered a heart attack during that time and this was due to his diet.” The chef’s father was born in Kenya and her grandparents were from Gujranwala, now in Pakistan. “My grandfather, Bishen Dass Anand was known as the king of all chefs. A true Punjabi and a master at his game. My grandfather passed his Punjabi roots and recipe on to my father and in turn my father has passed those down to me. It’s fair to say cooking is therefore in my blood and that I am a true Punjabi through and through. My specialist area as a chef is Punjabi food and our restaurant in Southall in UK which was established in 1975 is known to serve some of the best Punjabi food in the country. We were recently awarded the ITV Food and Drink Award for Best Family run restaurant in the UK.” Celebs love to visit Anand’s restaurant. “We have been fortunate to have many celebrity guests and public figures dine at our restaurant including Bollywood and Hollywood celebs, Royalty, Political Figures and Sporting heroes. His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales has visited us three times. Gordon Ramsay has visited twice for two of his famous television shows and another frequent visitor is Sir Cliff Richard. Kevin Kostner has also dined at the restaurant, Ted Heath, Princess Anne and Chris Tarrant to name but a few. The late Jagjit Singh would not leave London without dining at The Brilliant and Lata Ji has also dined with us on several occasions.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/i-am-a-true-punjabi-through-and-through-chef-dipna-anand-101618911580234.html
26-04-2021||Delhi||Ramzan: A period of bonding over food||The month of Ramzan beautifully blends the spirit of fast, feast and faith. With prayers, celebrations and delicious food at its core, the holy period of joy and compassion will be more of an intimate affair this year, owing to the Covid-19 safety protocols. Staying indoors and collectively praying for the world to heal and win over this pandemic, it is also the perfect time to bond with your friends and family over food. “One is supposed to spend the month in devotion, worship and charity. I also run a daily Dastarkhan E Ramzan, where I post food recipes related to the festival along with a post on some monument related to it. Since we can’t talk about devotion as it is supposed to be personal, food becomes a topic of discussion. That is why there has always been an emphasis on food, and that’s the connection between food and Ramzan,” says historian and author, Rana Safvi.And what makes the Ramzan feasts more special is the fasting period that’s the focus of the month. Fasting during Ramzan involves not eating food or drinking water between sunrise and sunset for the entire month. “Food is an integral part of Ramzan’s traditions. Family and friends gather to share and enjoy the two meals that are served – Iftar is held at sunset when people break their fast, and Suhoor/Sehri is consumed early in the morning before the day starts,” says Indian masterchef, Sadab Qureshi, from The Westin Gurgaon. During Sehri, people usually have things that would not make them feel thirsty. Food like milk, dates, sooth pheni, eggs, fruit and vegetable salads are preferred for Sehri, while pakodas, sharbat, kabab, fritters, chole are a staple on every iftar table. The dinner consumed after is usually pretty heavy.While the core rituals and significance of Ramzan have remained unchanged, the spread of Islam over the globe gave texture and diversity to the global Ramzan experience. “Iftar, until a few years back, was more about serving the poor and consisted of three-four items to break the fast, which included dates, fruits and a simple meal. Today, it has become a grand affair,” says Qureshi. Moreover, every country and region has a particular delicacy that’s especially enjoyed during this month. Food flavours that erupt In India are stews, paaya, kormas, biryani, nihari, sheermal, keema, kaliya, zarda, haleem, shawarma, sheer kurma, seviyan, malpuas and more. “Dates are common as they contain nutritional value. Few years ago when I was in Ladakh during the month of Ramzan, I asked owner of a shop about how he opens his fast and he replied it’s usually by eating momos. For us, in UP the usual is samosa and pakodi. In South, I’m sure people would be eating idli and dosa. It is about comfort food,” says Safvi.Several food walks were conducted earlier to introduce people to Ramzan special delicacies . “Everything has changed due to the pandemic. People who love going for food walks are waiting for better days to come. I used to lead some Ramzan food walks in Old Delhi but this year, I am strictly at home and doing some restricted Iftaar dawats through our home cooked meals by our delivery kitchen,” says chef Osama Jalali, founder of The Mughal Plate by Jalalis. This year, they have Ramzan special haleeem in menu. Over the years, food patterns have also changed. “Nowadays people are more health conscious. Food items such as milk, cheese, yoghurt, eggs are being consumed, as they raise the blood sugar level slowly and also keeps an individual’s stomach full to sail through the day. As drinking water is not permitted during the day, one adds fruits with high water content in the respective meal. Fruits such as watermelon, pineapple, mangoes, plums along with dry fruits and rich salads are widely consumed,” says chef Brajesh Ghansiyal from Pracheen, India before 1947. The restaurant has curated a special menu in Ramzan that includes nihari mutton, gosht biryani, chicken korma and mutton seekh, informs Vidit Rawat of the restaurant. Seekh Kabab recipe Mutton leg 500gmginger paste 70gmgarlic peeled 70gmcoriander green chopped 15gm green chilly chopped 50gm mutton fat (minced to consistency of Keema) 100gm amul cheese grated 100gm garam masala 10gmFried onion paste 30gmdeggi mirch 40gmsalt 50gmbutter for basting 10gmBesan 3gmMethodIn a bowl mix together the mutton mince by your hands and add ginger-garlic paste to it along with onion paste, red chilli powder, coriander powder, cumin powder, powdered pepper, Butter, Mutton fat, Cheese grated and mashed salt, green chilly, fresh green coriander, Mix nicely. Add a little bit of besan to control the extra moisture. Mix well and keep it in the fridge for a minimum of 1 hour. Wrap the mince on a skewer and cook on a coal sigdi. Baste the kebab with melted butter. Once cooked, take out and add chaat masala, chopped dhaniya and serve with laccha onion and lemon wedgeBy chef Brajesh Ghansiyal Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ramzan-a-period-of-bonding-over-food-101618910980662.html
