27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police issues more than 1,500 challans for not wearing face masks||Over 1,500 people were booked on Tuesday in Delhi for allegedly not wearing face masks, police said.According to data shared by police, a total of 1,524 challans were issued on Tuesday for mask violation in the national capital, while 117 people were fined for not adhering to the social distancing norms.Four challans were issued for spitting, police said, adding that a total of 1,645 challans were issued on Tuesday.A total of 6,34,299 challans have been issued in the national capital since June 15 last year for violations of anti-Covid guidelines by people, they said.The Delhi Police also distributed 856 face masks to needy people on Tuesday. Police have distributed a total of 4,39,291 masks since June 15, they added.On Monday, the national capital recorded over 20,000 fresh Covid-19 cases. The city government has imposed a lockdown across Delhi in view of the increasing number of cases.The Delhi Police showing its humanitarian face has helped hospitals and individuals who are isolated inside their houses to get the supply of medical oxygen.The force has also performed the funeral of some people who have died due to coronavirus with no one ready to help their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-issues-more-than-1-500-challans-for-not-wearing-face-masks-101619543460445.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 24,149 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, over 300 deaths for 6th day in a row||Delhi recorded 24,149 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Tuesday in the last 24 hours, registering a spike of 3,948 cases compared to the 20,201 cases reported on Monday. The death toll also rose to 15,009, with 381 deaths, highest since the onset of the pandemic, according to Covid-19 bulletin released by the Delhi government. This is also the 6th day in a row that the Capital has reported over 300 deaths due to Covid-19.The Delhi government tested 73,811 samples in the last 24 hours - 16,121 more than the tests conducted between April 25 and April 26 - which means the spike in cases can be attributed to more tests being conducted in the last 24 hours.The Capital’s positivity rate fell slightly to 32.72%. Delhi had reported 36.24% positivity rate last Thursday, highest since the pandemic began. Delhi's positivity rate stood at 35.02% on Monday. The tally of active cases in the city stood at 98,264.Delhi continues to face severe crisis of medical oxygen, essential medicines like Remdesivir and other medical equipment required to fight Covid-19. The Delhi high court on Tuesday criticised the Delhi government for failing to check black marketing and hoarding of medical oxygen. It ordered the Delhi government to deploy an officer at an oxygen refilling plant and also issued contempt notices to five refillers. The Delhi high court told the Delhi government that its system had 'failed' as it failed to check hoarding of oxygen and warned that if it fails to address this issue it will ask central government officers to take over the situation.The Delhi government will import 21 oxygen plants from France to tide over the crisis faced by hospitals in the Capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday. Several Delhi hospitals like the Jaipur Golden Hospital, Batra Hospital and the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital which had faced severe oxygen shortage said they were in a better situation on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-24-149-cases-381-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101619542553727.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||43-year-old under-trial prisoner of Tihar Jail dies of Covid-19||A 43-year-old under-trial prisoner of Tihar Jail died on Tuesday, a day after he tested positive for Covid-19, officials said.Mohammad Anish, lodged in prison since December 2019 in a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday and was admitted to a jail hospital with mild symptoms, they said."On Tuesday morning, his condition deteriorated and he was referred to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in emergency. Later, he died in the hospital in the afternoon," Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said.This is the third death of coronavirus-infected prison inmates in Delhi since the pandemic began last year. Two Covid-19-positive inmates of Mandoli Jail died on June 15 and July 4 last year.According to data shared by the prisons department, 267 inmates have tested positive for the coronavirus since March 2021. Of them, 22 have recovered and there are 245 active cases.Ninety-two staff members have tested positive for the virus since March 2021.One has recovered and 91 active cases are still there, according to the data.The first coronavirus infection among inmates was reported in Rohini Jail on May 13, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/43yearold-under-trial-prisoner-of-tihar-jail-dies-of-covid19-101619542926875.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC to aid of woman unable to find bed; says cannot turn her away||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday came to the aid of a woman, showing symptoms of Covid-19 and finding it difficult to get an ICU bed in government hospitals here by directing the AAP government to arrange a bed for her.Justice Prathiba M Singh said since the woman has approached the high court for a bed, "I cannot turn her away" and directed the Delhi government, Centre and All India Institute for Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to find out where they can provide a bed for her.Delhi government additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan, thereafter, told the court that a bed with oxygen facilities was available at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital.However, no ICU beds were available in any Delhi government hospital, he said.The court directed that the woman be admitted at LNJP hospital and listed the matter on Wednesday, April 28, for reporting compliance of its order.Initially Delhi government said that all the beds in its hospitals were full and that beds were available in some central government-run hospitals like AIIMS.In view of the submission, Justice Singh asked someone to be present on behalf of AIIMS and the Centre.When the counsels for AIIMS and the Centre appeared, the court asked them to also find out if a bed can be provided to the woman.The woman had sought a bed in a government hospital or in a private hospital at the government's expense.She moved the high court as she could not get a bed after approaching several government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-to-aid-of-woman-unable-to-find-bed-says-cannot-turn-her-away-101619542831692.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||‘Thank you wholeheartedly,' tweets Kejriwal as Delhi gets oxygen from Jharkhand||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter on Tuesday and thanked his Jharkhand counterpart chief minister Hemant Soren for helping the national capital tide over the Covid-19 crisis by sending medical oxygen."Thank you wholeheartedly for this help, Hemant ji, we will definitely defeat the disaster like Corona by helping one another," Kejriwal tweeted.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said on Tuesday the state government supplied 58 tonnes of medical oxygen to Delhi, which is in dire need of the life-saving gas amid shortages reported by several hospitals for more than a week. Earlier, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had written to chief ministers of several other states for the supply of liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) into the national capital for treating critical patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).CM Soren, who is also the president of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), tweeted, “On the request of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, 58 tonnes of medical oxygen was sent to Delhi from the Linde India plant in Jharkhand today. This is a critical time period where one should help each other and with this participation, we will be able to overcome Covid-19”.As Delhi continues to face difficulties in obtaining oxygen supplies, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief announced that his government will now import 18 cryogenic tankers from Thailand and 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France.इस मदद के लिए आपका तहे दिल से शुक्रिया हेमंत जी, इसी तरह एक दूसरे का साथ देते हुए हम कोरोना जैसी आपदा को ज़रूर मात देंगे। https://t.co/aoKrlLQPDkAddressing a press briefing, Kejriwal said the government will set up 44 oxygen plants at many hospitals including the 21 imported from France and the Centre will install eight plants by the end of this month.The national capital on Tuesday also received its first Oxygen Express from Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh which was carrying over 70 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen.Also Read| HC asks Delhi govt to take over oxygen refilling unit with immediate effect, serves contempt notice against 5 refillersHowever, Kejriwal’s government is currently facing criticism over its handling of the oxygen crisis. The Delhi High Court told the government that the system has failed as black marketing of oxygen is taking place along with hoarding and ordered it to take action against such practices, according to a report by Hindustan Times on April 27. The court also said the government should take strict measures to ensure that medical oxygen should not cost thousands and lakhs of rupees due to hoarding or black marketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/thank-you-wholeheartedly-tweets-kejriwal-as-delhi-gets-oxygen-from-jharkhand-101619535421431.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Apollo hospital’s emergency vandalised after Covid patient dies for want of bed||The family members of a deceased coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient vandalised the emergency department and injured several staff members at the Indraprastha Apollo hospital in Delhi on Tuesday morning, officials said.“She was given oxygen and first aid in the emergency department. The doctors had requested the family to take her to another hospital as there were no ICU beds available at Apollo and the patient was crashing,” hospital personnel said.The 60-year-old woman was brought to the hospital emergency last night and was in the need of an intensive care unit (ICU) bed. However, there were no ICU beds available.The patient died at around 8 am after which the family and some local goons started vandalising the emergency department. By 9 am, more people had joined in; some carried blades that they used to injure some staff members, others were pushed around in the scuffle and hurt their head.“No one was seriously injured; many needed first aid,” the personnel said.The hospital had to suspend emergency services for around two hours after the incident.“Unfortunately, the patient died at around 8 am after which the patient’s family members resorted to vandalism, destruction of hospital property and assault on our doctors and staff. The situation was brought under control through hospital security staff and the police deployment. While the hospital deeply condoles the death of the patient, it is deeply shocked at the behaviour of the patient’s family against doctors and healthcare workers who are providing untiring services amidst the pandemic,” a statement from the hospital read.Similar incidents of violence and rage are reported from government hospitals across the national capital that are grappling with a shortage of ICU beds, infrastructure, and consumables to treat the Covid-19 patients. With the cases of Covid-19 shooting up in Delhi/NCR, hospitals have been packed to the brim. On Monday, HT reported that the city was left with no ICU beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/apollo-hospital-s-emergency-vandalised-after-covid-19-patient-dies-for-want-of-bed-101619531549220.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||At Delhi crematoriums, corpses wait in 20-hour queues to burn||Under the high tin roof, 50 funeral pyres burned fiercely on Tuesday, the hot air filled with smoke, fine ash, and muted sobs of shell-shocked families. Nearby, lying unattended on the floor, and in scores of parked vehicles, more corpses awaited their turn, which relatives were told would come 16 to 20 hours later. Shaking Delhi's spirit and soul, an unimaginable tragedy is unfolding at New Delhi's crematoriums struggling to cope with the deluge of the dead arriving at a frightening pace."I have not seen such a bad situation ever before in my life. People are moving with the dead bodies of their loved ones from pillar to post ... almost all Delhi crematoriums are flooded with dead bodies," Vineeta Massey, the owner of Massey Funerals, told PTI.  By official count, 3,601 people have died this month, of them 2,267 in the last seven days alone in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic which is terrorising and tormenting the city. In all of February, the death toll was 57, and in March 117. As if the trauma of losing a loved one to the virus so suddenly is not enough, there is more grief in store for relatives who are not even able to give them a proper send-off.They arrive at crematoriums with bodies, only to be turned away. They drive to another facility, and yet another, traversing the city with the mortal remains in personal cars or ambulances, desperately seeking a graceful exit for their father, mother, son, or daughter from the material world.The trauma is no less for the relatives of those who died of non-Covid causes but are being swept up in the collective national tragedy driven by the pandemic. Aman Arora, a young entrepreneur from West Delhi's Ashok Nagar, lost his father ML Arora to a heart attack on Monday afternoon. "We rushed him to many private hospitals when he started feeling discomfort in his chest but he was not even checked by the medical staff there. They demanded that we produce a Covid-negative report. He eventually passed away," said Aman. On Monday afternoon, Aman was told by the staff in west Delhi’s Subhash Nagar crematorium to wait until Tuesday morning to perform the last rites.  When Aman realised there was no point in pleading, he arranged for a refrigerator to prevent his father's dead body from decaying. "What could I have done when there was no space? We kept the body in a rented fridge and have come early today (Tuesday)," said Aman, waiting for his turn as many other people milled around silently with dead bodies lying on the floor. Outside, ambulances and cars honked and competed for parking space but inside, all one could hear was the crackling of dry wood from the burning pyres -- all 50 of them roaring simultaneously. A few sobs arose over the sound of the fires, and one could hear the unemotional intonations of instructions being given by the crematorium staff. "Apna dead body uthao aur udhar line mein ja ke khade ho jao (Pick up your dead body and go stand in line)," said a young staffer. A woman in her 40s was so stunned she couldn't make out what was 'nabhi' (navel) or 'chhati' (chest) when a staff member asked her to place sandalwood sticks on the body of her father who had died of Covid.The body was still packed in a white sack, which was placed on the pyre without opening.Holding the sandalwood sticks in trembling hands, she moved around the body before being helped by someone."I didn't even see the face of my father," wailed the woman, who was alone.    Manmeet Singh, a 40-year-old assistant professor, also carried his father Gurpal Singh's dead body in his car to the Subhash Nagar crematorium on Monday afternoon.But the staff politely told him his father couldn't be cremated because the pyre chambers were already full and the CNG crematorium at the center could only accommodate two bodies at one time.It takes about 90 minutes to dispose of one body in a CNG chamber and a PTI correspondent counted 24 bodies waiting in queue for a slot. With no option left, Manmeet left for the MCD crematorium in Pashchim Vihar about six kilometers away and luckily got space with the help of an MCD inspector."If you can't provide oxygen to the patients in hospitals, then at least provide some space in the cremation ground so that people leave the world comfortably," said Manmeet. The ground at the crematorium was full of filth and covered with leftovers of the previous cremation. It was muddy and rotten fruits were scattered all over. Plastic bags, sacks, buckets, mugs littered the ground. But none of that mattered to the relatives. What mattered was enough space to light a pyre.According to rules, said a senior official at the Delhi Health Department, if somebody dies of Covid-19 in hospital, the district administration has to arrange a hearse van, and the hospital is supposed to deploy staff for the disposal of the dead body at the crematorium and graveyard. But the crush of the dead has made it impossible for hospitals to provide hearses. So relatives are simply taking the bodies in their vehicles. "If family members move with the body of their loved ones in their personal vehicles, there are chances of being infected," another government official said.  Ajeet, a staff member at the MCD crematorium, told PTI they have created more than 100 extra makeshift chambers in an adjacent space to accommodate the increasing number of dead people -- both Covid-19 and natural deaths. "I can't move my arms, I am dead tired. The whole day we arrange for cremation and then in the night we have to take care of the pyres so that the fire consumes the bodies properly," said Ajeet.The chaos at the crematoriums has raised questions about the Delhi government's preparedness for the second wave, which Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, had left the healthcare system on the brink of collapse. Many deaths have also been attributed to a severe oxygen shortage for the last 10 days. The fixing of responsibility will happen later.But for now, "this is the time for us to build solidarity and enough compassion for the poor people fighting the pandemic," said Harsh Mander, a former IAS bureaucrat who is now a civil rights activist. "The wealthy and the influential thought that they have an escape route to all this but this pandemic told us that we are all in this together," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-delhi-crematoriums-corpses-wait-in-20-hour-queues-to-burn-101619522536735.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC says it made no request to Ashoka Hotel to turn it into Covid facility||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said that it did not request the Delhi government to ask The Ashoka to turn its premises into a Covid-19 facility for Delhi high court judges and other judicial officers and their families on a priority basis. The Delhi high court told the Delhi government that it gives a false impression that the request was made by the court. The court ordered the Delhi government to take corrective measures with regard to the order asking for requisitioning beds in The Ashoka. "You think that when people are not able to get a bed, we will ask for 100 beds in a five-star hotel," the court said. The court also said that it gives out a wrong projection about the judiciary. The Delhi government on Monday issued an order asking The Ashoka to convert 100 rooms of the hotel into Covid-19 care centres. The Delhi government also said that it was acting on a request from the Delhi high court. The order was issued by the sub-divisional magistrate of Chanakyapuri on Sunday and said that the facility at Ashoka Hotel will be in association with Primus Hospital. The Delhi HC also pulled up the Delhi government over the oxygen crisis which hospitals are facing on Tuesday. It ordered the Delhi government to immediately place an officer at a said plant and also issued notices to five refillers. It asked the Delhi government to stop black marketing of oxygen cylinders and essential medical devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-says-it-made-no-request-to-ashoka-hotel-to-turn-it-into-covid-facility-101619524622200.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Man kills ‘drug dealer’ pregnant wife in Delhi; video of killing surfaces||A woman pregnant with twins and released from jail just three days ago in a drugs case was gunned down by her husband outside her home in south-east Nizamuddin on Tuesday morning, police said. The murdered woman’s domestic help was also shot while trying to save the woman, but he is likely to survive, said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east). The crime, which was captured by a CCTV camera, showed the alleged killer taking his own time to fire about a dozen rounds at his wife. According to the DCP, the woman, Saina, was earlier married to Sharafat Sheikh, an alleged gangster and drug dealer who is in jail after being booked under MCOCA and NDPS Act.Saina was arrested a few months ago for her alleged involvement in drug deals, only to be released on bail on Saturday on the ground that she was eight months pregnant with twins. “About a year ago, Saina married a man named Waseem. We are still ascertaining whether she was legally separated from Sheikh or not,” the DCP said. But when Saina was in jail, the DCP said, Waseem entered into an extramarital relationship with her sister. “When Saina was released from jail on bail, Waseem did not meet her. That led to frequent quarrels between them,” the DCP said. Also Read | ‘Your system has failed’: HC asks Delhi govt to take action on oxygen hoardingThe quarrels culminated in a final showdown outside Saina’s house on Tuesday morning. CCTV footage showed Waseem purportedly pulling out a gun and trying to shoot Saina. It was at that moment that Saina’s domestic help, Shahdat, tried to step in but got shot. Thereafter, Waseem can purportedly be seen taking several aims at his wife’s head and other body parts, reloading his gun and then shooting at the collapsed woman repeatedly. In between, he brandished his gun, threatening local residents to stay away during most of the drama. The DCP said that since the suspect was known, his parents were contacted and he was nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-kills-drug-dealer-pregnant-wife-in-delhi-video-of-killing-surfaces-101619522308090.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||HC asks Delhi govt to take over oxygen refilling unit with immediate effect, serves contempt notice against 5 refillers||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the Delhi government to take over an oxygen refilling plant with immediate effect and also served contempt notices to five other refillers. The court also said that if the Delhi government is unable to address the situation then it will ask officers of the central government to take over."Set your house in order. Enough is enough. If you are not able to manage then tell us we will ask the Centre to send its officers. We will ask them to take over," the court said.The Delhi high court told the Delhi government that its system has collapsed and strict measures should be taken to ensure that medical oxygen which comes at a minimal cost should not cost several thousand or lakhs of rupees due to black marketing or hoarding.The court expressed its displeasure over oxygen refillers as well who were not present at the proceedings, while also expressing its displeasure towards the Delhi government for not issuing proper instructions to oxygen refillers."We will ask you to take action against the refillers and issue a contempt notice because they did not appear even after they were called... This cylinder business is a mess. You have to look into it and put your house in order. If they are belligerent, then they will see our belligerence. Keep them in custody if they are playing with people's life like this," it said.The court also ordered the Delhi government to send its officers to the oxygen plants and take over the running of those plants if required. "Post your officer (over there) and let them run it. You have all the power in law to take them in custody," it said.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli while hearing a plea made by hospitals regarding the shortage of oxygen and drugs like Remdesivir said that the Delhi government is not able to deal with the rising cases. "Your system has failed. Black-marketing of oxygen still continues. How are people procuring oxygen? Large-scale hoarding is going and you are not taking action. Take action against them," the court told the Delhi government.Amid the proceedings, Venkateshwara Hospital and Maharaja Agrasen Hospital said that their oxygen reserves will not last for long and will put the lives of patients in peril due to the shortage."This is a huge surge in cases. You are not able to deal with the numbers," the court observed.The Delhi high court's sharp criticism comes after several hospitals reported that they were facing an oxygen shortage. The Capital has seen a large number of deaths due to lack of oxygen due to which several hospitals moved the Delhi high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/your-system-has-failed-hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-take-action-on-oxygen-hoarding-101619519665084.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi setting up 1,200 ICU beds, importing oxygen plants, containers: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said they are setting up 1,200 additional intensive care unit (ICU) beds and importing oxygen plants and cryogenic tankers from France and Thailand even as the oxygen situation has improved over the last two days. A surge in Covid-19 cases over the last fortnight triggered a shortage of essential resources such as medical oxygen and resulted in a steep increase in deaths.“We do not have as many SOS calls from hospitals now as we got on those three days [last week]. I want to thank the Central government for helping us through this time by providing their top officials, who worked in close coordination with the senior officers of the Delhi government. I thank our Delhi government officials too who have worked day and night to address the crisis,” he said at a digital press conference.The oxygen crisis in Delhi worsened on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. “Hospitals were jam-packed, and I was scared that any major untoward incident may lead to deaths due to lack of oxygen.”Kejriwal said they were arranging 500 ICU beds at the Ramlila Ground in front of Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital. “Another 500 ICU beds are being readied at the main Ramlila Ground in front of Lok Nayak Hospital. At the Radha Saomi Satsang facility, we are arranging 200 ICU beds.” Kejriwal said by May 10, they will add 1,200 ICU beds to the Covid-19 infrastructure, which is now totally overstretched.He said the current Covid-19 wave is dangerous because it is more infectious and is making patients severely ill. “That is why the demand for ICU beds has increased manifold.” He said every hospital is treating patients more than its capacity. “All ICU beds are full. The Central government gave us 500 ICU beds at the DRDO [Defence Research and Development Organisation] facility in Delhi Cantt, but all beds got filled in just three hours.” He added it means Delhi has so many serious patients struggling to get ICU treatment. Delhi on Tuesday reported Covid-19 XXXX cases and XXX deaths, taking it tally of infections to XXX and toll from the pandemic to XXXX. Also Read | After testing Covid positive on Monday, Chhota Rajan admitted to AIIMS todayKejriwal said they have been unable to receive their share of oxygen allotted by the Centre due to a shortage of tankers. “The Delhi government has decided to import 18 cryogenic tankers from Bangkok [Thailand], which will start arriving from tomorrow [Wednesday],” he said. Kejriwal said they have sought the Centre’s help to have the Indian Air Force airlift these tankers. “Once these 18 tankers reach the city, the problem of transporting liquid oxygen will be solved, and Delhi will start getting its full quota of oxygen from the Centre…”Kejriwal, who thanked the Centre for giving them five imported tankers, said they would set up 44 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants at Delhi hospitals in over a month. “We are importing 21 PSA oxygen plants from France. These are ready-to-use plants and will be installed in different hospitals. In the next month, we will be installing 44 PSA oxygen plants in Delhi. Of these, eight are being installed by the Centre. For some reason, the project was delayed, but now by April 30, these eight plants will be ready. The remaining 36 oxygen plants will be set up by the Delhi government of which 21 are being imported from France and 15 are indigenous.”The Centre provides up to 490 MT of oxygen to Delhi daily, but it has faced a deficit of about 100MT due to transportation issues.Kejriwal said many chief ministers and industrialists came forward to help the Delhi government after he wrote to them seeking support. “Talks have advanced with some of them, but they have requested not to be named. So, I thank all the chief ministers, industrialists, NGOs, and religious organisations who have come out to help us in this crisis. Whatever decisions I announced is because of their help in some way or the other.”ANY REACTIONSINDEPENDENT COMMENTS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-setting-up-1-200-icu-beds-importing-oxygen-plants-containers-kejriwal-101619520027379.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||After testing Covid positive on Monday, Chhota Rajan admitted to AIIMS today||Jailed gangster Chhota Rajan was rushed to New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Science for treatment after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday evening, Tihar prison official aware of the matter said on Tuesday.Rajan has been lodged in solitary confinement in one of the biggest cells at Tihar, where he was not even allowed to interact with other prisoners due to security concerns. Officials suspect he may have contracted the infection from some asymptomatic jail officer.At least 170 out of 20,500 prisoners and 60 jail officers have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last four weeks at Tihar amid the second wave of the pandemic in the country, which has overwhelmed hospitals and triggered a shortage of critical supplies needed to save lives.Activist Umar Khalid is among other prisoners, who have tested positive for Covid-19 at Tihar. He has been kept under isolation within the prison complex.Prison officials said the spread of the infection in the most crowded jail complex in the country is such that prisoners like Rajan and Bihar gangster-turned-politician Mohammed Shahabuddin, who was also in solitary confinement, have tested positive. Other prisoners lodged in Tihar share space with other inmates in cells or barracks. But Rajan, Shahabuddin, and Delhi gangster Neeraj Bawana have been under solitary confinement in adjacent cells inside jail number 2.Sandeep Goel, the prison’s director-general, confirmed Rajan’s hospitalisation, but did not wish to offer more details.Rajan, one of India’s most wanted gangsters, was arrested in Indonesia’s Bali in 2015 after being on the run for two decades. He faced at least 68 cases including 28 related to extortion in Maharashtra alone and narrowly escaped an attempt on his life in Bangkok in September 2000. Prison officers said the 62-year-old has co-morbid conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-testing-covid-positive-on-monday-chhota-rajan-admitted-to-aiims-today-101619513245749.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Not so ‘aam’: Mango means feast-worthy!||“Mangoes need to have two qualities, they need to be sweet and there needs to be plenty,” said the legendary Urdu and Persian poet Mirza Ghalib. Every state of India has its own eclectic names variety of mangoes to offer that have equally interesting names. Alphonso is from Maharashtra, Totapuri from Karnataka, Banganpalli from Andra Pradesh, Himsagar from West Bengal, Kesar from Gujarat, Langda from Uttar Pradesh, Ambika from Uttar Pradesh, Malgova from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, Vanraj from Gujarat, Chausa from Himachal and Bihar, Suvarnarekha from Andra and Odisha.It’s the mango season officially, the best time to treat yourself with the juicy, nutritious fruit. Right from starters to meals to desserts and beverages, it can be used in imaginative ways. “Mango is a super versatile fruit! Mango can be used in various forms in the recipes. Apart from enhancing the taste of the preoperation, it’s also an excellent source of nutrients for the vegetarians and sustains its texture even after being cooked. Raw mango can be used as kanji, or a variety of delightful salads and once cooked with coconut milk, it’s loved by vegans. Once can experiment with both forms of mango, raw and ripe,” says chef Nishant Choubey who recently put together a menu featuring mango bruschetta, dehydrated mango powder, mango feuille and even the refreshing mango kombucha.For chefs, mango is an all time favourite ingredient to work with, owing to its delightful colour, juicy, pulpy texture and delicious taste. “Be it shake, a cake, a sauce, a dip, a smoothie, a curry – mangoes adds a dash of surprise into everything. With mangoes, the possibilities are endless. It can be used to make a healthy shake or a delicious cocktail like mango margarita or martini. In dessert one can make cakes, tarts, ice- creams, and puddings. While in savoury, one can make mango and coconut sticky rice, mango pachadi (raita), mango curry, tangy mango salad, mango marinated kebabs or grills,” says chef Pawan Bisht.Mango can be used in different forms such as dried, liquid, semi liquid, foams, froths, grills and more. Flavourful kebabs can also be made with mango and can be paired with everything from vegetables to poultry to red meat and seafood. Food bloggers also have interesting mango preparations to share. Paresh Gupta, Delhi-based food blogger, says, “You can indulge in a chilled bowl of mango firni, while sangria lovers can go for mango sangria. ”Some popular regional mango preparations include raw mango and coconut curry with drumstick from Goa, raw mango launj from Jharkhand/Bihar, kairi Methi ki subzi from Rajasthan, mango rice from Karnataka, mango karhi from Gujrat and mamidikaya pappu (mango dal) from Andhra.Taste a mango first, test it for its texture, flavour and scent, and then let you creative juices flow as you innovate with the fruit in your kitchen “I love making salads with raw mango and even sweet ones. Adding herbs and spices, nuts and legume, one can turn a mango into a delicious and memorable preoperation. In my kitchen, sour mango becomes the sauce for grilled shrimp or lobster and chutney for scallops and crab. And my pyramid bhel is taken to grand heights by the addition of finely minced raw mango. At my restaurant Devi in New York City, we used to serve mango cheesecake that was legendary in NYC food circles,” says chef Suvir Saran.Recipe Indianized mexican Burrito with mango1 cup refried beans• 1 cup cooked brown rice• Lettuce leaves• Sautéed baby corn• Grilled red cabbage• Grilled red yellow pepper• avacado slices with lime• Mango slices• Grilled parsley• Sautéed garlic slices• Jalepenos and olives• Sour cream• Tomato salsa• Salt and pepper to taste• 4 to 5 Chickpea tortillas• Olive oilMethod:1.) Place your tortilla on a plate2.) Place the lettuce leaf on the tortilla3.) Spread a spoon of refried beans followed by 1 spoon of brown rice4.) Place the babycorn, bell peppers, red cabbage and the parsley grilled separately with salt and pepper in a drop of olive oil5.) Add the limed avacado and mango slices6.) Top them with sauteed garlic slices, jalepenos and olives7.) Add sour cream, squeeze of lime, salt and pepper8.) Fold the tortilla, serve them with salad, tomato salsa and sour creamBy culinary expert Vindhya KarwaAuthor tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-so-aam-mango-means-feastworthy-101619510127880.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to import 18 oxygen tankers from Bangkok, 21 from France: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that the government has decided to import 18 oxygen tankers and 21 oxygen plants from France for Covid-19 patients amid shortage.While addressing a press conference, CM Kejriwal said, "Delhi government has decided to import 18 oxygen tankers from Bangkok, they'll start arriving from tomorrow. We've requested Centre to allow use of Air Force planes for this. Talks are on, I'm very hopeful that talks will be successful. This will resolve the issue of transport."Watch: '44 oxygen plants, 1,200 ICU beds to be added in Delhi’, says CM KejriwalTalking about the oxygen plants from France, CM Kejirwal said, "We are importing 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France. They can be brought to use immediately. These will be installed at different hospitals and this will help us in resolving oxygen crisis in those hospitals."Read more: Chhatarpur Covid-19 facility reopens to desperate appealsKejriwal said that the decision has been taking as the Delhi government is facing a crisis in receiving the oxygen that has been allotted to the national capital by the Centre."In the next month, we will have 44 oxygen plants in Delhi, out of which 8 plants will be set up by the Centre by April 30. 36 out of the 44 plants will be installed by the Delhi government," Kejriwal added."In the past few days, I wrote to various industrialists and state governments seeking help in this respect. We have received tremendous support from all quarters and are hopeful. We are thankful to everyone who is helping the Delhi government during this time of crisis," CM Kejriwal further said.Read more: Delhi govt may not wait for fresh stock of shots to open up vaccine driveKejriwal also acknowledged that the past three days have been extremely tough in Delhi's fight against the current wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic."We will all have to come together to fight the pandemic. It is only through coming together that we will be able to win over this wave," Kejriwal said.The ongoing Covid-19 surge in the national capital has left hospitals overburdened as people frantically search for beds with oxygen support. On Monday, Delhi witnessed 20,201 new Covid-19 cases which took the caseload to 1,047,916, according to the health department's bulletin. 380 people died in the last 24 hours, marking the highest ever single- day spike in deaths since the beginning of the pandemic last year. The death toll in Delhi stood at 14,628, while the total number of recoveries reached 940,930. Currently, Delhi has 92,358 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-import-18-oxygen-tankers-from-bangkok-21-from-france-cm-kejriwal-101619509195613.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Nothing bigger than saving a life : Ankush Bahuguna||“Humanity ka sabse bada aspect is compassion. I feel that there is nothing bigger than saving a life. Not everyone gets the power to help save another’s life. Eligible plasma donors have the power of saving people’s life and they must use it.” These are the words of Delhi based actor and content creator Ankush Bahuguna who has been using his social media amid the second wave of Coronavirus, as a means to amplify plasma requests and connect plasma donors with recipients. Bahuguna, has made videos and reels on social media, requesting eligible plasma donors to step up and help. “If you can save lives, please do it. Kindness is an endless loop. Aap ko kisi ne life main kitni baar help kari hogi bina apna faida dekhe, ab aapki turn hai yeh kindness return karne ki by donating plasma,” he says.Project Plasma is a Fever Network initiative to celebrate the super power of Covid recovered plasma donors, who are stepping forward amid the second wave of Covid, to donate their plasma to save lives of other infected patients.Bahuguna takes care that the leads he posts are verified. Encouraging others to amplify requests regardless of how big or small their followers count is, he says, “I feel at this point every given human being can help. Agar aap plasma nahi donate kar sakte toh help in any other way you can. Volunteer with foundations who are finding plasma donors. Main bhi ghar baith ke phone ghuma kar logo ki help kar raha hun. You can tell people in your group that if they aren’t well and need help with oxygen cylinders, then they can tell you and you’ll call up and verify leads of cylinders or plasma and help them. Because the family of patients in hospital don’t have so much time to call and verify every lead.”Bahuguna’s solution to tackling the dearth of plasma donors is to take a proactive approach. He advises, “We all know someone or the other who has battled corona recently so why is it that we don’t have enough donors? Why don’t we call and encourage them to donate plasma? Open your contact lists, get in touch with your inner circle who has battled covid recently and convince them to step forward and donate. I’ve also called up people who I knew had covid and managed to convince a few to donate plasma.”Requesting eligible plasma donors to donate plasma, Bahuguna concludes, “Jab aapki family ko kuch chahiye hota hai toh you will also hope and wish that strangers show compassion. And that they come forward and help you out. So today, if you have the power to help someone else, please donate the plasma and help them.”You are a superhero if you have recovered from Covid 19 because you have the power to save a life! Call on 8800570768 to donate plasma and save lives.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nothing-bigger-than-saving-a-life-ankush-bahuguna-101619508746124.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC declines to entertain fresh PIL seeking supervision of sale of Covid-19 drugs||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday declined to entertain a PIL seeking directions to the AAP government to oversee the sale of oxygen concentrators and medicines required for Covid-19 patients, saying another bench was already dealing with some of the issues raised in the petition.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh asked the petitioner, a lawyer, to move an application for intervention before the other bench and disposed of his plea which had sought that helplines should be functional round the clock and guidelines for managing dead bodies of Covid-19 patients be followed at crematoriums.Kush Sharma, in his petition, had also sought setting up of CCTV cameras in hospitals for supervision of the care and medical attention being provided to coronavirus patients.In his petition, filed through advocate Asiya Khan, Sharma had sought directions to the Delhi government "to oversee and ensure maintenance of records of sale and distribution of Covid-19 management drugs and equipment".It had also sought a direction to the government to ensure medicines and equipment "are not sold at prices higher than the maximum retail price and that there is no diversion into the hands of persons other than licensed dealers and distributors".Sharma claimed there was hoarding and black marketing of life saving drugs required by Covid-19 patients happening in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-declines-to-entertain-fresh-pil-seeking-supervision-of-sale-of-covid-19-drugs-101619505308987.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Gautam Gambhir: I can’t thank Akshay Kumar enough for helping us in this crisis, every donation matters||Every help in this gloom comes as a ray of hope,” tweeted MP Gautam Gambhir, as he thanked actor Akshay Kumar for pledging ₹1 crore to Gautam Gambhir Foundation (GGF), for food, medicines, oxygen during this Covid-19 crisis. In a freewheeling conversation with HT, Gambhir talks about Kumar’s donation, what more his foundation is planning to do for Delhi amid this crisis, being accused of hoarding Fabiflu medicines and getting trolled on social media for the same, and also being criticised for commentating at the IPL.Excerpts:Tell us something about how did Akshay on board and decide to help your foundation?Delhi is crumbling. Delhi is dying. It and needs every kind of support. At this time, every contribution matters and I can’t thank Akshay enough for coming forward and supporting us in this crisis. When we spoke, he said, ‘Whatever you want during this COVID situation — oxygen cylinders, medicines, or whatever you want to do — please feel free to do it and I’d want to donate’. In fact, he also said why don’t we open an ICU or COVID center with everything oxygen, ventilators and stuff. I said we can, but how am I supposed to organise doctors and nurses? For that we need government’s support.After Akshay, are you expecting that more celebs would now come forward to donate?See, that’s a very, very conscious and a very individual decision. How you want to live your life, how you want to do it, it is up to you. And I’ve always maintained one thing that I will never, ever force anyone to come out and support. This country has given us everything, probably the most important thing — our identity, our name — it’s up to us how we want to give it back.What more your foundation is planning to do to help those in need?So when we started this FabiFlu distribution, we started in East Delhi first. But because the demand is so much all across Delhi, I told Akshay that once you’re on board, we’ll start distributing it pan-Delhi; whoever needs it can get a prescription, Aadhar card and can get it for free. Plus, with these additional funds, we are going to organise as many oxygen cylinders as we can. Ultimately, the supplies also so less, that you can commit anything at this moment. I told Akshay that most people are in need of oxygen, remdesivir and Fabiflu, and I’ve personally spoken to the distributor if he can keep supplying us 300 or 400 strips a day and we could distribute to people who are in need, for free.For the last week or so that GGF has been distributing FabiFlu for free, you’ve faced a lot of flak and was even called a ‘hoarder’ for stocking medicines and not give them to the hospitals. What do you want to say on this?At this moment, all this red-tapism or whatever you call it, should be thrown out of the window. Whoever wants to contribute, in whatever capacity, should be made open for people, so that at least lives are saved. That should be our top most priority and that’s the reason a lot of people actually blamed me that this is hoarding. If I buy 300-400 strips a day, at market price and give it for free, is that hoarding? If that’s calling hoarding, then be it. Hoarding is if I keep thousands at my home, and I’m black marketing it. For me, saving people’s life is far more important than these allegations and negativity people want to throw at me.In fact, due to these ‘hoarding’ accusations, Akshay’s decision to donate to your foundation was also criticised by some sections of the society. Was that a fair thing to do?I spoke to him on that as well. We discussed that. I said you might get trolled, he said, ‘I don’t care’. I said I’ve got trolled by doing the right thing. He said, ‘We’ll will keep doing the right thing’. So, we were on the same page that all we need to answer is our own conscience. If I can see myself in the mirror and you can see yourself in the mirror with the right intention, that is all that matters. And how easy it... When people don’t come out in open to support, they say, ‘Paise kamate ho, kuch desh ke liye bhi kar do.’ And when people do support, they say, ‘Why are you doing it for this person? Why are you doing it for that person?’ So, it’s a double edge sword. Karo toh gaali khao, na karo toh gaali khao.And what about stint as a commentator at the ongoing IPL — that, too, is being widely criticised and people are calling you names for doing this amid a pandemic. Comment.People can accuse me that I’m commentating. That’s fine. But do they even realise that if I if we feed thousands of people every day at one rupee, if we look after the education of 150 martyrs’ children and the sex workers’ children, plus if we install air purifiers, open COVID centers and distribute 50,000 ration kits, all that requires money. It doesn’t happen for free. If I don’t work, or if I don’t commentate, where am I going to get that money from? Today, Akshay has donated, he could only do so because he’s working. Tomorrow, if he stops acting or working, where is he going to donate from? Today, if I stop commentating or if I stop earning, when I want to contribute, what would I do? I have far more responsibility and I know my responsibilities are far better than people who can accuse me. I have to educate my kids as well, I have a family also to take care of. So, I work hard for 12-hours a day to get this money, and use it to help people.How is your family coping up with this pandemic, the lockdown and all the negativity around?It’s tough. I have got two little ones (my daughters), my wife and my parents. We are trying to take all the precautions as we can, but on and off I do go to office. Last year April-May wasn’t as bad as it is now. It was COVID, everything was in a lockdown but this time, people are dying and the amount of news we every day, hospitals begging for oxygen, shortage of everything... and when you can’t do anything in your own capacity, it’s even more negative and disheartening. So whatever you can do, try and contribute as much. That’s the only way we can come up with it otherwise, one or two individuals will never be able to do that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gautam-gambhir-i-can-t-thank-akshay-kumar-enough-for-helping-us-in-this-crisis-every-donation-matters-101619502203974.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi temperature soars above 40°C; may dip from May 1||The maximum temperature in the National Capital is likely to remain above 40 degrees Celsius (°C) on Tuesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.On Monday, the maximum temperature was 40.2°C, two degrees above normal. The minimum temperature was 16.7°C, 7°C below normal.IMD said the temperatures are likely to remain around 40°C for the next 2-3 days. From May 1, the mercury will drop slightly and remain around 38-39°C.Also Read | Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayan region from today: IMD“On Tuesday, there is a possibility that the maximum temperature will touch around 41°C,” said an official.Meanwhile, the air quality on Tuesday remained in the poor zone, with the average air quality index (AQI) at 7am being 273.The Central Pollution Control Board data showed that on Monday the overall AQI of Delhi was 256, also in the poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-temperature-soars-above-40-c-may-dip-from-may-1-101619493682878.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Oxygen, ambulance, medicines: Delhiites rally for Covid emergencies||As the Capital grapples with the new wave of Covid, various groups in the city are endeavouring to help Covid patients and their families with medical needs such as prescribed and over the counter medicines, oxygen and more while tackling a sea of SOS calls and messages! Free ambulance service for Covid patients“I once went to a cremation ground last year and was sad to see that there was no one to perform the last rites of those who died due to Covid. I then decided to start this service,” says Delhi-based businessman Charanjeev Malhotra, who started an NGO Sant Shiv Seva, and has been running a free ambulance service in the Capital, which has ferried hundreds of people. “We take Covid-19 patients to hospitals and have also informed cremation ground authorities that if no one claims the bodies then we will perform the last rites. We are not charging anything for our services. I’ve performed the last rites of more than 550 Covid positive individuals till now,” says Malhotra, who had also travelled to Haridwar for asthi visarjan of 317 people this March. Oxygen cylinders for free to those in needPeople in Delhi have been resorting to social media and making desperate calls around the city to find oxygen for Covid-19 patients. It was the struggle of ordinary citizens last year that inspired Mohammed Nauman, a businessman, to start providing oxygen cylinders for free to those in need. Nauman, a member of Delhi-based Asma Esa Foundation, says, “During the second wave, we have ramped up our services across Delhi-NCR, and have over a 100 oxygen cylinders in circulation. In the last month, on an average, we have been getting about 50 calls every hour, and it’s heartbreaking when we are unable to respond to everyone.” The foundation has a core team of eight members and around 60 volunteers around the city. “We have been speaking to various oxygen cylinder vendors to try and source oxygen and deliver it to the patients’ homes. This is a tough time and we are just trying to do our bit for the society,” adds Nauman.Youngsters to rescueAnkush Periwal barely gets any sleep these days because his phone keeps ringing with SOS calls from families of Covid patients, seeking information or help. Part of a team of youngsters who started #TaskForceCorona, he and his team have been providing medicines to those in need. “We provide assistance on the ground with food and medicines. We have a team of 60 dedicated volunteers who search for authentic information on hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen vendors and plasma donors for coronavirus patients,” he says, adding, “We are trying to provide relief to people so that they don’t have to call multiple people during their time of need. We have divided ourselves into various groups, each of which performs one task including arranging plasma, food, hospital beds, RT-PCR tests and ambulance services.”The group recently distributed essential medicines and face masks in the Capital with the help of Assistant Commissioner of Police (UT) Lakshya Pandey. “We are ordinary citizens trying to do our bare minimum. Only when we help each other, will we be able to fight this pandemic,” says Periwal.Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-ambulance-medicines-delhiites-rally-for-covid-emergencies-101619491531753.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Free vaccines in Delhi for all adults, says govt||Delhi on Monday announced that it will vaccinate its entire adult population for free once the immunisation drive is widened from May 1, pledging to speed up the process of administering jabs as the Capital’s health care infrastructure remains overrun by a caseload that has been mounting amid an unprecedented fourth wave of infections.In a digital news briefing, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said a purchase of 13.4 million doses has been approved and that his government will make efforts to speed up the process. “We are working on a plan to start large-scale vaccination as soon as possible,” he said. He also urged vaccine manufacturers in the country to reduce their prices and asked the Centre to consider a “one nation, one rate” policy for Covid-19 vaccines.“As we are seeing, Covid-19 has wreaked havoc in the country. There is only one solution to this pandemic and that is vaccination. Delhi government has decided to give free Covid-19 vaccines to those who are 18 and above,” Kejriwal said. The free vaccines will be meant only for the residents of Delhi, even as the detailed plan of the drive was yet to be finalised by the government, according to people aware of the matter.About 20other states have already announced free vaccines for their adult population.The central government has announced that it will expand the Covid-19 vaccination drive to everyone over the age of 18 from May 1, a move many said was prompted by the worsening second wave of infections in the country. Registrations for vaccination in the next phase will open on the CoWIN app from Wednesday. While opening up the drive, the government allowed state governments to directly purchase shots, and let manufacturers earmark 50% jabs for states and private hospitals. It said it will continue to provide vaccines for the immunisation of people over the age of 45 for free.Data shows that countries such as the US and the UK, which were overwhelmed by Covid-19 cases at the beginning of 2021, are now defying alarming trends as vaccination efforts are ramped up. Israel, which has administered the most vaccine doses per 100 people, recently recorded no new daily Covid-19 deaths for the first time in 10 months.On Monday, Delhi reported 20,201 new infections, the lowest in 10 days, but only because daily testing dropped to a 27-day low of 57,690. The city’s positivity rate remained high with over 35% of samples returning positive for Covid-19. Only one state, Rajasthan (37%), had a higher positivity rate on Monday.Delhi on Sunday extended by a week its lockdown, a “last resort” measure put in place to arrest the alarming spread of Covid-19 in the Capital, as the health care infrastructure remained overwhelmed by a massive surge in infections, with complaints of shortages of medical oxygen and hospital beds pouring in from across the city.The chief minister’s office said the free vaccines will be available in all government-run Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi while those who opt for private centres will have to pay for the jabs.“Today (Monday) morning, we have given approval to buy 13.4 million vaccines for Delhi. We are trying to procure these doses as soon as possible so people are vaccinated quickly. It has been found that those who have taken the jabs either do not get Covid-19 or have very mild symptoms upon contracting the infection. Mostly, those who get Covid-19 even after vaccination do not require hospitalisation, and even if some of them do get admitted, their condition does not become serious. If everyone gets vaccinated, Corona will be like an ordinary disease,” Kejriwal said. He gave the example of how the UK controlled its surge in Covid-19 cases by conducting mass vaccinations.The Delhi chief minister again flagged his demand for uniform rates for the central and state governments in vaccine procurement. “One of the vaccine manufacturers is offering a rate of ₹400 a dose to state governments, while the other is quoting ₹600. But both the companies are offering their vaccines at ₹150 to the central government. My demand is that the rates should be the same for state and central governments,” he said.He said the manufacturers are earning a lot of profit by selling their vaccines at ₹400 and ₹600 to the states. “This is the time to show humanity. This is not the time to earn profits. Across the country, the Centre and states have capped the prices of various medicines and treatments. I appeal to the vaccine manufacturers to reduce their prices to ₹150. You (manufacturers) have a lifetime to earn profits. This is not the time to earn profits from people when the pandemic has hit the country so hard. I also appeal to the central government to cap the prices of vaccines in the coming days,” he said.He also urged the Centre to consider a vaccination plan for children.“We have seen that a lot of children and adolescents are also getting infected by Covid-19, and some of them have died. So, the time has come to think of them as well. If the available vaccines are safe for them, the Centre should allow it for them. If they are not safe, then other vaccines should also be developed,” Kejriwal said.Reports suggest that while the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine may be approved for children aged between 12 and 15 by next month, younger children appear to remain months away from being eligible for any of the shots against Covid-19.The chief minister also said beds were being increased further in Delhi to treat Covid-19 patients. “I inspected the Covid care centre at Radha Saomi Satsang Baes campus in Chhattarpur which has been opened for patients today from 10 am. Today, it has started with 150 beds, which will be increased to 500 in about two days, then 2,000 and finally it will be ramped up to 5,000 beds. There itself, we are also arranging 200 ICU beds as well. We are increasing Covid-19 beds across Delhi in this way,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-vaccines-in-delhi-for-all-adults-says-govt-101619488330737.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Police step in to hold funerals of people who lived alone||When an army Lieutenant Colonel, posted in Leh, called up Delhi Police seeking help with the cremation of his father-in-law, who lived in Dwarka and died on Saturday due to Covid-related complications, a team of policemen came forward to perform the last rites of the elderly man. The police team, in PPE kits, collected the body and took it to the cremation ground, where last rites were performed as per Hindu rituals.Police have made the arrangements of several others who lived alone, or whose families stayed away for fear of the virus. In some cases, families that have contracted Covid-19 are unable to make funeral arrangements for the deceased in their homes; leaving the police to shoulder the responsibility of arranging funerals.In two cases reported on Saturday, police cremated a woman on her brother’s request in Dwarka; and in Karol Bagh, made arrangements for the cremation of an elderly couple who had died of Covid-19.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said they had received a call on Saturday, at around 3pm, from Lieutenant Colonel Soumen Mondal that his father-in-law, who lived in Dwarka, died of Covid-19.“Mondal expressed his inability to come to Delhi at such short notice. On his request, the personnel from the Dwarka North police station made arrangements for the cremation of Mondal’s father-in-law Biswanath Pramanik,” Meena said.The DCP said the same evening, a team from Dwarka South police station cremated a woman on her brother’s request. “We received another call that day about a woman, Jai Matnani, dying of Covid. The caller was her brother. He said there was nobody to take the responsibility of her cremation. On humanitarian grounds, we took over that responsibility and her body was immediately shifted to a cremation ground in Dwarka’s Sector 24, where she was cremated as per the Hindu rituals,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-step-in-to-hold-funerals-of-people-who-lived-alone-101619485567310.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi all out of ICU beds, just 11 left for pregnant women||With Delhi continuing to report over 20,000 fresh cases of coronavirus disease every day since the past 10 days (from April 17), the city has run out of dedicated intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients.The Capital has a total of 20,461 beds earmarked for treating Covid-19 patients, and of these, 4,705 are ICU beds.The government’s Delhi Corona app showed on Monday night that 12 ICU beds were still available in the city. However, 11 of them are in Madhukar Rainbow hospital in Malviya Nagar that caters to only pregnant women with Covid-19.The one other ICU bed was at the Trauma Centre at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which was converted to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital last year. According to the doctors at the hospital, however, the bed was unavailable since several patients were in the queue for admission. A resident doctor from the hospital said on condition of anonymity: “Many Covid-19 patients on ventilator support are already waiting in the emergency to get admitted.”The phone number provided on the Delhi government app remained busy, and could not be reached, despite several attempts by HT.The two cellphone numbers provided by Madhukar Rainbow hospital were switched off on Monday night. However, according to calls made previously made by HT, the hospital only admits women in advanced pregnancy who have been diagnosed with Covid-19.The number to the two hospitals that showed the availability of ICU beds in the entire city remained unreachable despite chief minister Arvind Kejriwal asking hospitals earlier this month to ensure that no call went unanswered.“The situation is terrible. We receive so many patients who are brought dead to the emergency department of the hospital. This is because they go from hospital to hospital in search of beds. Every hospital is full,” said a doctor at a private hospital in the city, asking not to be named.The situation has worsened as two of the three big Delhi government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients reduced the number of beds in view of the persisting oxygen shortage.Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, which is the biggest hospital in the trans-Yamuna region, reduced the number of Covid-19 beds from over 900 to 700 on Saturday. According to senior officials, the hospital’s oxygen plant was running beyond capacity due to the high load of Covid-19 patients.“When a hospital is planned, it is thought that 20% to 30% beds will need oxygen supply. But, since we take in only the very sick Covid-19 patients, 100% of our beds require oxygen now. And, 50% to 60% of the beds need high-flow oxygen. This is putting too much pressure on our plant. So, we decided to reduce beds,” the official said.Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur on Friday reduced the number of beds from 500 to 350. The hospital was allocated a quota of 6,000 cubic metres of oxygen. With almost all its beds occupied by critical patients in need of ICU or oxygen therapy, the hospital was using up between 8,000 and 9,000 cubic metres, hospital officials said.While Delhi government spokespeople were not available for comment on the ICU bed situation, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, last week acknowledged that the city was running out of ICU beds.“Yes, there is a shortage of ICU beds. We have requested the Centre to increase the number of beds in their hospitals to 7,000. Currently, there are 2,000 beds in Central government hospitals. The Centre will increase 700 to 800 ICU beds soon,” Jain said at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-all-out-of-icu-beds-just-11-left-for-pregnant-women-101619485137439.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Chhatarpur Covid-19 facility reopens to desperate appeals||Several Covid-19 patients and their relatives were seen outside the Covid care facility in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur — which was reopened on Monday with 150 oxygen beds — seeking on-site admissions and complaining that government helplines were not responding to their distress calls.The ongoing Covid-19 surge in the city has left hospitals overburdened, and people have been frantically searching for beds with oxygen support. The Chhatarpur centre, which, according to a government order, will admit Covid-19 patients on being referred by a district surveillance officer (DSO), witnessed some heated arguments on Monday when police deployed there denied access to the patients seeking on-site admissions.The facility was launched on Monday morning. In a video press briefing, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said: “I reviewed arrangements in the Radha Soami Satsang Beas Covid facility today. The centre is functional since 10 am. Now it has 150 oxygen beds. In the next two days, it will be increased to 500 oxygen beds. In another four days after that, it will have 2,000 beds and, eventually, 5,000 beds. The centre will soon have 200 ICU beds as well.”The oxygen beds, doctors, medical staff and paramedics are arranged by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), and the Delhi government is entrusted with bearing the cost of boarding and lodging of health care staff, and managing admissions.Within hours of the centre reopening , more than 70 people gathered outside it and stood near the police barricades through which only ambulances were allowed in. Some people had come with their test reports and other medical documents.A senior revenue department official said that for admission to the centre, people who test positive for Covid-19 can call on helpline numbers, and each request will be forwarded to the DSOs for reference.Some patients and their relatives who were denied entry were seen having heated arguments with police.“The oxygen level has dropped to 87. The patient needs a bed. We are here since morning and dialling helplines for more than two hours now. The attempts have been futile. We need help,” said Anoop Kumar Yadav, who along with is brother-in-law Pradeep Yadav, a Covid-19 patient, was present outside the centre.Dipankar Tarafdar, a Covid-19 patient who was at the centre with his 84-year-old father, also a Covid-19 patient with severe symptoms, said: “We waited there for two hours and then realised there was no point. My father’s oxygen level dropped to 60. We had to start looking out for an ICU bed now. We kept calling all the helpline numbers, pleading before the staff at the centre, nothing worked.”A senior Delhi Police officer, who did not wish to be identified, said: “Initially there was some confusion and chaos as patients needed approval from the concerned agency for getting access to the facility. The issue was later resolved. There is adequate police deployment at the centre and things are under control.”Spokespersons of the Delhi government and the Union home ministry did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chhatarpur-covid-19-facility-reopens-to-desperate-appeals-101619484205115.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Some hospitals say O2 supply improved, others say not quite||After five days of constant alarm and severe oxygen shortages, some hospitals across the city treating Covid-19 patients said channels for the distribution of medical oxygen seemed to have been streamlined, with medical facilities on Monday reporting that supplies reached them on time.“The regularity of supply has improved over the last two days. Earlier we were raising at least two distress calls a day. Now, we had to make only one in the last 48 hours,” said a doctor from Indraprastha Apollo hospital.Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, which raised four SOS calls for oxygen on Saturday, said the situation improved on Monday.Hospital chairman Dr DS Rana said, “It appears the supply chains have been streamlined. It was better today and we hope that from tomorrow [Tuesday], systems will improve further.”However, some hospitals said the situation continued to be bad, even though the calls for help were not made publicly.Jaipur Golden hospital, where 20 people died due to oxygen shortage on Friday, tweeted again at noon on Monday: “We are trying to get in touch with INOX since morning to ensure our daily oxygen supply reaches on time. Have not got any response or dispatch note yet. Alerting everyone now in the hope of preventing another sos situation today.”“The hospitals are still in distress. I have seen calls for help from many hospitals on group messages. Yesterday night, a small nursing home nearby rushed to borrow cylinders from us because their supply did not arrive on time. Another bigger hospital had to trade oxygen with us. We gave them some oxygen, and they later gave us some of theirs when their tanker came,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of Saroj hospital and secretary of the Delhi Voluntary Hospital’s Forum – a group of major private hospitals in the Capital.He, however, added, “The situation is likely to improve from tomorrow [Tuesday]; the Delhi government now has control over the oxygen supply after the court hearings and the deputy chief minister himself is handling the supply of the allocated quota to the hospitals.”Deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Monday evening held a meeting with senior government officials, representatives of private hospitals and oxygen suppliers.The 490MT quota of oxygen allocated to the Capital by the Centre has been divided proportionately among all 150 hospitals in the city treating Covid-19 patients. At their current capacity, the Covid-19 hospitals alone need at least 454MT of oxygen, according to a Delhi government order issued on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/some-hospitals-say-o2-supply-improved-others-say-not-quite-101619483727940.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Covid positivity rate rockets past 35% as tests fall to 28-day low in Delhi||With 20,201 fresh cases of Covid-19, Delhi saw a slight dip in the incidence of the viral infection on Monday. This, however, was largely owing to fewer tests being conducted on Sunday, as reported a day later in Monday’s health bulletin, as labs and health facilities continued to contend with the sheer volume of cases in the city.There were 57,690 tests conducted on Monday as compared to an average of 79,123 tests conducted daily for the last seven days. Monday’s testing numbers were the lowest in the national capital since March 30, when the city tested 36,757 samples.With fewer tests, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested – also increased to 35.02% on Monday, meaning more than one in three persons who got tested were positive for the infection.The city also reported its highest toll ever on Monday, with 380 deaths.Delhi has reported over 300 Covid-19 fatalities a day for five days in a row. With a high number of cases, however, the case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – remains low at 1.4%.“All the statistical models indicate that with the current trajectory, the number of cases will likely peak in mid-May. And, the deaths two weeks after that. The descending limb will be long and it will be some time before we reach the January-February levels,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.He said, “Last year, the curve of the infection was bell-shaped. This year, however, it is almost vertical. And, when there is a steep rise in cases the decline is slower.” With entire families testing positive for the infection in one go, he suggested that cluster sampling be carried out to see whether it is one strain in circulation.The proportion of the U.K. variant (B.1.1.7) in genome samples sequenced from Covid-19 cases in Delhi has risen from 28% in the second week of March to the 50% in the last week, Dr. Sujeet Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said in a webinar on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-positivity-rate-rockets-past-35-as-tests-fall-to-28-day-low-in-delhi-101619483421119.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||‘Centre, state responsible for O2 supply’: Delhi High Court||Taking note of black-marketing of medical oxygen in view of the surge in demand in the city, the Delhi high court on Monday summoned firms engaged in refilling of oxygen cylinders in the Capital and warned of strict action against those selling it at inflated prices.The court directed the Delhi government to hold a meeting with suppliers and hospitals to chalk out a distribution plan and observed that ensuring regular supply of oxygen to Delhi hospitals was the responsibility of both the Delhi government and the Centre.The bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also warned states that were allegedly obstructing the supplies to other states.Terming black-marketing of medical oxygen a “major issue in Delhi”, the bench said it will take strict action against the black marketers. The court also mentioned an incident in which a senior advocate informed them that people were demanding ₹1 lakh per cylinder.The court directed the Delhi government to take immediate action. “Oxygen cylinder distribution is your (Delhi government) baby. You have powers, exercise them. If someone is engaging in black marketing, take action. They need to be taken to task. Bring them before us and we will take action,” the court said.“We direct all the refillers of oxygen cylinders in Delhi to be present in the hearing on Tuesday following complaints of non-availability of gas cylinders and black marketing,” it added.The court directed that those engaged in refilling oxygen cylinders must provide details to the government of deliveries made to hospitals and others, failing which strict action will be taken.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said before taking any action it will need the information from the refillers with regard to the deliveries made by them, but if it sends a show-cause notice seeking such details, it is viewed as harsh.The court then asked Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, who was present at the hearing, hold a meeting with suppliers and various hospitals in the city to work out a distribution plan.The court’s direction came after Siddharth Jain, director of INOX, which is a major supplier of medical oxygen to Delhi, informed the court about the difficulties faced by suppliers. He said his factories were working round the clock even when a lot of staff members were down with Covid-19.During the proceedings, the court said it was the responsibility of both the Centre and Delhi governments to ensure that the oxygen is supplied to hospitals in Delhi. “Twenty-one people have died. Human lives have been lost…..You have to work out your allocation. You cannot ask one producer to become a transporter,” the judge said.To this, Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said, “It’s not because of me (the Centre) for God’s sake. Please have your (Delhi government) system in place. Please have competent officers.”But the court said it was the responsibility of both the governments.“Same can be said about you (Centre). Same can be said about your (Centre) allocations,” the high court bench said. The court said more than the lack of supply, it was the distribution issues that were causing fatalities.“It’s the job of both the governments. You are giving those places which do not have the tankers. The place which has a tanker, you are diverting it elsewhere. .. What prima facie appears to us is that you are making these allegations… Once you make allocations they should be workable...” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-state-responsible-for-o2-supply-delhi-high-court-101619482951824.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt may not wait for fresh stock of shots to open up vaccine drive||The Delhi government may not wait for stocks to arrive from vaccine manufacturers to kick-start the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive from May 1 in the Capital, and will start inoculating those aged 18 and above with the existing stock, senior officials said on Monday.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced that the Delhi government will inoculate all adult residents of the Capital against Covid-19 for free, even as he said that the government on Monday also approved the procurement of 13.4 million vaccine doses from manufacturers.He did not specify which manufacturers will supply these doses to the Capital.Two Covid-19 vaccines are currently in use across the country — Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech, while a third — Russia’s Sputnik V jab — has been authorised for use. While SII has said it will sell its jab to state governments at ₹400 a dose, while Bharat Biotech announced it will supply the shot to states for ₹600 a dose.A senior state health official said formal orders are being placed with the manufacturers and that the vaccines may take at least two weeks to arrive.“At present, we have enough stocks for at least 10 days. Vaccinations have also taken a hit over the past two weeks because of the spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi and the lockdown. Around 50,000 people are now getting vaccinated every day as against 100,000 vaccinations on April 11,” said the official.After Kejriwal’s announcement, HT was able to contact eight of the 11 district administrations, who said that there were no specific instructions till Monday evening from the health department on the plan for the expanded vaccination drive.“We have been told that the state health department is going to issue a standard operating procedure for all districts to follow in a day or two. Accordingly, our teams will be activated. There are a few days to go [for the programme to open up] and we are confident of ramping up centres and adding staff. Today, immunisation officers trained some of our additional staff,” said a health official in Central district.Another official in Southwest district said centres will also be opened at government and private offices. It is not clear if they will be allowed at schools and community centres.“On Sunday, the Union health ministry issued fresh guidelines allowing diversification of Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) if they have certain prerequisites mentioned in the guidelines. Increasing the number of centres will not be a problem. We have already identified places and we will have enough medical teams as well,” said the official.At present, Delhi has around 500 vaccination centres spread across 192 hospitals and dispensaries.According to the health ministry’s latest guidelines, even if new centres are opened, it will continue to be mandatory for all government and private vaccination centres to register on the CoWIN portal, regardless of the source of the vaccine doses.“It shall also be mandatory for all CVCs to record all vaccination, issue digital vaccination certificates and report all AEFIs on the CoWIN system,” it said.The eligibility conditions for any health facility for registration as a vaccination centre is unchanged. This means the facility must have sufficient cold chain capacity, enough room for waiting areas and post-vaccination observation rooms, vaccinators, and the ability to manage adverse effects.A government spokesperson said that not all the fresh vaccine doses that arrive will be used to inoculate first-time beneficiaries.“It’s going to be almost a month since vaccination was opened for those aged 45 and above. Before that, senior citizens were vaccinated. So, naturally we are vaccinating even those who are coming for their second dose. Across Delhi, there’s no segregation of vials on the basis of first and second dose. If a person has taken a first dose and the next registered person who walks up to the centre has their second dose scheduled, they will be given the shot from the same vial. So, there is going to be no shortage of vaccines in Delhi, since proper records are maintained, which will help us raise fresh orders from time to time,” said the spokesperson.Till Monday, Delhi has administered 2,992,824 doses of the vaccines, of which 2,414,924 have got the first dose and 577,900 have got both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-may-not-wait-for-fresh-stock-of-shots-to-open-up-vaccine-drive-101619480798025.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||MCDs not providing safety gear to sanitation workers, alleges AAP; not true says BJP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi (MCDs) have not provided masks, gloves, face shields or other Covid-19 safety equipment to sanitation workers.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and hit back saying the AAP government is trying to divert attention from the “collapse” of the health-care system in Delhi.“BJP-ruled MCDs have not given masks, gloves, face shields or other safety equipment to sanitation workers and the workers associated with the fogging exercise to combat dengue and malaria. They are front-line workers and the BJP is insulting them and putting their lives at risk. The AAP demands that the BJP-ruled MCDs immediately provide safety gear to sanitation workers,” said the AAP’s in-charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “ His (Pathak’s) statement on non-availability of safety gear for sanitation workers is baseless. This is a tactic for diverting attention from the collapse of the health-care system in Delhi and failure of the AAP government in Covid-19 management. Sanitation Inspector offices in all 278 wards of the three MCDs are well stocked with masks, gloves and soaps, among others. They are routinely distributed among sanitation workers and mosquito-breeding checkers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-not-providing-safety-gear-to-sanitation-workers-alleges-aap-not-true-says-bjp-101619470372616.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||One dead, two injured after speeding cluster bus rams three vehicles||A 55-year-old man was killed and two others injured after an allegedly speeding cluster bus hit a scooter and two e-rickshaws in west Delhi’s Subhash Nagar on Monday morning. The bus rammed a pavement after hitting the three vehicles, the police said.The errant driver, identified by his first name as Azad,29, was caught from the spot. He was arrested and booked for rash and negligent driving causing death and injury. The bus as well as the three other vehicles involved in the mishap were impounded, the police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam said the police control room received a call around 8am, alerting them about a road accident near Subhash Nagar traffic signal. A police team reached the spot and found three men lying injured on the road while a cluster bus, one scooter and two e-rickshaws stood damaged.One of the men was found to be dead while the other two -- identified as Rajan,32, and Hansa,40 -- were rushed to a nearby hospital, from where they were later discharged after treatment for minor injuries, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-dead-two-injured-after-speeding-cluster-bus-rams-three-vehicles-101619469596336.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Mosques, gurdwaras step up to open isolation centres, hold langars||As coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases continue to overburden city hospitals, committee members and imams of mosques in Jamia Nagar are looking at starting isolation facilities for Covid positive individuals in the neighbourhood. One such facility will become operational in Jamia Nagar on Wednesday.The move comes days after Delhi Waqf Board chairman and Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan convened a meeting of imams and appealed to mosques to render services for battling Covid-19 with the support of residents.Mohd Arif Jamal, the imam of Islah Masjid, said that the mosque along with Jama Masjid, Zakir Nagar, will be starting an isolation facility from the premises of a school in the neighbourhood. The 30-bed quarantine facility will be ready by Wednesday, Jamal said, and the facility is meant for those who do not have adequate space at home to isolate themselves or are in urgent need of medical attention.“Along with members of the mosque committee and locals, we have started work on developing the quarantine facility. The facility will operate out of a school and will open on Wednesday. We are arranging nebulisers, oxymeters, and medicines that will be administered under the watch of doctors from the area,” said Jamal.Patrons of the mosques have volunteered to render medical assistance besides taking care of the day-to-day management of the facility. “A number of doctors from the area have also pledged to dedicate two to three hours daily for the facility. Besides these doctors, we have also reached out to other doctors in the neighbourhood who will step in as and when required,” said Jamal.He said the mosques have already procured beds and the other facilities will be in place by Wednesday. He said that the committee was in touch with MLA Khan, who has promised help with oxygen cylinders going forward. “As of now, we have not been able to make arrangements for oxygen cylinders. Till that happens, we will continue to provide other facilities and medical assistance,” said Jamal.An official from the MLA’s office, familiar with the matter, said efforts are on to create more facilities in other parts of Okhla. “We had appealed to mosques to start a facility that could provide care to Covid-19 patients. Work for the same is underway and these facilities will start shortly,” said the official, on condition of anonymity.Besides mosques, gurdwaras are also taking steps to help those in distress. Last week, the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) started serving langar to Covid-affected families and others in distress. The meals are prepared at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib and from there, they are delivered to different parts of the city via other gurdwaras. In the NCR, the Gurdwara Samiti in Indirapuram, Ghaziabad, is carrying out a unique initiative—oxygen langar— under which Covid-affected patients in need of oxygen are supplied free oxygen. Patients suffering from respiratory problems can avail of the facility at the site till their oxygen levels return to normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mosques-gurdwaras-step-up-to-open-isolation-centres-hold-langars-101619469605169.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Cops ask court to release remdesivir vials seized from black-marketeers, give them to hospitals||A local court is reviewing a plea by the Delhi Police’s crime branch to allow the release of 93 vials of seized remdesivir so that they can be given to health care facilities or patients, amid a critical shortage and rampant black-marketing of the antiviral drug, which some doctors have prescribed for Covid-19 treatment.Police officers aware of the matter said the Rohini court is likely to decide on the matter after a drug inspector verifies the authenticity of the drugs. The matter is likely to be heard on Tuesday.“We have requested the court to release the seized remdesivir injections to any hospital or NGO so they may reach the patients in need,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.Apart from the crime branch, which seized 93 vials of the drug in three raids between April 21 and 25 from seven alleged hoarders, the south and west district police teams seized nine more vials and arrested five people in connection with the matter on Sunday.Police units of the two districts are also likely to move court for the release of the nine seized vials.“We will soon move an application, seeking the court’s permission to give the seized injections to the drug controller, hospitals or any NGO,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP (south).Amid the unending spate of Covid-19 hospitalisations, the Capital has been hit by a severe shortage of several drugs used to treat Covid-19 patients such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, a scarcity that has been exacerbated by hoarders and black-marketeers, with the drugs being at rates 10-15 times their retail value. For instance, HT reported on Monday, a dealer in north Delhi offered to sell a customer a vial of remdesivir, which retails at between ₹900 and ₹3,500, at ₹25,000.“Social media is flooded with SOS messages and contact details of people selling the injections. The problem lies there itself. Patients or their family members bargain with these sellers. The bidding starts at around ₹25,000 for a vial and often stretches to ₹70,000 or ₹80,000, depending on a customer’s desperation,” said a senior police officer.The district police, crime branch and other Delhi Police units have now been directed to keep a vigil on such racketeers.For instance, the seven people arrested by the crime branch were selling each injection for between ₹25,000 and ₹40,000.“Interrogations revealed that they were getting the remdesivir from contacts in Punjab and Haryana. The crime branch teams have been conducting raids in the two states to arrest other racketeers,” Bhardwaj said.The police have also cracked down on hoarders of medical oxygen, which has been critically short in the city as well, forcing hospitals and patients to plead authorities for urgent supplies.On Saturday, a local court sanctioned the release for medical use of 48 cylinders containing 2,300 litres of medical oxygen that the southwest district police seized on Friday from a person in Dashrath Puri near Sagarpur.“Any hospital or NGO that needs the oxygen may approach us with a request letter, along with an affidavit attesting that they will return the cylinders after use. The cylinders will remain with us as case property,” said Ingit Pratap Singh, DCP (southwest).Considering the severity of the pandemic, case property seized in these cases, which may save lives, can be released in favour of the rightful owner or, alternatively, it may be handed over to someone who may need it, said senior advocate Vikas Pahwa.“These injections can also be sold to government hospitals and nursing homes. A magistrate has the power to decide this application at the preliminary stage of the case itself,” he said.Meanwhile, the police on Monday evening arrested two people, one of whom is a nurse who works at a private hospital in Rohini, for allegedly illicitly selling remdesivir injections.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said they arrested Sudhir (who goes by a single name) and seized two vials of the injection. He was to deliver the two for ₹60,000 each to the complainant.“The role of the nurse emerged upon further investigations. She has been apprehended because Sudhir bought the injections for ₹38,000 each from her,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-ask-court-to-release-remdesivir-vials-seized-from-black-marketeers-give-them-to-hospitals-101619465828726.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Test report not essential for hospitalisation: Govt tells Delhi High Court||A patient with “steady” symptoms of Covid-19 does not need an RT-PCR test report to get admitted to a hospital in Delhi, the government submitted to the high court on MondayAnuj Aggarwal, the additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh that the government issued an order on April 23, directing the hospitals that all cases of moderate to severe influenza-like illness should be provided treatment in an area dedicated for suspected cases, and no patient should be denied treatment.“It has been informed that many patients with clinical presentation of Influenza-like illness with RT-PCR negative are reporting to hospitals with moderate to severe disease. Dedicated Covid-19 hospitals are denying them admission for want of a positive RT-PCR test. Hospitals are hereby directed that all cases of moderate to severe influenza-like illness should be provided treatment as per protocol in a dedicated area to be kept for suspected cases,” the Delhi government order read, adding that no patient requiring medical aid should be denied treatment”.The submission by the Delhi government came during a hearing on a petition by Jaideep Ahuja seeking directions to the government to order hospitals not to insist on Covid-positive reports to hospitalise patients who show symptoms of the disease.The petitioner told the bench that the Uttar Pradesh government has a direction that hospitals should not insist on RT-PCR positive test reports for admitting patients.The petitioner cited two instances when patients, both lawyers, were not admitted to hospitals because they did not have the Covid-19 positive report despite showing severe symptoms of Covid. The reports of both the patients were held up at the labs and were not available to them.Advocate Anuj Aggarwal, who was representing the Delhi government, told the court that an order has been issued and hospitals have been strictly asked to comply with the directions.Following this, the bench asked the government to widely publicise the order and ensure that it is scrupulously followed by the hospitals. The court also requested the Delhi government to increase the number of RT-PCR testing centres and to put in place the necessary infrastructure to streamline the sample collection process.The direction was issued by the court after several lawyers told the bench that they were facing difficulty in getting tested as labs were saying they will carry out sample collection after 2-3 days. They contended that the number of daily tests have gone down to around 60,000 from the over one lakh tests that were being conducted earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/test-report-not-essential-for-hospitalisation-govt-tells-delhi-high-court-101619465822379.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||With travel curbs keeping families away, funeral organisers step in to perform last rites||With the death toll from Covid-19 remaining above 300 for the past five days amid the continuing surge in cases, and in view of the restrictions on travel imposed by several countries, many families are unable to perform the last rites of their loved ones, and are instead relying on funeral organisers in the national capital to ensure that their dear ones get a decent farewell.The funeral service providers are not just assisting families in making the arrangements, but in most cases, are also performing the rituals in the absence of family members.The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic across the county -- and the fourth wave in Delhi -- has turned out to be the deadliest one yet with over 25,000 people testing positive for the virus daily and nearly 300 persons dying every day over the past few days.On Sunday, Delhi recorded 350 deaths, while on Saturday it was 357, and on Friday, 348. The average number of Covid-19-related deaths, according to the state health bulletin, in the past week was 304.Given the grave situation, the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention has issued a non-binding advisory asking people to not go to India even if they are fully vaccinated. Apart from the US, the UK, Singapore and New Zealand have also imposed fresh restrictions on travellers from India or issued advisories against travelling to India following the massive spike in Covid-19 cases. Gulf countries Oman, Kuwait, the UAE and Iran, as well as Canada, have imposed restrictions on passengers arriving from India and will allow only citizens to enter.Several funeral organisers across the city said there has been a surge in the number of requests they are getting for services from people residing abroad or currently stuck in other cities. Officials at Messy funerals, a service provider in Civil Lines, said their phone has been ringing off the hook the past week.Vineeta Messy, the owner of the company, said they have recently completed the last rituals of two elderly persons, aged 76 and 82, who had succumbed to the virus at their home in Indirapuram, Ghaziabad. “Their children are in the US and could not come to India. We got a call from them and when we reached their home, only the domestic help was there with the bodies. We collected the bodies and performed the funeral rituals. We also live streamed the ceremony to the children. There have been so many such requests recently,” she said.“It is difficult to console the family members of a deceased when they are not being able to see the departed one last time,” Messy said.Funeral organisers are offering packages -- ranging from ₹5,000 to ₹20,000 -- which cover services such as organising a hearse van to pick up the body, and arranging materials for the rituals and priests, and finding a crematorium or burial ground where the finals rites will take place. Some of them also provide free service to families who cannot afford the packages.According to several funeral service providers, the number of requests for their services has increased manifold, particularly from foreign clients, in the past two weeks. The requests are coming from the US, the UK, Canada, and even the UAE, organisers said.“Earlier we used to get hardly 50 calls a week for any sort of assistance. But these days, we are getting around 300 calls a day seeking help. We don’t have the resources to cater to all requests. We wish we had more ambulances and staff to serve everyone,” said Daljit Singh of Antim Yatra.The funeral service providers are also getting frequent calls from Covid-19 positive families who cannot participate in the final journey of their loved ones. Cyril Joseph, the owner of the JCJ Funerals in Kalkaji Extension, said they recently performed the funeral of a Covid patient from CR Park whose entire family was also Covid positive. “It was heartbreaking that they could not accompany their father on his last journey. We collected the body and performed the last rites, while live streaming the ceremony to the family. The next day, we also had to pick up the ashes and hand it over to the family,” he said.Antim Yatra, a funeral company in Jantar Mantar Road, will also immerse the ashes of a Covid-19 victim on behalf of a family on Tuesday. “Father of two elderly persons died of Covid and both children also have Covid. We finished the last rites of their father and on Tuesday, we will immerse the ashes by ourselves. This is not a lone case --- there are several such families who are helpless to do anything,” said Singh.For such helpless families, there is no closure. Akshit Sharma, 25, who works with a multimedia company in Pune and is presently Covid positive, had to rope in a funeral service to cremate his aunt who succumbed to the virus in Delhi. “My aunt, 58, always lived alone in Delhi. She never got married or had children. We were like her own kids. It feels devastating that we could not see her for the last time or be there for her last rituals since my family is also Covid positive at present. My father is in a bad shape after losing his sister. We have requested a local temple to keep her ashes till we are able to immerse them,” he said.Officials at several burial grounds and crematoriums also said they have performed several such “lonely” last journeys. Mohammad Shamim, the supervisor of Delhi’s biggest burial ground at ITO, said, “There have been several cases when none was there to even help us put the body in the grave. It feels really bad seeing people die such lonely deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-families-away-due-to-travel-curbs-funeral-organisers-perform-last-rites-101619465816442.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||With travel curbs keeping families away, funeral organisers step in to perform last rites||With the death toll from Covid-19 remaining above 300 for the past five days amid the continuing surge in cases, and in view of the restrictions on travel imposed by several countries, many families are unable to perform the last rites of their loved ones, and are instead relying on funeral organisers in the national capital to ensure that their dear ones get a decent farewell. The funeral service providers are not just assisting families in making the arrangements, but in most cases, are also performing the rituals in the absence of family members.The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic across the county -- and the fourth wave in Delhi -- has turned out to be the deadliest one yet with over 25,000 people testing positive for the virus daily and nearly 300 persons dying every day over the past few days. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 350 deaths, while on Saturday it was 357, and on Friday, 348. The average number of Covid-19-related deaths, according to the state health bulletin, in the past week was 304.Given the grave situation, the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention has issued a non-binding advisory asking people to not go to India even if they are fully vaccinated. Apart from the US, the UK, Singapore and New Zealand have also imposed fresh restrictions on travellers from India or issued advisories against travelling to India following the massive spike in Covid-19 cases. Gulf countries Oman, Kuwait, the UAE and Iran, as well as Canada, have imposed restrictions on passengers arriving from India and will allow only citizens to enter. Several funeral organisers across the city said there has been a surge in the number of requests they are getting for services from people residing abroad or currently stuck in other cities. Officials at Messy funerals, a service provider in Civil Lines, said their phone has been ringing off the hook the past week. Vineeta Messy, the owner of the company, said they have recently completed the last rituals of two elderly persons, aged 76 and 82, who had succumbed to the virus at their home in Indirapuram, Ghaziabad. “Their children are in the US and could not come to India. We got a call from them and when we reached their home, only the domestic help was there with the bodies. We collected the bodies and performed the funeral rituals. We also live streamed the ceremony to the children. There have been so many such requests recently,” she said.“It is difficult to console the family members of a deceased when they are not being able to see the departed one last time,” Messy said.Funeral organisers are offering packages -- ranging from ₹5,000 to ₹20,000 -- which cover services such as organising a hearse van to pick up the body, and arranging materials for the rituals and priests, and finding a crematorium or burial ground where the finals rites will take place. Some of them also provide free service to families who cannot afford the packages.According to several funeral service providers, the number of requests for their services has increased manifold, particularly from foreign clients, in the past two weeks. The requests are coming from the US, the UK, Canada, and even the UAE, organisers said. “Earlier we used to get hardly 50 calls a week for any sort of assistance. But these days, we are getting around 300 calls a day seeking help. We don’t have the resources to cater to all requests. We wish we had more ambulances and staff to serve everyone,” said Daljit Singh of Antim Yatra.The funeral service providers are also getting frequent calls from Covid-19 positive families who cannot participate in the final journey of their loved ones. Cyril Joseph, the owner of the JCJ Funerals in Kalkaji Extension, said they recently performed the funeral of a Covid patient from CR Park whose entire family was also Covid positive. “It was heartbreaking that they could not accompany their father on his last journey. We collected the body and performed the last rites, while live streaming the ceremony to the family. The next day, we also had to pick up the ashes and hand it over to the family,” he said.Antim Yatra, a funeral company in Jantar Mantar Road, will also immerse the ashes of a Covid-19 victim on behalf of a family on Tuesday. “Father of two elderly persons died of Covid and both children also have Covid. We finished the last rites of their father and on Tuesday, we will immerse the ashes by ourselves. This is not a lone case --- there are several such families who are helpless to do anything,” said Singh.For such helpless families, there is no closure. Akshit Sharma, 25, who works with a multimedia company in Pune and is presently Covid positive, had to rope in a funeral service to cremate his aunt who succumbed to the virus in Delhi. “My aunt, 58, always lived alone in Delhi. She never got married or had children. We were like her own kids. It feels devastating that we could not see her for the last time or be there for her last rituals since my family is also Covid positive at present. My father is in a bad shape after losing his sister. We have requested a local temple to keep her ashes till we are able to immerse them,” he said.Officials at several burial grounds and crematoriums also said they have performed several such “lonely” last journeys. Mohammad Shamim, the supervisor of Delhi’s biggest burial ground at ITO, said, “There have been several cases when none was there to even help us put the body in the grave. It feels really bad seeing people die such lonely deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-travel-curbs-keeping-families-away-funeral-organisers-step-in-to-perform-last-rites-101619464578828.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||One dead, two injured after speeding cluster bus rams three vehicles||A 55-year-old man was killed and two others injured after an allegedly speeding cluster bus hit a scooter and two e-rickshaws in west Delhi’s Subhash Nagar on Monday morning. The bus rammed a pavement after hitting the three vehicles, the police said.The errant driver, identified by his first name as Azad,29, was caught from the spot. He was arrested and booked for rash and negligent driving causing death and injury. The bus as well as the three other vehicles involved in the mishap were impounded, the police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam said the police control room received a call around 8am, alerting them about a road accident near Subhash Nagar traffic signal. A police team reached the spot and found three men lying injured on the road while a cluster bus, one scooter and two e-rickshaws stood damaged.One of the men was found to be dead while the other two -- identified as Rajan,32, and Hansa,40 -- were rushed to a nearby hospital, from where they were later discharged after treatment for minor injuries, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-dead-two-injured-after-speeding-cluster-bus-rams-three-vehicles-101619464465947.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Mosques, gurdwaras step up to open isolation centres, hold langars||As coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases continue to overburden city hospitals, committee members and imams of mosques in Jamia Nagar are looking at starting isolation facilities for Covid positive individuals in the neighbourhood. One such facility will become operational in Jamia Nagar on Wednesday.The move comes days after Delhi Waqf Board chairman and Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan convened a meeting of imams and appealed to mosques to render services for battling Covid-19 with the support of residents. Mohd Arif Jamal, the imam of Islah Masjid, said that the mosque along with Jama Masjid, Zakir Nagar, will be starting an isolation facility from the premises of a school in the neighbourhood. The 30-bed quarantine facility will be ready by Wednesday, Jamal said, and the facility is meant for those who do not have adequate space at home to isolate themselves or are in urgent need of medical attention. “Along with members of the mosque committee and locals, we have started work on developing the quarantine facility. The facility will operate out of a school and will open on Wednesday. We are arranging nebulisers, oxymeters, and medicines that will be administered under the watch of doctors from the area,” said Jamal. Patrons of the mosques have volunteered to render medical assistance besides taking care of the day-to-day management of the facility. “A number of doctors from the area have also pledged to dedicate two to three hours daily for the facility. Besides these doctors, we have also reached out to other doctors in the neighbourhood who will step in as and when required,” said Jamal.He said the mosques have already procured beds and the other facilities will be in place by Wednesday. He said that the committee was in touch with MLA Khan, who has promised help with oxygen cylinders going forward. “As of now, we have not been able to make arrangements for oxygen cylinders. Till that happens, we will continue to provide other facilities and medical assistance,” said Jamal. An official from the MLA’s office, familiar with the matter, said efforts are on to create more facilities in other parts of Okhla. “We had appealed to mosques to start a facility that could provide care to Covid-19 patients. Work for the same is underway and these facilities will start shortly,” said the official, on condition of anonymity. Besides mosques, gurdwaras are also taking steps to help those in distress. Last week, the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) started serving langar to Covid-affected families and others in distress. The meals are prepared at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib and from there, they are delivered to different parts of the city via other gurdwaras. In the NCR, the Gurdwara Samiti in Indirapuram, Ghaziabad, is carrying out a unique initiative—oxygen langar— under which Covid-affected patients in need of oxygen are supplied free oxygen. Patients suffering from respiratory problems can avail of the facility at the site till their oxygen levels return to normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mosques-gurdwaras-step-up-to-open-isolation-centres-hold-langars-101619464464653.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||MCDs not providing safety gear to sanitation workers, alleges AAP; not true says BJP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi (MCDs) have not provided masks, gloves, face shields or other Covid-19 safety equipment to sanitation workers.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and hit back saying the AAP government is trying to divert attention from the “collapse” of the health-care system in Delhi.“BJP-ruled MCDs have not given masks, gloves, face shields or other safety equipment to sanitation workers and the workers associated with the fogging exercise to combat dengue and malaria. They are front-line workers and the BJP is insulting them and putting their lives at risk. The AAP demands that the BJP-ruled MCDs immediately provide safety gear to sanitation workers,” said the AAP’s in-charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “ His (Pathak’s) statement on non-availability of safety gear for sanitation workers is baseless. This is a tactic for diverting attention from the collapse of the health-care system in Delhi and failure of the AAP government in Covid-19 management. Sanitation Inspector offices in all 278 wards of the three MCDs are well stocked with masks, gloves and soaps, among others. They are routinely distributed among sanitation workers and mosquito-breeding checkers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-not-providing-safety-gear-to-sanitation-workers-alleges-aap-not-true-says-bjp-101619464465309.html
27-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees record jump in single-day Covid deaths at 380; 20,201 new cases seen||The national capital on Monday witnessed a fall in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 20,201 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 1,047,916, according to the health department's bulletin. However, 380 people died in the last 24 hours, the highest ever single- day spike in deaths since the beginning of the pandemic last year. The caseload now includes 14,628 deaths, 940,930 recoveries and 92,358 active cases.The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi is currently at 35 per cent, the second highest since last year while the highest positvity rate ever was at 36.24 per cent on April 22. More than 57,600 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 18,904 are rapid antigen tests while the remaining 38,786 tests are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNaat, the bulletin added.The containment zones in Delhi have reached 29,104 while 52,733 patients continue to remain under home isolation.Delhi on Monday joined the list of states which will be administering vaccine doses free of cost to residents above the age of 18 during the third phase of the vaccination drive from May 1.Delhi records 20,201 new COVID19 cases, 380 deaths and 22,055 recoveries; case tally 10,47,916 pic.twitter.com/WVpkqT0fKeAddressing a press conference, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday the Delhi government has already approved the purchase of 1.34 crore doses and will work towards speeding up purchases further. Nearly 3 million beneficiaries have been so far inoculated in the national capital.Hospitals across Delhi have been reporting acute shortage of oxygen for a week for treating critical Covid-19 patients. Some hospitals have only managed to make short-term arrangements and are finding it difficult to come up with a permanent solution.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Gautam Gambhir on Monday hit out at Kejriwal over this shortage and said the state government is responsible for the oxygen tankers while the Centre’s job is to make the gas available. Gambhir also alleged on Sunday that eight oxygen plants were supposed to be set up in Delhi but only one has been installed till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-20-201-fresh-covid-19-cases-380-more-deaths-101619456719421.html
