28-04-2021||Delhi||People with comorbidities will be given preference in Delhi in Phase III||The third phase of the COVID-19 inoculation drive for those in the 18-44 age group is likely to begin at "moderate" pace in the national capital and people with comorbidities will be given preference, officials said on Wednesday.The Delhi government has placed an order for over 1.3 crore doses with manufacturers. The vaccine will be delivered in phases, an official aware of the development said.Private hospitals will have to procure vaccines directly from manufacturers, he said."We are likely to have a moderate start and it will be ramped up gradually," the official said.The Centre will continue to provide vaccine for those aged above 45."So, there will be three channels - Centre, state and private and therefore, the number of beneficiaries being vaccinated a day will increase," another official said.Asked if the more vaccine centres will be added considering the increased number of beneficiaries, the official said, "A little bit expansion might be done, but by and large the number will remain the same."At present, jabs are being given at around 500 centres in the capital.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Monday said everybody aged above 18 would be administered COVID-19 vaccines free of cost in Delhi.He had also appealed to vaccine manufacturers to bring down the price to ₹150 per dose.Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at ₹600 per dose for state governments and at ₹1,200 per dose for private hospitals.Serum Institute of India (SII)'s Covishield will be available at a price of ₹300 per dose to state governments and ₹600 per dose to private hospitals.The nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive began on January 16.The Centre, which has been inoculating frontline workers and those aged 45 and above, this month announced expansion of the national vaccination drive from May 1, amid a deadly second Covid wave ravaging the country.Registration for this category began on the CoWIN platform and Aarogya Setu app on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/people-with-comorbidities-will-be-given-preference-in-delhi-in-phase-iii-101619626803414.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 44°C, highest this season||The maximum temperature in parts of Delhi breached the 44 degrees Celsius mark on Wednesday, the highest this season so far, according to the India Meteorological Department data.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 42.2 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal.The minimum temperature settled at 22.3 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal.The mercury rose to 44.4 degrees Celsius in Najafgarh and Narela, and 44 degrees Celsius in Mungeshpur, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The weatherman said partly cloudy weather, gusty winds and light rain is expected in the city on Saturday.The maximum temperature is expected to dip to 38 degrees Celsius by Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-44-c-highest-this-season-101619621426707.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi-NCR helps: Residents run errands, arrange meds, cook food, amid rising cases||One act of kindness can save a life. And folks in Delhi-NCR have taken upon themselves to help out people as much as possible in these trying times, amid the rising coronavirus cases. Whether it’s offering to cook food for the Covid positive individuals/families, running a local errand, arranging medicines, looking for plasma donors, or helping out with information such as on available hospital beds, they are doing it all! Some like restauranteur Ankur Malhotra, from Noida, is part of many WhatsApp groups, and help in passing on the relevant information. “My friends call me jugadu. Things are really bad and getting worse. Some people want injections, medicines or where beds are available with oxygen. I keep on passing information and sharing references to anyone who needs them,” he says. Kirti Khanna, a corporate professional, recently took to social media to extend help with local errands such as arranging medicines and food. “I’m seeing friends lose their relatives. I could figure out that there is a lot of chaos, and people genuinely need help. And the feeling of helplessness of not getting some of the basic is very overwhelming at times. So I thought I could connect people to chemists in Gurugram. I love to cook so I can provide food. My husband is home so he can deliver. I can just talk to them to make them feel better. Simply try to be there. When the world is going crazy, all you need is an act of kindness,” she says.Sakshi Banga, a Delhi-based lawyer, who is going all across the city delivering medicines herself, says, “The situation is horrifying right now. I’m helping out people as much as possible. And we all need to help each other out! People have been asking about availability of beds, plasma donors, Remdesivir, and even doctor’s appointments for a video consultation... People aren’t able to connect to good doctors, especially those who have peculiar conditions. I’m available at 9871073448, if anyone needs help.”Gurugram-based homemaker Priyanka Talreja, who recently sent food to a Covid patient and a relative in her family, says she’s open to helping out others too. “You need to eat well for recovery during Covid. I would try my level best to help others, too. This is the time when we need to stand by senior citizens, and those living alone, arrange medicines. My cook called me, and I arranged the number of a guy who does our check-up. So, help in whatever little ways we can.” And then there are some like Aditya Amit Gundh who are running informal groups that promote art, spirituality and fitness to ease the anxiety and stress induced due to the pandemic. He says, “There are people who want to talk, as there is a lot of anxiety and fear. There is a real threat outside, but perceptive threat is also why people are suffering because of fear of loss of job, and health concerns. Within this group, there are people capable to help in times of need. We are offering people to just open up, call us and just speak. Every Sunday there is an online baithak where poets, singers come together to entertain people. Anyone can log in at Instagram.com/dimensionscommune.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-helps-residents-run-errands-arrange-meds-cook-food-amid-rising-cases-101619620480065.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||It appears you want people to die: Delhi HC tells Centre||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said it appeared that the Centre wanted people to die as according to the new protocol on use of Remdesivir for COVID-19 treatment, the drug was to be given only to those on oxygen support."This is wrong. This is a complete non-application of mind. Now people who do not have oxygen will not get Remdesivir either. It appears you want people to die," Justice Prathiba M Singh said to the central government.It appears the Centre was changing the protocol to reduce the shortage of the drug, the high court said."This is complete mismanagement," the court added. It was hearing a plea by a lawyer who is suffering from COVID-19 and was able to get only three out of the six doses of Remdesivir required.Due to court's intervention, the lawyer got the remaining vials on Tuesday (April 27) night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/it-appears-you-want-people-to-die-delhi-hc-tells-centre-101619611572785.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Covid positive pet parent in Delhi-NCR? Boarding facilities come to the rescue!||To feed or take out your furry bundle of joy becomes difficult when you or your family come in contact with Covid-19. And this has led many Covid positive families to send their pets to boarding facilities in Delhi-NCR, which are taking ample precautions to take care of the pawsome beings in the most hygiene way. “The problem is if a family has one Covid positive member, who gets hospitalised, then how do they take care of the ailing patient as well as their pets? In such cases often neighbours denying to help because not everyone is comfortable with animals,” says Vipul Agrahari, from Happy Petting. He says he has been getting four to five calls every day to enquire about the facility. “A lot of first timers are calling. And people calling us say that they need seven to days of boarding, till the time their second test is done, and the report comes out negative. But, not just those with Covid are looking for boarding facilities at present. During the lockdown last year, with all the time people had, they preferred to buy a dog, which has increased the number of pet dogs, and even birds, cats, rabbits, and guinea pigs. Those pet parents, too, are looking for boarding facilities; but don’t want to board their small pets at big farmhouses. So we provide separate boarding facilities to cater to their needs,” adds Agrahari. “I’m getting around three calls per day from people where in the who family has become Covid positive,” says Arun Shivakumar, from Delhi-based Pet Home Boarding. He adds, “About 60% pets at our three acre farm are from families that have tested Covid positive recently. We have 38 dogs as of now. And we go and pick them up with utmost safety while wearing masks, gloves and keeping sanitisers handy. And we offer to keep them for a minimum of 15 days. But, as soon as we bring them here, we give them a shampoo bath. Dogs don’t get affected by coronavirus, but they can be a carrier of it. So, we also sanitise ourselves to evade any possibility of getting the virus.” Kuldeep Singh Chauhan, a farm-based boarding Pet Lovers Hut, in Delhi and Gurugram, says it’s difficult to provide pick up facility due to rise in demand. “People are enquiring for boarding facilities for 15 days, and we are getting a lot of calls! I’m not giving the facility of pick up now. Normal tareeka nahin hain ab pets ko rakhne ka. Relatives or friends of the Covid affected families are still leaving their pets with us. And first we give the dog a bath, and only then take him inside the kennel. If even someone isn’t infected with Covid, it’s difficult to be sure about it in such times. Bahut se log toh batate hi nahin hai. This has happened in the past, and later when they came to pick up the pet then they said that they were in quarantine. Hence we have to be extra cautious now, and don’t take any chances.”There are some kind souls who are helping others take care of their pets in these difficult times. Take for instance Tara, a Delhiite who works in an e-commerce firm. “I love dogs, and my husband and I am willing to take people’s dogs into our house. We offer to take of pets of families who have turned Covid positive, and have got a couple of calls so far. There are a lot of people who need help right now. So, if we can help, then why not? But we can’t take multiple pets since we don’t have a house help at present.” she says.Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-positive-pet-parent-in-delhi-ncr-boarding-facilities-come-to-the-rescue-101619603919035.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||GNCT Act, which gives more powers to Delhi L-G, comes into force from April 27||Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal is now the ‘government’ in the National Capital as the Centre notified the amended Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 on Tuesday. A gazette notification issued on Tuesday says the act comes into force from April 27, which means that day-to-day decisions taken by the Arvind Kejriwal Cabinet in the Union Territory will have to have opinion of the L-G. The act, passed by the Parliament last month, gives overarching powers to the Delhi L-G in day-to-day functioning of the Union Territory; a move criticised by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders and other Opposition parties saying this obstructs the functioning of an elected government. On the other hand, the Centre has claimed that the act promotes “harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further defines the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lieutenant Governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court.” According to the controversial act, the “government” in Delhi would mean L-G in the context of all legislations to be passed by the state assembly. This, according to the Centre, is in consistency with the status of Delhi as a Union Territory to address the ambiguities in the interpretation of the legislative provisions. The bill makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before taking any executive action in the city. It also bars Delhi government from making any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions. Any rule made till this act comes into effect will be void, according to the bill. According to the act, the Delhi assembly won’t be able to make rules for regulating its procedure and the conduct of its business which are inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Parliament of India. The Supreme Court had, on July 4, 2018, ruled that the L-G cannot interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and that he must act on aid and advice of the council of ministers. The Centre has however said the new act seeks to clarify the expression of government in order to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court. “The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991 (1of 1992) was enacted to supplement the provisions of the Constitution relating to the Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers for the National Capital Territory of Delhi and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Section 44 of the Act deals with conduct of business and there is no structural mechanism provided in the act for effective time bound implementation of said section. Further, there is no clarity as to what proposal or matters are required to be submitted to Lieutenant Governor before issuing order thereon,” the statement of objects and reasons stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gnct-act-which-gives-more-powers-to-delhi-l-g-comes-into-force-from-april-27-101619584356811.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Mercury to shoot up, a hot day predicted for Delhi today||Delhi is likely to witness a hot day on Wednesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 42°C.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 20°C, four notches below normal, and the maximum temperature was 41°C -- three degrees above normal.Delhi’s air quality was in the very poor category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 306.Also Read | Rain, thunderstorm likely over parts of NW India till May 1An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality has deteriorated to the lower end of the very poor category as forecasted. Surface winds are moderate and southwesterly, surface winds and ventilation is forecasted to improve for the next two days. AQI is likely to marginally improve to the lower end of the very poor to poor category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-to-shoot-up-a-hot-day-predicted-for-delhi-today-101619580456226.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Decoys, informers help police nab black marketeers||With instances of black-marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial drugs to treat Covid-19 emerging every day, the Delhi Police on Tuesday asked its personnel to activate their human intelligence networks, keep a close watch on social media posts, visit scrap godowns, and use decoy customers to trap hoarders who are fleecing Covid patients and their families by charge heft sums of money for a single cylinder or medicine vial.On Tuesday, Delhi high court pulled up the Delhi government, and said its system was not working since the black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines was rampant.Delhi has been hit by a severe shortage of drugs such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, a scarcity that has been exacerbated by hoarders and black marketeers who are selling them at rates 10-15 times their retail value. For instance, HT reported earlier that a dealer in north Delhi offered to sell a customer a vial of remdesivir for ₹25,000, as against an MRP of about ₹3,000.Police said they have also started monitoring the activities of staff at hospitals and pharmacies to see how oxygen and medicines were reaching black marketeers.On Monday, a woman nurse of a private hospital was arrested for allegedly selling remdesivir injections, and the technical director of the intensive care unit (ICU) of another private hospital was arrested for rerouting oxygen cylinders to the black market, a senior police officer said. “The nurse was selling one remdesivir vial for ₹38,000 to her conduit, Sudhir, who further sold it to any person in need for ₹60,000. Both were arrested on Monday,” said DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal.Over the past week, Delhi Police have arrested 18 people and recovered 104 remdesivir vials, over 100 oxygen cylinders and oxymeters, and other crucial kits, in eight searches.The latest search was carried out on Monday, when three men, including the 41-year-old technician director of a private hospital in south Delhi’s Aya Nagar, were arrested for allegedly hoarding and black marketing oxygen and nitrogen cylinders and oxygen flowmeters, police said. “They were selling a standard oxygen cylinder for ₹50,000 and the smaller one for ₹30,000,” said DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.“The arrested persons used to purchase old cylinders from scrap dealers through auctions. We are trying to ascertain from where they had managed to refill the cylinders,” DCP Thakur said.They were identified as Ansar Ahmed,41, and his associates Sumit Saini,33, and Mohit Kumar, 23. The arrests came after information was received through police informers.Social media has been flooded with SOS messages from patients or their families, seeking medicines and oxygen. The officer cited above said racketeers were cashing in on their desperation. In many cases, the fraudsters took money but never delivered the items, he added.“Our personnel are keeping a vigil on chemist shops, scrap dealers, hospital staff, dealers and distributors of medical equipment, and oxygen refilling stations. Social media monitoring is also being done,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/decoys-informers-help-police-nab-black-marketeers-101619559723252.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's crematoriums run out of wood, seek forest dept’s help||Delhi’s municipality-run crematoriums are running out of wood required for pyres on account of the rising number of Covid-19 deaths -- 2,648 since April 20 according to the HT dashboard -- and sought help from the state forest department, as per municipal officials.The municipal agencies in the city (north, south and east MCDs) have approached the state forest department to help arrange for wood. Separately, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has asked issued an order directing officials to use dried cow dung as fuel.Senior civic officials said that their crematoriums have been leased out to NGOs who arrange wood through government suppliers. Before the second wave hit the city, the largest crematorium of Delhi, the Nigambodh Ghat, required 6,000-8,000 kg of wood daily, but this has now risen to 80,000-90,000 kg daily.North MCD mayor, Jai Prakash, said the stock of wood in crematoriums is depleting fast. The corporation has had to create additional makeshift cremation facilities in parking lots and parks, and the requirement for wood has significantly gone up. “We require the cooperation of the Delhi government to meet the daily wood demand,” he said.All three municipal corporations are controlled by the BJP.The city’s forest department said it has received requests from municipal agencies for wood. Deputy conservator forests (north division) Aditya Madanpotra said on Tuesday that they have granted permission to the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), which is constructing the regional rapid transit system (RRTS) in Delhi, to cut the branches and tops of at least 500 trees in advance to meet the demand of crematoriums.The south division of the forest department has also granted permission to cut 200 dead and dried trees in different locations on request from SDMC.Shiv Kumar, one of the caretakers of the Paschim Vihar cremation ground, explained that each pyre needs 500-600kg of wood. “Because of the shortage, we have brought it down to 450 kg... Every day we are getting over 200-300 bodies, so you can calculate how much wood we need daily,” he said.EDMC on April 25 issued a notice allowing the use of dried cow dung at crematoriums. “We are asking NGOs, citizen groups and cow shelters to donate cow dung cakes for this purpose,” said Nirmal Jain, mayor, EDMC.SDMC has also written to the Delhi government to ensure that the supply of wood from neighbouring states to reach the city without interruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-crematoriums-run-out-of-wood-seek-forest-dept-s-help-101619559472773.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Low turnout at Delhi's 24x7 vaccination centres||The turnout at the Delhi government-run 24x7 vaccination centres has dropped significantly due to the lockdown, several district officials said.They also pointed out that several health care workers tested positive for Covid-19 in the infection’s fourth wave in the city, leading to a staff crunch, and there was a need to rework the round-the-clock vaccination plan for the effective utilisation of personnel.“We have eight sites where we provide 24x7 vaccination. We used to get about 70-100 people at all the sites between 9pm and 9am in a day before the lockdown. But now, the numbers have dropped to somewhere around 35-50,” a senior official from the northwest district said.Each vaccination site has a team of five people, including one vaccinator. The Delhi government on April 5 ordered that one-third of all vaccination centres in government-run hospitals function will round-the-clock.The north municipal corporation, which runs one 24x7 centre, said just 10-15 people come to take the vaccine after evening. The mayor of the north corporation, Jai Prakash said, “Most people come during the day for vaccination. We are getting 10-15 people at our centre between 9pm and 9am The Delhi government needs to rethink the 24x7 vaccination centres to ensure effective utilisation of health care workers. Now, we are facing a staff crunch as many workers have contracted the infection. Maybe the timing can be revised till 10pm or 11pm, since not many people come late night, or something should be done to encourage people to come at night.”A district magistrate who asked not to be named said that government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients were also facing a staff crunch.“Hospitals treating Covid patients have raised the issue of running these 24x7 centres these days. We will take up the matter with senior officials. So far, there is no problem in running the 24x7 facility in the non-Covid hospital,” said the district magistrate.A Delhi government spokesperson did not comment when asked if there were plans to reassign staff at round-the-clock vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/low-turnout-at-24x7-vaccination-centres-101619559249868.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Record 381 deaths in Delhi, positivity rate still over 30%||For the eighth day in a row, the Capital’s Covid-19 positivity rate remained over 30% -- on Tuesday, the city recorded 24,149 infections over 73,800 tests, a positivity rate of 32.7%.On Tuesday, with 381 new deaths, Delhi also reported its highest ever single day death toll. This was the sixth consecutive day when the city recorded more than 300 deaths. The total number of deaths was 15,009 on Tuesday.Positivity rate -- the proportion of samples that return positive for Covid-19 -- is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with increasing new cases, it indicates that the virus is spreading fast within the community. The city had never before seen this high a positivity rate for so long.The city had earlier recorded a positivity rate of more than 30% only a few times – three separate days in April-May of last year when the number of tests wasn’t consistent, four straight days in June when the city recorded its first wave and one day in July.A total of 24149 new deaths were reported in the city on Tuesday, taking the total number of confirmed Covid-19 infections in the city to 1,072,065, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government.Experts said that the worst is yet to come for the city, as cases and deaths are expected to continue rising in the near future particularly because the positivity rate is so high in the Capital right now.“All the statistical models indicate that with the current trajectory, the number of cases will likely peak in mid-May. And deaths will peak two weeks after that. Last year, the curve of the infection was bell-shaped. This year, however, it is almost vertical. What this means is that the decline will also be slower,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).He also called for a push towards genome sequencing, so that variants of Sars-CoV-2 can be tracked in the city.“Now, there is a clustering of cases; entire families getting infected in one go. This is the time there should be cluster sampling done for genome sequencing. And, it is important to get the results of the samples collected in April in the same month so that action can be taken based on the information.”The number of hospitalisations have also remained at around 18,800 for three days now, with many hospitals running out of beds to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/record-381-deaths-in-delhi-positivity-rate-still-over-30-101619558940784.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Never asked for a five-star Covid facility: Delhi High Court||The Delhi high court said on Tuesday it did not make any request for creating Covid-19 facilities for its judges, staff and their families in a five-star hotel and that an order saying so was “very misleading”.“Do you think we as an institution can ask something like this when people are dying due to the lack of oxygen and they are not getting rooms in the hospitals? Will this not be patently discriminatory that people are not able to get beds and we say reserve 100 rooms in a 5-star for us?”The Delhi government on April 25 issued an order directing The Ashoka hotel to convert 100 rooms into a Covid-19 care centre, where priority was to be given to Delhi high court judges and other judicial officers and their families. The order said that Primus Hospital would manage the Covid care centre at the five-star hotel in Chanakyapuri, adding that it was done on the request from the Delhi high court. The order was withdrawn on Tuesday night.“The projection is that we have made this request to benefit ourselves or that you have done this to appease us,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. The court took suo motu cognisance of the matter and issued notice to the Delhi government seeking to know its stand.Terming the government’s move as “unthinkable”, the bench said: “This is very, very misleading. High court has not made any request. There is no communication in this regard… We have not made any such request. We have not said anything of this kind. Two of our judicial officers have died. Our concern as their well wishers, therefore, was that we wanted in case they need hospitalization, then they should not face any problem and that has been translated into this order,” Justice Sanghi said.The court said that the government cannot create such facilities for a certain class of people and asked the Delhi government to take “corrective measures” to withdraw the order.When senior advocate Rahul Mehra, for the Delhi government, tried to apprise the court that media was making a wrong projection and that it was their “mischief”, the bench remarked that the press had not done anything wrong in reporting it.“Media is not wrong in pointing this out,” it observed.The bench noted in its order that an enquiry was made with the registrar general of the Delhi high court about any request, “who in turn denied in negative”.A Delhi government spokesperson said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday asked for the file to investigate how such an order was passed in the first place. “Not even the deputy chief minister, who is the nodal minister for Covid management in Delhi or the Delhi health minister were aware of the order. No copy of the order has been sent to them either. That is why the deputy CM has asked for the file,” the spokesperson said.According to the April 25 order issued by the sub-divisional magistrate, Chanakyapuri, Geeta Grover on April 25, Primus Hospital in Chanakyapuri was directed to run a Covid Health Care facility, provide ambulance for transfer facility and also be responsible for disposal of the biomedical waste.The matter will now be heard by the chief justice of the Delhi high court as a public interest litigation (PIL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/never-asked-for-a-five-star-covid-facility-delhi-high-court-101619558782960.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Emergency services hit amid clash after patient dies in private hospital||The family members of a patient who died of Covid-19 and security staff at the emergency department of the Indraprastha Apollo hospital clashed on Tuesday morning, leading to injuries to several people, officials said.A 60-year-old woman was brought to the hospital emergency ward last night. She required an intensive care unit (ICU) bed. However, there were no ICU beds available, a hospital official said.“She was given oxygen and first aid in the emergency department. The doctors had requested the family to take her to another hospital as there were no ICU beds available at Apollo and the patient was crashing,” the official said. The woman died at around 8am, after which her family and some alleged local residents vandalised the emergency department. In the clip, the security staff could also be seen hitting people with sticks.In a statement on Tuesday, the hospital said, “Unfortunately, the patient died at around 8 am, post which the patient’s family members resorted to vandalism, destruction of hospital property and assault on our doctors and staff. The situation was brought under control through hospital security staff and use of the police. While the hospital deeply condoles the death of the patient, it is deeply shocked at the behaviour of the patient’s family against doctors and healthcare workers who are providing untiring services amidst the pandemic.”The hospital had to suspend emergency services for around two hours after the incident, officials said.According to the police, the only people injured in the incident were the two sons of the dead woman. RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east), said that no complaint to the police was made by either side until Tuesday evening. “No one from the hospital is injured,” Meena said.The DCP said the family of the woman brought her to Apollo Hospital around 2am on Tuesday after she tested positive for Covid-19. “They brought their own oxygen. Since there was no bed available at the hospital, they waited until morning, but the woman died,” the DCP said.Her death led to a heated exchange between her relatives and the hospital guards. “The patient’s relatives and the hospital guards then clashed and two sons of the deceased suffered injuries. No one from the hospital was injured,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/emergency-services-hit-amid-clash-after-patient-dies-in-private-hospital-101619558462876.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||‘You’re not taking action’: Court pulls up Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said its confidence in the Delhi government was “shaken”, and that it may ask the Centre to intervene if they are unable to efficiently manage supplies of oxygen and other essential resources amid the second Covid-19 wave. It also said that the families of those who died in the city hospitals due to shortage of oxygen must be compensated, and directed the government to submit a complete list of the victims.“Set your (Delhi government) house in order... enough is enough. If you (Delhi government) cannot manage then tell us, we will ask the Centre to send its officers. We will ask them to take over,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told senior advocate Rahul Mehra, who represented the Delhi government.The bench was incensed by the Delhi government’s inability to curb black-marketing and hoarding of oxygen cylinders and medicines in the city after complaints from various hospitals that they were not getting oxygen from refillers and that the government was not helping them.They contended that the Delhi government was supplying oxygen to refillers without any direction or accountability.On its part, the Delhi government expressed helplessness, saying the refillers were not giving them details of their supplies to the hospitals and nursing homes.Anguished at this, the bench told the government: “There is an artificial shortage of oxygen. Your management of the oxygen cylinder distribution is nothing but a ‘lollipop’. This cylinder business is a mess. You have to look into it and put your house in order. Your system has failed. Black-marketing of oxygen still continues. How are people procuring oxygen? Large-scale hoarding is going, and you are not taking action,” the court told the Delhi government.It also directed the Delhi government to take over the plant of a city-based oxygen refiller, Seth Air Product, which apparently withheld 20 metric tonne of oxygen without supplying it to several hospitals, including Maharaja Agrasen and Venkateshwara.Seth Air’s representative Tarun Seth sought to defend the firm, saying the Delhi government had not given any direction on the supply of cylinders.But the bench retorted: “We will take you in custody... People are dying and you are making profit even at such time. This is not the time to become vultures. If any person dies for shortage of oxygen, we will hang you.”Issuing contempt notices to five refillers for not appearing before the court on Wednesday, the bench remarked: “If they are belligerent, then they will see our belligerence. We will keep them in custody if they are playing with people’s life like this...”“We will not countenance such actions. We make it clear that if any of the refillers do not provide the requisite data then strict action would not be taken not only by Delhi government but also this court,” the bench said.During the proceedings, the court was also informed by S Bankata, a doctor at Batra Super Speciality Hospital, that they lost 21 patients between Saturday and Sunday due to shortage of oxygen. Last week, Jaipur Golden Hospital said that it lost over 20 lives due to shortage of oxygen.At this, the court ordered: “We direct the Delhi government to file a report after taking enquiries into deaths from the hospitals and nursing homes which have taken place due to the shortage of oxygen. The report should have the name of the patient, the ward/room, time of death in a tabular form.”“We have to compensate these persons. It is the responsibility of the State,” said the bench, asking for all details in four days.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who, along with several hospitals, sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and the continuous supply of oxygen in hospitals and nursing in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/youre-not-taking-action-court-pulls-up-delhi-govt-101619558181460.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Oxygen supply in Capital to be pushed up, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that his government will import 18 cryogenic tankers from Thailand and 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France, and added that they were setting up 1,200 more intensive care unit (ICU) to provide relief to a health care system that has been stretched beyond its capacity amid a raging fourth wave of Covid-19 infections.The health infrastructure in Delhi, which is in the middle of a “last resort” lockdown to arrest the alarming spread of the infectious disease, remains overwhelmed by record highs in infections and deaths, with complaints of shortage of medical oxygen and ICU beds pouring in from across the city.In a digital news briefing on Tuesday, the chief minister said that within a month, 44 oxygen plants will be set up at various hospitals in Delhi, including 21 that will be imported from France. Of these, the Centre will install eight oxygen plants by April 30, he said.Kejriwal said the situation has improved significantly in the past two days after the chaos witnessed last week due to an oxygen shortage. “We do not have as many SOS calls from hospitals now as we got on three days last week – Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. I want to thank the central government for helping us through this time by providing their top officials who worked in close coordination with the senior officers of the Delhi government. I thank our Delhi government officials too who have worked day and night to address the crisis,” he said.Delhi reported 24,149 fresh cases on Tuesday even as 381 people died of the infection in the city. The positivity rate continued to stay above the 30% mark at 32.72%Due to a shortage of tankers, the Delhi government was facing problems in transporting its oxygen quota decided by the Centre, he added. “Hospitals were jam-packed, and I was scared that a major untoward incident may lead to deaths due to lack of oxygen.”Kejriwal said they were arranging 500 ICU beds at the Ramlila Ground in front of the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital. “Another 500 ICU beds are being readied at the main Ramlila Ground in front of Lok Nayak Hospital. At the Radha Saomi Satsang facility, we are arranging 200 ICU beds.” Kejriwal said that by May 10, the Delhi government will add 1,200 ICU beds to the Covid-19 infrastructure.He said the current Covid-19 wave is dangerous because it is more infectious and is making patients severely ill. “That is why the demand for ICU beds has increased manifold.” He said every hospital is treating patients more than its capacity. “All ICU beds are full. The central government gave us 500 ICU beds at the DRDO [Defence Research and Development Organisation] facility in Delhi Cantt, but all beds got filled in just three hours.”“The Delhi government has decided to import 18 cryogenic tankers from Bangkok [Thailand], which will start arriving from tomorrow [Wednesday],” he said. Kejriwal said they have sought the Centre’s help to have the Indian Air Force airlift these tankers. “Once these 18 tankers reach the city, the problem of transporting liquid oxygen will be solved, and Delhi will get its full quota of oxygen from the Centre…”“We are importing 21 PSA oxygen plants from France. These are ready-to-use plants and will be installed in different hospitals. In the next month, we will be installing 44 oxygen plants in Delhi. Of these, eight are being installed by the Centre. For some reason, the project was delayed, but now by April 30, these eight plants will be ready. The remaining 36 oxygen plants will be set up by the Delhi government of which 21 are being imported from France and 15 are indigenous.”A government spokesperson said while IAF is airlifting these tankers, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) is coordinating the transportation till Delhi.The Centre provides up to 490 MT of oxygen to Delhi daily, but the Capital has faced a deficit of about 100MT due to transportation issues, according to people aware of the developments.The Delhi high court on Tuesday said its confidence in the Delhi government has shaken and it may ask the Centre to step in to manage the escalating situation.Kejriwal said many chief ministers and industrialists came forward to help the Delhi government after he wrote to them seeking support. “Talks have advanced with some of them, but they have requested not to be named. So, I thank all the chief ministers, industrialists, NGOs, and religious organisations who have come out to help us in this crisis. Whatever decisions I announced is because of their help in some way or the other.”Posting a message on Twitter later, Kejriwal thanked Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren after he announced that 58MT oxygen was being sent to Delhi from a plant in his state.Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary of Delhi Voluntary Hospitals Forum, said, “Whatever the government is doing now – like getting the tankers and oxygen plants – is a good step but should have been done before. We must ensure that all hospitals install at least small oxygen plants that can act as buffer before they are given registration, just like we ask for fire clearance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-supply-in-capital-to-be-pushed-up-says-kejriwal-101619557959914.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to add 1,000 ICU beds at Ramlila grounds||With Delhi running out of intensive care unit (ICU) beds by Tuesday, and with no let-up in the number of fresh cases of Covid-19 being reported from the city, ICU facilities are being created at central Delhi’s Ramlila Maidan and another vacant Ramlila ground in east Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday. The facility in central Delhi will be linked to the Lok Nayak hospital while the one in east Delhi will be attached to Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, Kejriwal said.The two facilities will be in addition to the 200 ICU beds that are being readied at the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur. All 1,200 ICU beds will be ready by May 10, the chief minister said.“We are arranging 500 ICU beds at the Ramlila ground in front of GTB hospital. Another 500 ICU beds are being readied at the main Ramlila Maidan in front of Lok Nayak hospital. At the Radha Saomi Satsang facility, we are arranging 200 ICU beds. By May 10, we will add 1,200 ICU beds to our Covid-19 infrastructure which is now completely overstretched,” Kejriwal said. He further said this wave of Covid-19 is more “dangerous” because it is more infectious and is making people severely ill.“Despite trying our best, every hospital in Delhi is currently overburdened. Each hospital is treating patients beyond its capacity. All ICU beds are full. The Central government gave us 500 ICU beds at the DRDO facility in Delhi Cantonment, but all beds there got filled in just three hours. That means Delhi has so many serious patients roaming around the city in search of ICU beds and treatment,” he said.Spokespersons of Lok Nayak and GTB hospitals were unavailable for comment.With Delhi continuing to report well over 20,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 every day since the past 10 days (from April 17), the city has run out of dedicated ICU beds for Covid-19 patients.North MCD mayor Jai Prakash, under whose jurisdiction the Ramlila Maidan in central Delhi falls, said, “We have granted permission to the Delhi government to convert the Ramlila Maidan into an ICU facility of 500 beds... We also assured the government of our cooperation and help to control this pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-add-1-000-icu-beds-at-ramlila-grounds-101619557484822.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||With ICU beds running out in city, struggle to get care for critically ill||Some patients being wheeled in to hospitals by the time it’s too late, others being given oxygen on stretchers and chairs in the triage area, and some others lying in ambulances, autos and vans parked outside hospitals seeking medical treatment — these scenes have been recurring in the national capital for over the past week as hospitals run out of ICU beds and shut down emergency departments for want of oxygen ports and cylinders.On average, the city has reported over 24,000 cases daily over the past seven days. Though only a small percentage of them need hospitalisation and nearly 20,000 people have also been recovering from the disease, Delhi’s overall bed capacity of 20,751 -- and particularly its ICU capacity of 4,742 -- is not being able to keep up with the inflow of fresh patients.Only 13 beds were vacant, according to the Delhi government’s portal on Tuesday night. Of these, 11 were at a hospital meant for pregnant women who have contracted Covid, and the other two -- one at the AIIMS Trauma Centre and the other at Medeor Hospital in Qutab Institutional Area, were also unavailable because of a queue of patients slotted for the beds.This has led to hospitals being forced to turn away the critically ill patients, either for want of oxygen or beds, and more patients and their relatives have been desperately running from one health facility to another.“We had to close the casualty Tuesday; there is no space to even sit there. We have been taking in patients who need ICU care and giving them oxygen in the casualty; there are eight such patients in the hospital right now. There are no ICU beds; we have accommodated as many patients as we can. Now there are no oxygen ports to attach ventilators to,” said Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent, Holy Family hospital in Okhla.The situation is getting worse, according to another doctor from the hospital. “Wards are jam-packed; people are being ventilated using anaesthesia machines that are normally used in surgeries. There are patients on stretchers, wheelchairs, even on the floor. And everybody is on oxygen except those who are to be discharged. At least 10 to 15 patients are being brought dead every day. We are subconsciously triaging patients, and taking in the relatively healthier ones who have a chance of survival,” the doctor said, asking not to be named.Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of Saroj hospital in Rohini, agreed that daily about 10 patients are wheeled by the time it’s too late to save them.“If I decide to add 100 beds in the hospital today, they will get filled just by those who have called me today,” he said.For the patients they cannot admit, the hospital take them into its emergency departments, gives them medicines and oxygen to bring up the saturation to 90%, before allowing them to leave to continue their hunt for a hospital bed.A resident doctor from Lok Nayak hospital, who has been working in the ICU, said: “We are getting young patients without comorbidities. But they are struggling too. The other day, when a patient was wheeled into the ICU, her oxygen saturation was 10%. I’ve never seen oxygen saturation that low in a patient without any other disease.”A doctor from Safdarjung hospital said on condition of anonymity: “Every time we discharge a patient, the bed is filled up immediately. Patients are desperate to get an ICU bed, but ICU beds cannot be created just anywhere -- they need proper infrastructure to provide high flow oxygen of up to 60 to 70 litres a minute.”Dr CM Bhagat, director of Bhagat Chandra hospital near Dwarka, said, “Every day, one or two patients are brought dead because they have been running around the city in search of a bed. Every day, I get requests from at least 200 people.”At the smaller 50-bed Panchsheel hospital, which does not have ventilator or high-flow oxygen beds, several patients chose to stay on whatever oxygen was available rather than risking going out and not getting a bed.“They told me, let the patients stay there, they will die if taken back home,” said Dr VK Goyal, medical director of the hospital.Demand for helplineThe hospitals have suggested creating a central helpline for allocating beds to patients so that they do not have to go from one hospital to the other.“There should also be an ambulance stationed at all big hospitals to transport patients to other facilities. I have several patients in the casualty who just need a little oxygen support; they at least can be managed at smaller hospitals,” said Dr Ray.He also suggested that the government take control of a few big centres completely and keep them only for patients being referred by other hospitals.Dr Bharadwaj said, “We also need to educate people on how to take care of the sick at home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-icu-beds-running-out-in-city-struggle-to-get-care-for-critically-ill-101619557141737.html
28-04-2021||Delhi||Man kills ‘drug dealer’ pregnant wife in Delhi; video of killing surfaces||A woman pregnant with twins and released from jail just three days ago in a drugs case was gunned down by her husband outside her home in south-east Nizamuddin on Tuesday morning, police said.The murdered woman’s domestic help was also shot while trying to save the woman, but he is likely to survive, said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east).The crime, which was captured by a CCTV camera, showed the alleged killer taking his own time to fire about a dozen rounds at his wife.According to the DCP, the woman, Saina, was earlier married to Sharafat Sheikh, an alleged gangster and drug dealer who is in jail after being booked under MCOCA and NDPS Act.Saina was arrested a few months ago for her alleged involvement in drug deals, only to be released on bail on Saturday on the ground that she was eight months pregnant with twins.“About a year ago, Saina married a man named Waseem. We are still ascertaining whether she was legally separated from Sheikh or not,” the DCP said.But when Saina was in jail, the DCP said, Waseem entered into an extramarital relationship with her sister. “When Saina was released from jail on bail, Waseem did not meet her. That led to frequent quarrels between them,” the DCP said.Also Read | ‘Your system has failed’: HC asks Delhi govt to take action on oxygen hoardingThe quarrels culminated in a final showdown outside Saina’s house on Tuesday morning. CCTV footage showed Waseem purportedly pulling out a gun and trying to shoot Saina. It was at that moment that Saina’s domestic help, Shahdat, tried to step in but got shot.Thereafter, Waseem can purportedly be seen taking several aims at his wife’s head and other body parts, reloading his gun and then shooting at the collapsed woman repeatedly.In between, he brandished his gun, threatening local residents to stay away during most of the drama.The DCP said that since the suspect was known, his parents were contacted and he was nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-kills-drug-dealer-pregnant-wife-in-delhi-video-of-killing-surfaces-101619556652532.html
