29-04-2021||Delhi||DU students want online classes suspended for at least two weeks||After losing his aunt to Covid-19 this week, Sashwat Pandey, 17, a first-year undergraduate student of history at Delhi University, is now worried about his 20-year-old cousin who is also battling the infection. Along with dealing with the grief and anxiety at his home in Varanasi, Pandey is also having to take time out for assignments and academic activities.“There is so much mental pressure. It is not humane to continue with classes at this point in time. Several teachers, who have Covid-positive family members, are having to take classes. Sometimes, the classes are cancelled at the last minute. Students too are struggling with Covid as well as the pressure of exams and assignments,” said Pandey, who studies at St Stephen’s College.Pandey along with several other first-year students are now petitioning St Stephen’s College and others such as Ramjas College, Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Gargi College, Indraprastha College For Women, Rajdhani College, and Miranda House, among others, to suspend academic activities and online classes for two weeks amid the continuous rise in Covid-19 among university staff and students. LSR students also held a meeting on Thursday to discuss the boycotting of online classes for a week.In their application, students said “the pressure of the rushed academic calendar is forcing students as well as teachers to continue classes and academics work but in reality, the stress of not being able to attend classes and keep up with academic rigour has made the environment highly unconducive for academic activities.”Due to several Covid-19 cases within the university, students said online classes are frequently suspended or rescheduled. Falit Sijariya, another first-year student, said, “In the middle of our class today [Thursday], our teacher received his mother’s Covid test report which was positive. He was visibly disturbed and had to suspend the classes midway. ”Delhi university Teachers’ Association said this week, roughly 600 teachers had tested positive for the novel coronavirus.DU dean of colleges Balaram Pani said college principals can take a decision on these temporary suspensions of online classes in their respective colleges. “Principals can analyse the situation and take a call on online classes as per the availability of teachers and taking into consideration other factors. Teachers can also push the deadline for submission of assignments as per the student requirements. The university has notified principals to act as the situation demands,” said Pani.Rajdhani College teacher Pankaj Kumar Garg said at least 18 teachers of their college are currently battling Covid-19. “The infection leaves people so weak that they are not able to speak. Taking classes in such a scenario will be difficult for them. The university must take steps to follow last year’s pattern and evaluate these [first-year] students on the basis of assessments already conducted,” said Garg, who has also tested positive for the coronavirus.Garg has also written to the university administration requesting them to reschedule the exam for final-year students, which is scheduled to begin from May 15. “Several teachers have confided that they are not in a position to set question papers. For students without access to devices, it will not be safe to come to the ICT centres to take the exam in the present circumstances,” the former academic council member wrote to the university administration.On Thursday, dean (exams) DS Rawat said the university was monitoring the situation with regard to the final year examination and would decide on the matter at the earliest.Meanwhile, students of Jawaharlal Nehru University have also asked for the cancellation of exams and urged the administration to consider alternative modes of evaluation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-students-want-online-classes-suspended-for-at-least-two-weeks-101619720803427.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Police to create dedicated lane for emergency vehicles, hearse vans||To facilitate the speedier movement of oxygen tankers and emergency vehicles such as ambulances, hearse vans and those carrying oxygen cylinders within the city, as well as those coming from neighbouring states, the Delhi Police on Thursday asked all police stations to create dedicated lanes on roads, near police checkpoints.The directions were issued by the city police chief SN Shrivastava who also used his official Twitter handle to post the update and explain why the step was taken. These dedicated lanes are being created only near major vehicle checkpoints set up by police to verify motorists and prosecute those found violating the ongoing curfew (lockdown) orders.“All police stations in Delhi have been directed to dedicate a lane, on the extreme left of the road, for ambulances and other emergency vehicles, including oxygen tankers and those carrying cylinders (in emergency). This is being done to facilitate their smooth movement, even as lockdown violators are prosecuted on the (remaining) regular lanes,” Shrivastava, who also tweeted about the step along with an image of the dedicated lane around 2.30pm on Thursday.According to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA’s) curfew guidelines, only exempted vehicles or those having valid movement e-passes are allowed to ply on Delhi roads. The new arrangement is in addition to the green corridor that the police are providing to oxygen tankers coming from other states or via airports.A senior police officer privy to the development said, on condition of anonymity, that the police chief’s direction came after he made a field visit on Wednesday, during which he saw firsthand the jams at several police checkpoints as motorists were stopped by police personnel to check their movement passes. Shrivastava and other officers observed that such jams may also be delaying the movement of emergency vehicles and oxygen tankers.“The chief later issued directions to all police stations in Delhi for creating a separate lane on the left side of the road near each checkpoint for such emergency vehicles and those that carry oxygen,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said the personnel deployed at checkpoints have been asked to put up large visible signage, demarking the dedicated lane, so that drivers of emergency vehicles and oxygen carrying vehicles can see them from a distance and accordingly move their vehicles into the dedicated lane.“The personnel present there will also signal the drivers to use the dedicated lanes to avoid any congestion at the picket,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-to-create-dedicated-lane-for-emergency-vehicles-hearse-vans-101619720743957.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||395 Covid deaths in Delhi, positivity rate around 32% with over 24,000 new cases||The national capital on Thursday recorded 395 deaths due to coronavirus, the highest since the pandemic began a year ago, and 24,235 cases with a positivity rate of 32.82 per cent, according to a bulletin issued by the city health department.This was the eighth day in a row that Delhi has recorded over 300 deaths due to Covid-19.It had reported 368 deaths on Wednesday, 381 on Tuesday, 380 on Monday, 350 on Sunday, 357 deaths on Saturday, 348 on Friday and 306 on last Thursday, according to government data.Delhi had recorded 25,986 cases on Wednesday, 24,149 on Tuesday, 20,201 on Monday, 22,933 on Sunday, 24,103 on Saturday, 24,331 on Friday and 26,169 on Thursday.The positivity rate was 31.76 per cent on Wednesday, 32.72 per cent on Tuesday, 35.02 per cent on Monday, 30.21 per cent on Sunday, 32.27 per cent on Saturday, 32.43 per cent on Friday, and 36.24 per cent on last Thursday which is the highest so far.The cumulative case count in the city stands at 11,22,286, of which over 10.08 lakh have recovered. The death toll due to the viral disease stands at 15,772, the bulletin said.A total of 73,851 tests, including over 19,251 rapid-antigen ones, were conducted in the said period, it added.The city currently has 97,977 active cases. Out of 21,152 beds in city hospitals, only 1,628 are vacant. A total of 53,440 patients are in home isolation, the bulletin said.A total of 31,761 vaccine doses were administered to people in a day and they included 15,589 who took the first dose and 16,172 who received the second shot, the bulletin said.The number of containment zones in the city has jumped to 35,924 from 33,749 the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/395-covid-deaths-in-delhi-positivity-rate-around-32-with-over-24-000-new-cases-101619715824787.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi doesn’t have vaccines for 18-44 age group: Health minister||With no vaccine doses available, Delhi will not begin Phase 3 of the vaccination drive for those between the ages of 18 and 44 years on May 1, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. “We don’t have enough vaccines. We have requested for procurement of vaccines from the respective companies. Despite all preparations being made, vaccines should be available for inoculation to begin. As soon as these things are made clear and we receive the vaccines, we will let you know in a couple of days or so. We haven’t received the schedule from companies yet, which includes how many vials will reach on which dates,” the minister said at a press briefing. Delhi has placed an order for 13.4 million doses of the vaccine, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on Monday. Adding to the confusion, private hospitals also have no clarity on how to procure vaccine doses on their own. “So far, there is no clarity on whether we will receive any more doses from the state government or if we will have to depend on the doses that we purchase ourselves. If it is the latter, we are likely to not have any doses on May 1 to vaccinate even those above 45 who need their second dose,” said an official from one of the major private hospitals in Delhi, asking not to be named. Government hospitals and district officials too are unsure about where the doses will come from and how they are to be distributed. “We haven’t received any communication about what to do with the vaccine doses or whether we will get any additional doses on May 1. We have vaccination centres ready at the hospital. We will immunise people whenever we get the doses,” said a senior administrator from Lok Nayak hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-doesn-t-have-vaccines-for-18-44-age-group-health-minister-101619695482627.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police seize 170 oxygen concentrators; arrest 4 for hoarding;||A total of 170 oxygen concentrators, two luxury cars – Audi and Mercedes – were seized from four persons, including two brothers, who have been arrested for their alleged involvement in hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators, important life-saving equipment in huge demand in Delhi because of their use in saving lives of Covid patients, and hence the shortage, police said. The arrested persons were selling each oxygen concentrator on prices ranging between ₹90,000 and Rs1.1 lakh, nearly double its retail price. Two of the arrested persons are said to be distributors of such equipment. The total worth of the seized concentrators as per the average market price is between ₹85 lakh and ₹90 lakh. The alleged racketeers would have earned between Rs1.53 crore and ₹1.87 crore, more than double their investment, had they managed to sell the machines in black market, the police said.Also Read | MHA issues clarification on Act making L-G effective in-charge of DelhiDeputy commissioner of police (north district) Anto Alphonse said that in view of the prevailing Covid-19 emergency situation in the city, apart from facilitating hospitals with their oxygen supply, the district police have also been keeping a vigil on black marketeers. The police have also been monitoring SOS messages for such items on social media.The police received a complaint on Twitter that oxygen concentrators are being sold for ₹95,000 each at Mittal’s Store in Shastri Nagar, Delhi. The complaint also had the mobile number of the supplier, said DCP Alphonse. “In view of the gravity of the allegations and sensitivity of the matter, several teams of the district were assigned the task,” he said.The teams put the mobile number on electronic surveillance and it was found to be registered in a woman’s name in Shastri Nagar. The person using the mobile number constantly changed his location and did not respond to calls, the police said.“Our teams continued conducting raids for two days and eventually arrested Pawan Mittal,34, with two oxygen concentrators and two adapters on Wednesday,” said the DCP.After interrogation, he accepted that he tried to sell each concentrator between ₹90,000 and ₹1.1 lakh, depending upon the desperation of the customer, senior police officers associated with the operation said.DCP Alphonse said Mittal revealed that he purchased the oxygen concentrators from Himanshu Khurana, who runs a shop in Sadar Bazar. Khurana,26, was arrested and he disclosed that the distributors and suppliers of the equipment were two brothers – Himanshu Handa, 34, and Ayush Handa, 28, -- from Delhi’s Model Town Part-3.“Our special staff team conducted a raid at the two brothers’ under construction building in Model Town and seized 168 oxygen concentrators along with the same number of adapters from its basement, where they had hoarded them. We also seized their two luxury cars – Audi and Mercedes – as some machines were kept in them and they were using the vehicles to transport and deliver the equipment to Mittal and Khurana,” said DCP Alphonse.The police said they were interrogating the two brothers to ascertain the source through which they procured the oxygen concentrators in bulk.On Tuesday, the Delhi Police asked its personnel to activate their human intelligence network, keep a close watch on social media posts, visit scrap godowns, and use decoy customers to trap hoarders fleecing Covid patients and their kin by demanding hefty sums for a single cylinder, oxygen concentrator or medicine vial. It came on the day the Delhi high court pulled up the AAP-led Delhi government, and said the government’s entire system has failed as black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines is rampant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-seize-170-oxygen-concentrators-arrest-4-for-hoarding-101619693623503.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||'Doesn't alter...': MHA's clarification on Act making L-G effective in-charge of Delhi||The recent amendments to the Government of National Capital Territory (GNCTD) Act, 1991, do not alter the Constitutional and legal responsibilities of the elected government in respect of the transferred subjects in state and concurrent lists, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said in a press release on Thursday.The amendment, which came into effect on April 27, made Delhi’s lieutenant governor the effective in-charge of the national capital and said that the city's government will now have to seek the opinion of the L-G before taking any executive decision. Even if the decision is regarding health, education, agriculture, forest and transport, all state subjects, the city would need to take into consideration the L-G's take on it, before passing it.Also Read: Law giving more power to Delhi L-G now in force"The objective of the Amendment is to make it more relevant to the needs of the Capital; further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lt. Governor; and, create a harmonious relationship between the legislature and the executive. The Amendment would ensure better governance in the Nation Capital Territory of Delhi and lead to improved implementation of schemes and programmes meant for the common people of Delhi," the release said.The MHA, in its release, reiterated that the amendment was consistent with the existing legal and constitutional provisions and was in line with the Supreme Court's July 2018 judgement on the powers of the L-G and the government of Delhi. "The amendments to the GNCTD Act, 1991, in no way alter the constitutional and legal responsibilities of the elected government to take necessary action, in respect of the subjects transferred to them in the state and concurrent lists of the Constitution of India, including subjects such as health, education, etc," the release added.After the bill in this regard was passed by the Parliament last month, in the Lok Sabha on March 22 and in the Rajya Sabha on March 24, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said it is a "sad day for Indian democracy".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doesnt-alter-mha-s-clarification-on-act-making-l-g-effective-in-charge-of-delhi-101619691447785.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi child rights body reaches out to kids who lost parents to Covid||Children in Delhi who lost their entire families, or even their caregivers, to Covid have help at hand. The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) is now taking steps to assist children who lost their parents to the disease or are left with no caregivers in the wake of hospitalisation of either one or both of their parents.Commission chairperson, Anurag Kundu, has reached out on social media, appealing to people to call on their helpline number and report cases where children need essential supplies, have lost their parent/s, or are struggling to support themselves due to the illness.“If you know of any child who is in need of essential supplies, has lost the parent/struggling to support because of illness Report @ +91-9311551393. Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights shall intervene in [less than] <24 hours,” Kundu tweeted Thursday.Officials at DCPCR said that the commission is working with several non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to care for these children in terms of food, medical benefits, and other needs along with providing counselling for them. For instance, NGO Protsahan, which works for children, has offered grief and trauma counselling for frontline workers and their children.Also Read | Delhi doesn’t have sufficient vaccine doses for 18-44 age group: Health ministerThe commission got an SOS call about three children in Rohini, all aged below 10, living with their grandmother after their father died of Covid and mother was hospitalised to treat the infection. Volunteer groups provided essential supplies in response to SOS call on social media. However, they pointed out that their grandmother was “very old to feed and manage them.” Kundu instructed his team to “make sure the children have all medical help, food and make sure to daily check-in on them for at least the next 15 days. Also, see if the children can talk to their mother over the phone.”In most cases, the commission is making efforts to keep the child with the family instead of opting for institutional care – which is often chosen as the last resort. DCPCR chairperson responds to various SOS messages on childcare on social media ensuring help reaches the children.Sonal Kapoor, founder of Protsahan, said the most important thing is to work on closure for these children. “We aren’t taught how to deal with emotions involving grief, trauma, and death. A lot of adults, including caregivers and NGOs, are also in denial and children too struggle to process these emotions. The challenge is to establish a routine in the child’s life. While government agencies can put children in shelter homes and provide essentials, focus should also be on psycho-social needs on grief and trauma healing,” she said.Retired IPS officer Amod Kanth, founder of NGO Prayas, said, “We have such children in our shelter homes and have been providing them with all modes of assistance. We are also offering space to those children who may not have isolation facilities at their homes and need space. Anyone can get in touch with us through the child helpline number 1098.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-child-rights-body-reaches-out-to-kids-who-lost-parents-to-covid-101619688162398.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi doesn't have sufficient vaccine doses for 18-44 age group: Health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the city does not have sufficient doses of vaccine for the inoculation of those in the 18-44 age group and orders have been placed with manufacturers for the same.The minister, however, said preparations to give jabs to this category have been completed."At present, we don't have vaccines. We have requested the companies to provide it,” Jain told reporters when asked if there were enough vaccines available for the 18-44 age group."We will tell you in a day or two,” he replied to another query about starting the inoculation drive for this category on May 1.He also said that the manufactures are yet to provide a schedule of vaccine supply to the Delhi government.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday had said that everybody aged above 18 would be administered anti-coronavirus vaccines free of cost in Delhi.He had said his government had approved the procurement of 1.34 crore vaccine doses from various manufacturers.Jain ascribed the dip in the number of testing over the few days to the restricted movement of people due to the lockdown.Health authorities in the capital have been conducting around 75,000 tests a day over the last few days. Before that, the average number of tests was around 1 lakh.Also Watch| 'Delhi doesn't have sufficient doses for phase 3 vaccination': Health ministerOn the opposition's claim about a big difference in data related to deaths compiled at crematoriums and that released by the Delhi government, Jain, said, “This is not the time to play politics. They had raised the issue six months ago also. Everything was fine.”"Who has the right to hide the number of deaths? Everything is being done in a transparent manner in Delhi,” he added.The minister said there were a few discrepancies in the health bulletin issued on Wednesday night and these have been rectified.Delhi recorded 368 more Covid-19 deaths and 25,986 cases with a positivity rate of 31.76 per cent, according to the latest bulletin issued by the city health department.This was the seventh day on the trot that Delhi had recorded over 300 deaths due to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-doesn-t-have-sufficient-vaccine-doses-for-18-44-age-group-health-minister-101619686090026.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Shanty fire kills couple, their four children in Delhi’s Bijwasan||A couple and their four minor children were charred to death in a blaze that occurred in two shanties located in agricultural fields in south-west Delhi’s Bijwasan in the early hours of Thursday, the police saidIngit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west), said that the six members were trapped inside their jhuggis even as there was a cylinder blast inside. Also Read | Delhi student refuses to share phone password, friend kills him: PoliceThe officer identified the dead as Kamlesh, 37, his wife Budhni, 32, their daughters aged 16 and 12, and sons aged six years and three months. The call for the blaze in the two shanties was received around 12.30am on Thursday. Local residents and fire fighters doused the flames, but those trapped inside were charred to death.Five residents in the second shanty escaped alive. The police are probing the cause of the fire and are registering an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shanty-fire-kills-couple-their-four-children-in-delhi-s-bijwasan-101619678501751.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky today; Delhi AQI improves slightly to be in poor category||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be 22 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 42°C.The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 22°C, and the maximum temperature was 42.2°C -- four degrees above normal.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved slightly to reach poor category on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 294. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 312, which is the lower end of the very poor category. Also Read | ‘100 bodies per day’: Long wait for last rites as fatalities rise in DelhiAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the very poor category. Surface winds are moderate and southwesterly. Satellite fire data indicate effective fire counts have increased and are touching around 1100 which are mainly wheat crop burning in the Northern part of India. Model trajectory and transport-level wind direction are favourable for fire-related intrusion leading to the deterioration of air quality in Delhi. SAFAR Model forecast that dust emissions from the dry arid region of Rajasthan are likely on 29th and 30th April. Hence, AQI is likely to stay in the very poor to poor category for the next three days where external transport would be the dominating factor from the two fronts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-today-delhi-aqi-improves-slightly-to-be-in-poor-category-101619665661372.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi student refuses to share phone password, friend kills him: Police||A class 12 student was allegedly strangled to death by his 20-year-old friend in northwest Delhi's Pitampura area after he refused to share his iPhone's password, police said on Wednesday.The incident took place on April 21 at a park. The accused, Mayank Singh, a BBA student of Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Management Studies in Rohini, was nabbed on Monday from Pilkhuwa in Uttar Pradesh, they said.The victim's father, who runs a factory, lodged a missing report of his son when he did not return home. The victim left his home on April 21 morning, police said.On Sunday, police received information regarding a decomposed body lying at an isolated place inside a park at Pitampura. A large-sized teddy bear was also lying near the body, a senior police officer said, adding that the police also recovered drugs from the spot.During investigation, police scanned over 100 CCTV cameras near the spot and saw the victim and the deceased entering the park. Singh was missing from his house since April 23, the officer said.Later, he was arrested from Pilkhuwa, where he was hiding in a village of his friend, police said.The accused disclosed that on April 21, he met the deceased in the park.Singh asked the victim to share his phone's password but he refused, following which an argument erupted between them. Later, the accused first hit the victim with a stone and then allegedly strangled him with a cloth, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-student-refuses-to-share-phone-password-friend-kills-him-police-101619656075808.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Man in home isolation, cops cremate parents||Police helped cremate the bodies of an elderly couple who died in their homes while in quarantine on Tuesday in north Delhi’s Burari.The couple’s son said his parents showed symptoms of Covid-19, although they had not been tested for the virus.The woman passed away around 6pm on Monday. Her son, also under quarantine, tried to get help from his neighbours but to no avail. His wife earlier tested positive for Covid and was in hospital for the last two weeks. At 1am on Tuesday, the man lost his father too.At around 9am, a call to the police control room was made. After several hours, a hearse was arranged to ferry the bodies to the crematorium at Nigam Bodh Ghat. The bodies were cremated observing all Covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-in-home-isolation-cops-cremate-parents-101619655616979.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||'100 bodies per day': Long wait for last rites as fatalities rise in Delhi||Around 8am on Wednesday, Munna, a worker at the Ghazipur crematorium, had already helped facilitate 18 cremations while 30 more bodies were awaiting at the entrance for their turn. Some of the bodies had been queued up since Tuesday night.“The bodies either lie outside or in the ambulances for many hours. Nowadays, with the soaring heat, it’s very hard working in PPE kits with two layers of masks,” Munna said.On Wednesday, HT contacted at least six big crematoriums dedicated to Covid-19 victims in the national capital. The waiting time was between 18-26 hours in each of these facilities. The soaring mercury levels in the city are making matters worse. On Wednesday, Delhi’s maximum temperature touched 42.2 degrees Celsius.Since April 20, Delhi has recorded 2,648 deaths till Tuesday evening. Crematoriums and burial sites, which received 20-30 bodies, are now getting over 100 bodies per day.Senior officials of the three municipal corporations in Delhi said they are aware of the problems, but said it was difficult to find an immediate solution.“This time, many patients died because of lung infections and infected bodies anyway tend to decompose faster even if you keep them under ideal conditions. We cannot help much here. We can cremate a body after the ones on the pyres are fully burnt and the pyre is sufficiently cool,” said Krishna Prasad, a manager at the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash agreed that while arrangements are being made for the relatives accompanying the dead bodies, there was no provision to prevent the bodies from starting to decompose. “These facilities cannot be arranged overnight. While we are trying our best to keep up with the rising Covid deaths, we are not receiving any help from the Delhi government,” said Prakash.Crematorium staff also said the shortage of space was a major factor behind the wait at these facilities, and limited manpower also slowed the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/100-bodies-per-day-long-wait-for-last-rites-as-fatalities-rise-in-delhi-101619655397401.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||As Covid-19 claims teachers’ lives, Delhi’s classrooms altered forever||\Several educational institutions in the national capital have lost staff members to Covid-19 during the fourth wave, which has left over 2,731 dead in the past seven days alone, forcing many schools to inform students about the deaths of their teachers, while leaving institutions to contend with a vital question — how much will classrooms change in the aftermath of the pandemic?A Delhi government school body said at least 15 teachers died of the viral infection last week alone. Among them was VK Arora (54), who taught commerce at Sarvodaya Co-ed in Mansarovar Garden. Colleagues termed his demise as a “huge loss” for the school, which has endlessly received calls from his students.“He was the staff secretary and was very close to all his colleagues. He was such a lively person. None of us could believe it when we heard about his demise on Monday morning. All of us are in shock. We have received calls from several of his students, and it was extremely difficult to console them. I don’t know how we will face each other without crying when we return to campus once this storm is over,” said his colleague and friend Meenakshi Khantwal.A government school in Rajouri Garden lost 35-year-old Sanskrit guest teacher Anil Kumar to the disease last week.Anmol Kumar (15), one of his students at the school, said: “It’s so difficult to believe that he is gone. I am even more scared about the safety of my parents and other teachers now. I don’t know how many more people will die in this pandemic.”Similarly, several teachers who work at municipal corporation-run schools in Delhi have died during the fourth wave. According to the civic body teachers’ association, at least nine teachers lost their lives last week.Shiv Nath Prasad, the principal of a north civic body-run school in Nithari, died on Wednesday.Suraj Dabas, a teacher at school, said: “Everything will change when we go back to school. There is so much fear and grief among the staff right now.”The infection has claimed several lives in colleges as well.The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) said at least 13 teachers have succumbed to the infection over the past few days.Ravi Bhushan, a psychology teacher at DU’s Aryabhatta College who was in his early 30s, died at a hospital on Monday.Manoj Sinha, the principal of the college, said: “Our college is in shock right now. We organised a virtual condolence meet in his memory on Tuesday, and even non-teaching staff members were inconsolable.”Suraj Kumar, a final-year student at DU’s College of Vocational Studies, said he will never forget his teacher Richa Malhotra’s ever-smiling face. Malhotra, who taught history, passed away on Monday.“She was a mother figure to me. When I came to Delhi, I was very conscious about my rural background. But she made me feel so comfortable. I was not very comfortable with English language, and she helped me a lot. I worked with her on a book club as well. It feels absolutely devastating that she has left us forever,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-covid-19-claims-teachers-lives-delhi-s-classrooms-altered-forever-101619655010230.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Widened vaccinations lead to blood bank shortage fears||With Covid-19 vaccinations for people aged 18-44 set to begin from May 1, blood banks and patients with blood-related disorders said they are concerned about the availability of blood due to rules that disallow an inoculated person from donating blood for 28 days after their jab. As a result, blood banks and non-governmental bodies are asking people to donate blood before getting vaccinated, with lower turnouts — due to the alarming spike and subsequent lockdown — causing reserves to deplete fast.The National Blood Transfusion Council mandates that a person can donate blood 28 days after their last Covid vaccine jab.“There are no blood donation camps, and the number of voluntary donations has also dropped significantly,” said Vanshree Singh, blood bank director, Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS).While the current shortage had made arranging blood difficult for patients of thalassemia and other blood-related illnesses, they worry that the shortages may get more severe once the Covid-19 vaccination programme opens up on Saturday.“Thalassemia patients need fresh blood (donated within a 7 to 10-day period) for transfusion. People aged between 18 and 45 donate blood most frequently. But few people come in for donations, and we worry this number will decrease in the coming days,” said Shobha Tuli, secretary of Thalassemics India.Tuli has written to the Union health ministry, asking it to review the 28-day deferral period. “The rule will result in a shortage of blood and create problems for thalassemia patients. The government should either revise it or give us a plan to maintain the supply of fresh blood for patients who need transfusion regularly,” Tuli said.The Union health ministry did not respond to requests for comment on the matter.Blood banks in Delhi say that though there is no shortage of blood right now, their stocks are rapidly running out.Dr Dinesh Deepak Joshi, president of the Lions Blood Bank, said: “Currently, we are facing a huge problem providing blood to our thalassemia patients from our two banks. We used to get more than 2,000 donations in a month, which has now come down to just 100.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/widened-vaccinations-lead-to-blood-bank-shortage-fears-101619654779494.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Districts prepare plans to expand shots for all||The Delhi government plans to increase the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres once inoculation opens for the 18-44 age group next month, said senior government officials.A delay in vaccine supply may push the start of the next phase of vaccination from its May 1 schedule, officials aware of the matter said.Although the state government is yet to share details of the plan, the 11 district administrations in Delhi are drawing up strategies to augment the number of vaccination sites and provide adequate staff to run the centres smoothly.Staffing of these centres is the major issue, official said, as many health care and frontline workers are currently down with Covid-19.The chief minister’s office earlier stated that free vaccines will be available in all government-run Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi while those who opt for private centres will have to pay for the jabs.Delhi has around 500 vaccination centres in 192 hospitals and dispensaries. A majority of the sites are in government hospitals and while some districts are planning to increase the number of sites in hospitals and dispensaries, others are looking at schools as possible sites.A senior official with the New Delhi district said, “We are in the process of working out the number of new sites that will be needed to ensure a hassle-free vaccination process. We are planning to have dedicated vaccination sites for this group.”The municipal bodies have also made requests to increase the number of their vaccination sites.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said, “We have sent the list of 20 additional centres to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority for approval.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/districts-prepare-plans-to-expand-shots-for-all-101619654636936.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Expedite supply of oxygen and help to those in home isolation: CM Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed officials to expedite the process of scaling up oxygen beds and intensive care unit (ICU) beds across the city – the national capital had run out of both on Tuesday – and asked for the home isolation surveillance system to be strengthened.As of Wednesday night, Delhi had 21,014 Covid-19 beds, of which 19,379 are occupied. Also, out of the 4,809 ICU beds in the city, 4,791 are occupied, said the government’s real-time application on hospital beds.Kejriwal issued the directions in a review meeting on Wednesday evening which was also attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and several senior officials. It comes at a time when an acute shortage of oxygen is becoming the major obstruction to the government’s plan to augment beds across hospitals.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal convened a meeting today (Wednesday) with the health officials on the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. In the meeting, the CM deliberated on the plan to increase the number of oxygen beds in the coming days, along with strengthening the home isolation system,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named.Kejriwal said in a statement, “We have to further strengthen our home isolation system. Every patient who is recovering from Covid in home isolation should receive regular calls from Delhi government doctors and they should be supplied with an oximeter. We have to monitor the daily condition of every patient recovering at home,” he said.On Tuesday, Kejriwal had said by May 10, Delhi will have at least 1,200 more ICU beds --- 500 being prepared at a facility attached to GTB hospital, another 500 at a facility being set up at the Ramlila Maidan in central Delhi which will be attached to Lok Nayak hospital, and 200 ICU beds at the Covid care centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas campus in Chhatarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/expedite-supply-of-oxygen-and-help-to-those-in-home-isolation-cm-kejriwal-101619654415398.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||‘Do you want people to die?’: High Court on medicine rules||The Delhi high court on Wednesday said that it appeared the Union government wanted people to die, pointing out that the new protocol on use of remdesivir said that the drug was to be given only to those on oxygen support. “This is wrong. This is a complete non-application of mind. Now people who do not have oxygen will not get remdesivir either. It appears you want people to die,” justice Prathiba M Singh said after the central government submitted that under the protocol being followed now only patients on oxygen support were being given remdesivir as Covid-19 treatment.The court also said it will consider later whether a medical committee should review if the protocols or guidelines for administering remdesivir need any modification.The court’s observation came during a hearing on a plea by a lawyer who is suffering from Covid-19 and was able to get only three out of the six doses of remdesivir prescribed to him.Give data on testsHearing a separate plea, a Delhi high court bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the Delhi government to give the number of RT-PCR tests conducted in the last seven days while also asking them to specify why fewer tests were being conducted.The bench took note of a submission made by a lawyer for one of the petitioners, who said that the testing in the city has gone down. The petitioner said the time taken for certification and testing has to be brought down where the reasons cited by the labs are either “backlog” or “push down from the government”. The court asked the Delhi government to provide the details while noting that the testing staffs of various labs are infected with Covid-19.The bench was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.Black marketing of medicinesThe court also took note of the black marketing of essential medicines and remdesvir injections, and directed the Delhi government to come up with an online portal displaying live information on the supply chain of such drugs.The bench also asked senior advocate Rahul Mehra, who represented Delhi government, to look into the suggestion if the mohalla clinics could also serve people while also examining the use of old DTC buses for the ferrying of dead bodies so that the ambulances could be used for the sick persons.Ensuring oxygen supplyMehra, during the hearing, informed the court that the government passed an order on Wednesday that each hospital has been linked with a refiller and also a link refiller, so that if the primary one is not available, the SOS calls of oxygen are met.The court said that order should be widely communicated and necessary instructions should be followed by all the stakeholders.Approve insurance claims soonerDuring the proceedings, the court directed the insurance companies and third-party administrators (TPA) to ensure that time taken to grant approvals to bills was reduced to a reasonable amount as there were long queues of people outside hospitals waiting for beds during the massive surge in Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/do-you-want-people-to-die-high-court-on-medicine-rules-101619654208383.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Law giving more power to Delhi L-G now in force||A month after Parliament passed a controversial bill giving sweeping powers to Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor (LG), the Centre on Wednesday notified a law that makes his prior opinion a must before every executive action by the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government, and every legislative action by the state assembly.An order by the LG’s office on Wednesday evening -- hours after the amended Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 was notified -- said that matters on which his opinion will have to be obtained include those falling under any law with respect to any matter in the state or concurrent lists. It also mentioned “subordinate legislations i.e. rules, regulations, schemes, bylaws”, and establishment, constitution or reconstitution of statutory bodies such as authorities, boards, committees, commissions, etc, under laws made by the legislative assembly.“Matters relating to recommendations of the Delhi finance commission” and “grant of parole under the Delhi Prisons Act” were also part of the order. Matters specified under Rule 23 of the Transaction of Business of the Government of NCT were also mentioned.Experts said all files on governance, decisions taken by the cabinet, proposed projects, welfare schemes, etc, will have to be sent to the LG first for his opinion before implementation. Whether the amendment shall mean a concurrence of the LG or will act as a tool to enable the Delhi government take an informed decision is a crucial question that remains unanswered in the text of the amended Act. It will also need a clarification whether the “opinion” rendered by the LG shall be binding or will only have persuasive value.According to the new law, passed by Parliament on March 24, “government” in Delhi now means the LG.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders and other opposition parties have criticised the new law, saying it obstructs the functioning of an elected government.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has termed the passage of the bill an “insult” to the people of the national capital. His deputy Manish Sisodia has also attacked the Centre, alleging that it was feeling insecure as Kejriwal was “emerging as an alternative” to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Centre has said that the Act promotes “harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lieutenant Governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court”.Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said in Parliament last month that Delhi is not a full-fledged state and does not have full powers.“Bringing this law was necessary to remove ambiguities because Delhi is a UT (Union Territory) and the powers of L-G are different from state governors,” another official said, asking not to be named.On July 4, 2018, the Supreme Court ruled that the L-G cannot interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and must act on aid and advice of the council of ministers.The Centre has, however, said the new act seeks to clarify the expression of government in order to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court.Its amendment has not been challenged in court yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/law-giving-more-power-to-delhi-l-g-now-in-force-101619653101867.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Uncertainty over supply dogs roll-out of jab drive||Even as the government on Wednesday opened up Covid-19 vaccination registrations for those aged between 18 and 44, and jabs scheduled to begin on Saturday, hospitals said they still have no clarity on who will supply the doses for the expanded inoculation drive, while just a few private hospitals in the city said they have been assured of supplies from either of the two vaccine manufacturers in India.Adult beneficiaries in Delhi who were able to register on the CoWIN portal despite the glitches on Day 1 were, however, not able to find any available slots at any of sites.Further, adding to the uncertainty, private hospitals and state officials said the Centre has asked them to return the current stock of vaccines on April 30.“So far, there is no clarity on whether we will receive any more doses from the state government or if we will have to depend on the doses that we purchase ourselves. If it is the latter, we are likely to not have any doses on May 1 to vaccinate even those above 45 who need their second dose,” said an official from one of the major private hospitals in Delhi, asking not to be named.Dr Suneela Garg member of the Lancet Commission Covid India Task force said, “Everything will not happen on Day 1. Delhi has placed an order of 13.4 million, but all the doses will not come together.”Delhi on Monday announced that it will vaccinate its entire adult population for free once the immunisation drive is widened from May 1. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said a purchase of 13.4 million doses has been approved and that his government will make efforts to speed up the process.An official from Fortis hospital said, “We might get some doses from the government at revised rates – whatever the state pays the vaccine manufacturers – after returning the old stock that came from the central government to immunise those above 45.”The hospital in a statement said, “We are in discussions with vaccine manufacturers to understand the availability and are making all necessary preparations to launch vaccinations for 18+ age groups, as soon as vaccines are made available.”Vibhu Talwar, managing director of Moolchand hospital said, “As of now, we do not have any procurement orders. Suppliers haven’t given us any clarity on pricing or when stock will be available. Hopefully, this will be clarified in the next 48 hours.” The hospital just has vaccine stocks for the next two days, officials said.Government hospitals and district officials too are unsure about where the doses will come from and how they are to be distributed. “We haven’t received any communication about what to do with the vaccine doses or whether we will get any additional doses on May 1. We have vaccination centres ready at the hospital. We will immunise people whenever we get the doses,” said a senior administrator from Lok Nayak hospital.A senior district official who asked not to be named said, “We will vaccinate people whenever we get the vaccine doses. But I’m unsure where the doses will come from.”“Only 50% of the production will be picked up by the central government, and the rest is open for sale to states and private players. Nothing is going outside the country, so how can anyone say there will no supplies for states or anyone else,” said a central government official aware of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uncertainty-over-supply-dogs-roll-out-of-jab-drive-101619652197642.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Centre pulled up for oxygen supply deficit||Noting that Delhi has not received its allocated quota of 490 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen even for a single day, the Delhi high court on Wednesday slammed the Centre for not supplying the promised quota, and asked it to work out an allocation plan.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli noted that Delhi has not received the allocated amount of 490 MT oxygen even on a single day --- five days since the court passed an order. The bench observed that the principal reason behind he lag in supply appeared to be the distance between Delhi and the sources of supply in West Bengal and Odisha.“What is the point of allocating 490 MT (oxygen), when they (Delhi) have not got it? Now there are also tankers. We do not have a bureaucratic answer….It is not an efficient way of working out. The proof of the pudding lies in the eating. Things have not improved despite the lapse of five days. We are still hovering around 400 or even less and that amount of 490 MT has still not achieved…This has to be done on an SOS basis. It pains my heart. It should not take five days. Your allocation is bad..We have again and again asked you to work out your allocation plan,” the bench remarked.The court told the Centre that it might look at sources of supply closer to the Capital. “It does not make sense to get something from 1,600km. Maybe you could increase the supply from UP and it could be made as it reduces travel time... This is simple common sense,” the court said, directing the newly appointed amicus curiae advocate Rajshekhar Rao to look into the state wise allocation plan of the Centre and give suggestions to the Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta on this.During the hearing, senior advocate Rahul Mehra who was representing the Delhi government, said one of the major reasons for the shortage of oxygen in Delhi hospitals is the delay supplies from West Bengal and Odisha. He told the court that as on April 27 midnight, the city received a supply of 402MT, whereas there demand was 700 MT.He urged the court that allocation to Delhi may be made from some nearby states. He also cited an instance where his industrialist friends in Rajasthan and Ludhiana were ready to refill 200 oxygen cylinders but the state administration was not allowing this.Reacting sharply to this, justice Palli told the Centre, “People will keep dying and you will not do anything even if you might show on paper. If you have an extra cylinder in some other state, then make it available. No other state is in such a condition now as Delhi is.”Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Centre, told the court that everything possible is being done from their side. He said that all the factors have been taken into account while deciding the allocation plan.During the proceedings, the bench also appealed to the people to not hoard oxygen cylinders and medicines required Covid-19 patients, to avoid creating “artificial scarcity” remarking that “we get what we deserve”.“The nation is facing an unprecedented crisis. It is we the people who need to stand up and showcase our qualities and virtues which all of us….We therefore appeal to the good sense of people to not resort to black marketing or hoarding of either oxygen cylinders or medicines and to make them available to the needy people.“Hoarding of medicines or oxygen cylinders leads to artificial scarcity to an extent which may not be there,” it noted in the order.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who, along with several hospitals, sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-pulled-up-for-oxygen-supply-deficit-101619651876175.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Fewer SOS calls from hospitals, but new Covid patients facing oxygen crisis||SOS calls for medical oxygen have reduced from Delhi’s hospitals over the past two days, with most of them now able to maintain stocks till replenishments arrive, but this has also come at the cost of not being able to offer critical emergency support even if they have beds available for fear of not being able to get the oxygen required to care to a larger pool of patients.With the procurement of more cryogenic tankers to transport liquid oxygen from the central pool, and the creation of more plants in the city to create medical oxygen from ambient air, the situation is likely to stabilise slightly over the week, according to government officials and calculations by HT. Dozens of new oxygen generators are expected to start functioning the Capital, and more tankers are expected to be pressed into service to bring in stocks from large plants in neighbouring states.“The oxygen supplies are still reaching hospitals just a couple of hours before they run out of their stock. However, the coordination has improved. Still, some smaller hospitals in need of filling cylinders are facing challenges,” said a government official who asked not to be named.The situation is an improvement from last week, when hospitals – crushed by an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases – began running out of their medical oxygen supply. The crisis came to light when GTB Hospital, with 500 Covid-19 patients, received its replenishments with minutes to spare in the early hours of April 21.The crisis deepened over the next few days, with the worst of it hitting the Jaipur Golden hospital, where 20 Covid-19 patients died after their oxygen support stopped.The matter reached the courts on multiple occasions, after hospitals exercised all options they had, including by raising alarm on social media. The Union as well as Delhi government were pulled up on several occasions, and have since announced several steps to ease the crisis.“We are working extensively on procuring cylinders, which a lot of the smaller hospitals are facing a shortage of. We are also now working on regulating a lot of the refilling stations. Just like we managed to stabilise the oxygen flow in the main hospitals, we will be able to stabilise them as well in the next few days itself. We are working on fixing this to help smaller hospitals resume oxygen supply as well,” said a Delhi government spokesperson.But while patients already admitted to hospitals may be getting oxygen now, a major problem still persists for new patients who are in need of urgent care.Officials in several hospitals said that new admissions have been halted for now. “The situation is still the same; hospitals are anxious about their oxygen supply. We have had to stop new admissions now because we are not sure when and how much oxygen we will receive,” said an official at one of the biggest private hospitals in Delhi.“The situation is much the same even though a lot has happened on paper. The problem is that the government has directed the oxygen companies to fulfil the quota of oxygen, but the companies refuse to comply. I had received a refill day before and then again today, which was half the promised supply. We have been told that we will get another supply by tonight, but I do not know,” said Dr SCL Gupta, medical director of Batra hospital, while adding: ”Of course hospitals will have to restrict admissions if there is no surety of oxygen supply.”An official at another hospital said there was some improvement. “I think the situation is improving slowly, quotas have been fixed and suppliers have been fixed for each hospital by the government. There is still some anxiety and uncertainty; we have experienced this for a week, it will take time for the nerves to settle down. Earlier the distribution was completely haphazard,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director, Saroj hospital and secretary of Delhi Voluntary Hospital’s Forum.Officials and Delhi Police personnel have also launched crackdowns after receiving reports of black marketing and pilfering of oxygen supplies.The Delhi government on Tuesday received five cryogenic tankers from the Centre, which were being fitted on to trucks and pressed into service.The state expects to receive 18 more such tankers from Bangkok, which were scheduled to arrive on Wednesday but got held up due to formalities, according to another government official.A second significant difference is likely to be when 48 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants begin functioning in tranches over the next month. These devices work by drawing oxygen from ambient air and concentrating them to medical grade.According to an official, the generators being installed by the Union government at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (main), Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, Lady Hardinge medical college hospital, AIIMS Jhajjar, Safdarjung Hospital, GTB Hospital and Lok Nayak Hospital are expected to be in place between April 30 and May 10.According to official documents, the eight plants being set up by the Union government have a cumulative capacity of 4,700 litre per minute day, which translates roughly to 10MT of liquid oxygen per day.Among the generators being installed by the Delhi government, two are set to be in place by the first week of May and roughly 19 others by the middle of the month. By the end of April, officials may be better poised to increase critical care capacity, although this will depend on the evolution of the outbreak and if more turn critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fewer-sos-calls-from-hospitals-but-new-covid-patients-facing-oxygen-crisis-101619651640592.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi plans to increase vaccination centres, but supply delays may hit vaccination of 18-44 age group||The Delhi government plans to increase the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres as inoculation opens for the 18-44 age group on May 1, said senior government officials. But a delay in vaccine supply may delay the start of vaccination for this age group, which is a sizeable chunk of Delhi’s 20 crore population, officials in the know of the matter said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said his government had approved the procurement of 1.34 crore [13.4 million] vaccine doses from various manufacturers to boost a massive vaccination drive.Although the state government is yet to share the plan details, the 11 district administrations in Delhi are drawing up strategies to augment the number of vaccination sites and provide adequate staff to run the centres smoothly. Staffing of these centres is the major issue, official said, as many health-care and front-line workers are currently down with Covid-19.The chief minister’s office had earlier stated that free vaccines will be available in all government-run Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi while those who opt for private centres will have to pay for the jabs.At present, Delhi has around 500 vaccination centres spread across 192 hospitals and dispensaries. A majority of the vaccination sites are in government hospitals and while some districts are planning to increase the number of sites in hospitals and dispensaries, other districts are looking at school buildings as possible vaccination sites.A senior official with the New Delhi district said on condition of anonymity, “We are in the process of working out the number of new sites that would be needed to ensure a hassle-free vaccination process for the 18-44 age group. We are planning to have dedicated vaccination sites for this group.”Another official said new centres are also needed to ensure that there is not much crowding at the vaccination site.The New Delhi district, which has 80 vaccination sites, is also planning to set up a mega vaccination centre to cater to the rush, as the number of people in this age group will be more, said a senior official there.Senior district officials involved in the identification of the new vaccination sites said a number of new centres are being planned as per the availability of manpower, which is the crucial aspect, as districts are facing a manpower crunch as a lot of health-care and essential service providers are currently down with Covid-19.A north-west Delhi district official said, asking not to be named, “We have identified 16 new sites in government schools. We will scale up the number of vaccination sites later, once we get more manpower, especially vaccinators.”A vaccination site must has five staff members, including a vaccinator. A district magistrate, who did not wish to be named, said, “We will be roping in teachers and civil defence volunteers for data entry and management of observation rooms. But we still need more vaccinators and accordingly, we will increase the number of sites.”The municipal corporations have also sent their request to increase the number of sites to the Delhi government. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “We have sent the list of 20 additional centres to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for approval.”District authorities have to share their plan for new vaccination sites with the health department and the DDMA. A Delhi government official said no decision has been taken so far on whether to open dedicated sites for the 18-44 age group or not.A third senior district official said, also on condition of anonymity, “We are just working out the plan. A final decision regarding new centres has to be taken by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-plans-to-increase-vaccination-centres-but-supply-delays-may-hit-vaccination-of-18-44-age-group-101619647253045.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Two held for fleecing Covid patients desperate for oxygen cylinders||Two businessmen were arrested for allegedly hoarding oxygen cylinders and selling them at exorbitant rates in Delhi to desperate Covid-19 patients and their families, said police on Wednesday.The suspects -- Abhishek Nanda (32) from Shalimar Bagh and Shrey Oberoi (30) from Vikaspuri -- allegedly sold cylinders for ₹50,000 each when their market price was only around ₹6,000 for a 10 litre cylinder, said police.The high profit margin encouraged them to approach people posting SOS messages on social media for oxygen, said police. When informed of the scam, west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh police said they deployed decoy customers to trap the suspects.Four small oxygen cylinders each of 10 litres capacity and one large cylinder of capacity 67litres were seized from the suspects along with a Hyundai Verna car that they allegedly used to transport and deliver cylinders, said additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam.DCP (crime) Monika Bhardwaj, also holding the additional charge of DCP (West), said Nanda and Oberoi were originally into the business of electrical equipment and toys, respectively.“Their businesses were hit by the Covid pandemic and the curfew in Delhi that had been imposed for more than a week,” said Monika Bhardwaj. “For quick and easy money, Nanda sold the unused oxygen cylinders that he had arranged for Covid patients in his family.”Soon Nanda saw an opportunity in the scarcity of oxygen cylinders in Delhi-NCR and involved Oberoi in a plan to make a profit, said another police officer associated with the probe but who did not wish to be named.“Nanda’s job was to arrange oxygen cylinders, while Oberoi delivered them to people who he contacted over social media. At least two cylinders that they sold are currently being used to treat Covid patients at different places in Delhi,” said the officer.The officer said the Punjabi Bagh police received information from a credible source about the duo’s operation. Their decoy customer convinced Oberoi to deliver two small cylinders to northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh and agreed to pay ₹1 lakh for both, said the officer. Oberoi was arrested with the cylinders from Shalimar Bagh and his questioning led police to Nanda and recovered of three more oxygen cylinders from him, said the officer.“We are now questioning them for the source of the cylinders. Efforts are on to recover more oxygen cylinders,” added DCP Bhardwaj.On Tuesday, the Delhi Police asked its personnel to activate their intelligence network, keep a close watch on social media posts, visit scrap godowns, and use decoy customers to trap hoarders fleecing Covid patients and their kin. It came on a day when the Delhi high court said the government’s entire system has failed as black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines was rampant.“High demand for oxygen, injection, medicine etc; miscreants indulge in hoarding, black marketing, faking to deceive needy buyers. Seven cases registered with arrest of 21 persons and remdesivir, oxygen seized. Delhi Police is checking those cheating on social media to protect public interest,” the Delhi Police tweeted on Tuesday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-for-fleecing-covid-patients-desperate-for-oxygen-cylinders-101619647257009.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||In new pecking order, Delhi L-G to retain law, land||After the Union home ministry notified the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) (Amendment) Act, 2021 on Wednesday, the office of Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) issued an order asking the Delhi government to seek opinion of the L-G before the Cabinet or any of its minister takes any executive action with regard to matters related to land, police, law and order, subordinate legislations, granting of parole, Delhi finance commission, establishment or re-constitution of statutory bodies and matters specified under Rule 23 of the ‘Transaction of Business of the GNCTD Rules, 1993’.The new law passed on by Parliament on March 24 gives sweeping powers to Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor for running day-to-day business of the Capital and almost takes away administrative control from the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal-led government.Senior officials also said that the notification is going to set new protocols for the Delhi Cabinet and all bureaucrats as the ‘Transaction of Business of the GNCTD Rules, 1993’ are going to be amended for the first time in nearly 20 years.The order issued by the L-G office specified in three points as to which areas the Delhi Cabinet and individual ministers will have to seek prior opinion of L-G Anil Baijal. None of the subjects, however, seemed to be excessively out of the areas over which the L-G already has control.“.... the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi, hereby specifies the following matters for obtaining opinion of the L-G....before taking any executive action in pursuance of the decision of the Council of ministers or a minister..” read the order.“The matters falling under any law, made by the Parliament or extended to the national Capital by the Central government, with respect to any matter enumerated in the state list or concurrent list of the seventh schedule of the Constitution,” it stated.The Delhi government did not comment on the matter, but the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said it “really hoped” that the Central government would have waited at least till the current wave of Covid-19 abated to enforce the Act.In a statement, the AAP said, “Delhi is in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis and by notifying this right in the middle of the second wave, it can lead to a lot of chaos. This could definitely adversely affect Covid management in the national Capital.”“Under the leadership of CM Kejriwal, we are working on every possible aspect to tackle the second wave of Covid. The Central government and the Delhi government are working together. But such a notification will bring a lot of confusion and when the work is going on war footing the last thing people can expect is chaos and confusion in the administration,” the AAP said.On Wednesday, even as the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) notified the amended GNCTD Act, Delhi government officials said they were too busy in Covid-19 management to find out about the intricacies of the new law.“Now is not the time for all this. From the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) to the chief minister, everyone is closely monitoring aspects such as oxygen supply to hospitals, Covid-19 deaths, augmentation of beds and so on. Bureaucrats cannot afford to be caught up in politics during such a crisis, everyone knows that. So, what the government is doing to contain Covid is a collective effort and that is what Delhi needs right now,” said one of the top officials of the Delhi government, wishing not to be named.NO IMMEDIATE CHANGESWhile L-G Anil Baijal’s office did not comment on the matter, a senior official in his office said nothing can change on the ground until a fresh set of transaction of business rules (TBR) is issued by the MHA.“For a start, the L-G has scheduled a Covid-19 review meeting tomorrow (Thursday). But, it is not because of this GNCTD Act. He has been holding such meetings from time to time. With regard to the GNCTD Act and what administrative changes it could bring, there is not much that can happen at the moment because there is lack of clarity on certain procedures and subjects where the L-G can have direct control. The MHA is likely to issue amended TBR in a few days after which things would be clearer,” the official said.The key issues which the L-G wants to look into are the low testing numbers, reducing the waiting time at crematoriums and decreasing case fatalities, the official added.However, a section of officers in the Delhi government said the law has already created doubt among several officials with regard to various orders being issued every day to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city and manage patients better. But they added that an immediate change in the plans was unlikely.“The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) anyway has the L-G as its chairperson, so a major policy or strategy shift in terms of Delhi’s Covid response system is unlikely to happen as the Central government, to whom the L-G reports, is already providing help. More importantly, the Delhi high court is directly monitoring the situation and issuing orders from day to day in this regard,” said a second government official.The current Covid wave has overwhelmed Delhi’s heath care infrastructure with hospitals sending out SOS messages while running out of medical oxygen and almost all beds taken up across hospitals. According to government’s Corona app data, only 18 ICU beds were available in the city at 9pm on Wednesday.A few district officials wondered whether the new law would mean DMs and SDMs now have to send all their orders such as setting up new Covid care facilities by attaching hotels or increasing vaccination.“It is not like that. Only major decisions such as those taken by the Delhi Cabinet led by Kejriwal or individually by the ministers will have to be sent to the L-G, in all likelihood. Otherwise, the L-G’s office, which does not have so much staff, will be inundated with files and getting them back to get the schemes or project moving could take time,” the second official explained.He said the impact of the law on the day to day administration can be gauged only in about a week or two. “There could be increased friction between the legislature, the executive, and the Union government. Delhi has seven ministers, including Kejriwal, and each of them issue dozens of orders/directives daily. The back-and-forth of files will only delay a lot of projects,” the official said.Constitution expert and former secretary of the Lok Sabha and the Delhi assembly SK Sharma said the biggest casualty of the Act is going to be the assembly. “It may well be disbanded in that case as the law now even raises questions over the validity and necessity of having the Question hour in the House. The law will impact the assembly in more way than just taking away the rights of the committees set up by the House,” he said.PDT Achary, former secretary-general of Lok Sabha said Under Art.239AA of the constitution and as per the interpretation given by the Supreme Court the government means the L-G aided and advised by the Council of ministers.“It simply means the executive power is vested in the Council of ministers. This being so the definition contained in the new Act, namely, government means the L-G has no special significance. The Act cannot override the constitution and also the interpretation of law made by the Supreme Court. The executive power is vested in the elected government and therefore, the definition of government given in the Amendment Act has no special significance. The same shall remain in terms of accountability as well,” said Achary.A senior Delhi government official, on condition of anonymity, said the law effectively implies that most of the House panels will become void, and the assembly rules from which these committees have been formed, will also be void. “The public accounts committee, which looks into the accounts of the government and the budgetary allocations, might also go in such a case,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-new-pecking-order-delhi-l-g-to-retain-law-land-101619647268035.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal directs officials to speed up process to add new beds||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed officials to expedite the process of scaling up oxygen beds and intensive care unit (ICU) beds across the city – the national capital had run out of both on Tuesday – and asked for the home isolation surveillance system to be strengthened.As of Wednesday night, Delhi had 21,014 Covid-19 beds, of which 19,379 are occupied. Also, out of the 4,809 ICU beds in the city, 4,791 are occupied, said the government’s real-time application on hospital beds.Kejriwal issued the directions in a review meeting on Wednesday evening which was also attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and several senior officials. It comes at a time when an acute shortage of oxygen is becoming the major obstruction to the government’s plan to augment beds across hospitals.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal convened a meeting today (Wednesday) with the health officials on the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. In the meeting, the CM deliberated on the plan to increase the number of oxygen beds in the coming days, along with strengthening the home isolation system,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named.Kejriwal said in a statement, “We are noticing that this new strain of coronavirus is quite dangerous and often leads to respiratory and breathing issues. It has become very important to provide beds to every patient who needs oxygen. We have to expedite the process to add more ICU and oxygen beds in the coming weeks.”“We have to further strengthen our home isolation system. Every patient who is recovering from Covid in home isolation should receive regular calls from Delhi government doctors and they should be supplied with an oximeter. We have to monitor the daily condition of every patient recovering at home,” he said.On Tuesday, Kejriwal had said by May 10, Delhi will have at least 1,200 more ICU beds --- 500 being prepared at a facility attached to GTB hospital, another 500 at a facility being set up at the Ramlila Maidan in central Delhi which will be attached to Lok Nayak hospital, and 200 ICU beds at the Covid care centre at Radha Soami Satsang campus in Chhatarpur.The number of ward beds and ICU beds across hospitals in the city have increased by a little more than half against the Delhi government’s targets of 4,625 and 1,126, respectively, so far during the ongoing lockdown that was introduced to scale up medical infrastructure in the wake of the fourth wave of Covid-19 in Delhi, shows government data tracked by the Hindustan Times.As of Wednesday night, Delhi had 21,014 Covid-19 beds, of which 19,379 are occupied. Also, out of the 4,809 ICU beds in the city, 4,791 are occupied, said the government’s real-time application on hospital beds.Of the 18 vacant ICU beds, five are in a hospital which is reserved for children and women in advanced stages of pregnancy, and nine are in a hospital that is low on oxygen at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-directs-officials-to-speed-up-process-to-add-new-beds-101619647274076.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi High Court seeks response on plea seeking parole of prisoners||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre, the Delhi government and the prison authorities on a plea seeking parole of prisoners involved in non-heinous crimes from three jails in the city in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued a notice to the ministries of law and health, the Delhi government, police, office of the Lieutenant Governor and the director general of prisons, seeking their stand on the petition by May 4.Advocate Ajay Verma, appearing for the petitioners, told the court that recently, 190 inmates and 304 prison staff of Tihar jail tested positive for Covid-19 and the infection has spread across the prison.The petitioners-- three lawyers and a law student --have contended that at a time when there is a surge in Covid -19 infection, decongestion of the prisons is necessary as they are filled much beyond their capacity.“That the present total number of inmates as on April 7 is 17,285 as against a total capacity of 10,026 of the three jails -- Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini,” states the petition.Meanwhile, another single bench of the Delhi HC, directed the Delhi government and the prison authority to ensure proper medical supervision of former RJD MP Mohammed Shahabuddin, who is suffering from Covid-19 and is currently admitted in Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital.Justice Prathiba M Singh said the doctor on duty looking after Covid-19 patients shall monitor Shahabuddin’s health and if required, also consult senior doctors of the hospital.The court also directed that the former RJD MP, serving life sentence for murder, be permitted to speak to a family member twice a day and disposed of his plea seeking protection of his life and monitoring of the treatment being administered to him at DDU Hospital.In his plea, Shahabuddin said he apprehended that he will not get proper treatment as there is a scarcity of oxygen and other medicines in Delhi. He also alleged that he is “apprehending the mismanagement of his health situation at the hands of the doctors at the behest of the opposite political leaders” in Delhi.According to the petition, he was lodged in a cell, in the high risk ward of Tihar Jail, which he was sharing with another inmate.Despite the other inmate testing positive for Covid-19 early April, Shahabuddin was kept in the same cell with the infected inmate and “no separate arrangement was made by the jail authorities,” read the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-seeks-response-on-plea-seeking-parole-of-prisoners-101619647278123.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Fraudsters con people as pleas for help pour in on social media||Rashmi Mehra, a public health professional, came across a phone number in a WhatsApp group on April 24. She had received the number from another acquaintance who had spotted the message on Twitter. The tweet read: “Oxygen cylinders available for all. Contact number- (mentioned number) (Dheeraj) Location: Delhi (Rohini). ‘Available, Just Spoke on call’ (sic)”Mehra passed on the number to her friend, whose father, along with other family members, are down with Covid-19. With the oxygen saturation levels of her friend’s grandmother dipping, oxygen was the need of the hour.“My friend needed an oxygen cylinder for her grandmother. On her behalf, I found a lead. Even though he was charging a lot, we settled for him. In a state of distress, my friend made an advance payment of ₹10,000 as sought by the vendor. He was not reachable after she made the payment in the noon. By evening, even our messages were not getting delivered,” said Mehra.She said the family is still battling Covid. “My friend’s family members are battling for life right now. In such a situation, filing a complaint is the last thing on her mind,” said Mehra.Mehra’s friend is among the scores of people who are getting scammed as they desperately seek help amid the ongoing crisis. The second wave of Covid-19 across the county – and the fourth in Delhi— has spelt doom with a record number of people testing positive for the virus daily and at least 300 people dying of the infection in the Capital everyday over the past few days.Amid this unprecedented surge in cases, social media platforms are flooded with desperate pleas for help to find vacant hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, and medicines such as remdesivir. While there are many citizens who have stepped up to help, some fraudsters are exploiting the situation and cashing in on people’s misery in these trying times.Outlining the gravity of the situation, Mehra said her friend was a doctor but had failed to secure a bed for her own family members. Driven by the helplessness of the situation, she was compelled to make the transaction. “I know someone who lost ₹30,000 she had paid for a vial of remdesivir. The vendor blocked the number soon after receiving the payment. In a normal situation, one would think before making any payment. But the crisis is so bad that one is left with no choice but to take decisions fraught with great risk,” she said.Harish Arunachalam, who works with a multi-national technology company in Dublin, paid an advance of ₹10,000 for an oxygen cylinder for a family member whose oxygen levels had started dropping. Sitting miles away from home, Arunachalam made desperate calls to friends in Delhi who were able to find a lead on Twitter. Soon after the payment, the calls on the vendor’s number went unanswered and the promised oxygen cylinder never came.“Since I am not in the country, my friends were coordinating on my behalf. They found a lead on Twitter and called the number. The vendor seemed genuine to us. He sought our Aadhar number and other details. We made a calculated risk but the delivery never happened,” said Arunachalam.He said with so many verified leads floating on social media and other users vouching for the authenticity of these leads, people fall for such vendors. “The word verified has lost its meaning. When friends tell you that a lead is verified, it just becomes more believable. We didn’t realize that there are others trying to use the crisis to their advantage,” said Arunachalam.The cases are one too many.When 25-year-old Feroze’s father’s oxygen levels started dipping below 90 this week, the banking professional started hunting for an oxygen cylinder. A lead, originally shared on a social media platform, came his way. He called on the number and was asked to make an advance payment of ₹5000, which he promptly complied with. “Since the situation was critical, I immediately made the payment only to realize that the vendor was a fraud. In these terrible times, along with the loss of life, we are also witnessing loss of money,” said Feroze.Another citizen, who declined to give his name, lost ₹12,000 for Remdesivir vials that he ordered for his aunt, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19. The vendor seemed genuine and even shared a picture of the medicine, which prompted the journalist to go ahead with the payment. However, the number was switched off soon after and there has been no response since then.“My friend had arranged the number from another acquaintance, who had procured the vials from the vendor. It didn’t work for us,” said the journalist, who is yet to arrange the required medicines. “I am desperately trying to arrange the medicine but have had no luck so far. I am not in the space to go after the vendor,” he added.Delhi police officers said they would take action against fraudsters misusing pleas for help on social media. Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson for Delhi Police, said, “If people who have been duped file complaints, we will conduct investigation and take strict action against the fraudsters if the allegations are found to be true. We are already keeping a vigil on hoarding and black marketing of life-saving medicines, injections and oxygen. More than 20 people have been arrested for such offences in the last one week or so.”Deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy said given the current situation, people are desperate and as a result, verification--that they would have done in normal circumstances, have taken a back seat. Roy said while there are some people who have not delivered since they had exhausted their capacity, there were instances of frauds too.“If you are asked to pay in advance, you should meet the vendor once. Insist on getting the physical location. This is a basic precaution. People should go through proper channels, such as hospitals, instead of informal means,” said Roy. He said that now medicines were being available through the formal channels which meant that anyone still claiming to sell these medicines is likely to be a fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fraudsters-con-people-as-pleas-for-help-pour-in-on-social-media-101619647289188.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal directs officials to speed up process to add new beds||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed officials to expedite the process of scaling up oxygen beds and intensive care unit (ICU) beds across the city – the national capital had run out of both on Tuesday – and asked for the home isolation surveillance system to be strengthened.As of Wednesday night, Delhi had 21,014 Covid-19 beds, of which 19,379 are occupied. Also, out of the 4,809 ICU beds in the city, 4,791 are occupied, said the government’s real-time application on hospital beds. Kejriwal issued the directions in a review meeting on Wednesday evening which was also attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and several senior officials. It comes at a time when an acute shortage of oxygen is becoming the major obstruction to the government’s plan to augment beds across hospitals.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal convened a meeting today (Wednesday) with the health officials on the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. In the meeting, the CM deliberated on the plan to increase the number of oxygen beds in the coming days, along with strengthening the home isolation system,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named.Kejriwal said in a statement, “We are noticing that this new strain of coronavirus is quite dangerous and often leads to respiratory and breathing issues. It has become very important to provide beds to every patient who needs oxygen. We have to expedite the process to add more ICU and oxygen beds in the coming weeks.”“We have to further strengthen our home isolation system. Every patient who is recovering from Covid in home isolation should receive regular calls from Delhi government doctors and they should be supplied with an oximeter. We have to monitor the daily condition of every patient recovering at home,” he said.On Tuesday, Kejriwal had said by May 10, Delhi will have at least 1,200 more ICU beds --- 500 being prepared at a facility attached to GTB hospital, another 500 at a facility being set up at the Ramlila Maidan in central Delhi which will be attached to Lok Nayak hospital, and 200 ICU beds at the Covid care centre at Radha Soami Satsang campus in Chhatarpur.The number of ward beds and ICU beds across hospitals in the city have increased by a little more than half against the Delhi government’s targets of 4,625 and 1,126, respectively, so far during the ongoing lockdown that was introduced to scale up medical infrastructure in the wake of the fourth wave of Covid-19 in Delhi, shows government data tracked by the Hindustan Times. As of Wednesday night, Delhi had 21,014 Covid-19 beds, of which 19,379 are occupied. Also, out of the 4,809 ICU beds in the city, 4,791 are occupied, said the government’s real-time application on hospital beds. Of the 18 vacant ICU beds, five are in a hospital which is reserved for children and women in advanced stages of pregnancy, and nine are in a hospital that is low on oxygen at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-directs-officials-to-speed-up-process-to-add-new-beds-101619638240777.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Four members of a family suffer severe burns after LPG leak triggers fire||Four members of a family, two of them children aged 9 and 15, suffered burns after a leakage in their cooking gas cylinder triggered a fire in their house in west Delhi’s Ravi Nagar Extension on Wednesday, police said. The injured persons are undergoing treatment at Safdarjung hospital and their condition is critical. They have between 30% and 80% burns, the police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam said on Wednesday, two calls were made to the police control room regarding the fire in a LPG (cooking gas) cylinder in a flat on the third floor of a building. A police team immediately reached the building and found that four members of a family had suffered burns and were rescued from the flat by locals.The injured persons were identified by their first names as Shalender,45, his wife Koshlender,30, and their two children Rani,15, and Shubham,9. While Shalender and Rani suffered 80% burns, Koshlender received 30% and Shubham 40% burns. All of them were rushed to a nearby hospital, from where they were referred to Safdarjung Hospital as their condition was serious, the police said.During the initial inquiry, the additional DCP said it was learnt that the husband and wife were replacing the empty gas cylinder with a filled one when the leak happened from the new cylinder and the gas spread quickly through the entire house.“Someone may have tried to light the gas stove and the fire broke out and quickly engulfed the house. The exact reason will be known only when statements of the injured persons are recorded. They are currently not fit enough to give their statements,” said a police officer, asking not to be named.Additional DCP Gautam said a case of negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible substance and causing hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others was registered under the Indian Penal Code sections 285 and 337 was registered and investigation has been initiated.A forensic team also visited the spot and collected evidence that would help the police ascertain the exact cause of the fire, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-members-of-a-family-suffer-severe-burns-after-lpg-leak-triggers-fire-101619638178897.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Two die of Covid-19 at Tihar jail; prison reports 261 active cases||Two prisoners housed in Tihar jail died of Covid-19 on Tuesday night, even as the infection is spreading rapidly through the country’s most populated prison complex, prison officials said Wednesday. Since April, Tihar has reported 284 cases of Covid-19 among prisoners and 115 among jailers, raising fears of a mass infection spread inside the jail. At over 20,500 prisoners currently, the inmate count at Tihar jail is the highest ever in its history. Prison officials said on Tuesday night, the officials of GTB hospital informed them that prisoner Mukesh Talwar, 61, had succumbed to the coronavirus infection. Talwar, who was arrested in connection with a rape case last month, was lodged in jail number 7 and had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 22. As his condition worsened, he was admitted to GTB hospital the same day. Hours before Talwar’s death, 43-year-old prisoner Mohammed Anis, who was lodged in jail number 4, too, died of the disease at the DDU hospital. Anis was in prison since December 17, 2019, in a drug-related case.Director general (prisons) Sandeep Goel also confirmed the two deaths without offering more details. Currently, there are 261 active Covid-19 cases among prisoners. Experts such as former law officer Sunil Gupta and Ajay Verma have suggested that the government either set up temporary jails outside the prion complex -- such as school buildings -- or release some of the prisoners who are not a threat to society.Last year, when the pandemic broke out, nearly 6,000 prisoners were released on special parole/bail to ensure social distancing within the jail. However, between February 6 and March 18, 2021, almost all these prisoners surrendered and returned to jail, after spending nearly 10-11 months outside. Their return meant that the prison was once again crowded, leaving little space for isolation of suspected Covid-19 patients and new inmates. Among the many prisoners, who are currently Covid-19 positive are underworld gangster Chhota Rajan and former politician turned gangster Mohammed Shahabuddin. While Rajan has been admitted to AIIMS, Shahabuddin is being treated at DDU hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-die-of-covid-19-at-tihar-jail-prison-reports-261-active-cases-101619638120748.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Two held for fleecing Covid patients desperate for oxygen cylinders||Two businessmen were arrested for allegedly hoarding oxygen cylinders and selling them at exorbitant rates in Delhi to desperate Covid-19 patients and their families, said police on Wednesday.The suspects -- Abhishek Nanda (32) from Shalimar Bagh and Shrey Oberoi (30) from Vikaspuri -- allegedly sold cylinders for ₹50,000 each when their market price was only around ₹6,000 for a 10 litre cylinder, said police.The high profit margin encouraged them to approach people posting SOS messages on social media for oxygen, said police. When informed of the scam, west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh police said they deployed decoy customers to trap the suspects.Four small oxygen cylinders each of 10 litres capacity and one large cylinder of capacity 67litres were seized from the suspects along with a Hyundai Verna car that they allegedly used to transport and deliver cylinders, said additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam.DCP (crime) Monika Bhardwaj, also holding the additional charge of DCP (West), said Nanda and Oberoi were originally into the business of electrical equipment and toys, respectively.“Their businesses were hit by the Covid pandemic and the curfew in Delhi that had been imposed for more than a week,” said Monika Bhardwaj. “For quick and easy money, Nanda sold the unused oxygen cylinders that he had arranged for Covid patients in his family.”Soon Nanda saw an opportunity in the scarcity of oxygen cylinders in Delhi-NCR and involved Oberoi in a plan to make a profit, said another police officer associated with the probe but who did not wish to be named.“Nanda’s job was to arrange oxygen cylinders, while Oberoi delivered them to people who he contacted over social media. At least two cylinders that they sold are currently being used to treat Covid patients at different places in Delhi,” said the officer.The officer said the Punjabi Bagh police received information from a credible source about the duo’s operation. Their decoy customer convinced Oberoi to deliver two small cylinders to northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh and agreed to pay ₹1 lakh for both, said the officer. Oberoi was arrested with the cylinders from Shalimar Bagh and his questioning led police to Nanda and recovered of three more oxygen cylinders from him, said the officer.“We are now questioning them for the source of the cylinders. Efforts are on to recover more oxygen cylinders,” added DCP Bhardwaj.On Tuesday, the Delhi Police asked its personnel to activate their intelligence network, keep a close watch on social media posts, visit scrap godowns, and use decoy customers to trap hoarders fleecing Covid patients and their kin. It came on a day when the Delhi high court said the government’s entire system has failed as black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines was rampant.“High demand for oxygen, injection, medicine etc; miscreants indulge in hoarding, black marketing, faking to deceive needy buyers. Seven cases registered with arrest of 21 persons and remdesivir, oxygen seized. Delhi Police is checking those cheating on social media to protect public interest,” the Delhi Police tweeted on Tuesday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-for-fleecing-covid-patients-desperate-for-oxygen-cylinders-101619638119610.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi plans to increase vaccination centres, but supply delays may hit vaccination of 18-44 age group||The Delhi government plans to increase the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres as inoculation opens for the 18-44 age group on May 1, said senior government officials. But a delay in vaccine supply may delay the start of vaccination for this age group, which is a sizeable chunk of Delhi’s 20 crore population, officials in the know of the matter said. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said his government had approved the procurement of 1.34 crore [13.4 million] vaccine doses from various manufacturers to boost a massive vaccination drive.Although the state government is yet to share the plan details, the 11 district administrations in Delhi are drawing up strategies to augment the number of vaccination sites and provide adequate staff to run the centres smoothly. Staffing of these centres is the major issue, official said, as many health-care and front-line workers are currently down with Covid-19.The chief minister’s office had earlier stated that free vaccines will be available in all government-run Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi while those who opt for private centres will have to pay for the jabs.At present, Delhi has around 500 vaccination centres spread across 192 hospitals and dispensaries. A majority of the vaccination sites are in government hospitals and while some districts are planning to increase the number of sites in hospitals and dispensaries, other districts are looking at school buildings as possible vaccination sites. A senior official with the New Delhi district said on condition of anonymity, “We are in the process of working out the number of new sites that would be needed to ensure a hassle-free vaccination process for the 18-44 age group. We are planning to have dedicated vaccination sites for this group.” Another official said new centres are also needed to ensure that there is not much crowding at the vaccination site. The New Delhi district, which has 80 vaccination sites, is also planning to set up a mega vaccination centre to cater to the rush, as the number of people in this age group will be more, said a senior official there. Senior district officials involved in the identification of the new vaccination sites said a number of new centres are being planned as per the availability of manpower, which is the crucial aspect, as districts are facing a manpower crunch as a lot of health-care and essential service providers are currently down with Covid-19. A north-west Delhi district official said, asking not to be named, “We have identified 16 new sites in government schools. We will scale up the number of vaccination sites later, once we get more manpower, especially vaccinators.” A vaccination site must has five staff members, including a vaccinator. A district magistrate, who did not wish to be named, said, “We will be roping in teachers and civil defence volunteers for data entry and management of observation rooms. But we still need more vaccinators and accordingly, we will increase the number of sites.” The municipal corporations have also sent their request to increase the number of sites to the Delhi government. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “We have sent the list of 20 additional centres to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for approval.” District authorities have to share their plan for new vaccination sites with the health department and the DDMA. A Delhi government official said no decision has been taken so far on whether to open dedicated sites for the 18-44 age group or not. A third senior district official said, also on condition of anonymity, “We are just working out the plan. A final decision regarding new centres has to be taken by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-plans-to-increase-vaccination-centres-but-supply-delays-may-hit-vaccination-of-18-44-age-group-101619638058917.html
