30-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs 27,047 fresh Covid-19 infections, 375 deaths in last 24 hours||Delhi on Friday saw a spike of 27,047 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections and 375 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin. The daily new cases witnessed a rise of 2,812 cases as the national capital reported 24,235 new Covid-19 cases and 395 deaths in the last 24 hours on Thursday, the health bulletin showed.After Friday's hike, the total number of active cases in Delhi stands at 99,361, and the Covid-19 caseload reached 1,149,333.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The positivity rate in the Capital also increased from Thursday. Delhi recorded a positivity rate of 31.76 per cent on Thursday. In the last one day, positivity rate rose by 0.93 percentage point, the bulletin showed.82,745 tests were conducted in Delhi in the last 24 hours to detect the presence of the virus. The testing in last 24 hours has increased as on Thursday, 81,829 samples were tested for Covid-19.On Friday, of the 82,745 number of tests, over 62,734 RT-PCR tests, often considered as gold standard for Covid-19 diagnosis, were conducted and more than 20,011 of the samples were tested through the rapid antigen process.The total number of containment zones as of Thursday were 35,924, which have now increased by nearly 1,300 as 37,223 containment zones are present in the Capital as of Friday.As many as 25,288 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, down in recovery as 25,615 patients discharged on Thursday. The case fatality rate remained the same as Thursday- 1.40 per cent.Delhi government on Thursday clarified the discrepancy in the death toll as the toll stood at 15,377 but in Wednesday's health bulletin it was mentioned as 14,248.As per the bulletin, 4,693 dedicated Covid care centres and 79 dedicated Covid care health centres are vacant in Delhi as of Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-27-047-fresh-covid-19-infections-375-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101619794096243.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi nurses demand reserved beds for themselves, their families||Staff associations of several hospitals in the national Capital have demanded reserved beds for themselves and their family members, who test positive for Covid-19, as infections continue to multiply in Delhi.The All-India Government Nurses’ Federation on Thursday wrote to Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital requesting the authorities to make a “firm policy” for admission of nurses and their family members, after the relatives of two nurses at the hospital died for the want of treatment.At least two nurses and a technician at Lok Nayak Hospital succumbed to the infection this week.According to the federation, over 250 nursing and technical staff members of RML Hospital have tested Covid-19 positive at their hospital in the past month. Similarly, the nursing staff at GTB Hospital said over 150 nurses and frontline workers have contracted Covid in the past few weeks.In a letter addressed to the RML Hospital medical superintendent Rana AK Singh, the federation on Thursday alleged that sick nurses and their immediate family members were being denied admissions.“You are requested to make a proper and firm policy for admission of nurses and their family members. Some separate space/floor should be allocated for this purpose. Their lives are also equally important to run the hospital in the future. We cannot afford to lose a single nurse in this battle with corona as there is already a shortage of nurses in the health care system. You are requested to look into the matter seriously and make necessary arrangements for nurses at the earliest,” GK Khurana, the secretary-general of the federation, said in his letter.Earlier on Tuesday, the Union ministry of health directed the three central government hospitals in Delhi - including RML and Safdarjung -- to ensure that health care workers who contract Covid-19 are provided immediate treatment.A member of the RML Nursing Union, who wished not to be named, said, “Although RML Hospital issued an order regarding prioritising staff’s treatment earlier, it has not been implemented yet. On Tuesday, a nurse, who is Covid positive, had to spend a night there to admit her mother who is also infected with the virus. She had to run from ward to ward looking for a bed for her mother, even as she herself grew weaker.”“The hospital should allot some separate space or floor for the staff members immediately,” she added.Despite repeated attempts, Singh did not respond to calls and texts sent for comment.On Wednesday, a nursing officer at GTB Hospital wrote to their medical superintendent raising the same concern. He alleged that an unwell nursing officer was not allowed to transfer to his ward despite a bed being available on Wednesday night and was asked to produce a letter from the chief medical officer (CMO). “We request you to prioritise health workers and their dependents for admission in our hospital... if health care workers are not allowed admissions, then why are we working as front-line warriors,” he said in the letter.Dr Anil Jain, the in-charge of all Covid-19 related management at GTB Hospital, did not respond to calls and texts seeking comment.Meanwhile, the Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital on Wednesday issued an order clarifying that hospital staff will be admitted at their facility and no permission from the administration was necessary. “It is again clarified that all employees, doctors, nursing staff, paramedical staff, and health care workers of Lok Nayak Hospital, including their parents, must be admitted without any permission from the hospital administration or CMO or CCMO,” said medical director Suresh Kumar in the order. At least three nurses at Lok Nayak have succumbed to the infection in the past three weeks, hospital officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-nurses-demand-reserved-beds-for-themselves-their-families-101619783929002.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi L-G Anil Baijal tests positive for Covid-19 with 'mild symptoms'||Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Friday tweeted that he has tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with mild symptoms. Baijal said he has isolated himself since the symptoms have started showing and all those in his contact have also been tested.The Delhi L-G further added that he will continue to function and monitor the Covid-19 situation of Delhi from his residence."I have tested positive for Covid with mild symptoms. Have isolated myself since the onset of symptoms and all those who were in contact with me have been tested. Will continue to function and monitor the situation in Delhi from my residence," Baijal tweeted on Friday.I have tested positive for COVID with mild symptoms. Have isolated myself since the onset of symptoms and all those who were in contact with me have been tested.Will continue to function and monitor the situation in Delhi from my residence.India is currently battling the seemingly more destructive wave of Covid-19 that has led the healthcare of the country to its capacity. The national Capital is facing a huge shortage of all medical essentials, from the antiviral Remidesivir drugs to ICU beds and life-saving oxygen. People are running from pillar to post in search of beds, hospitals and oxygen cylinders for treatment.In the Capital, more than 25,000 people were detected to be infected with the fatal virus, while 368 people died due to the infection on Thursday in the last 24 hours, as per the Delhi health bulletin.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19On Friday, Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh passed away in a hospital at Patna while getting treated for Covid-19, reported news agency ANI.News of the demise of renowned journalist Rohit Sardana from the disease also came earlier on Friday.India reported more than 386,000 fresh coronavirus disease cases on Friday with 3,498 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-anil-baijal-tests-positive-for-covid-19-with-mild-symptoms-101619774019939.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi L-G Anil Baijal tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal has tested positive for Covid-19 and has isolated himself at his residence.“I have tested positive for COVID with mild symptoms. Have isolated myself since the onset of symptoms and all those who were in contact with me have been tested. Will continue to function and monitor the situation in Delhi from my residence,” the L-G said in a tweet.Also Read | TV news anchor Rohit Sardana succumbs to Covid-19The second wave of Covid-19 is raging in the Capital, leaving the national Capital’s healthcare system overburdened and people scrambling for hospital beds, medicines and oxygen support. Last week , chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had briefly isolated himself after his wife Sunita Kejriwal tested positive.The national Capital has been recording over 25,000 cases for the past few days and a positivity rate of around 30℅. Experts have said that the positivity rate must be less than 5℅ in order to contain the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-anil-baijal-tests-positive-for-covid19-101619775407739.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt allows its hospitals to hire doctors, nurses, including retired staff||The Delhi government has allowed all its hospitals to hire doctors, nurses, and other staff, including those who have retired, to take care of critically ill patients as the city continues reporting a high number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.Nearly 24,000 cases have been reported on an average each day during the last seven days in Delhi. The city has just over 21,000 beds earmarked for the treatment of patients with the viral infection, of which nearly 20,000 beds are already occupied, as per the government’s Delhi Corona app.The government has allowed all heads of hospitals to hire retired specialists, consultants, dental or AYUSH practitioners, nurses and nursing orderlies at a fixed monthly honorarium for a period of six months. The salary will range from ₹140,000 for specialists to ₹20,250 for a nursing orderly, as per the order by the officer on special duty (health and family welfare) Ashish Chandra Verma.Also Read | 5 arrested for handing out fake Covid test reports in DelhiIn addition, the hospitals can also hire other working specialists, consultants, medical students, nurses, and security guards for a period of three months, as per their need. Any such staff will be paid ₹15,000 per shift for a consultant to ₹800 for a security guard, the second order said.With intensive care units in the city running full, the government has decided to set up 1,200 makeshift ICU beds just like the DRDO facility. “All ICU beds are full. The Central government gave us 500 ICU beds at the DRDO [Defence Research and Development Organisation] facility in Delhi Cantt, but all beds got filled in just three hours,” Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-allows-its-hospitals-to-hire-retired-staff-101619774927697.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||5 arrested for handing out fake Covid test reports in Delhi||Five people, including two lab technicians, and an application scientist working at a laboratory carrying out Covid-19 tests, have been arrested for allegedly giving fake test reports, the Delhi Police said on Friday.According to Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), the alleged scamsters dished out at least 400 fake test results after beginning this fraud on April 23.The complainant belongs to a large family in south Delhi’s Khirki Extension. Forty-five members of this extended family gave their samples for Covid-19 testing, but each of them was given a false result, said the DCP.It began late this month when 44 members of this family got themselves tested by two technicians of this lab over a period of a few days. Some of them were given positive results, other negative, the DCP said, adding that the exact count of either results was yet to be ascertained.Also Read | Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, AAP MLA demands President’s rule in DelhiOne of the members of this family, Rishab Shukla, got a positive result on Monday. “But Shukla didn’t have any symptoms so he decided to get himself tested at another lab on Wednesday. This time his result arrived negative,” said the DCP.Shukla then decided to check with the first lab and visited their centre on Thursday to learn that his sample never reached them and was nowhere on their records.The police were eventually contacted.The police registered a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy at Malviya Nagar police station and probed the case to arrest five persons.According to the DCP, two lab technicians were taking the help of an application scientist of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre to prepare fake Covid reports and give them to the patients.They were allegedly using the letter pad of the lab to issue these fake reports.The other two persons arrested were “colleagues” of the application scientist, the DCP said.Responding on the development, Chetan Kohli, COO of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, said, “On being approached by few patients to authenticate reports bearing our lab’s name, we found out that they were not issued by us nor tested at our lab. We immediately called the local police station in-charge for an investigation of what seemed to be a fake report issue”.“On police investigations requested by us, five of our employees were identified to be a party to this crime without the knowledge of the lab management or lab head,” said Kohli.“We are not just disappointed but disgusted by this act of malice for a few rupees putting the lives of patients at risk. We’re in full compliance with the investigating authorities and support any and every action taken against them,” he said.“All our reports have a QR code which can be easily used to check the authenticity of reports. We reiterate our commitment to the service of the nation during this pandemic and assure testing with integrity and quality,” Kohli added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5-arrested-for-handing-out-fake-covid-test-reports-in-delhi-101619774267886.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, AAP MLA demands President's rule in Delhi||AAP MLA Shoaib Iqbal on Friday demanded imposition of President's rule in Delhi in view of the massive surge in Covid-19 cases.The Matia Mahal MLA, who left the Congress and contested the Delhi Assembly polls last year on an AAP ticket, said neither him nor the government is able to offer any help to the people affected by the second wave of Covid-19.No immediate reaction was available from the Aam Aadmi Party on Iqbal's demand.WATCH: Why this AAP MLA is demanding President's rule in Delhi﻿"I feel embarrassed being an MLA since I cannot be of use to anyone, our government is unable to stand with the people. Despite being a six-time MLA, there is no one to listen to(me) and I cannot contact anyone," Iqbal said in a video message.He urged the Delhi High Court to impose the President's rule in the national capital with immediate effect for three months."Delhi is in a very bad situation, I request the Delhi High Court for imposition of President's rule in Delhi with immediate effect otherwise there will be dead bodies across the city," the AAP MLA said."I feel like crying, I have lost my sleep. People are desperate and unable to find medicines and oxygen. I cannot help even a friend who is in hospital without oxygen and medicines," Iqbal said.The national capital on Thursday had recorded 395 deaths due to coronavirus, the highest since the pandemic began a year ago, and 24,235 cases with a positivity rate of 32.82 per cent, according to a bulletin issued by the city health department.This was the eighth day in a row that Delhi had recorded over 300 deaths due to Covid-19.Iqbal said his demand for the President's rule was not against his party."It's not a matter of this or that party. People are dying due to Covid-19 and saving them should be the only priority," he told PTI.“If the Centre can accept help from other nations, then why can't there be President's rule or use of the Army to save people?" the MLA asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-aap-mla-demands-president-s-rule-in-delhi-101619767644899.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Vaccine drive for 18+ not to start in Delhi from May 1: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said Delhi will not launch its vaccine drive for those between 18-44 years from Saturday and urged people not visit any centres as of now as it may lead to a law and order situation and flouting of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the Delhi government will formally announce a date of launch for the mega vaccination drive. He said as on Friday, Delhi has no doses to vaccinate those between 18 years and 44 years. “The vaccines have not reached us till now. We are in touch with the manufacturers and the first batch of 300,000 doses of Covishield vaccine is likely to arrive in a day or two. Hence, I request people not to throng vaccination centres. Once we receive the doses, I will formally announce the date of launch of the mega vaccination drive,” he said. The chief minister said that the Delhi government will procure 13.4 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines over the next three months. He said, of the 13.4 million doses, the Delhi government will procure 67,00,000 doses from Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, the mainstay of India’s vaccination programme. The other half (67,00,000) of the doses will be procured from Bharat Biotech, which manufactures Covaxin. Also Read | Delhi’s fake remdesivir injection racket: Two more arrested in Uttarakhand“Our target is to vaccinate everyone in Delhi in three months. From our end, we have planned it all out in terms of increasing the number of centres and the support staff required. However, a lot also depends on whether the manufacturers are able to send us the doses in a timely manner without any delay. These 13.4 million doses will come over a period of three months and we have asked both the manufacturers for their schedules on supply of the demanded doses,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister once again urged everyone not to crowd vaccination centres from Friday. Senior government officials said neither government centres nor private centres are going to open vaccination for those between 18-44 from Saturday. SII is offering its doses at ₹150 for the Centre, ₹300 for state governments, and ₹600 for the private sector. Bharat Biotech is offering its vaccine for ₹150 per dose to the Centre, ₹400 to state governments, and ₹1,200 to private hospitals.Hospitals have been asked to return all remaining doses provided by the government — for the current vaccination drive meant for 45 and above — after Friday’s vaccination and purchase their own shots.However, private hospitals in Delhi said both vaccine manufacturers have given long waiting periods to facilities that tried to procure doses independently. The manufacturers have conveyed to these private hospitals that they would first meet the orders placed by state governments and then honour the orders placed by private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccine-drive-for-18-not-to-start-in-delhi-from-may-1-kejriwal-101619766948175.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||‘Don’t queue up outside Covid-19 vaccination centres tomorrow, stock will arrive in 1-2 days’: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday urged people not to queue up outside Covid-19 vaccination centres in the national capital on Saturday when the third phase of the inoculation drive to cover all adults in the country is scheduled to start. "I request you to not queue up at the centres tomorrow. As soon as the vaccines come, we will make proper announcements. Only then people with appointments can start coming to the centres," Kejriwal said.Kejriwal said the Delhi government has not received the vaccines against the coronavirus disease yet. "We are in constant touch with the company. We are hopeful that the vaccines will reach by tomorrow or the day after. They have assured us that 300,000 doses of Covishield are coming to us first, tomorrow or the day after," he added.He said the Delhi government has requested both companies to make available 67 lakh doses each in next three months. "Delhi government is ready to make payments for it. People of Delhi will be given free vaccines. We are making all efforts to see that people of Delhi are vaccinated in the next three months," Kejriwal added.More than 24.5 million people have registered themselves on the Co-WIN digital platform ahead of the Phase-3 of the Covid-19 vaccination for those above 18 years that is set to start from May 1, according to the Union health ministry. While more than 13.7 million people registered themselves on April 28, more than 10.4 million registered by the end of April 29.The government on Monday made the announcement after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a series of meetings over India's response to record daily surges in coronavirus disease cases. In the meetings, PM Modi stressed that vaccination was "the biggest weapon" in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic and urged doctors to encourage more and more patients to get vaccinated.All adults can get Covid shots and states can buy doses directly from vaccine-makers in the "liberalised and accelerated Phase 3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination", the government said. India began inoculating people in January using two anti-Covid-19 vaccines - Serum Institute of India's Covishield developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech's made-in-India Covaxin. So far, the government allowed vaccinations only for health workers, frontline workers and those above 45 years in a centrally-controlled process.Delhi reported 24,235 new Covid-19 cases and 395 deaths on Thursday with a positivity rate of 31.76%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-queue-up-outside-covid-19-vaccination-centres-tomorrow-stock-will-arrive-in-1-2-days-kejriwal-101619764012691.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Three rescued from burning house in Delhi’s Rajouri Garden||Firefighters rescued three members of a family in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden after they were trapped in their house that caught fire following a gas cylinder blast on Friday. It was not immediately clear if the three suffered any burn injuries.Also Read | Shanty fire kills couple, their four children in Delhi’s BijwasanDelhi Fire Services chief Atul Garg said the fire control room received a call at 3.46am regarding the fire and a team of firefighters was rushed to the site with five fire trucks. “The fire was on the second floor flat of a building near Cambridge Foundation School. ...three persons were trapped...our firefighters safely rescued them. The fire was doused.” He added the three included a couple and their 16-year-old daughter.On Wednesday night, a couple and their four children, including a toddler, were charred to death in a shanty that caught fire in southwest Delhi’s Bijwasan. The victims appeared to be asleep when the fire broke out. It caused a cooking gas cylinder blast as the blaze spread to two other adjacent huts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-rescued-from-burning-house-in-delhi-s-rajouri-garden-101619762147123.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi may witness a partly cloudy sky today, says IMD||The National Capital is likely to witness a partly cloudy sky on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast that has also predicted that the maximum temperature to remain around 40 degrees Celsius (°C), providing some respite to people from heat as the city sizzled at 42.1°C on Thursday.The Met department has predicted the minimum temperature to be 23°C, nearly the same as recorded on Thursday by the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official weather market for the city. According to the IMD, the minimum temperature on Thursday was 23.2°C, one notch below normal and the maximum temperature was 42.1°C – three degrees above the normal for this time of the year.Also Read | Severe weather warning for Maharashtra, heavy rain likely in areas bordering KarnatakaMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in the poor category on Friday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 282, which is at the higher-end of the poor category. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 296, close to very poor category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Friday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the very poor category. Surface winds are moderate and south-southwesterly. Satellite fire data indicates effective fire counts have increased and touching 1,300 -- mainly wheat crop burning in Northern parts of India. Model trajectory and transport level wind directions are favourable for fire-related intrusion leading to deterioration of air quality in Delhi. Safar forecast that dust emissions from the dry arid region of Rajasthan are likely on April 30. Hence, AQI is likely to stay in the very poor to poor category for the next two days where external transport would be the dominating factor from two fronts. A marginal improvement in AQI is expecting by May 2.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-much-change-in-delhi-temperatures-todayimd-101619752487108.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Govt to keep 20 MT oxygen as ‘buffer stock’ for emergency use||With the high demand and erratic supply of oxygen in the city, the Delhi government has decided to maintain a buffer stock of nearly 20 metric tonnes (MT) to help hospitals in distress, according to an order implementing a new oxygen quota for Delhi hospitals that came into force on Thursday midnight.“A reserve of 20MT on rotational basis will be maintained by the Govt of NCT of Delhi through the control centre to address emergent or critical situation at any hospital,” the order by a deputy secretary (health) read. This was one of the suggestions made by representatives of private hospitals in a meeting with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and representatives of oxygen suppliers on Monday.The order, which supersedes an April 26 order, says the total allocation of oxygen to hospitals treating patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been reduced marginally to provide oxygen for reserve, for non-Covid-19 services in hospitals, and because the oxygen suppliers are “realistically” providing less oxygen than the city’s quota.Of the daily quota of 490 MT medical oxygen allocated to Delhi by the Centre, suppliers said they could provide only 445 MT. Of this, 387 MT has been allocated to hospitals for Covid-19 services, 40 MT for non-Covid services, and 18 MT as reserve. As per the previous order, Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi needed 454 MT of medical oxygen. The entire supply was to be divided among them.“The quota for oxygen has been reduced; the allocation is based on the patient census in the hospital on April 24 — I had 240 Covid-19 patients in the hospital then, today I have 302. Where will I get the oxygen to manage the additional 60 patients,” said Dr SCL Gupta, medical director, Batra hospital.Dr Narin Sehgal, medical director of Sehgal Neo hospital, said, “My oxygen allocation was reduced from 1.5 MT to 1.1 MT in the revised order; I don’t know why. To be fair, however, I haven’t been calculating how much we have got against the quota but whatever we are getting isn’t enough. I am not blaming anyone. The situation is unprecedented.”The calculation for oxygen requirement is based on non-ICU patients needing 10 litres of oxygen per minute and those in the ICU needing 24 litres per minute.The Delhi government said it doesn’t even receive the entire 445 MT of oxygen on a daily basis. “We received 402 metric tonne of oxygen yesterday, and the day before that 408 metric tonne. We have been allocated the share of 480 metric ton on April 21st and 490 metric ton on April 25th, but it is hardly reaching us in that quantity. Presently, the allocation is done keeping in mind the number of ICU beds and non-ICU oxygen beds,” the government said in a statement.Meanwhile the Delhi government told the high court on Thursday that two more pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants will be operational in the city from Friday, adding that it needed nearly 1,000 MT of oxygen to augment intensive care unit beds needed to handle the rush of critical Covid patients.Delhi government counsel Rahul Mehtra made the submission before a high court bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli while giving a status report on the Centre’s plan to set up PSA oxygen units at different Delhi hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-to-keep-20-mt-oxygen-as-buffer-stock-for-emergency-use-101619736418582.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||‘Why are some states getting more O2 than they need, while Delhi gets less?’ Delhi HC asks Centre to respond||The Delhi high court on Thursday questioned the Centre for allocating more medical oxygen then asked for to certain states while not providing the quantity being sought by Delhi, which is facing acute shortage.“We are not saying that people in the other parts of the country should die. But if the demand of a particular state is ‘x’, then why did you give it ‘x+y’? Why don’t you give ‘y’ to Delhi?” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the Centre, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.The Centre has allocated 490 MT medical oxygen to Delhi, which has been demanding 700 MT.With cases in the Capital rising, and most hospitals not adding beds or intensive car units because they do not have access to adequate oxygen, the Delhi government , separately, on Thursday urged the Central government to raise the national capital’s daily quota of medical oxygen from 490 MT to 976 MT and provide logistics support for the enhanced allocation.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19, wrote to Union minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday stating that the national capital will require more medical oxygen as the government plans to add around 15,000 beds in the next 10 days.“The people and the Government of NCT of Delhi will be extremely grateful to the Government of India if it can kindly increase the allocation from the present 490 MT per day to 976 MT per day, preferably from nearby oxygen plants, reducing the turnaround time,” Sisodia wrote to Goyal, who is also the minister of commerce and industry and the minister of consumer affairs. He is also the railway ministerOn Thursday, the high court rejected the submission of Mehta that the present oxygen supply to Delhi was sufficient, and asked the Centre to respond on why other states were getting more oxygen or almost as much as they demanded.The bench clarified that it was by no means interested in securing more oxygen for Delhi than required, and that too at the cost of any state or Union territory.“We make it clear that by no means are we interested in securing for Delhi more than what’s required, and that too at a cost of any other state or Union territory. However, if submissions of Delhi or amicus were to be accepted, it would appear the central government needs to explain this, for which we are granting time. It goes without saying the aforesaid reflect arguments advanced by amicus and (lawyer Rahul Mehra) Delhi,” the court noted in its order.The question was posed after senior advocates Rajshekhar Rao, amicus curiae in the matter, and Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that as per the national allocation plan, Maharashtra demanded 1500 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day and was allocated 1661 MT; similarly, Madhya Pradesh demanded 445 MT and it was allocated 543 MT, and that the situation was similar for several other states.The discussion on the national allocation plan came about after Mehra told the court that Delhi’s demand of 700 MT is not being granted . He told the bench that the city was working to augment its bed capacity and would add 15,000 more beds to meet the surge in the cases in mid May predicted by experts; however, they do not have sufficient oxygen.“I will place it now and my instructions are from the top of the bureaucracy. They (Centre) are skirting the oxygen supply (issue). As a state government we are being put in the dock but the Centre has miserably failed the people of the country... Some responsibility should be fixed. Only paper orders have been passed. This is not oxygen in air, it’s oxygen in cylinders. Except giving sermons, the Centre has not done anything. There is complete apathy for the people of Delhi. We cannot be mute spectators just because they are the Centre,” Mehra argued.Solicitor General Mehta, justifying the allocation plan, said the Centre is making all possible efforts to augment the supply and claimed the current supply is sufficient to meet current needs. He said that oxygen has not reached Delhi because the Union territory has been facing difficulty in picking the allocated amount to them.He said that the national allocation plan should not be touched by the court because several factors have been taken into consideration while deciding. He also justified that Maharashtra has been given more oxygen because of the raging pandemic, while Madhya Pradesh’s population is three times that of the Capital..Maharashtra had 675,451 active cases as on Wednesday night, but Madhya Pradesh only 92,773, and Delhi over 100,000.“Suppose there is a huge, unprecedented surge tomorrow, which nobody can anticipate… I do not want to create panic… then the situation would be different. The Delhi government did demand 700 MT. For me, a Delhi citizen is as dear and important as a Kerala citizen. They did demand 700. Allocation is 480-490, the actual quantity coming to Delhi 335-340 which according to our assessment is sufficient,” Mehta submitted before the court.“Delhi is facing difficulty because it has not been able to pick up the allocated amount.. 90% of our time is going out firefighting for Delhi. There are transport and logistical issues,” he said. “No resources are unlimited and we are augmenting. There can be lapses but those could be rectified.”During the hearing, an agitated Mehta told a senior officer of the Centre, “You cut from MP and give it to Delhi. It would be at the cost of some lives in MP but let us do it for Delhi.”However, the bench objected to this and said, “Don’t give an impression as if we are asking something extra for Delhi. We don’t appreciate this. We are asking this on the basis of facts and figures. You can’t be emotional about it. You have to take this head on, you can’t duck it.”SG Mehta said that the Centre will file an affidavit on the court’s query and will give the reasons for giving more oxygen to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.“There are states which received less than what they had asked for. We have been rationalizing,” he said adding that hysteria should not be created and the situation is dynamic”. Earlier this week, Mehta said in court that Delhi was behaving like a “crybaby”.To this, the bench said the panic is because of lack of resources.“It’s not because of what judges or lawyers say; panic is on the ground. People are suffering but hospitals are not taking patients. We already had loss of lives in Delhi due to shortage of oxygen. It has fallen on you to resolve this. How you resolve is your problem,” the court said.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.In his letter to Goyal, Sisodia said Delhi has been witnessing around 25,000 fresh COVID cases a day and about 10% of the patients require some form of hospitalisation, including oxygen support.Sisodia said that merely increasing oxygen allocation to Delhi will not do and that the Central government will also have to arrange transportation to bring the same to the national Capital. “It is also our humble request to provide transport infrastructure, including railways and tankers, for the additional allocation since Delhi is a non-industrial state and accordingly, does not have its own infrastructure,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/why-are-some-states-getting-more-o2-than-they-need-while-delhi-gets-less-delhi-hc-asks-centre-to-respond-101619736148014.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Fatalities hit yet another high as 395 die of Covid-19||The daily Covid-19 death toll in the Capital hit another high, with 395 more people dying of the infection on Thursday, as the fourth wave of the pandemic continues to sweep across the city with no respite in sight.The city has added over 300 deaths a day for eight days in a row. Delhi has also logged 2,579 deaths of the infection in the past seven days alone.So far, 15,772 people in the city have died of the viral infection since the first death was reported in March last year. The number of deaths reported each day has shot up from an average of 15 during the first week of April to 368 a day over the last seven days.Delhi also added 24,235 infections, Thursday’s health bulletin showed, as the Capital logged more than 20,000 new cases for the 12th straight day. The city has added over 459,000 infections so far in April alone.In comparison, Delhi added just over 382,000 cases between October 2020 and March this year.The positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive – stood at 32.8% on Thursday, which means that around one in three people who get tested in the city are infected.“The fact that the positivity rate has been declining is a certain ray of hope for us. The highest was recorded at nearly 35% about four days back. We thought it might go beyond 40 and 45%. But it has halted at 35%, and is even dropping, like yesterday [Wednesday], when it was 31.76%,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said in a press briefing on Thursday.The drop, however, has been marginal at best.Lok Nayak, GTB to start makeshift facilitiesMeanwhile, to accommodate more Covid-19 patients in health care facilities, the government ordered Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur hospitals to make arrangements for consumables and more staff, so that they can start setting up makeshift facilities.“What we are seeing is a result of lack of planning. The second wave was not anticipated. When it started, it was time to make a quick assessment. We should have expected the worst... We don’t have enough oxygen manufacturing facilities. In India we have 50 beds for every 100,000 people, which is among the lowest [in the world]. In terms of bed strength, we are ranked 155 out of 167 globally, as per a United Nations report. This puts us in company with the poorest of the poor. Delhi has 20 million people and even better prepared states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu are struggling,” said Dr Lalit Kant, a scientist and former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fatalities-hit-yet-another-high-as-395-die-of-covid19-101619735782220.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Short of doses, Delhi to keep expanded jabs drive on hold||The Capital is unlikely to start the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination from Saturday because the state government hasn’t received its first order of jabs and private hospitals may get consignments weeks later, even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that Delhi will expand inoculation centres and finish immunising everyone in three months.Of the 13.4 million doses needed by the Capital, Delhi will get the first batch of 300,000 shots only by May 3 from Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures Covishield, the mainstay of India’s vaccination programme, senior officials aware of developments said.“We don’t have enough vaccines. We have requested for procurement of vaccines from the respective companies. Despite all preparations being made, availability of vaccines is a must for the inoculation to begin,” said Delhi health minister Satyender Jain.Last week, the Centre opened the immunisation drive to all adults and allowed states and private hospitals to procure directly from vaccine manufacturers. Experts said that quickly vaccinating all adults was crucial to fighting the devastating surge of infections.Registration for this phase began on Wednesday, but Delhi, like many states, signalled that vaccines may not be immediately available due to shortage of stocks and delay in deliveries.“We haven’t received the schedule from companies yet, which includes how many vials will reach on which dates,” Jain said. Delhi will administer the jabs free of cost.Delhi government divided the order for 13.4 million doses into three consignments — 300,000, 5,000,000 and 8,100,000 . So far, only the first batch has been ordered and the second is in the process of being ordered. As of now, both the orders are being prepared for SII, an official said.The situation, though, is hardly unique to the Capital. Doses required for adults below 45 are to be acquired directly by the state governments and private hospitals — which can buy up to 50% of a vaccine manufacturer’s stock — but this is yet to happen.Officials across states told HT that the doses would not be available by May 1, as did representatives of private hospitals. Only three of 16 state governments contacted by HT on Tuesday said they expected at least some doses to start arriving by the end of the first week of May. Most others said they expected deliveries only after mid-May.But Delhi’s chief minister expressed confidence that the government will be able to get the job done in three months.“Had a meeting with the officials on vaccination drive in Delhi. Prepared a plan to vaccinate all above 18 years in the next 3 months. We will set up vaccination centres on a large scale. All eligible people must come forward to get vaccinated,” Kejriwal said in a tweet.There were back-to-back meetings on the issue on Thursday. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal asked the chief secretary to urgently submit a report on the preparedness for the roll-out of the vaccination programme for those 18 years and above and Kejriwal held a meeting to review arrangements made for opening more centres and having enough medical teams.With Centre, state governments, and private hospitals placing orders separately, the companies have announced multiple price bands.SII is offering its doses at ₹150 for the Centre, ₹300 for state governments, and ₹600 for the private sector. Bharat Biotech is offering its vaccine for ₹150 per dose to the Centre, ₹400 to state governments, and ₹1,200 to private hospitals.Hospitals have been asked to return all remaining doses provided by the government — for the current vaccination drive meant for 45 and above — after Friday’s vaccination and purchase their own shots.However, private hospitals in Delhi said both vaccine manufacturers have given long waiting periods to facilities that tried to procure doses independently.Sir Ganga Ram hospital said its order was refused by SII while Bharat Biotech said it will revert.“We have been receiving Covishield from the government and so we approached SII first. However, they said that they do not have the capacity to provide doses at the moment. Then, we placed an order for 51 lakh doses of Covaxin but they have also said they will get back to us. Both companies have to fulfil orders for the government first,” said Dr DS Rana, the hospital chairman.The hospital has doses that will last only till Friday and all leftover doses have to be given back to the central government.“If we do not have the vaccines, we cannot run a vaccination centre,” said Dr Rana.A doctor from the private Hamdard Institute of Medical Science hospital and medical college tweeted a response from SII that said the hospital had to wait for six months for the doses.“Due to the current obligation to meet the government’s existing requirements and to meet the additional demand emanating from state governments under liberated and accelerated vaccination, it is challenging to meet independently the requirement across from large number of Private hospitals. Therefore, we urge you to access the vaccine when it becomes available in the private market supply chain channels, which will take about five – six months from now,” the tweet read.Dr Anoop Mishra, chairman of Fortis Centre for Diabetes, Obesity and Cholesterol said, “Companies have to give 50% of the vaccines doses to the Centre and are therefore unsure when they can give it to the private sector. So, we will have to halt the vaccination drive after April 30.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/short-of-doses-delhi-to-keep-expanded-jabs-drive-on-hold-101619735553374.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Police to create dedicated lane for emergency vehicles, hearse vans||To facilitate the speedier movement of oxygen tankers and emergency vehicles such as ambulances, hearse vans and those carrying oxygen cylinders within the city, as well as those coming from neighbouring states, the Delhi Police on Thursday asked all police stations to create dedicated lanes on roads, near police checkpoints.The directions were issued by the city police chief SN Shrivastava who also used his official Twitter handle to post the update and explain why the step was taken. These dedicated lanes are being created only near major vehicle checkpoints set up by police to verify motorists and prosecute those found violating the ongoing curfew (lockdown) orders.“All police stations in Delhi have been directed to dedicate a lane, on the extreme left of the road, for ambulances and other emergency vehicles, including oxygen tankers and those carrying cylinders (in emergency). This is being done to facilitate their smooth movement, even as lockdown violators are prosecuted on the (remaining) regular lanes,” Shrivastava, who also tweeted about the step along with an image of the dedicated lane around 2.30pm on Thursday.According to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA’s) curfew guidelines, only exempted vehicles or those having valid movement e-passes are allowed to ply on Delhi roads. The new arrangement is in addition to the green corridor that the police are providing to oxygen tankers coming from other states or via airports.A senior police officer privy to the development said, on condition of anonymity, that the police chief’s direction came after he made a field visit on Wednesday, during which he saw firsthand the jams at several police checkpoints as motorists were stopped by police personnel to check their movement passes.Shrivastava and other officers observed that such jams may also be delaying the movement of emergency vehicles and oxygen tankers.“The chief later issued directions to all police stations in Delhi for creating a separate lane on the left side of the road near each checkpoint for such emergency vehicles and those that carry oxygen,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said the personnel deployed at checkpoints have been asked to put up large visible signage, demarking the dedicated lane, so that drivers of emergency vehicles and oxygen carrying vehicles can see them from a distance and accordingly move their vehicles into the dedicated lane.“The personnel present there will also signal the drivers to use the dedicated lanes to avoid any congestion at the picket,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-to-create-dedicated-lane-for-emergency-vehicles-hearse-vans-101619735118178.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||After 4 die of Covid-19, Tihar asks govt to allow release of inmates on parole||New Delhi: The death of four prisoners due to Covid-19 in the past three days has prompted Tihar Jail authorities to write to the Delhi government, requesting them to release some prisoners under “emergency parole” as one of the immediate measures to decongest the prison.While two prisoners died of the viral infection on Tuesday, two more succumbed to the disease on Thursday. HT had reported that with over 20,000 inmates currently lodged there, Tihar is at its most congested ever. It is almost double the official capacity of the prison, which has made social distancing and isolation a major problem.Delhi government officers, who wished not to be named, said they have received the jail’s proposal and were looking at different solutions to decongest the prison complex.Until April 6, the jail had only 19 infected prisoners. At that time, not a single jail staff had the disease. Currently, there are at least 261 Covid-19 positive inmates and 115 infected jail officers, underlining how fast the infection has spread throughout the jail in just 23 days.The Delhi high court also heard a petition on the issue on Wednesday and sought the response of the Centre, the Delhi government and the prison authorities. The petitioner demanded parole for prisoners involved in non-heinous crimes from three jails in the city in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh issued a notice to the ministries of law and health, the Delhi government, police, office of the Lieutenant Governor and the director general of prisons, seeking their stand on the petition by May 4.The two prisoners, who died on Thursday, were admitted at the GTB hospital. One of them Kamaljeet, 75, an inmate of jail 3 was admitted to GTB on April 21. The second, Kehkashan, 41, was admitted to the hospital on April 22.On Tuesday night, prisoner Mukesh Talwar, 61, had succumbed to the disease. Talwar, who was arrested in a rape case last month, was lodged in jail 7 and had tested positive on April 22. Hours before Talwar’s death, a 43-year-old prisoner Mohammed Anis, who was lodged in jail number 4, too had died of the disease at the DDU hospital.Last year, nearly 6,000 prisoners were released on special parole and bail to decongest the jail when the pandemic spread in March. They were directed to later on dates decided by a high-powered committee of the high court, which included members of the state government, courts and prison.With cases declining after the third wave of the infection in October-November, the Delhi high court in December ordered the prisoners to surrender in a phased manner between February and March.Until February, the prison population was less than 13,000. However, with over 6,000 inmates back in jail, the total number of inmates went beyond 20500, twice the jail’s capacity of 10026. Officials said it is the highest population of inmates in the jail till date.A mid-level prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “ The government should act fast and decide. During the first, second and third wave, the cases were under control in our jails. Two persons died in June and July, last year. In February, there was a time, when there was not a single case. It is scary today. Even prisoners, like Rajan(Chhota Rajan) who were in isolation have tested positive. Four inmates have died in three days.”Among the famous prisoners who are currently Covid-19 positive are underworld gangster Chhota Rajan and former politician turned gangster Mohammed Shahabuddin. While Rajan has been admitted to AIIMS, Shahabuddin is under treatment at the DDU hospital. Student activist Umar Khalid, arrested for his alleged role in the Delhi riots, too, is in isolation after testing positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-4-die-of-covid-19-tihar-asks-govt-to-allow-release-of-inmates-on-parole-101619734794079.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Two in Delhi arrested for selling fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders||Two men in west Delhi’s Dwarka were arrested for passing off fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders and selling them to people, whose relatives have contracted Covid-19, said Delhi Police on Thursday.In one of the cheating cases, the patient for whom the equipment was procured died of Covid-19, read the complaint lodged by the victim’s acquaintance.Police could not immediately ascertain if the alleged cheating, or a possible delay in providing relief to the patient, had any direct bearing on the death. However, a relative of Narender, the 32-year-old patient who died, alleged that the delay in getting an oxygen cylinder led to his demise. “Had we not been cheated, my brother-in-law could have survived,” said the relative.Police said suspects Ashutosh Chauhan and Ayush were rendered jobless during the pandemic and passed off fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders to make a quick buck. “They sold one such empty cylinder for ₹10,000,” said Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka).Geeta Arora, a resident of Bindapur in West Delhi, was looking for an oxygen cylinder for her friend’s relative, who lived in Noida. “The relative, a patient of Covid-19, had breathing issues and low oxygen levels. Her family was unable to find her a hospital bed,” said Meena.After reaching out to many people for a cylinder, Arora finally got in touch with Chauhan and Ayush, who asked her to visit near Uttam Nagar metro station to collect the cylinder on Monday night.A red coloured cylinder was handed over to Arora in lieu of a payment of ₹10,000. The same night, Arora handed over the cylinder to the patient’s family in Noida.The cheating came to the fore when the patient’s family went to get the cylinder filled on Tuesday morning and realized that it was a fire extinguisher. When Arora asked the suspects to return the money, they refused.On Wednesday, Arora learnt that the patient, for whom the cylinder was purchased passed away, read her statement to the police.She again pursued the suspects. They allegedly called her near the metro station, but didn’t meet her, despite making her run around for two hours. She finally decided to lodge a complaint, based on which a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy was registered at Uttam Nagar police station.The DCP said technical surveillance and local enquiry facilitated the arrest of the suspects, from whom they recovered four fire extinguishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-in-delhi-arrested-for-selling-fire-extinguishers-as-oxygen-cylinders-101619734417980.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Traders’ body writes to L-G, wants lockdown till May 15||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has written to the Delhi lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, demanding extension of lockdown in the national capital till May 15. Delhi is already under a lockdown till May 3, with only essential services and government offices allowed to function.Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of CAIT, said, “Traders will be the worst affected due to extension of the lockdown, but the situation in Delhi is such that there is no other option. If lockdown is not extended after May 3, it will be difficult to break the chain. We have requested the L-G to extend the lockdown till May 15.”However, some other trader associations said the government should only extend the restrictions for a week, and ensure stricter enforcement of curbs.They said the curbs should be reviewed each week. They said if the lockdown was extended immediately till May 15, it will not only lead to losses for them but trigger panic among the migrant workers employed by them.Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association said: “The situation is such that extension of the lockdown is the need of the hour. But it should be done for a week and then reviewed. There should be strict enforcement of the lockdown norms. Even when markets open, there is a need to ensure that there is strict enforcement.”The Lajpat Nagar market association said traders were largely of the view that the lockdown should be extended for a week. Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar mandal said, “Delhi is still reporting 20,000-plus cases daily. The positivity rate has not come down. The present situation is not conducive to reopen markets. Most traders feel that it should be extended, but we will take a final call this weekend.”Brijesh Goyal, chairman of Chamber of Trade and Industry and convener of AAP’s traders’ wing, said,“Let the Delhi government take a call on it. We have been talking to traders and a large number of them are in favour of extending the lockdown. But if it is extended for 15 days at one go, it will result in panic among migrant workers who are employed in markets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traders-body-writes-to-l-g-wants-lockdown-till-may-15-101619734001247.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||City sizzles at 42.1°C, light rain this weekend may bring mercury down||Delhi continued to sizzle for the second day on Thursday, recording a maximum temperature of 42.1 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Wednesday (April 28) was the hottest day of the year so far with the maximum temperature reaching 42.2 degrees.On Thursday, the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official weather marker for the city, registered 42.1 degrees Celsius, three degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 23.2°C.“After the light spell of rain on Saturday, there is another forecast of moderate to heavy rainfall on May 4 and May 5,” said an IMD official.In some parts of the city, the mercury nearly touched the 45 degree-mark on Thursday. At the Najafgarh observatory, the maximum temperature on Thursday was recorded at 44.5 degrees, five degrees above the normal.The maximum temperature at Palam was 43.2 degrees; and at Aya Nagar, it was 42.6°C, and the maximum temperature recorded at the Lodi Road weather station was 41.9°C.Certain parts of the national capital also got a dust storm on Thursday. The IMD has forecast similar conditions on Friday, and has predicted rain on May 4.Officials from the Met department said the mercury will hover above 40 degrees Celsius for the next two to three days, before light rain may bring relief from the heat.In 2017, Delhi recorded the highest temperature for April at 43.2 degrees. In 2019, the city registered 42.1 degrees Celsius.“From Saturday, there is a forecast of light rain accompanied by thunder and lightning. Temperatures are likely to start falling from Sunday. Next week, the maximum temperature is likely to hover around 37-38 degrees Celsius,” said another senior IMD official.Rain and thunderstorms have also been predicted for parts of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, and Rajasthan.“Heatwave conditions will persist only for a couple of days. It will be followed by intense thunderstorm activity. Bihar, Odisha, parts of West Bengal and the entire northeast India is likely to witness severe weather. Due to this intense easterly activity, there may be clouding and some thunderstorm activity over northwest India. In Delhi, the rainfall activity might be very intense,” said R K Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/city-sizzles-at-42-1-c-light-rain-this-weekend-may-bring-mercury-down-101619733714790.html
30-04-2021||Delhi||Shanty fire kills couple, their four children in Delhi’s Bijwasan||A couple and their four children, including a toddler, were charred to death in a shanty that caught fire in south-west Delhi’s Bijwasan late on Wednesday night, police said.The victims appeared to be asleep when the fire broke out. It caused a cooking gas cylinder to burst, and the blaze spread to two other adjacent huts. The occupants of those shanties managed to escape in the nick of time, police said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, police said, but said it appeared to be an accident.Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west), identified the couple as Kamlesh Kumar Singh, 37, and his wife Budhni (32). They lived in the hut in an agricultural field with their four children -- two daughters, 16 and 12, and two sons, six and three months old.The family, along with three others from the same village in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district, lived in four huts in an agricultural field next to Valmiki Colony in Bijwasan. They cultivated fields they took on rent.“We all went to sleep around 10.30pm on Wednesday. Around midnight, I heard people screaming. I came out of my shanty, and found the hut next door on fire. At that moment, there was a cylinder blast that also set my hut on fire,” said Nawal Mahto, a neighbour.Mahto managed to evacuate the four members of his family, when his hut, and a third one that was unoccupied for the past fortnight, were burnt to ashes. “We had no time to salvage our belongings,” he said.The hut where the victims died was the first to be affected suffered the most damage. “Our huts are made of wood, plastic, and straw. That caused the fire to spread fast. It appears that Kamleshwar and his family could not open the metal chain they used to lock the door of the shanty,” said Nathuni Mahto, whose hut was the only one unaffected by the blaze.The position in which the charred bodies were found suggested that none of the six victims could make it even to the door of their hut. “The bodies of Singh and his older son were found next to their bed. The bodies of Budhni, her two daughters and younger son were found on a cot on which they usually slept,” said the DCP.Several half-burnt books were among the few identifiable items inside the hut. Neighbours said that Singh was keen his children got a proper education, and had enrolled three of them in a government school.Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services, said four fire tenders were rushed to the spot after they got a call at 12.30am.Singh’s elderly parents live in Muzaffarapur. “He sent some money to his parents every few months. Now, they’ll have to fend for themselves,” said Nawal Mahto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shanty-fire-kills-couple-their-four-children-in-delhi-s-bijwasan-101619733371931.html
