03-05-2020||Editorials||Announce the stimulus, and undertake structural reforms||Over the past week, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has held a series of meetings reviewing the state of various economic sectors, the ways in which the current slump can be reversed, and most significantly, the fundamental reforms that can be undertaken in these respective sectors to overcome structural issues. This is important, for once the coronavirus pandemic subsides, there will have to be a singular focus on the economy. There is no doubt that the pandemic will force the economy to press the reset button. India will, in the worst case, witness a recession this year, or in the best case, grow by 1-2%, a projection offered by the chief economic adviser. These figures translate into businesses shutting down; a sharp dip in the profitability of companies which do manage to survive; shrinking incomes for citizens; the collapse of a high number of micro, small and medium enterprises; a spike in unemployment across sectors; a hit to trading arrangements; depleted taxes for the government at a time when expenditure commitments will increase; and an inability to pursue much-needed development goals. The ambition of becoming a $5 trillion economy will recede further. This newspaper has consistently argued that to overcome the distress, the government must come up with a substantial fiscal stimulus package immediately. There is no alternative to enhanced public spending. This has already been delayed inexplicably. But beyond the size and the composition of the stimulus, the PM’s meetings offer hope that this moment can be used as an opportunity to undertake structural reforms. Two areas, in particular, stand out. The first is manufacturing. As countries turn inwards, and many global production hubs seek to relocate from China, India must cut red tape, reform its fundamental factors of production, and encourage businesses which can provide mass employment. To be sure, new ways of doing businesses — including mass manufacturing — will have to be found in keeping with social distancing norms. The second is agriculture. The PM indicated in a meeting on Saturday the need for integrated markets and a new legislative framework for the sector. Fragmented agricultural markets and the Agricultural Produce Market Committee’s framework have long been held farmers hostage, given inordinate power to intermediaries, and undermined India’s potential. If, after the stimulus, the government can use the pandemic to herald long-awaited reforms, it will be the best use of this crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/announce-the-stimulus-and-undertake-structural-reforms/story-U1fEmnbqPwroYkra1I0l2I.html
03-05-2020||Editorials||Transporting migrants: Centre should have devised a cost-sharing plan or taken care of the entire bill||As the national lockdown to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-sparked crisis was extended for another two weeks on Friday, the Union government announced that the Indian Railways (IR) will start running special trains to ferry stranded labourers from their host to home states. This has been the demand of the migrant workers since the beginning of the lockdown on March 24 because the shutdown of their workplaces has left them with no money to pay for housing and food. In the absence of any transportation, many desperate migrant workers have been walking and cycling impossible distances to the safety of their home towns/villages. The decision to transport migrant workers, however, is turning out to be a new flashpoint between the Centre and states over who will bear the cost of transportation. On May 3, the Indian Railways said that it is the responsibility of the state authorities to collect ticket fares from stranded migrants and students boarding special trains to return to their hometowns and hand over the amount to it or pay the amount from its coffers. The service provider is charging sleeper class fares and an additional Rs 50 for one point-to-point journey. However, there is little clarity over whether states need to book trains, as Jharkhand has done, and pay upfront, or pay later. Left on their devices, different states are trying out different mechanisms for payments: Either raising money or charging it from poor migrant workers. This is because states are already facing huge funds crunch due to the high expenses incurred for tackling the pandemic and revenues have decreased. So many have demanded that the Centre bears the cost of travel. The chief ministers of Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh have spoken out against the decision to burden the states further. But, the Centre has not made any announcement. The payment controversy could have been avoided if the Centre and the two states (host and home) had formulated a cost-sharing plan. While all three parties had enough time to do so since the lockdown was announced almost a month and a half ago, the Centre should have taken the lead in formulating this critical cost-sharing plan to ensure that there is no controversy over what is primarily humanitarian assistance to poor and desperate migrant workers. Better still, it should taken care of the entire bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/transporting-migrants-centre-should-have-devised-a-cost-sharing-plan-or-taken-care-of-the-entire-bill/story-Qx09jyBxPiDr8ysv0aHJvN.html
