06-05-2020||Editorials||Covid-19: West Bengal scores low||Given its population, the density of population, its geographical location (sharing international borders with three countries and national borders with five other states), and the high rates of migration, West Bengal should have recognised it is particularly vulnerable to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It also had the added advantage of a strong chief minister in Mamata Banerjee, and a ruling party, Trinamool Congress, which is deeply rooted across the state. It thus had the political strength and administrative abilities to be able to track and contain the disease.Unfortunately, West Bengal has scored poorly in the battle against Covid-19. This stems from a range of factors. It began with extremely low testing. It instituted a system where deaths were audited by a committee, which would, in cases of those with co-morbidities, assign the cause of death to other ailments rather than Covid-19. It also did not rigorously follow protocols on hospital admissions, contact tracing and containment. Eventually, as a central team pointed out this week, the state ended up with one of the highest mortality rates in the country at over 12%. It also, on many days, did not put out data. All of this appears to have stemmed from the desire of the West Bengal government to show success, where success was defined as a low number of cases.This was a mistake, because pretending that the problem does not exist will not make the problem go away. It is only by taking it on aggressively that the chances of the spread of the disease get minimised. To be fair, the state government has made certain corrections. It has now adopted the Indian Council of Medical Research protocol to record fatalities, scrapped the committee to audit deaths, begun publicly putting out the number of cumulative cases, and instituted stronger isolation measures. It should learn from its mistakes and emulate best practices from now on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid-19-west-bengal-scores-low/story-Jn2dCEEMDYSf2WfYASV4xM.html
06-05-2020||Editorials||The sharp dip in US-China ties||In the wake of pandemic, the rift between the United States (US) and China has deepened. Washington has said it will scrap the phase one trade deal it made with Beijing in January. The Donald Trump administration is also speaking to countries such as India about the possibility of ripping out electronic and healthcare supply chains from China. As the US president blames China for Covid-19, Chinese official media mocks the bungled US response to the pandemic. The abusive language at the highest levels of government on both sides is unusual and dangerous. Governments keep ambassadors out of the nastiest frays so that they have a path towards negotiations and reconciliation. Talk of a trade war even as the world is slipping into a recession could not be more badly timed. All is fair in trade and war, but when superpowers have only battle plans as blueprints to handle bilateral relations, the resulting scenarios range from bad to worse. That all this is happening during a global health crisis makes it even more perilous. India leans towards the US but keeps an outstretched hand to China. This allows it to maximise benefits. New Delhi has been careful not to call out Beijing regarding its handling of the outbreak. Yet, it has worked more closely with the US on almost every other element of the pandemic. Its reward: tangible assistance and public praise from both sides. The economic gains from supply chain distribution are potentially enormous but are seriously diminished if they require India to align with a single pole. The challenge for India will be to continue its present soft balancing against China without being drawn into a US containment policy, which, it is unclear Washington has either the will or the way to impose. Fortunately, India has sufficient heft that both the US or China know they must persuade rather than coerce New Delhi. Multi-alignment is the catchphrase of Indian diplomacy today, but at its core is the belief India must avoid choosing between sides until the time it is powerful enough that the choice become irrelevant. The next six months will test whether a foreign policy hedge can grow during a geopolitical storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-sharp-dip-in-us-china-ties/story-tp2RWQliJebWUz6IAv5ftM.html
06-05-2020||Editorials||Battling the ‘locker room’ mindset| HT Editorial||Disturbing screenshots of conversations on an Instagram group called “Bois Locker Room” have recently surfaced on social media. The group, believed to be run by class 11 and 12 boys from schools in Delhi, shared photographs of teenage girls, discussed gangraping them and made sexualised comments about their bodies. Some of these boys and girls are underage. Following social media outrage, Delhi Police registered a case under 67, 67A of the Information Technology (IT) Act, and various sections of the Indian Penal Code. The Delhi Commission for Women also issued a notice to Instagram. On Tuesday, one boy was questioned.While action against the boys is imperative in the course of justice, this episode points to a larger societal problem. The conversations followed a familiar pattern of sexual violence against women and girls — of shaming, vile objectification and an assertion of power over them. These boys do not live in isolation; they are the product of a patriarchal society that has allowed “locker room talk” to go unchecked. For a long-term solution to ensure the safety of girls and gender equality, it is incumbent on society — parents, teachers, classmates, friends and peers — to rid young boys of the sexism and misogyny that are often embedded in this culture. Make no mistake: This is not just a Delhi problem. This is not just an Instagram problem either.Patriarchal societies excuse young boys for predatory behaviour and contribute to a rape culture. The incident points to how this culture has percolated down to the new generation. It can be only be fought by changing the very mindset that encouraged this violent behaviour. Adopt a policy of zero-tolerance and make it unacceptable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/battling-the-locker-room-mindset-ht-editorial/story-sme9gqV3ab8yoXcpab6bHN.html
