10-05-2020||Editorials||Be more transparent about the PM-Cares fund||In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the government created the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-Cares) Fund. While questions have been asked about its need when the PM’s National Relief Fund already exists, the government is entitled to come up with institutional innovations for special situations.The PM-Cares fund has received substantial contributions. There has, however, been a lack of transparency. The government has not made public the amount of donation received by the fund. It has also not yet outlined the composition of the board of trustees, which, besides the PM and three top ministers (defence, home and finance), is meant to include three eminent persons. The government has also not clarified if the fund is already being used, and if so, for what purpose. This is surprising because it is clear that India is under great fiscal stress, and the objectives of the fund include “creation and upgradation of health care or pharmaceutical facilities, other necessary infrastructure, funding relevant research and other types of support”. They also include rendering financial assistance, providing grants of payments of money and taking “any such steps as may be deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees” for the affected population. India responded to the PM’s call for support to the fund. It is now the government’s turn to tell citizens what is being done with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/be-more-transparent-about-the-pm-cares-fund/story-2U6a5QJTacVZcuOj81U5PL.html
10-05-2020||Editorials||Securing the Aarogya Setu app||The Aarogya Setu application was born out of a need to bring a 21st century technology-based solution to an unprecedented problem. India is not alone in deciding to leverage the ubiquitous smartphone for tracking outbreaks, a strategy that fundamentally involves a compromise with privacy. But it is the only democracy which has, without the requisite legal architecture in place, made the app almost mandatory for mobility and to resume work. This compromise is evidence of how the Sars-Cov-2 has upended conventional disease containment efforts, with a higher degree of government supervision, and even control, over the lives of citizens than usual. But it is crucial that this necessity does not lead to a lasting change in how we approach privacy. By design, the app goes a step further than most such tools developed around the world. It tracks where people have been, instead of merely determining who they were in close contact with. While such functionality can theoretically help identify disease hotspots, it will need to be corroborated with the exactness of physical contact tracing.The other concern stems from the nature of computer programmes. They are prone to vulnerabilities, particularly in early iterations. This was proved by a French programmer who demonstrated the possibility of accessing parts of the Aarogya Setu app that store a person’s contact records. Common cybersecurity and hacking techniques have proven capable of reverse engineering such data to dig out information that was meant to be hidden. What the researcher demonstrated was the penultimate step before someone can be traced without the need to break into a government database. An increasing number of countries are discovering flaws — in design or code — and are going back to the drawing board. The United Kingdom’s National Health Service is considering abandoning its version of a centralised contact-tracing app, where data is sent to government servers, to switch to the decentralised platform being developed by Apple and Google, where data is matched on phones.As the approaches around such tools evolve, India must look at the experiences and experiments in other countries. One of the main demands by privacy as well as cyber security experts around the world is to throw open the code behind these contact-tracing applications so that they can be audited for design and programming flaws. At the very least, the developers of Aarogya Setu must consider doing this, since it will not only be a step toward transparency but also help quash bugs. After all, the current gold standard of such tools, Singapore’s Trace Together, is an open-source programme. Beyond this, India must seriously contemplate a legal design around the app, which strikes a balance between disease containment and privacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/securing-the-aarogya-setu-app/story-A3lGwuWgqJVvtwEoM9FNSM.html
