12-05-2020||Editorials||The challenge in resuming train travel| HT Editorial||Almost two months after being forced to stop due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Indian Railways has resumed passenger train operations, admittedly on a limited scale. Trains connecting major cities across the country were operationalised from Tuesday in a move to kickstart India’s economic engine. Several chief ministers cautioned Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on the dangers of this move as India crossed a grim total of 70,000 positive cases and over 2,200 deaths. The PM acknowledged the concerns, said that rail services will be limited, and ruled out full resumption. Stopping train services was a precaution at a time when India had about 500 cases. Now, despite enforcing one of the most stringent lockdowns, India’s battle against Covid-19 is only escalating. With the need to resuscitate the economy on one hand, and protect the health of its citizens on the other, India doesn’t have many options. This newspaper has consistently argued for a graded lockdown to revive the economy, with strict health protocols. The resumption of train services (with the exception of migrant workers who were left stranded) has risks. The government has issued guidelines to ensure the safety of travellers. But there are real challenges in implementation. How do people get to the railway station? How can trains, many of which have been booked to full capacity, ensure social distancing? What protocols are in place for possibly asymptomatic travellers? Train travel can possibly lead to the spread of the disease, including in rural areas, and add to the health burden of states. The railways must do everything in its capacity to ensure that this doesn’t happen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-challenge-in-resuming-train-travel-ht-editorial/story-LBxTjMSIVLoseQ5S1xQl2N.html
12-05-2020||Editorials||A shift in labour markets| HT Editorial||In his meeting with the chief ministers on Monday, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi — for the first time — spoke about the crisis of migrant workers that has engulfed the country since the lockdown was imposed. He said that the government had urged the workers to stay where they were, but it was “human nature” to want to go home. But the PM, correctly, flagged two major challenges that will now crop up. The first is for states which the migrant workers have left. As economic activity resumes, there will be a severe shortage of labour in these regions. The second is for the home states, to which workers are returning. These regions, the PM acknowledged, did not have enough jobs — which is why migration had happened in the first place. They will now have to create opportunities. These states also will have to ensure that the return of workers does not lead to the spread of the disease, particularly in rural areas.What the PM underlined is a hugely significant moment in the political economy of labour markets in India. There is a view that these are unusual times; and workers who have gone home or are now returning will eventually come back, given economic compulsions. This may be true. But what is undeniable is that the past month has been a scarring experience for millions of workers. The relationship between businesses and workers has broken down — with the latter resentful about how employers did not provide requisite food and cash to help them tide over the crisis. The relationship between the State and workers has also got undermined — with the latter losing faith in the ability of governments to provide them a social safety net at a time of crisis. In this backdrop, all that they feel they can rely on are their families and community networks back home. They may live with less, but getting them back to cities will not be smooth.There is a clear geographical dimension to this too. It is southern and western states which have been the recipients of the workers in larger numbers. And it is the northern and eastern states which have sent these workers. This, in a way, is the key economic faultline in India, for the northern and eastern states have more exploitative agrarian relations, low industrial growth, and absence of opportunities. While this is a crisis, the north and east must use this as an opportunity to rebuild their economies even as the south and the west find new innovative ways to grow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-shift-in-labour-markets-ht-editorial/story-znSXnsiwH6FVHD8S75GflM.html
