14-05-2020||Editorials||Reform, but with a green focus||On May 12, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a ₹20 lakh crore economic package to overcome the current distress and the devastating impact of the lockdown on individuals and businesses, encourage domestic industry, attract investments, and create what he called a “self-reliant India”. The PM also indicated that the government will undertake deeper structural reforms, across land, labour, and laws. To use this moment to reset Indian institutions and economy to ensure both prosperity and equity is, in principle, a laudable goal.While undertaking the reform process, however, India’s fragile environment must not become a casualty. India’s development path shows that there is a good chance of this happening because successive governments have veered towards the view that stringent environment protection laws hamper economic development. This is a false binary. Speedy clearances of projects without proper regulatory and impact assessment may secure investments from the market and finances from banks in the short-term, but their long-term effects can scar the economy and people. Unfortunately, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change’s new draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA), released in March, also seems to reflect the development versus environment outlook. The EIA is a process of evaluating the impact of a proposed project or development on ecology and humans. Instead of strengthening the process, the draft EIA, experts believe, is diluting the regulatory process for projects; sets severe limits to the quality of project appraisal; gives exemptions to more sectors from public hearing (where project-affected people can raise their concerns), and allows lenient monitoring and compliance protocols.Undermining the environment will have an adverse effect on the economy, as well as the well-being of the people. This should have been starkly apparent, with the coronavirus pandemic attributed to human interferences such as deforestation, encroachment on animal habitats and biodiversity loss. The climate crisis, too, has led to enormous costs for communities, societies and States. Ultimately, lost ecological infrastructure and decline of natural capital, including human health, cause a decline in inclusive wealth. The impact of this is even more acute for countries such as India where achieving development goals such as reducing poverty and inequality is already a challenge. The Covid-19 crisis is a good opportunity for the Indian government to re-evaluate its priorities and opt for a greener development path. Reform, but respect nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/reform-but-with-a-green-focus-ht-editorial/story-Vb7nf0ife5rsKN58OsYBbI.html
14-05-2020||Editorials||The pandemic is taking a toll on mental health | HT Editorial||History has shown the enormous toll that pandemics take on governments, health care systems, economies, organisations and people. But there is also a huge, but often invisible, toll they take on mental health. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, citizens in large parts of the world are locked down, their lives have got disrupted, their livelihoods are hurt or even destroyed, and they stare at an uncertain future for themselves and their loved ones. Unsurprisingly, this has caused anxiety, fear, stress and trauma. Recognising this, United Nations secretary general, Antonio Guterres, on Wednesday, spoke of the need for governments to urgently address mental health care needs, and asked them to include mental health as part of their policy response to the pandemic. The immediate challenge for each country, of course, is to flatten the curve of infections, prepare health systems, and revive the economy. But the mental health crisis will stay beyond the pandemic, and people, across classes and communities, will need help. Despite a robust law in place, India ranks poorly in mental health awareness and treatment. Battling social stigma on the one hand, and the lack of professional interventions on the other (India’s psychiatrist to patient ratio is a dismal 1:100,000), it has an uphill battle. The government must formulate an empathetic response to provide help to affected individuals; organisations, communities, and families must come together to offer solidarity and support; and medical professionals must find innovative ways of offering care and therapy at a time of social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-pandemic-is-taking-a-toll-on-mental-health-ht-editorial/story-hruYCFxzGwlk6vJQzKAibJ.html
14-05-2020||Editorials||Quad is becoming a key post-Covid-19 coalition||Quad-core is part of computer vocabulary, but may equally apply to the heart of a post-coronavirus pandemic world order. The United States (US) has been holding high-level conversations with clusters of governments about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and what comes after. India was party to the most recent one, a foreign minister-level meeting, which also included Japan, Australia, South Korea, Brazil and Israel. A regular weekly meeting is now held at the foreign secretary-level, which replaces the last two (Brazil and Israel) with New Zealand and Vietnam. What is common to both are the four members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, generally called the Quad. If this pattern continues, it will indicate Washington and the three other members see as a cornerstone of a post-Covid-19 world.The Quad is far from being a group with a coherent purpose. What has happened is that all four governments have come to accept that they are strategically committed to the organisation. India’s concerns that Australia lacked a domestic consensus on the Quad is a case in point. China’s global standing is much reduced by Covid-19, a status aggravated by its bullying tactics, and has left a space for this sort of alignment. Of all the members, New Delhi will be least interested in talk of an alliance. It has arguably the best working relationship with Beijing and alone lacks a formal US military relationship. However, this is a foursome that has begun to evolve rapidly into something larger than the sum of its parts and, rightly, is being kept on the top of the stack of geopolitical options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/quad-is-becoming-a-key-post-covid-19-coalition/story-2TUKTqgZG8hZtk5hFYV9xJ.html
