20-05-2020||Editorials||Supporting the unemployed| HT Editorial||India was in the middle of an economic slowdown before the pandemic. With the coronavirus, and the national lockdown imposed to curb its spread, the slowdown has potentially turned into a recession. The government’s announcement of ₹20 lakh crore package is an acknowledgment of the crisis at hand.One key way in which this crisis is getting reflected is in the unemployment figures. Even before the pandemic, India was staring at relatively high unemployment — an official report indicated a 6% unemployment rate in 2017-18, the highest in 45 years. Over 12 million people enter the workforce every year, and India has struggled to create new jobs. This trend has now got accelerated. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the unemployment rate was 24% in the week ending May 17. Its April data shows that it was predominantly small traders and labourers, followed by entrepreneurs, and then salaried employees who lost their jobs. This is not surprising. If factories and shops are closed, if daily wage labourers and street vendors can’t work, if companies begin losing revenues drastically, there will be job losses. The problem is that the easing of the lockdown will not immediately restore these jobs.That is why a key component of any relief package has to take into account this rising unemployment. By pumping in an additional Rs 40,000 crore into the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the government is hoping to create a financial buffer for those who have returned home to their villages. And by unveiling structural reforms, it hopes to get the economy kickstarted. But this will not solve the immediate crisis — where people, in the absence of jobs, don’t have incomes, which, in turn, makes basic livelihood difficult. The poor will get most severely affected, but so will large sections of the middle class who are staring at salary cuts or job losses, which will reduce their purchasing power and ability to take and pay loans sharply. This, in turn, will have an impact across a range of sectors. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said that she is open to suggestions and, as the year progresses, there will be more measures. India will have to look more carefully at both the United States, which is offering a generous unemployment allowance, and the United Kingdom, which has offered wage support to workers. There will be issues of resources, and identifying and targeting beneficiaries. But India may, sooner than later, need to introduce an unemployment allowance to help citizens overcome this crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/supporting-the-unemployed/story-jtN7guH1OUKvLrVuxgESdI.html
20-05-2020||Editorials||Centre’s Covid-19 report card: It recognised the threat, but slipped on migrants, economy||Fifty-five days after India went in for arguably the most stringent lockdown in the world, the country opened up substantially on Tuesday, though the lockdown has been officially extended to May 31. This is a good moment to evaluate what the Centre did right, and what it got wrong in this period.Here is where the Narendra Modi government was right. One, it understood the gravity of the challenge posed by the coronavirus pandemic, did not underplay the threat, and emphasised the need for precautions and social distancing. Two, despite the economic costs, it took the right decision in imposing a lockdown on March 25 — the country needed it then to reduce the spread of the infection and prepare the health infrastructure. Three, once it recognised the importance of masks and personal protective equipment (PPE), it scaled up domestic production. Four, it recognised the centrality of the states in this battle, with Mr Modi regularly consulting chief ministers and taking into account their inputs. Five, the prime minister’s messaging by first emphasising lives over livelihoods, and then the need to reconcile both lives and livelihoods — as it became clear that the pandemic was here to stay — was important. And finally, it behaved responsibly by helping countries in need, and not using this moment to score geopolitical points. Where did the government go wrong? One, it underestimated the desire of migrant workers to return home, causing one of the most severe humanitarian crises India has seen. It was inconsistent regarding their travel policy, didn’t provide adequate safety nets, and was insensitive when reports of them walking home emerged. Two, it slipped on the health front — by, first, having limited testing criteria, testing at low numbers for long, and not providing enough PPE in the early stages. It is not clear if India still has the infrastructure in case there is a surge in cases. Three, it greatly delayed the economic package — and when the package was announced, it did not have a strong enough component to stimulate demand and provide immediate relief. Four, the Centre did not do enough to support the states financially. Five, it has been sporadic and often not transparent in its communication, particularly on the spread of the disease. And finally, in the enforcement of the lockdown, the security apparatus often used excessive force and violated guidelines of the government itself. As India prepares for the next phase in the battle, it should build on the strengths and remedy the weaknesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/centre-s-covid-19-report-card-it-recognised-the-threat-but-slipped-on-migrants-economy/story-kayTT0y6DX21YNSt4wieOL.html
20-05-2020||Editorials||Lipu Lekh Pass: Nepal should reconcile to reality | HT Editorial||There has been a dip in the relationship between India and Nepal in the past month. Two issues have contributed to it. The first was an internal rift within the Nepal Communist Party (NCP) where Prime Minister (PM) KP Sharma Oli faced a challenge from senior party leaders and former PMs, Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda” and Madhav Kumar Nepal. The crisis was defused after China mediated a deal between the leaders. If there were any doubts about the Chinese investment in the NCP and backing for Mr Oli, it was dispelled. Delhi noted the development, quietly. The second, more public, episode has been the controversy over the border. India inaugurated a road that crosses through Lipu Lekh Pass, part of an area both countries claim as their own. There is a long history to claims and counter-claims, but what is relevant is this. India possesses the territory; it sees it strategically important; and it will continue to expand infrastructure. The issue is, however, a subject of ultra-nationalist politics in Nepal. Mr Oli’s own nationalist politics (which seems to disappear when it comes to China), and domestic political opinion resulted in Kathmandu taking a strong position. While Beijing supports Mr Oli in general, domestic factors are driving Nepal’s rhetoric on this issue. In fact, India and China, in 2015, agreed to have trade across the pass, an acknowledgement by Beijing of India’s control over the area. Nepal should reconcile to the status quo and stop its anti-India rhetoric. India can offer a diplomatic sop by agreeing to start a dialogue on border issues. But Delhi must be vigilant, and keep a check on the Chinese-backed Oli regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/lipu-lekh-pass-nepal-should-reconcile-to-reality/story-8d15NFCuAvcaG3WJoebf6H.html
