02-10-2020||---||Army jawan (29) killed; wife, in-laws booked for murder||Amritsar, October 1Gurpreet Singh (29), an Army jawan, died after he was brutally thrashed by his in-laws at Khalchian here. He was currently posted at Jammu and had come to his in-laws place.The police have booked his in-laws, including his wife Sukhpreet Kaur, on the charge of murder. Among others who were booked, include Sukhpreet’s brother Amba, her mother Balwinder Kaur, another relative Ghalat and his wife Seema, all residents of Khalchian. No arrest has been made till now while further investigations are underway.Sub-Inspector Paramjit Singh, Investigating Officer, said he succumbed to his injuries on the way to hospital. He said that Gupreet, who was currently posted at Jammu, had come to meet his wife and in-laws. He said that as per the statement of Parkash Singh, father of the deceased, all accused thrashed Gurpreet after some dispute. He said following this his maternal uncle Paramjit Singh took him to his village Kila Desa Singh falling under the Ghaniye Ke Bangar police station in Batala.He said that on September 2, his condition started to deteriorate and he was being taken to a hospital in Fatehgarh Churian when he died on the way. At that time, the police took the body in its possession and initiated action under criminal procedure code. He said that now the autopsy report confirmed that he had died of internal injuries caused by brutal thrashing by his in-laws.A Zero FIR was registered at the Ghaniye Ke Bangar police station in Batala which was shifted to the Khalichian police station for further action and investigation. Paramjit Singh said a case was registered under Section 302 of the IPC and further investigations were under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/army-jawan-29-killed-wife-in-laws-booked-for-murder-149554
02-10-2020||---||Youth Cong leader injured in scuffle with BJP workers near Durgiana Temple||Amritsar, October 1Bharatiya Janata Party workers allegedly clashed with Congress activists near Durgiana Temple cremation ground on Thursday. Balpreet Singh, secretary, Punjab Youth Congress, was injured in the melee. The BJP activists were waiting for national general secretary Tarun Chugh, who was scheduled to pay obeisance at the Durgiana Temple, when the incident took place.The BJP activists alleged that the Congressmen used abusive language while protesting against the farm laws passed by Parliament. As a result, tempers flared up and scuffle broke out.Balpreet said he along with several other workers had gone to the Durgiana Temple cremation ground. He said as he stepped out of the cremation ground, he was attacked. He alleged that the BJP workers were armed with sticks and sharp-edge weapons. Balpreet was rushed to the Civil Hospital for treatment.BJP spokesperson Janardan Sharma alleged that it was the Congressmen who used abusive language while showing black flags. He said activists of saffron outfit were waiting for Chugh at the Durgiana Temple. He said the Congress activists had locked gates and burned tyres inside the BJP office a few days ago.“Holding agitation is their right, but they should protest in a democratic way. Earlier, they barged into our office and burnt tyres,” said Sharma. The police officials said both factions have filed complaints and investigation is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-cong-leader-injured-in-scuffle-with-bjp-workers-near-durgiana-temple-149557
02-10-2020||---||Woman cop dies in road accident||Amritsar, October 1A woman police constable, Nomi, posted at miscellaneous store keeping (MSK) branch here died after a speedy SUV hit her scooter near Sangatpura village in the wee hours today.She was going to attend her duty near Golden Temple in view of the visit of SAD president and former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal.According to the police, when she reached near Shagna De Vehra, marriage resort, a speedy Mahindra Scorpio SUV hit her scooter. She died on the spot while the accused fled the spot.A resident of Kala Afgana village in Batala, she was posted as computer operator in the MSK branch with the city police.The police have launched investigations to identify the suspects while a case has been registered with the rural police in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-cop-dies-in-road-accident-149558
02-10-2020||---||Nine succumb to virus, case count crosses 10K mark in Amritsar district||Amritsar, October 1The Covid-19 count in the district crossed 10,000 mark after 156 new positive cases were reported on Thursday. The Health Department reported nine deaths with which the toll increased to 377.The deceased have been identified as Harmanjit Singh (16), a resident of Tungbala locality on Majitha road; Surinder Singh Sabarwal (60), a resident of Sundar Nagar, Kaushalya (70), from Sultanwind road; Amrik Singh (70), of Kot Atma Ram; GS Parsad (50), of the 73rd Battalion of BSF; Jagir Kaur (76), of Hargobind Avenue; Harbans Lal (73), of Jaura Fatak; Krishan Kumar (64), a resident of Ghunupur Kale village; and Piyara Singh (62), of New Partap Nagar.With 156 new positive cases, the count in district has increased to 10,137. The new cases include 85 influenza like illness (ILI) cases and 71 contacts of positive patients. With recovery of 204 patients, the total recovery count in the district has reached 8,473. At present, the district has a total of 1,287 active cases.Meanwhile, 90 staffers of the Improvement Trust tested negative. Further, employees of the Education Department are also being tested as the state government contemplates to open schools.Oxygen plant at GMC becomes operationalThe oxygen plant at the Government Medical College became operational on Thursday after remaining non-functional for around eight years. College Principal Dr Rajiv Devgan said the plant has a capacity to store six tonnes of liquid oxygen. He said for the time being, supply of oxygen cylinders will continue in the wake of the increase in demand and Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nine-succumb-to-virus-case-count-crosses-10k-mark-in-amritsar-district-149559
02-10-2020||Amritsar||CIA staff nab peddler with  1-kg charas||The CIA staff today nabbed a drug peddler and recovered 1 kg of charas from him.The accused has been identified as Rahul Chugh, a resident of Palm Garden, Majitha Road.Sukhwinder Singh, in-charge, CIA staff, said they had set up a naka near Palm Garden. He said during search of his vehicle, cops confiscated contraband from him.Chugh, who hails from Dehradun, was living here for the past 12 years. He was running an IELTS and immigration centre in Ranjit Avenue.Sukhwinder said Chugh used to lure youths at his IELTS centre and supplied contraband to them. “He used to procure contraband from Himachal Pradesh and Ludhiana,” said Sukhwinder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cia-staff-nab-peddler-with-1-kg-charas-149561
02-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Two hurt in firing, twenty booked||The Khemkaran police have registered a case under Section 307 of the IPC and the Arms Act. A property dispute is stated to be reason behind the incident, the IO said. ocSSP DH Nimbale gets DGP’s discTarn Taran: Dhruman H Nimbale, SSP, has been honoured with the DGP’s disc award for his contribution in ATS for establishing social media and de-radicalisation labs in the district. The labs were now working in full swing and also on the basis of outstanding policing achievements. Dhruman Nimbale was awarded fifth time in a row. OCOberoi donates 2 dialysis unitsTarn Taran: Philanthropist Dr SP Singh Oberoi, founder of the Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, donated two dialysis units to the Civil Hospital, Patti, at a function on Thursday. Among others who attended the function were MLA Harminder Singh Gill, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh and IG Ferozepur range Hardial Singh Mann. The dignitaries praised the social service being rendered by the trust. Oberoi said a separate dialysis unit would be set up in the district for the patients. He added that apart from this an ultrasound unit too would be set up in the Patti Civil Hospital. On the occasion Oberoi also announced to provide a laboratory in Tarn Taran, besides two vehicles for Patti and Tarn Taran. OCJob fairs: 5,038 get jobs in SeptAmritsar: The District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) has helped 5,058 youth find jobs by organising nine block-level and two district-level job fairs in September. DBEE Deputy Director Vikram Jit said: “A total of 7,534 aspirants had registered with us for block-level and district-level job fairs.” He added that representatives of 22 companies attended the job fairs and candidates were selected after written exam and interview sessions. Vikram Jit said the government was also running various programmes for skill development of the unemployed youth. “The industry requires skilled workers and for this purpose, the government has initiated different programmes,” he said, adding that youngsters aspiring to get jobs should contact the employment bureau. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-hurt-in-firing-twenty-booked-149562
02-10-2020||---||Farmers gherao house of BJP MP Shwait Malik in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 1Farmers under the banner of the Kirti Kisan Union, Azaad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Kanwalpreet Pannu) and Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) today protested outside the residence of BJP Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik against the farm laws.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, which had blocked the railway track near Devi Daspura village have extended their protest till October 5.Jatinder Singh Chhina, secretary, Kirti Kisan Union, said residence of Malik was gheraoed against the farm laws and invasion of corporate culture in the farming sector due to the ill-conceived policies of the Centre.Chhina said Malik should resign from the Rajya Sabha on moral grounds.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi led-government has paved the way for corporates at the cost of farmers’ interest by enacting the farm laws. Farmers will be at the mercy of private firms. The minimum support price and mandi pattern will be totally collapse. The farm laws should be repealed at the earliest,” he said.Kanwalpreet Pannu of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee said the farm laws will curtail employment, be it arhtiyas or labourers. “The farm laws will have adverse impact on economy, traders and shopkeepers as they are all interlinked. These laws should be revoked.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-gherao-house-of-bjp-mp-shwait-malik-in-amritsar-149564
02-10-2020||---||Two jail wardens arrested for sneaking in mobiles, drugs||Amritsar, October 1A day after several gangsters were booked for damaging CCTV cameras in the high security complex at the Amritsar Central Jail, the prison authorities have nabbed two jail wardens for trying to sneak in drugs and mobile phones inside the jail premises. The accused have been identified as Joban Singh and Gurpreet Singh. The duo was arrested by the jail staff.A case under the NDPS Act and the Prisons Act has been registered against the accused. Assistant Superintendent (Jails) Gurjant Singh said they received a tip-off that the duo was hooked to drugs and around 4 pm they were going to throw mobile phone from jail’s hostel inside the premises.He said when the duo reached Baruni gate, they were searched and jail staff seized four mobile phones with SIM cards and 25 intoxicant tablets, a used silver paper, three unused silver papers and two lighters from their possession.During interrogation, names of two more wardens- Sukhdev Singh, Pritampal Singh and a cleanliness worker Mandeep Singh-cropped up. The duo were also involved in sneaking prohibited material inside the high security complex.Around 150 mobile phones have been recovered from the jail this year.According to information, CCTV cameras had gone blank in various parts of the high security jail complex.During investigations, the authorities found that several jail inmates, including gangster Amanpreet Singh Rinka and Sandeep Kumar, alias Ravi Balchoria, damaged CCTV cameras.Besides, Amanpreet and Sandeep, the police have booked Ramandeep Singh, alias Rama, Harwinder Singh, alias Manu, Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggi, Satnam Singh, alias Love, Rahul, alias Dana, and Sunil Kumar, alias Bittu.Officials said investigation is under way to ascertain the motive of the accused behind damaging CCTV cameras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-jail-wardens-arrested-for-sneaking-in-mobiles-drugs-149566
02-10-2020||The Indian freedom struggle was a long-drawn movement that claimed thousands of lives and countless sacrifices. Scores of events||Jang-e-Azadi Memorial: A repository of freedom struggle||The memorial is a tribute to the contribution and sacrifices of Punjabis in India’s Independence movement. The memorial has been built in three phases. The first phase was opened to the public in November 2016; the second phase was built in March 2018, while the third phase, which is dedicated to the martyrs of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and the unsung heroes who were incarcerated in Andaman Cellular Jail during freedom struggle, was opened on August 14, 2019.The other components include a 45-metre high tower known as ‘Shaheed-e-Minar’, an open-air theatre, movie hall, an auditorium, library besides research and seminar halls.British brutality at Kala Pani Known as Kala Pani or ‘black water’, the Cellular Jail in Andaman and Nicobar Islands was constructed in 1896 and opened by the British in 1906 to exile political prisoners in remote isolation. The place is a living witness to the brutal treatment of freedom fighters behind the bars.The Cellular Jail reminds generations of the solitary confinement that the National Freedom Movement heroes were sentenced to suffer for years during the colonial rule. Food at the Cellular Jail was rice, which was more dust, rainwater, and wild grass and there were no beds. It is said life at the Cellular Jail was filled with torture, hunger and loneliness. The prisoners were treated like slaves and were whipped if they spoke to each other.Jallianwala Bagh massacreIt was supposed to be a joyous festival on April 13, 1919, and pilgrims, along with peaceful protesters, had gathered at the Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar to celebrate Baisakhi — the Sikh festival. Little did they know that their celebrations would soon turn into one of the deadliest moments in the Indian history.There are various illustrations of Jallianwala Bagh massacre, also known as the Amritsar massacre, where one can see pilgrims along with protesters running helter-skelter to save themselves, after the British Indian Army soldiers, on the orders of Brigadier General Reginald Dyer, opened fire at the crowd, and when General Dyer ordered his troops to kneel and fire at the unarmed crowd of men, women and children. Bombing the AssemblyOn April 8, 1929, Bhagat Singh, along with Batukeshwar Dutt, hurled two bombs inside the Central Legislative Assembly in New Delhi to protest against an unfavourable Bill. Interestingly, their intention behind this defiant act was to get arrested and to use the subsequent court appearances to further the cause of their organisation — Hindustan Socialist Republican Association — for India’s Independence.Along with bombs, Singh also threw in copies of a leaflet in the Assembly that quoted a French anarchist as saying: ‘It takes a loud noise to make the deaf hear’, and signs off with the now epochal statement, ‘Inquilab Zindabad’ and ‘Long live the Revolution’. Martyrs’ executionIndian revolutionaries Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev Thapar and Shivaram Rajguru were hanged on March 23, 1931, in the Lahore Jail against the scheduled execution on March 24.They were sentenced to death in the Lahore Conspiracy Case, wherein they were found guilty of murdering senior British police officer John Saunders. This day is marked as Shaheed Diwas (Martyrs’ Day) in India.Quit India Movement: Gandhi’s call for ‘Do or Die’The Quit India Movement was a turning point in India’s freedom struggle. Under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi, people across India came together to uproot the British imperialism. In 1942, in a fiery speech in Mumbai, Gandhi made a ‘do or die’ call to the people in a final push to make the British quit.Following the start of the movement, many Congress leaders, including Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Abul Kalam Azad and others, along with Gandhi, were jailed for sedition.Kirti Kisan MovementPunjab is known for its resistance against Colonial rule. The Kirti Kisan Lehar (movement) came into Punjab in 1928. It was based upon Gadar movement, which revived the party by encouraging militant nationalism in Punjab. The Kirti Kisan Party was a mirror of deliberative condition of peasants, landless and suppressed classes of Punjab. By the beginning of the 20th Century, peasants in Punjab came into the forefront of public reactions against the British administration because they were under debt.Repressive policies of the government towards people in general were also the main reason for their protest. The objective of the party was to free the nation from the British imperialism by using every possible method.Anglo-Sikh WarsThe kingdom established by Ranjit Singh met its doom within 10 years after his death in 1839. The British occupied it after winning two successive wars — the first (1845-46) and second Anglo-Sikh war (1848-49).The primary cause of these wars was the policy of imperialism pursued by the English. They became interested in the conquest of Punjab after the death of Ranjit Singh because that was necessary for extending their empire to its natural frontiers towards the north-west. The immediate causes of the wars were provided by growing internal weakness of the Sikhs themselves.Hanging of KukasIn 1871, when the then DC of Amritsar sanctioned the opening of a slaughterhouse, the Kukas, who are staunch vegetarians, rallied against this decision. In an action that resulted in five Namdharis being sentenced to death, a group of followers raided the slaughterhouse, killed the butchers and set the cows free. For this, four Namdharis were hanged on trees in 1871.Komagata Maru shipOn May 23, 1914, the Komagata Maru, a Japanese ship, sailed from Hong Kong to Canada carrying 376 passengers, mostly immigrants from Punjab. On arrival in Canada, the exclusionist laws of Canada were quoted to bar their entry. Following a two-month stalemate, only 24 passengers were given permission to disembark.On July 22, 1914, the ship was escorted out of the harbour by the Canadian military and forced to sail back to Budge Budge (near Calcutta), where 19 of the passengers were killed by gunfire upon disembarking and many others imprisoned.Kukas being blown apart by cannon fireNot many people know that the Namdhari Sikhs (also known as Kukas) led by their founder Satguru Ram Singh, laid down their lives for the freedom of the country on January 17, 1872 much before the emergence of a national movement. He had also launched the non-cooperation and Swadeshi Movement against the mighty British Raj. Namdharis had made supreme sacrifices for the freedom struggle way back in January 1872. On display is the scene when 66 Kukas who protested against the butchering of an ox, were made to stand before the mouths of seven cannons and blown up in seven rounds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jang-e-azadi-memorial-a-repository-of-freedom-struggle-149569
02-10-2020||Amritsar||Kept in dark by Centre, says Sukhbir Badal||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal led the ‘kisan march’ from Amritsar on Thursday contesting the farm Acts enacted by the NDA-led Union Government.The march commenced after Badal paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and the Akal Takht. Sukhbir said as per “panthic tradition”, the march had been started after taking Guru’s blessings.Accompanied by senior SAD leadership, including Bikram Singh Majithia, Virsa Singh Valtoha, Gulzar Singh Ranike and other local SAD leaders, the cavalcade proceeded towards Governor’s House in Chandigarh from Bhandari Bridge.“A memorandum would be submitted to the Punjab Governor urging the Centre and the President of India to repeal the farm Acts. For the purpose, a special session of both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha be convened to roll back ‘kaale kanoon’ (black laws) that have been designed to ruin the farming community,” he said.Snubbing Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik over his claims that the SAD leadership was taken into confidence when the three Bills were tabled in Parliament and that Sukhbir and Union minister Harsimrat Badal had endorsed these with signatures before they snapped ties for “self-interest”, he said: “If it were true, then show our signatures. We were kept in the dark. We were never consulted and no Cabinet meeting was held before passing the black laws. Rather, we had submitted in writing certain clauses for inclusion in the Bills. We were falsely assured these would be incorporated. That’s why we decided to part ways,” he said.The SAD started the march from three Takhts — Akal Takht (Amritsar); Takht Damdama Sahib (Bathinda), led by Harsimrat Badal; and Takht Kesgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib, led by former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra.Terming it a ‘political drama’, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the SAD had attempted to play the ‘panthic card’ in a bid to streamline its dwindling political graph.In Anandpur Sahib, thousands of SAD workers and farmers led by former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra and former Cabinet minister Daljit Singh Cheema took out a kisan march from Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib here today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kept-in-dark-by-centre-says-sukhbir-badal-149575
02-10-2020||Amritsar||Missing 'saroops': Sikh activists lock SGPC HQs||Sikh activists who have been staging a sit-in opposite the SGPC headquarters, Teja Singh Samundri Hall, to protest the misappropriation of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’ today locked its main gate. The activists attempted to obstruct the movement of SGPC employees and locked the entrance gate this afternoon.SGPC secretary Mohinder Singh Ahli said the SGPC was in no mood to take the activists head on despite their provocative behaviour. “We have not yet approached them, but we will resolve it amicably,” he said. The activists blamed the SGPC management for trying to disrupt their protest by playing speakers at a high volume. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-sikh-activists-lock-sgpc-hqs-149580
