04-10-2020||---||Six fall prey to virus in dist, 129 +ve cases reported Amritsar district||Amritsar, October 3With six deaths reported in the district on Saturday, the Covid toll has reached 390. The deceased have been identified as Robin Masih (58) of Nehru Colony (Majitha road), Ranjit Singh (65) of Dashmesh Nagar, Joginder Singh (94) of Ghannupur Kale village, Narinder Kumar (50) of Fateh Singh Colony (Gate Hakeema), Jagan Nath (78) of Shivala and Jasbir Singh (75) of Guru Amardass Avenue (Ajnala road).Meanwhile, the health authorities have also reported 129 new positive cases with which the total count has reached 10,400.The new cases include 73 persons with influenza-like illness and 56 contacts of positive patients. The recovery count in the district has also increased to 8,901 with the recovery of 172 more patients.At present, the district has a total of 1,109 active cases.District Round-up+ve count 10,400Death toll 390Active cases 1,109Recoveries 8,901||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-fall-prey-to-virus-in-dist-129-ve-cases-reported-amritsar-district-150782
04-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||Sanitation workers held for sneaking prohibited material in jail||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 3The interrogation of two jail wardens Joban Singh and Gurpreet Singh, nabbed by the Amritsar Central Jail authorities for sneaking mobile phones and other prohibited material inside the high security jail complex, has led to the arrest of a sanitation worker identified as Mandeep Singh.Besides, the police have also booked two other wardens Sukhdev Singh and Pritampal Singh in the case.The sources revealed that they had written to higher authorities for initiating a departmental probe against them which could even lead to their dismissal. Ironically, Joban, Gurpreet and Mandeep were young and got the job on compassionate grounds after their fathers had died during their services. “Joban and Gurpreet were drug addicts, which was revealed during their dope tests. They were declared defaulters and were under radar of the jail officials,” said sources while wishing not to be named. Meanwhile, the police also recovered a mobile phone from the possession of a gangster identified as Sarabjit Singh, alias Sonu Cylinder. He had procured the same from another jail inmate Ranjit Singh who had bought it from two wardens.Jail authorities said investigations were also under way to zero in on other jail inmates involved in the racket in order to unearth the entire nexus.The duo Joban and Gurjant were found possessing four mobile phones with SIM and battery, 25 intoxicating tablets along with a used silver paper, three unused silver papers and two lighters which they were trying to slip inside the jail premises three days ago.Earlier, they had tried to sneak in 20-gm charas, concealed in a ball, which they had thrown from outside. However, this was recovered by the jail staff and a case was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitation-workers-held-for-sneaking-prohibited-material-in-jail-150783
04-10-2020||---||Murder case solved, 3 held||Amritsar, October 3Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Kolowal village, was murdered by his sister-in-law and her paramour.While stating this, the police claimed to have solved the murder and arrested three persons. They said the deceased used to object to her illicit relationship and also wanted to grab the entire property.Those arrested were identified as Davinder Kaur, Jobanpreet Singh and Jagir Singh.Gurmeet Singh (30) was found strangled to death by unknown persons here on September 13. His body was found dumped near Boparai drain. His hands were tied and he was strangled with the help of a headgear (patka).Tarlok Singh, the complainant and paternal uncle of the deceased, stated to the police that his nephew went with mason Balbir Singh for work at Khasa at an under construction building.However, he did not return home by the evening. He said next morning they tried locating him and called various relatives, but were unable to trace him. Later, they recovered his bike near Boparai village in the afternoon.He said he started searching for him in the area and found his body near the village drain with his hands tied on the backside and strangled with a headgear.A case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC was registered in this connection at that time.In a statement issued here on Saturday, Amritsar rural police authorities said that Davinder Kaur had illicit relations with Jobanpreet Singh and Jagir Singh. They said Gurmeet Singh used to object over this. They added Gurmeet and his brother Ranjit Singh (Davinder Kaur’s husband) had three acres of land. As Ranjit was mentally challenged, she wanted to have the entire land in the name of her children.She discussed the same with her accomplices who killed him on September 12 evening when he was returning home from his work.The caseAmritsar rural police authorities said Davinder Kaur had illicit relations with Jobanpreet Singh and Jagir Singh. They said Gurmeet Singh used to object to it. Gurmeet and his brother Ranjit Singh (Davinder Kaur's husband) had three acre of land. As Ranjit was mentally challenged, she wanted to have the entire land in the name of her children. She discussed the same with her accomplices, who killed him on September 12 evening, when he was returning home from his work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/murder-case-solved-3-held-150786
04-10-2020||---||Making up for losses by selling apparels||Amritsar, October 3Vipin Bawa, a shopkeeper selling cosmetic goods at Putlighar Chowk, is a victim of the lockdown. Like many, he had to switch over to other business. And that has helped him survive the ferocious, merciless effects the curbs have had in the past months.Bawa has shifted to selling women’s apparel as he reasons that the demand for cosmetics have gone down. Having been in the business for the past 10 years, he claims that restrictions on import have dried the supplies.“The customer footfall has decreased drastically. And when one comes we usually do not have a choice. This has led to a big decrease in sales and profits,” he reveals.The customer footfall has decreased drastically. And when one comes, we usually do not have a choice. This has led to a big decrease in our sales and profits. People in market often say that come what may, the demand for women’s apparels would never witness a dip. —Vipin Bawa, A shopkeeperA suggestion from a friend paved the way for the new business. “People in market often say that come what may, the demand for women’s apparel would never go down,” he quips. However, it is yet to be proven true as he is still learning the secrets of the trade.Among the new things Bawa is trying to learn these days are bargaining skills. “Earlier, we used to sell goods on MRP. But it is a different game all together now,” he shares, adding, “You have to study the customer entering the shop and the selling strategy should change accordingly.”His hopes are flaring; considering the scenario of market’s fortunes in the coming days as festival and wedding season are around the corner. “The customers would need new clothes as restrictions have been lifted. Besides, the festival season is coming up which shall trigger shopping,” Bawa’s optimistic.When asked if he would backtrack to selling cosmetics if the situation allows so, he says, “Surely, but I would continue selling clothes also. A customer buying a kurta would probably like to buy a matching lipstick or nail paint,” he breaks into a laugh.The earlier times, when the curbs were tightened, made life difficult for him and others. Now, the situation fares far better as mandates have been loosened and the light at the end of the tunnel is in sight. “People are tired of being afraid. They are now moving out. Besides, we now know that the disease could be managed if we stay alert and take ample precautions,” he signs off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/making-up-for-losses-by-selling-apparels-150788
04-10-2020||---||Philanthropist Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi appointed member of Jail Development Board||Gurdaspur, October 3The Punjab Government has appointed Dubai-based philanthropist and human rights activist Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi and Monica Dhawan, director, India Vision Foundation, as members of the Punjab Prisons Development Board.The Board has been established up to engage prisoners in gainful economical activities and to ensure no human rights violations take place in jails. The Board is chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh with Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa being senior vice-chairman.“It will help in putting a stop to crimes while simultaneously generating revenue by keeping inmates busy in various activities. It will also take care of human rights violations,” said Randhawa.Sources said Oberoi has been taken on board for his work in the field of human rights. The Dubai businessman, who donates 95 per cent of his earnings for charitable causes was instrumental in freeing 17 Punjabis from the UAE in 2013. The youths were facing a death sentence for allegedly murdering Mishri Khan, a Pakistani man following a brawl between two groups of bootleggers in Sharjah.“The CM, Capt Amarinder Singh, personally visited the youths in Sharjah Central Jail and assured them that he will take up their case with the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Later, Manmohan Singh gave instructions to the Indian Consulate General in Dubai and Embassy in Abu Dhabi to work closely with me to ensure the youths were freed. I paid blood money to the tune of Rs 4 crore to the family of Mishri Khan, which subsequently paved the way for the youths to return home,” said Oberoi.He has paid for air tickets for nearly 800 Indians languishing in various jails in the UAE. “They had completed their sentences, but were rotting in prisons due to an assortment of reasons. To me, this was a violation of their human rights,” said the construction magnate.“To deny people their human rights is akin to challenging their very humanity. Rights of every man are diminished when the rights of one man are threatened. I will ensure that there are no violations of rights in Punjab’s prisons,” said Oberoi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/philanthropist-surinder-pal-singh-oberoi-appointed-member-of-jail-development-board-150789
04-10-2020||---||Gharinda village to Gurdwara Baba Budha Sahib road cries for attention||Amritsar, October 3For around seven years, the road leading to the historic Gurdwara Baba Budha Sahib at Thatha village in Taran Tarn from Gharinda village has been crying for attention. The road sits right to the GT road to Attari.The road passes through several villages, including the popular Bhakna, the birthplace of late Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna, who founded the Ghadar Party, and causes inconvenience to commuters due to potholes, which have also led to many accidents.“Had any political leader’s home stood on the very same road, its condition would have been different, with not even a single pothole. Are the villagers not important that the road which is used by us and many others can remain in any condition and need not be repaired? For years, the road has been rolling out the same sad tale; rather, it is getting worse time,” said Harcharan Kamal Singh, an elderly resident of Bhakna.The state of the road makes it clear how important are villagers for the officials concerned and the government. Many a time, we fill mud in the potholes on our own as we know the authorities will never wake up. —Makhan Singh, A residentAnother resident Avtar Singh, a youngster, said: “During rain, the potholes get filled with water which remains accumulated for days, becoming a breeding ground for mosquitoes and several diseases. During the night, the potholes pose the risk of accidents, especially to two-wheelers.”Makhan Singh, a resident of Dhand village, which is located on the same road, said: “The road makes it clear how important are villagers for officials concerned and the governments. Many a time, we fill mud in the potholes on our own as we know the authorities will never wake up.” Some residents claimed that had raised the issue with their respective village sarpanches, but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gharinda-village-to-gurdwara-baba-budha-sahib-road-cries-for-attention-150790
04-10-2020||Amritsar||NGOs take to streets, demand justice for Hathras rape victim||Various city-based organisations such as Independent Students Federation (ISF), Folklore Research Academy, Pragatisheel Lekhak Sangh, Amritsar, Democratic Teachers Front and former Minister Lakshmi Kanta Chawla flayed rape and brutal murder of a young woman in UP, here today.Members of the Folklore Research Academy, Pragatisheel Lekhak Sangh, Amritsar, Democratic Teachers Front held a protest against the UP government. They converged at the Bhandari railway overbridge and raised slogans against the Yogi government.Inderjit Vashisht and Ramesh Yadav, Patron and President of the Academy, respectively, said the Yogi Adityanath government ineptly handled the brutal and murder of the Dalit girl. He said the police did not carry out its job judiciously and did not help the distressed family in the hour of crisis. They hit out at the Narendra Modi government for handing over the assets of the country to the corporate houses.In a separate protest led by Shilpa Kohli, President of the ISF, they held a protest outside the Hathi Gate against the UP government for failing to secure the dignity of women. They burnt the effigy of the UP Government.She said Manisha, a young Dalit woman from Hathras, was gangraped and brutally murdered. She demanded exemplary and prompt punishment from the judiciary in the incident. Veteran BJP leader Lakshmi Kanta Chawla expressed her concern over repeated assault on the modesty of women in the country. She called upon social servants, politicians, religious leaders and parents to impart values to their children. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngos-take-to-streets-demand-justice-for-hathras-rape-victim-150792
04-10-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Farmers relent as PAU, govt officials extend olive branch||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 3Farmers, who parked 250 combine harvesters on agriculture fields adjoining the Gurdaspur-Batala National Highway in past 72 hours, finally relented after PAU and agriculture officials impressed upon them that “their demands would be looked into by a special committee.”Starting from this paddy harvesting season, the Punjab government has made it mandatory, citing the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, for combine harvesters to instal Super SMS (Straw Management System) on harvesters.Officials said this was done to ensure clean environment, particularly taking the Covid-19 pandemic into consideration and also to reduce air pollution emanating from the burning of paddy straw.Anger got the better of impatient protesters on Saturday morning, as they kept waiting for the last two days for officials to find a solution. Once the word spread that they would block the national highway, the cops swung into action. Since the area falls in the jurisdiction of the Batala police district, DSP (city) Parvinder Kaur was assigned the task to maintain law and order and also make sure traffic plied smoothly. Gurdaspur SDM Sakattar Singh Bal, too, played a pivotal road in diffusing the situation.Farmers claimed that they needed a lot of money to get the Super SMS installed. “The contraption costs anything between Rs1 lakh to Rs1.25 lakh. If the Punjab Government gives us subsidies worth Rs50,000, which in any case it had promised, even then we will have to cough up Rs50,000 to Rs75,000,” said Jatinder Singh of Qadian.The government had made it clear that it will impose a fine of Rs50,000 on anybody not installing the device. Farmers had gathered from towns including Dera Baba Nanak, Fatehgarh Churian, Qadian, Batala, Gurdaspur and Sri Hargobindpur.The situation was threatening to snowball into a major controversy with protesters ready to spill on to the highway. However, SDM Bal and DSP Parvinder Kaur jointly managed to calm them down. Experts from the PAU and Agriculture Department, too, were roped in. The official version given to the farmers was that “their problems will be dealt with by a special committee of representatives from all groups.”Insiders, however, said the olive branch extended to the farmers was in the form of non-interference by officials till the owners get the contraption installed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-relent-as-pau-govt-officials-extend-olive-branch-150793
04-10-2020||---||Traffic returning to dilapidated road poses grave risk to lives||Amritsar, October 3Following easing of restrictions, traffic has started returning to roads. A sea of vehicles being driven at a high speed, honking of horns and traffic violations are once again visible.Recently, an accident near the Mall Mandi Chowk on the GT road snuffed out the life of a woman Scooty rider, sending a grim reminder of the lack of infrastructure on the stretch.The stretch on the GT Road from the Golden Gate to the Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) remains highly vulnerable to accidents. A coconut vendor at the Mall Mandi Chowk said accidents on the stretch were frequent, especially at the intersection. The prime reason is that there are no traffic lights at the crossing to guide the fast-moving traffic, most of which comprises travelers from the Jalandhar side.In addition, there are many residential localities on either side of the road from which emerge a large number of vehicles. So the traffic flow remains high throughout the day. A 3 km elevated road also runs over the same stretch, its columns eclipsing the view for motorists, thereby posing risk to lives.Harpinder Singh Walia, a resident of New Golden Avenue, which also falls on the same stretch, said traffic lights must be installed at New Amritsar cross, Mall Mandi and Panj Peer chowks to manage and control the traffic.Commuting on the GT Road’s stretch from the Golden Gate to the ISBT invariably unfolds a terrible experience to motorists, two-wheeler riders and heavy-vehicle drivers. A large number of passenger-ferrying buses and trucks utilise the road as it connects the holy city with Jalandhar and areas ahead of it.Over the past some years, the same stretch has became the centre of urbanisation as a number of residential colonies have sprung up. So a large number of two-wheelers and four-wheelers are natural to utilise the stretch.Shamsher Bir Singh, a resident of Partap Nagar, which falls on the same stretch, said: “The service lane would have separated heavy vehicles and light vehicles. Now, the GT road’s stretch from the New Amritsar Chowk to the ISBT unfolds a terrible experience to motorists and heavy vehicles commuting over it. The occurrence of accidents is natural and many lost their lives and limbs,” he said, adding that there is a need of a dedicated safety plan for the stretch such as driving limit under 50 kmph, traffic lights signals, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traffic-returning-to-dilapidated-road-poses-grave-risk-to-lives-150794
04-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Violation by shopkeepers shadows facade beautification project in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 3Though the facade beautification project of the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board (PHTPB) at the Hall Bazaar area is nearing its completion, some shopkeepers and local politicians are not cooperating with the authorities.The government is spending around Rs 15 crore to give a uniform look to the entire Hall Bazaar area, but shopkeepers are adamant to install their own signboards outside the shops by violating the bylaws. A number of shopkeepers installed large signboards outside their shops even after the improvement of façade. Most of these boards belong to multinational companies for the promotion of products.The advertisement wing officials of MC claimed that these huge signboards are clear violation of building bylaws and no shopkeeper can install boards larger than those approved by the government. After a recent meeting with officials of Tourism department, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal sent a team of advertisement wing to remove the illegal sign boards but the shopkeepers resisted the move and a local politician supported them.MC officials gave them time to remove the boards on their own. The Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board is implementing this project under the Infrastructure Development Investment Programme for Tourism with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank. This initiative of the state government was appreciated by residents of the holy city. “Following the completion, the streets will exude a heritage look. We don’t understand that why the shopkeepers are opposing it. They would be major beneficiary of this project,” said Kuljeet Singh, a local resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/violation-by-shopkeepers-shadows-facade-beautification-project-in-amritsar-150796
04-10-2020||Amritsar||Four snatchers involved in seperate incidents arrested||The City police have nabbed four persons who were involved in different incidents of snatching here today. In a statement issued here today police official said that the Majitha road police had arrested three snatchers in two incidents while one snatcher was held by Verka police station.The police said Satnam and Ajaypal had snatched a mobile phone from Aman Kumar of Indira Colony located on Jhabal road on September 22. The victim had noted the registration number of the bike. The police nabbed the duo and recovered the snatched mobile phone from their possession.The Majitha road police station recovered another snatched mobile from Jagdish Singh. He had snatched the same from Rajnish Garg of Basant Avenue area. The Verka police had arrested Avtar Singh Gug of Batala who had snatched a purse from Gurwinder Singh of Gurdaspur area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-snatchers-involved-in-seperate-incidents-arrested-150797
04-10-2020||---||2 arrested with 940-gm gold at Amritsar airport||Amritsar, October 3The Customs Department has confiscated around one kg of gold after checking a flight, arrived from Dubai at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here on Saturday. According to information, the flight arrived from Dubai at 2.40 pm.During the routine checking, the department seized 940 gm of gold in the form of foil paper sheets from the bags of two passengers.The Customs Department has taken both the passengers into its custody and initiated further inquiry.It was also learned that three persons from Haryana, who had come to collect the gold, were also detained by the Customs Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-arrested-with-940-gm-gold-at-amritsar-airport-150798
04-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Rifle, laptop stolen from house||Youth’s burnt body foundAmritsar: Panic gripped the Vallah bypass area, when a youth was found murdered here on Saturday. The killers also set his body on fire to destroy his identity. The police teams reached the spot and started probe. The deceased was identified as Harjinder Singh of Jamun Wali Gali on Tarn Taran Road here. Cops said he was killed with sharp weapons. Forensic teams and dog squad was also pressed to service. The Maqboolpura police have registered a case. TNS2-year-old sees world for first timeHoshiarpur: Bisma, a two-year-old infant from Baramulla in Jammu and Kashmir, saw the colorful world around her for the first time. The Rotary Eye Bank and Corneal Transplantation Society, Hoshiarpur, not only arranged cornea, but also bore all the expenses. A meeting of the Rotary Eye Bank and Corneal Transplantation Society was held at Dr Bali Hospital where Bisma was present. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rifle-laptop-stolen-from-house-150799
04-10-2020||---||MC officials return as Gujjars resist encroachment drive||Amritsar, October 3In a joint action, a team of the Municipal Corporation’s estate wing and cattle pond wing visited Chabal Road to remove the camps of Gujjars on the government land here on Saturday.In the absence of police assistance, the MC officials failed to take any action and returned after resistance from Gujjars and some local political leaders. The MC officials said Gujjars and residents threatened to burn MC vehicles.Sushant Bhatia, Estate Officer said: “We have 65 acre land for the dairy complex at Chabal Road. Around four families of Gujjar tribe occupied the land illegally. We have asked them to vacate the land several times. Today, we visited the spot but some political leaders in the area misbehaved with our team. I submitted a report to the Commissioner for further action.”According to the information, a former councillor in the area is supporting the Gujjars, who have occupied the land for the last several years. The MC officials claimed that there must be some connivance between local politicians and encroachers. “Today, the police team was not available to join us. Next time, we will go with the police and take appropriate action as per the senior officials,” Bhatia said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-officials-return-as-gujjars-resist-encroachment-drive-150805
04-10-2020||---||Farmers burn effigies of  President, Governor||Amritsar, October 3Farmers protesting against the agri Acts at Devi Daspura village burnt the effigies of President Ram Nath Kovind and Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore here on Saturday.The protesters, under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), have been sitting on the Amritsar-Delhi railway track for the past ten days. On Saturday, they also burnt SIM cards of Jio, a telecom company owned by businessman Mukesh Ambani.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KMSC, said they would continue their rail blockade until their demands were accepted. He reiterated the demand of repeal of the three legislations passed recently in the Parliament.He said the protesters had not received any offer of talks from the Centre to end the stalemate.Protesters stage dharna at Usman toll plaza, vehicles pass without payingTarn Taran: Upping its ante against the Centre’s farm Acts, area residents under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrash Committee (KMSC), Punjab, on Saturday staged a dharna at the Usman toll plaza on the National Highway No. 54. Residents of Sheron, Piddi, Dhotian, Naushehra Pannuan, Chaudhriwala, Jatta, Chambal, Rasulpur and Dugalwala also participated in the protest. As the protesters started dharna at the toll plaza, employees suspended toll collection.Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, along with other KMSC leaders, while addressing the protesters said they would not allow the entry of corporate houses in the farm sector. The leaders said they would also force big corporate houses to shut down filling stations in the country. The sources said that as many as 5,000 vehicles passed without paying toll today thus caused a loss of more than rupees five lakh to the company. Later, the protesters burnt an effigy of the Central Government and raised slogans against it. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-burn-effigies-of-president-governor-150806
