05-10-2020||Amritsar||Why burn paddy straw when you can earn out of it?||The district administration has appealed to farmers to follow the example of Deshpal Singh, a farmer from Talwandi Dogra village, who had stopped the practice of burning crop residue in fields after harvesting. DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira lauded the role of the farmer for leading by example.Deshpal Singh said he had stopped burning crop residue in 2008. He said with the crop residue now being purchased partially by cardboard industry and partially by ‘gujjars’ as dry fodder for animals, the farmers can recover most of the money spent on alternate management of residue.“Earlier, we had to spend Rs1,500 per acre but now with a market getting developed for the crop stubble, we can recover half of the amount from sale of crop residue,” he said, adding that alternate management helps in enriching the soil while the burning results in loss of nutrients.Khaira said other farmers should learn from the example of Deshpal. He said the government had provided machines on subsidy for stubble management and farmers should make full use of the same. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/why-burn-paddy-straw-when-you-can-earn-out-of-it-151268
05-10-2020|| ---||Two commit suicide in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 4  A contractual employee at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Harpreet Singh ended his life by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at his house in the  Vikas Nagar area in Khandwala here last evening.  He was perturbed after allegations of theft levelled against him by several other employees of his department in the university. A case was registered against him and he was also sent to judicial remand in Pathankot. He got bail and returned on October 1.  His family members alleged that a false case was registered against him at the behest of several employees of the GNDU who also made a video regarding it and circulated it in the social media.  Yesterday, while other family members had gone to market, he went to the upper floor of the house and committed suicide by hanging himself. When his family members returned, they were shocked to see him hanging with the ceiling fan. The police initiated action under the Criminal Procedure Code and further investigations are under way. The body was handed over to the family after the post-mortem examination.  Meanwhile, in another incident, Dinesh Verma, a resident of the Majitha road area, committed suicide by hanging himself here yesterday. Verma, an engineer with a private firm, was living on rent here. The incident came to light when he did not pick up his phone and his family members asked the landlord to look for him. When the landlord went to his room, he found him hanging.  Abhishek Verma, brother of the deceased, told the police that Dinesh, who was married around nine months ago, had a dispute with his wife who had went to her parents’ home in Hisar. He was disturbed over this. He had gone to bring her back, but she did not return. Perturbed over this, he ended his life. The police have initiated a probe into the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-commit-suicide-in-amritsar-151270
05-10-2020||Amritsar||2 firing cases in rural belt, cases registered||A youth was injured when two persons fired at him in Wadala Khurd village here over an old enmity on Thursday.  The victim, identified as Harpreet Singh of the same village, sustained a bullet injury in stomach. He was admitted to the Civil Hospital. A complaint was lodged with the police yesterday. The police have booked Vishal Singh and Malkeet Singh. Harpreet Singh, cousin of the victim, stated to the police that he, along with his paternal cousin Harpreet Singh, was standing on the chowk outside his house when the two accused came on a bike. He said before they could understand, they fired at his foot. He said he ran away from the spot to save himself. He alleged that the accused Vishal then fired at his cousin. The duo then fled from the spot. He said they had an old dispute with the accused.  In another incident, Jandiala police booked around 12 persons on charges of attempt to murder, criminal trespass and firing.  Balbir Singh of Bandala village told the police that on Friday, when he along with his uncle Narinder Singh was standing at the Patti Baaz Ki village road, the accused came on a car and stopped in the middle. He said when he asked him to move his vehicle, he entered into a verbal duel. Later, at around 2.30 pm, he along with his accomplices, barged into their house and started firing indiscriminately in the air.   Jandiala police booked Germanjit Singh of Guru Ka Khuh in Tarn Taran, Harpreet Singh of Bandala and around 10 unidentified persons on the charges of murder bid and Arms Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-firing-cases-in-rural-belt-cases-registered-151272
05-10-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||BJP ‘educates’ farmers on new laws||Tribune News ServicePathankot, October 4After days of remaining in a state of inertia, during which it faced flak from the Congress, SAD and AAP, the BJP is back in the thick of action as it organised a tractor-trailer rally here on Sunday, in which it “informed agriculturists about advantages of the farm Acts.”The rally, comprising 550 tractor-trailers and nearly 3,500 farmers, commenced from Sujanpur, passed through Pathankot and culminated in Bhoa, covering a distance of 35 km. Reports culled from intelligence sources revealed a majority of tractor-trailers had come from Sujanpur, the seat represented by Dinesh Singh Babbu, a three-time BJP MLA and former Punjab Deputy Speaker.Sujanpur is predominantly a rural area where the prime occupation of the people is farming. State BJP chief Ashwani Sharma and Babbu were the main architects of the event. Former Cabinet Minister Master Mohan Lal and ex-Bhoa legislator Seema Devi, too, took part.“In view the misinformation being spread by parties opposing the laws, including our former ally SAD, we decided to reach out to the farming community to present the true picture. A controversy is deliberately being created where none exists. Starting from Sujanpur, till we reached Bhoa, we made it a point to clarify that the MSP system will not be impacted. The MSP was there in the past, is there at present and will remain in the future, too. Under no circumstances will it be disbanded as is being alleged by parties with vested interests,” said Babbu.Babbu added that while other parties were holding “protest rallies”, the BJP had come up with a strategy to counter the opposition by holding an “awareness rally”, wherein it was putting across proper facts related to the farm laws.Sources claimed the rally was organised on directions of the national BJP functionaries. “This was our way to contain the damage done by the Opposition and we have been successful in our endeavour,” said Babbu.Ashwani Sharma said a lot of effort and time had gone into making the programme a success “Rahul Gandhi is in Punjab today (on Sunday) and we wanted to tell him to not misguide the gullible farming community. The laws are a boon to agriculturists and have been drafted after consulting all stakeholders,” he said.He said the BJP had made elaborate plans to reach out to farmers across the state. “The plans are ready and upon approval from New Delhi, we will take the party’s message to all parts of the state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-educates-farmers-on-new-laws-151274
05-10-2020||---||Farmers' protest outside BJP MP Shwait Malik’s residence continues||Amritsar, October 4The protest by farmers against the farm laws outside BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik’s residence entered its third day on Sunday. The farmers said they would gherao BJP leaders at public events.The protest is being led by 31 farmer associations. Punjabi film actress Sonia Mann also attended the protest. Leaders of the Kirti Kisan Union, Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee and Kisan Sangharsh Committee claimed that BJP leaders were finding it difficult to attend public meetings as farmers are anguished and protesting against them.The farmers demanded acceptance of long-pending demands of farmers that could provide a solution to various malaises inflicting the agrarian sector. They said instead of providing profitable price to farmers for their produce, the government is keeping them at the mercy of exploitative corporate houses.They alleged that the previous agriculture related laws, too, were anti-farmer but the BJP, by passing the new laws, has made it clear that government is indifferent towards the plight of farmers.Meanwhile, activists of the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) staged a protest against the new laws here on Sunday. The protesters also burnt an effigy of the Union Government. Speaking on the occasion, RMPI general secretary Mangat Ram Pasala said in order to save farmers, the Union Government should stop working for corporate houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-outside-bjp-mp-shwait-maliks-residence-continues-151275
05-10-2020|| ---||Make sanitisation drive a success: MC||Amritsar, October 4  In view of the festival season ahead, the Municipal Corporation asked the residents to cooperate with them for the ongoing sanitation drive in the holy city. Aiming to get the first place in the Sanitation Survey ranking - 2021, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal are visiting the various localities everyday and creating awareness among the residents about cleanliness. Mayor and Commissioner visited ward numbers 11, 19 and 51, along with Councillors Mamta Dutta, Harnek Singh, Vaneet Mahajan, and Health Officer Dr Yogesh Arora. They took the feedback from residents about the cleanliness and functioning of the solid waste management company. The city Mayor also apprised the people of the segregation of dry and wet waste and asked to segregate the garbage at domestic level. He also asked the traders and owners of commercial establishments not to dump the garbage outside their shops and not allow anyone else to do so. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “In the wake of the festival season, it is our duty to keep the city clean and tidy. Keep your houses and surrounding areas clean, follow the rules of the MC.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/make-sanitisation-drive-a-success-mc-151277
05-10-2020||---||Four fall victim to virus, 89 new cases||Amritsar, October 4With four patients succumbing to Covid in the district, the toll reached 394 on Sunday.The deceased have been identified as Karnail Singh (83) of Pandori Waraich village, Preeti (27) of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar (Beri Gate), Upen Dholkia (60) of Krishna Square and Jagjeet Singh (59) of Deep Enclave (Bypass road).The district also reported 89 new cases, of which 52 were persons with influenza-like illness cases and 37 were contacts of positive patients. The total count in the district has reached 10,489. Meanwhile, with 141 more patients cured, the recovery count has also increased to 9,042. At present, the district has 1,053 active cases.Meanwhile, the district Health Department has started distribution of ‘Corona Fateh Kits’. Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh said the kit would make self-monitoring of health easier for home-isolated Covid patients. He said a kit included a pulse oximeter, thermometer, vaporiser, sanitiser, masks, balloons for lung exercise, tablets for various symtoms, immunity booster, cough syrup and other items. It was important that all members of a positive patient were tested so that their health could be monitored, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-fall-victim-to-virus-89-new-cases-151279
05-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Foundation day held, virtually||Pistol, Rs 4,500 stolen from carTarn taran: Car owner Jugraj Singh of Sakhira village in his complaint to the city police alleged that someone stole his revolver and some other important documents from the car parked on the Amritsar road on Saturday. The complainant said that he had parked his car outside VR Honda agency and when he returned after a few minutes he found his bag missing from the car. Besides a 32 bore revolver, Rs 4,500 and one ATM card of the HDFC bank was also in the vehicle. The police have registered a case under Section 379 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/foundation-day-held-virtually-151281
05-10-2020||---||Farm fires: Fines fail to deter farmers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 4Despite the district administration issuing challans to farmers flouting the ban on burning of crop stubble in paddy fields, the practice can be seen going on unabated in the rural areas in broad daylight.The challans and instructions to the revenue officials to mark a ‘red entry’ in the revenue records of farmers flouting the ban has failed to prove as a deterrent as the farmers reason that the government has failed to provide them with a viable alternative.While the paddy harvesting is yet to pick up the pace, early sown varieties, mostly sown in the vegetable belts surrounding the city, have already been harvested. In some cases, farmers have already sown potato crop.“We could not afford to delay sowing of potato by even a single day, so we have to burn the residue to prepare the fields,” said a farmer. He said decomposition of crop residue in fields consumes much time, so the farmers choose to burn the stubble.Officials of the district administration stated that farm fires were being monitored using remote sensing techniques and teams were being sent to areas reporting cases of stubble burning to take punitive action.Chief Agriculture Officer Gurdial Singh Bal said apprehensions of potato farmers were misplaced. Citing the example of Surinder Singh, a farmer from Mannawala Kalan, the official said the farmer had been sowing potato without burning crop residue for the past five years.“In fact, the yield of the crop is comparative higher in such fields as when the stubble decomposes, it gives an additional space for potato seeds to grow,” he said, adding that farmers should use combine harvesters fitted with straw management system attachment for stubble management.One booked in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: The police have booked a farmer, identified as Manjinder Singh of Kakka Kandiala village, on the charge of burning paddy straw in fields. ASI Balwinder Singh said the farmer had been booked under Section 188 of the IPC for violating prohibition orders issued by District Magistrate Kulwant Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-fires-fines-fail-to-deter-farmers-151285
05-10-2020||What steps can be taken to revive tourism in the state?||Enhance testing, promote must-visit places||Discounts, freebies could helpAll of the safety protocols must be followed by every person employed in the tourism industry so that the faith of the people can be revived. Advertisements must be published to make people aware about tourism. If possible, some freebies like tickets to Heritage Walk must be distributed to people so that they spread the benefits of tourism to others through word of mouth. Police should be stricter against snatchers. Dustbins must be installed at regular distances in the city to avoid littering. Some special discounts for purchasing in shops or eating at restaurants can be offered to people who indulge in activities like Heritage Walk. All this can make the industry thrive.Jatinderpal SinghPeaceful environment needed for revivalThe steps to control the pandemic are the best way to revive the tourism. Testing should be one of the mainstays to isolate the infected to win trust of the prospective tourists. Stuble burning by the farmers needs to be brought under the scanner as it hampers the tourism growth by creating pollution. Various strikes by different organisations flaunting the social distancing norms and creating fear and uncertainty must be nipped in the bud. A peaceful environment is a prerequisite for revival of tourism. All the ordinances and guidelines must be followed at the entry points of the state. Tour operators should come up with the attractive offers for the tourists and onus to aid the operators in all possible ways is on the government.Anil SharmaCheck on tourists should be easedIt's been over a month since the Punjab government opened its doors to tourists amid the pandemic but stringent restrictions to enter the state have kept visitors at bay. Amritsar is a big tourist spot. Most hotels in Punjab remain closed and the ones that are open are seeing poor occupancy. Other tourist states such as Rajasthan, Kerala and Goa don't have such strict restrictions and that's helping tourism pick up pace there. It is unfair that after hours of journey tourists are kept waiting at district borders for rechecking. If the state wants to revive tourism then tourists should allow enter easily but with precautions.Saahil HansWinning traveller's trust is the keyThe industry in Amritsar is staring at a bleak future in wake of the lockdown. Hotels, restaurants and guest houses etc, which are directly dependent on tourism, are not only facing huge losses but see no hope of revival in near future. There are 28 dhabas in Attari and all of them are closed as there aren't any takers due to the closure of the retreat ceremony. Even Chhidan toll plaza which is totally dependent on tourists suffered a lot. Despite the government allowing opening of hotels for inter-district tourists almost two months back, only a handful of small units resumed operations. Many hotels have decided to remain shut as they feel the arrivals will be miniscule. The government should compensate these people through policies and plans by waiving off their electricity bill and taxes at least for a year. There is dire need to promote tourism post-lockdown. An image building exercise is essential to regain travellers’ confidence.Amarjit KalsiPrioritise hygiene, cleanliness & safetyThe state has incredible tourism potential and the pandemic has had a debilitating effect on the tourism industry as those dependent on tourism for earning their livelihood have been rendered jobless and savings bankrupt. Hence, the industry ought to be supported by the state with all our efforts. Tour operators and travel agents will have to adapt to a new business model to survive as people nowadays depend more on mobiles and digital mode. The need of the hour is to win the confidence of the prospective tourists by drastically changing attitude and behaviour towards them. Hygiene, cleanliness and safety should be given top-most priority. GST waiver or reduction is a must to resuscitate the industry. Collateral-free borrowing or government guarantee on tourism sector borrowing should be made facile. Advertisement and disseminating information are critical to boost the sagging morale of the industry. Public relations activities and media can play a significant role in this respect. It will be a shot in the arm if enlightened people join hands with the government bodies to develop policies and code of conduct to promote sustainable tourism and to motivate those engaged with the sector.Tarsem S BumrahTourist sites must take initiativeEach and every place in the country has been closed for about more than 100 days. Starting a new venture after a full stop has been a difficult task but we together can achieve it. One major help can be taken from advertisements or pamphlets. The tourist sites should start floating ads. They should organise fun activities for every age group. The places should be clean and sanitised so that people are tension free regarding their health. The 'must visit' places should be worth it. Tourism is the best phenomenon of earning money. There must be a guide in each and every historical place to learn about the history of the same.IzleenPromote advertising, hand out concessionsRight from the day one of the restarting of the commercial activities after the strict lockdown of 68 days, tourism was given step motherly treatment. Whereas incentives and other concessions were announced for all sectors but this sector was totally ignored. To begin with, ministers and IAS and IPS officers in state must visit the main markets of their city daily observing all the rules like physical distancing, wearing mask etc to dispel the panic of virus from minds of people. The rules to observe night curfew and weekend lockdown should be lifted. The SGPC and Sri Durgiana temple management should release advertisements to ask pilgrims to visit the holy city as Diwali celebrations at the Golden Temple and 'langoor melal' at the Durgiana temple are world famous. Then beginning with first navratra, all business establishments should announce a special discount package for one month. Hotel, restaurants, tour operators etc should make big announcements in this regard all the while announcing further journey to Maa Vaishno Devi at Katra etc. Indian railway should give 50 per cent fare concession for this period of one month.Harsh N JoharQUESTIONDespite the fact that Punjab has a high Covid death rate, the state government, on October 1, ordered a slew of relaxations, including lifting of the night curfew and end to the Sunday curfew. Do you think the relaxations, particularly increasing the limit on gatherings at marriage functions and funerals to 100, in the state have been taken in the best interests of the public?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 8).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/enhance-testing-promote-must-visit-places-151290
05-10-2020||Aparna Banerji||From sasando to waterphone, he handcrafted musical instruments during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 4If you go to his home and workshop one is bound to be mesmerised. For you would have an opportunity to chance upon an exotic range of instruments, including berimbau (Brazil), crystal quartz galassophone (US), stringoyidaki (derivative of an electric string didgeridoo), sasando (Indonesian), samsaw, samswing chimes among others.Samir Malhotra, a Jalandhar-based doctor, is a music lover. But stands apart from rest – he crafts his own instruments, mainly to cushion the stress amid the pandemic. The 48-year-old owns 172 musical instruments and has handcrafted an array. He has been building his own collection for over 15 years. It includes guitars (acoustic and electric), darbooka, djembe, tanpura, pan flutes, sarod, nagadas and drums among many more lesser-known instruments.After his hectic tiring shift at the workplace, which happens to be a hospital, the peace of mind descends every time he comes home to the musical paradise. “In my 24 years of medical practice we work across gruelling schedules which leave us zapped. Music runs in our family. I have been playing guitar, sourcing drums and other percussion instruments for many years. Necessity gave way to invention and I recently made instruments of my own,” he says.Connoisseur of soulful tunesHis assorted collection includes meditative-like quality producing sounds salvaged from across the world. A connoisseur of soulful tunes, he has a knack for collecting the rawest–particularly ancient instruments created by indigenous tribes, which have therapeutic effect, are his forte. Interestingly, all his time and money is invested only for the passion and not for commerce.His first handcrafted instrument was a didgeridoo (an electrical stringed didgeridoo), a derivative of the Australian didgeridoo, an indigenous instrument originally developed by the Australian aboriginals around 1,500 years ago.Other handcrafted instruments include a Shanti M Pan 74 (crafted on the 74th year of Indian Independence) a derivative of an Israel-based instrument bajinn — a hollow wooden basket with horizontal metal bars which give out sonorous notes culminating in a calming effect. He has also created his own version of sasando — a tube zither (harp like instrument) native of Rote Island of Indonesia.The doctor has two holy grails at his place – a workshop and a recording studio — where he collects his treasured items. “I learnt the craft by the watching tutorials and videos on the internet. These instruments are made from the help at workshops of my friends’ steel and wood factories as well. While the concept is mine, I instruct the karigars on how to build them,” he shares.However, excessive charges on shipping and transportation made it difficult to order some exotic instruments from abroad. The bevy would otherwise have swelled but…“Amid the pandemic, the charges of sanitisation and protocols also piled on, I could not afford that. The PM says we should be ‘atmanirbhar’. And so I did.”What is he currently working on?Currently working on creating a derivative of the modern waterphone (in pic), originally created by the American Richard Waters, he explains his interest: “The trigger for the love of instruments was in fact a saxophone gifted by my wife. I have been glued to the meditative sounds of these instruments. After my five to six hours of sleep, I head to my workshop and begin crafting instruments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/from-sasando-to-waterphone-he-handcrafted-musical-instruments-during-lockdown-151291
05-10-2020||---||Four ex-servicemen, 14 doctors booked for fraud in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 4The police have booked 24 persons, including 14 doctors and Army veterans, for misappropriation of funds released under the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS).An investigation carried out by the Army authorities found them guilty of cheating, forgery, mischief and breach of contract. The inquiry report was submitted to the Cantonment police here for lodging an FIR against the accused.Indicted in Army probeThe doctors belonged to six private hospitals and a diagnostic centre which were empanelled by the Ministry of Defence under the ECHS for providing treatment to Army pensioners and veterans and their dependents.The doctors who have been booked are Dr Gautam Verma, Dr Sunil Dutt, Dr Lakhbir Singh Randhawa, Dr Arshdeep Kaur, Dr Parminder Singh, Dr Surinder Gupta, Dr Sachin Gupta, Dr Manish Chanday, Dr Ashish Kumar, Dr Rakesh Madaan, Dr Susheel Mohindru, Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar, Dr Gurpreet and Dr Harmeet.Others named in the FIR are Parveen Kumar; Subedar Kashmir Singh (retd); Salwinder Singh Sandhu Sarpanch of Sarli Khurd village in Tarn Taran; Subedar Satwinder Singh (retd), Parkash Kaur and her husband Naik Shinda Singh (retd) of Butala village; Amarjit Singh of Gaggarbhana village; Sepoy Jagroop Singh of Lalpura village; Jatinder Singh of Neelkanth Hospital; and Baljinder Singh, a photocopy shop owner.In his complaint to the police, Brig MD Upadhyay, Station Commander, Station Headquarters, Amritsar Cantonment, said during an internal investigation conducted by the complainant in the matter, all accused were found guilty of connivance and misappropriating government funds. He alleged that they fabricated the records of admission of ECHS card-holders.“The doctors made fraudulent admissions with an intention of fraud,” the complainant alleged while adding that Jalandhar Army authorities had already issued “Stop referral” letters to the hospitals in May and September this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-ex-servicemen-14-doctors-booked-for-fraud-in-amritsar-151084
