06-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||He adorned his school premises with succulents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 5A noted Punjabi poet, an educationist and a numismatist, Dev Dard dons many hats. Not only this, he is also known to have a gardening fetish. A principal of a private school, his love for plants is such that he has adorned whole of the school premises with several varieties of cactus and nolina or ponytail palm plants.He is now planning to establish a greenhouse at the rooftop of his sprawling school complex where he would house unique plants, including cactus and succulents. At present, he has over 500 varieties of different species.“Unlike other ornamental plants that are much in demand, cacti demand lesser attention. I water them once or twice a week. They are quite hard and resilient and need less water,” he says. Giving a word of caution, Dard says it needs to be ensured that water retention in the pot does not take place as it could harm the root of cacti and damage the plants.Dev Dard also uses grafting method for propagating the plants, besides stem cutting.He has a collection of notocactus, mammillaria, melocactus bahiensis, pachypodiums, ferocactus harrare, ferocacuts latispinus, echinocactus grusonii, astrophytum, paper spine cactus, agaves and gymnosium.Though, these plants do need not much care, we change its soil every year and replace it with soil enriched with nutrients. “I use the soil mixed with cow dung manure or vermicompost, bone meal, leaf manure along with bone and hoof manure,” he said.Drawing inspiration from late Dr Karam Singh, an Orthopaedic surgeon of the Government Medical College, Dev Dard grew passionate about thorny plants. “He was the first to have a collection of cactus plants. He used to hold meetings with other cactus lovers of Punjab and I used to attend that meetings,” he pointed out.Dard is also a proud owner of around 250 plants of Nolina Palm or Pony tail Palm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-adorned-his-school-premises-with-succulents-151514
06-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Dasehra drawing nearer, no guidelines on celebrations yet||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, October 5Uncertainty over celebrations on the forthcoming Dasehra continues as the district administration has not received any guidelines. The Durgiana Temple Committee is preparing to host a low-key Langoor Mela these Navratras.The oldest Dasehra organising management of the city, the Dasehra Committee, is yet to file applications for securing no-objection certificates (NOCs) from the authorities concerned.Vinod Sehdev, president of the Dasehra Committee, said he visited the Deputy Commissioner’s office a couple of days back to learn about the latest guidelines, but there was no clarity.Started nearly 80 years back, the oldest committee holds Dasehra celebrations at the Gobindgarh Fort Ground, which is owned by the Army. He said the NOCs would be secured from the General Officer Commanding (GOC), Panther Division, Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) and district administration.Dr Himanshu Aggarwal, ADC, said directions to organise Dasehra would be issued once they receive the guidelines for the same from the state government.Dasehra is celebrated at several places in the city and most of these managements are controlled by politicians. For instance, cabinet minister OP Soni at Chheharta, Congress MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria at Mata Bhadrakali temple, a Congress councilor at Maha Kali Mandir on the Majitha road, former cabinet minister Anil Joshi at the Ranjit Avenue, a Congress councilor Raman Bakshi at Khandwala and similarly many others.Meanwhile, the Durgiana Temple Committee is preparing to host a low-key Langoor Mela these Navratras. Harish Taneja of the Sri Durgiana Temple Committee said observing the social distancing norm, a child dressed as langoor would be permitted entry in the temple accompanied by two guardians only. Earlier, each langoor used to be accompanied by a large number of relatives and a dholi.A large troupe of langoors, who used to pay their obeisance at the Bara Hanuman Temple, where the Lord is believed to be held captive by Luv and Kush, sons of Lord Ram and Sita, will not be allowed. He recalled that about 6,000 children dressed as langoors had visited the temple during the nine-day festival of Navratras last year.He said special arrangements such as sanitisation at the entrance and five sanitisation stands at the Bara Hanuman temple would be made available for visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dasehra-drawing-nearer-no-guidelines-on-celebrations-yet-151515
06-10-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar boy gets 1,825th rank in JEE Advanced||The result of JEE (Advanced) was declared on Monday and city-based Raghav Khullar, a student of DAV International School, secured all-India rank (AIR) 1,825 and topped the district. Khullar had got AIR 632 in JEE Main, which was held in September with 99.95 percentile. An aspirant of computer engineering from IIT Kharagpur, Raghav said he wants to consider all the options.Piyush Arora secured the second rank in the district with AIR 3,316 and Himanshu Bedi secured AIR 5,965 and came third in the district.Around 8.58 lakh students had registered and nearly 6.3 lakh appeared for the exam in the country amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In the district, 1,683 students had registered for JEE Main. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-boy-gets-1-825th-rank-in-jee-advanced-151516
06-10-2020||---||Virus kills 3 more in Amritsar district, 144 new cases reported||Amritsar, October 5Three persons, including a doctor succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday. With this, the toll in the district rose to 397. The deceased have been identified as Dr PS Mokha (66), a resident of the Racecourse road, Kasturi Lal Mehra (78) of the Old Jail road and Chetan Kundra (63) of the Cooper Road.The district has also reported 144 new positive cases. The new cases include 78 persons with influenza-like illness and 66 contacts of the positive patients. The total count of positive cases in the district has increased to 10,633. With the recovery of 132 more patients, the recovery count has also increased to 9,174. At present, the district has 1,062 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-kills-3-more-in-amritsar-district-144-new-cases-reported-151517
06-10-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Bhagwant Mann fails to reach rally venue||Tarn Taran, October 5Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) activists were a disgruntled lot after their state chief Bhagwant Mann today failed to reach the venue and address them on the issue of the farm laws.After waiting more than four hours, workers were informed by AAP MLA from Barnala, Gurmeet Singh alias Meet Hayer, that Mann could not come due to some unavoidable circumstances.A large number of activists had gathered not only from Tarn Taran, but from Amritsar and Ferozepur as well.Meanwhile, Hayer lambasted the SAD and the Congress for failing to safeguard the interests of farming community. He said both the parties and the Centre had been befooling people for their selfish motives. He urged the people to extend their support to farmers as the Centre was hell-bent to hand over the agriculture market to corporate sector.Rtd staff of power utility extends support to farmersRetired employees of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) held a rally outside the circle office of the department and extended their support to farmers. They said the farm laws have created insecurity among farming community and the Central Government should revoke its decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bhagwant-mann-fails-to-reach-rally-venue-151518
06-10-2020||Amritsar||Slow Internet at  courts complex bane of lawyers||Slow speed of Internet at the District Courts Complex has become a headache for advocates as the court proceedings were being held virtually in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Lawyers complained that even before the lockdown, they used to experience similar issue.The Bar Association had moved a reference with the judicial office demanding that private companies should be allowed to instal mobile towers at the complex. The judicial office forwarded the request to the Registrar of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Sources said a reminder was sent in June and they were still waiting for the reply.As the court hearings were being held through video-conferencing, lawyers complained that due to slow Internet, videos often freeze and they can barley understand or hear anything due to poor network. “Proper communication fails to take place due to the slow speed of Internet. While interacting with a judicial official one cannot ask him to repeat what he said,” said a lawyer.Advocate Kuljeet Singh Malawali said, “When we talk with mobile service providers, they say that it is due to the shortage of mobile towers in the area and they cannot do anything.” He said Internet has become an essential service and a solution to the problem must be found.Another advocate, Manoj Kumar said, “The court hearings are happening through video-conferencing. Without proper Internet connection, lawyers cannot present the facts before the court in a proper manner. As a result, it may affect their case and clients.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/slow-internet-at-courts-complex-bane-of-lawyers-151683
06-10-2020||---||Victim urges Himachal DGP to constitute SIT||Amritsar, October 5Gauri Sharma, who was allegedly pushed into the gorge in Kasauli on August 30 by her husband, has urged the Himachal Pradesh Director General of Police (DGP) to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the matter. The victim had suffered severe injuries and somehow managed to escape.The incident came to light a few days ago, after the victim had approached the Amritsar police to find her son who has been missing since the incident. In a letter to the Himachal DGP, she alleged the Kasauli police had registered a weak FIR and was helping the accused.“Call data of my husband and his associates has not been collected till now. The CCTV footage of the hotel, where we stayed is not available,” she said.She alleged that her husband took her and her son to Kasauli. The victim said a passer-by took her to a hospital and the HP Police shifted her to PGI, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/victim-urges-himachal-dgp-to-constitute-sit-151726
06-10-2020||Amritsar||Act against Cong workers: BJP to Commissioner of Police||BJP activists today met Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and urged him to take an appropriate action against the Youth Congress workers who had created ruckus outside the BJP office and had locked gates and burnt effigies.Former cabinet minister Anil Joshi, district chief Suresh Mahajan, Rajesh Honey and Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina met the Police Commissioner. They urged him to probe the matter and take an appropriate action against the culprits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/act-against-cong-workers-bjp-to-commissioner-of-police-151730
06-10-2020||Amritsar||Hathras incident: Candle march in Amritsar||Gangster Sukh Bhullar nabbedAmritsar: The Amritsar (Rural) Police have claimed to nab gangster Sukhmanpreet Singh, alias Sukh Bhullar, a resident of Bhullar village and seized .32 bore pistol from his possession. ASI Gurdip Singh of Lopoke police station said during patrolling near Tapiala Bhullar village, they got a tip-off that Bhullar had snatched a Honda Amaze car from Jandiala Guru around three months ago. He was having a weapon and heading towards Chogawan from his village when nabbed, said the ASI. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against the accused. TNSHonour for edu dept staffersAmritsar: The District Education Department on Monday honoured teaching and non-teaching staff. DEO Satinder Bir Singh, presided over the event. More than 50 staffers were felicitated for conducting online classes and summer workshops for kids in the district. The DEO said the Education Department has been working tirelessly to make transition from conventional methods to online teaching. “This ceremony is a way to encourage and appreciate our workforce. These teachers have worked tirelessly during the pandemic, reported for duty and conducted online workshops and classes.” TNSReopen Kartarpur corridor: ManchAmritsar: Harjap Singh Aujla, patron of the Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) , on Monday said Taj Mahal has been reopened for the visitors, but no instructions have been issued regarding reopening of Kartarpur corridor and the Retreat ceremony, which was closed in March in the wake of the pandemic. Manmohan Singh Brar, chief of the AVM, said most of the restrictions imposed due to the pandemic have been eased, thus we urge the External Affairs Ministry to reopen Kartarpur corridor and resume the Retreat ceremony at the Attari border. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hathras-incident-candle-march-in-amritsar-151733
06-10-2020||Tribune correspondent PK Jaiswar and lensman Sunil Kumar give us an insight into the statues erected in memory of great warriors in Amritsar. Standing tall||When statues narrate  tales of valour||IF Punjab is known as the land of saints and Gurus, it is also identified as the land of warriors and freedom fighters who contributed immensely to the country’s freedom movement. The Jallianwala Bagh massacre, which shook the conscience of every Indian and inspired the countrymen to choose the path of freedom struggle, is deeply etched in the memory of every Indian. Though the holy city of Amritsar holds religious and historical relevance, it is also akin to the freedom struggle, with many prominent heroes belonging to this pious land. Many statues and busts have been installed at various places in the city to honour them. Speaking volumes of the historic valour of the holy city, these statues are likely to inspire generations to come. Maharaja Ranjit SinghThe city has two statues of the legendary Sikh ruler – one at Ram Bagh, which was a summer palace and the other was built recently at the Heritage Street. The one located at Ram Bagh was unveiled in June 1985 by the then Government of Punjab. It is one of the most visited places by locals. Known as Sher-e-Punjab, Maharaja Ranjit Singh extended the frontiers of his state from Sutlej River to Ladakh, Peshawar to Sindh and consolidated Punjab into a prosperous state with highly efficient administrative system.  Shaheed Udham SinghBrought up at the Central Khalsa Orphanage Centre in Amritsar, Udham Singh was considered to be a great revolutionary belonging to the Ghadar Party. He is known for assassinating Michael O’Dwyer responsible for the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in Amritsar in April 1919.O’Dwyer, a former Lieutenant Governor of Punjab, was assassinated in London, following which Udham Singh was convicted and hanged in July 1940. His statue was installed outside Gandhi Gate or Hall Gate by the Municipal Corporation and the Shaheed Udham Singh Yaadgari Committee on his 50th death anniversary in December 1990.  Akali Phula SinghAkali Phula Singh Nihang was another great Sikh general of Shaheedan misl and was the head of Budha Dal. He played a vital role in uniting Sikh misls in Amritsar.He remained the Sikh Army general and led in many battles until his martyrdom in the Naushehra battle.  Jassa Singh RamgarhiaA 20 feet high bronze statue of Sikh warrior Jassa Singh Ramgarhia was installed over a pedestal at a park near East Mohan Nagar in the industrial area in 1992. Founder of Ramgarhia misl, he was born on May 5, 1723. He had fortified and constructed the fort of Ram Rauni (already lost its existence) in Amritsar. Ram Rauni Fort, along with Ahluwalia Fort and Gobindgarh Fort, was built to save the Golden Temple from foreign invasions. He occupied the area to the north of Amritsar between Ravi and Beas and added Jalandhar region and Kangra hill areas to his estate.  Subhas Chandra BoseFounder of the Indian National Army, Subhas Chandra Bose’s statue is situated at Bhandari Bridge. Only a few people know that the great freedom fighter had a brief stopover at the holy city before his ‘great escape’ to Germany via Kashmir, Kabul, Russia in the early 1940s.Mohandas K GandhiThe statue of Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation, is perhaps the oldest statue in the city. Situated in the historical Ram Bagh, popularly known as Company Bagh, it was unveiled by former Vice President of India Dr S Radhakrishnan on his birth anniversary on October 2, 1960. It has witnessed the transformation of the holy city over the past many decades. As per historians, Mahatma Gandhi visited Amritsar twice. Saifuddin KitchlewThe bust of renowned freedom fighter Dr Saifuddin Kitchlew was unveiled in 1980 by the then Finance Minister Balwant Singh. Kitchlew was an Amritsar-born Kashmiri. He did his schooling from Islamia High School in Amritsar and did his graduation from Cambridge University. He did his PhD from a German University. He was arrested, along with Mahatma Gandhi and Dr Satyapal, for leading protests against the implementation of the Rowlatt Act in Punjab.  Hari Singh NalwaLegendary Sikh general Hari Singh Nalwa was the commander-in-chief of Sikh Khalsa Fauj under Maharaja Ranjit Singh. He was famous for his unparalleled expeditions to expand the Sikh empire territory right up to the Khyber Pass and defending North Western Frontier Province. He was known for his role in the conquest and establishment of the Sikh empire (Khalsa Raj) in Kasur, Sialkot, Attock, Multan, Kashmir, Peshawar and Jamrud. His statue was recently constructed near the Town Hall in Heritage Street leading towards the Golden Temple.  Pandit Jawaharlal NehruThe statue of India’s first PM Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was installed at Nehru Shopping Complex on Lawrence Road in December 2006 by Congress leader Raghunandan Lal Bhatia. The statue now cries for attention with bird droppings all over it. Madan Lal DhingraAnother great martyr from the holy city, Madan Lal Dhingra has two statues, one at the HIG flats near Amritsar’s interstate bus terminus and the other was recently installed at Heritage Street. Born to an educated and affluent family in 1883, he was hanged in England after he assassinated a British official, William Hutt Curzon Wyllie, for disrespecting an Indian student.  Dr BR AmbedkarA statue of Dr BR Ambedkar was installed near the Town Hall. An architect of the Indian Constitution, he was also the first Law and Justice Minister after Independence. Sham Singh AttariwalaThe statue of another Sikh General Sham Singh Attariwala was installed in January 17, 2010, and was unveiled by the then CM Parkash Singh Badal. Born in the 1790s in Attari, a few kilometres from the Indo-Pak border, he was made a jathedar of 5,000 horsemen. He participated in many Sikh military operations, including Attock battle, Multan and Peshawar battles during the Afghan-Sikh wars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-statues-narrate-tales-of-valour-151736
