08-10-2020||Amritsar||Aam Aadmi Party flags sale of debris, corners MC||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today alleged a scam in selling of debris at Old Sabzi Mandi near the Hall Gate.Former Majha zone chief Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal alleged that the MC allowed a private firm to take away debris (bricks, doors, windows and other items) of around 200 shops in lieu of construction of a boundary wall around the mandi.Dhaliwal said the MC has to get approval of the House for sale or purchase of any property above Rs one lakh. He said the MC officials concerned should be probed. He said no tenders were passed for the said work. “The entire amount which the MC may have earned from the sale of bricks has been misappropriated,” said Dhaliwal. National council member Ashok Talwar and Manish Aggarwal, among others, were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aam-aadmi-party-flags-sale-of-debris-corners-mc-152712
08-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Excise department raids liquor vends in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, October 7The Excise Department on Wednesday formed special squads to check illegal storage and distillation of liquor in the district.Excise Officer Navjot Bharti said the department had constituted 10 teams under the supervision of Assistant Commissioner (Excise) Amritsar Range and raids were conducted on 65 marriage palaces, 14 rice mills, two cold stores and 40 liquor vends in the district. The Excise Officer said during raid the department found nothing objectionable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/excise-department-raids-liquor-vends-in-tarn-taran-152713
08-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Youth uses fake papers for marrying minor, booked||Tarn Taran, October 7A youth abducted a minor and registered their marriage in court on the basis of bogus documents. The police have registered a case against the youth, identified as Balwinder Singh of Kiampur village in Ajnala tehsil, for abducting a teenaged girl.The 16-year-old girl was engaged to Balwinder Singh, but a few days ago when the girl’s parents came to know that Balwinder was a drug addict, they broke off their engagement. Despite that the accused used to talk to the girl over the phone, which was objected by the girl’s parents. Fumed over the development, the accused abducted the girl on the intervening night of August 9 and 10, when other family members were sleeping in the house.The police said the accused submitted a bogus Aadhaar card in the court (for the purpose of marriage) to show that she was an adult. The accused has been booked under Sections 363, 366-A, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC; 9 and 10 of the Child Marriage Act. He is absconding since then, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-uses-fake-papers-for-marrying-minor-booked-152714
08-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||The iron man of Amritsar!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 7Amit Kumar has worked with a laundry service at a hotel in New Delhi, been a watchman for a house and now he irons clothes to remain out of the bounds of tight spot.“I used to work in New Delhi with a renowned hotel. After shifting here, I worked as a watchman. As I had a good experience of laundry services so I started working with a firm which deals with hotels,” he says. That demanded washing and drying bed sheets, covers and cloths and would pay me as per the work. But then, the lockdown happened and hotels were shuttered which incited him to look for another job.Up came option of keeping the perimeters of a house secured – duty of a watchman. However, it didn’t sit well with him as the salary offered by the owner would fall short of meeting expenses. Now, after much deliberation, he has started ironing clothes. He starts collecting clothes from Garden Avenue, National Colony, Baba Budha Nagar and New Amritsar area during the daylight and returns them by the night. Meanwhile, his wife works as a domestic help.The profession is something he’s familiar with. “I ironed clothes in my locality for a last few years but now I have started it professionally. I visit several surrounding localities and collect the clothes for ironing,” he tells. Amit has good relations with several families in the area, which imperatively helps him in getting a considerable number of raiments, and earning more than enough from job.He had visited some of the hotels in the city but there was no work due to low footfall of tourists. Even the unlocking phase hasn’t lifted the spirits of owners. “Moreover, major hotels have replaced the manual laundry services with installation of washing machines,” he hopes that the industry resumes in winters.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-iron-man-of-amritsar-152708
08-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Khattar govt criticised for lathicharge on farmers||Tarn Taran, October 7Farmers and other sections of society on Wednesday criticised the Haryana Government for lathicharge and using water cannons on protesting farmers.Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharash Committee, Zamhoori Kisan Sabha, district bar association and residents of nearby villages, on the fifth day of the dharna at toll plaza in Usman village, burnt the effigy of the Haryana Government. Fateh Singh Piddi and other leaders, while addressing on the occasion, said the farmers in Haryana were holding a peaceful protest against the controversial farm laws when the police lathi charged on them with no fault of theirs.Farmers from the Harike area too organised a dharna on NH-54 and blocked the traffic for hours.Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrash Committee, Punjab, said the organisation had rejected the invitation received from the secretary for October 8 meeting in Delhi. He said the secretary was not the competent authority as the farms Acts were passed by Parliament. He said the Prime Minister or the Union Home Minister were the only authorities with whom the discussion could yield results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khattar-govt-criticised-for-lathicharge-on-farmers-152709
08-10-2020||---||Scholarship scam: BJP SC Morcha threatens to hold stir against Punjab govt||Amritsar, October 7BJP SC Morcha’a Punjab president Raj Kumar Atwal on Wednesday said they would hold an agitation against Cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot over the alleged Scheduled Caste scholarship scam and the clean chit given by Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to him.“If the Congress government failed to take an action against its minister Dharamsot for his alleged role in the SC scholarship scam by Thursday, we will start an agitation from October 10,” he said, adding that the SC community would not forgive Dharamsot. He said they would do chakka jam in the entire state from October 10.He said the clean chit given by Capt Amarinder Singh’s government in Punjab clearly indicates that it was not in favour of SC community.He said Dharamsot, whose name was figured in the scam, should have been suspended immediately and a case been registered against him, but the government gave him a clean chit. He said the scam had hit the SC students most. They were not given certificates by colleges, who were allegedly pressurising them to cough out huge amounts. Sanjiv Kumar, district president of the SC Morcha, said they would continue to protest until Dharamsot was removed from the Cabinet and a case was registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scholarship-scam-bjp-sc-morcha-threatens-to-hold-stir-against-punjab-govt-152710
08-10-2020||---||Two online courses conclude at GNDU Amritsar||Amritsar, October 7Eminent personalities in the field of academics and scientists, who are fellows of various national academies, took part in the first online 28 days faculty induction programme (FIP-01) and 14-day refresher course in basic sciences concluded at Guru Nanak Dev University here on Wednesday.There were 36 eminent speakers from IIT Kharagpur; IIT Kanpur; Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai; Vellore Institute of Technology; Visva-Bharati University Santiniketan; JNU Delhi; CSIR-CSIO Chandigarh; CSIR-IIIM Jammu; NITTTR Chandigarh and WHO New Delhi to name a few, who participated in the event.Refresher course was attended by 29 participants with specialisation in chemical science, physics, mathematics and life sciences drawn from several states and academic sessions were delivered by eminent scientists from AIIMS New Delhi, INST Mohali, IISC Bangalore, IIT Guwahati, NIPER Mohali, Center for Nano and Soft Matter Sciences Bengaluru. The courses are being conducted under new UGC Gurudakshta guidelines.UGC-Human Resource Development Centre of GNDU under the stewardship of chief-patron Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor of the host university, conducted its first online programme.In his valedictory address, the VC shared a vision to start FIPs for newly recruited teachers who were professionally raw and needed to be shaped up to become seasoned professionals. He shared his ardent passion for training young teachers on the similar lines as the civil services officers.Adarsh Pal Vig, Director, UGC-HRDC, thanked the VC for all his efforts and assistance throughout the course.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-online-courses-conclude-at-gndu-amritsar-152711
08-10-2020||---||Kisan union turns down Centre’s offer of talks||Amritsar, October 7The Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC), which blocked the Amritsar-New Delhi railway track for the 14th consecutive day, has turned down the Centre’s offer of talks regarding the farm laws.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, KMSC, said there were numerous reasons for turning down the invitation for the meet, which was scheduled to take place in New Delhi on October 8.He said, “The Agriculture Secretary, who invited us for talks, is not empowered to revoke the agriculture legislations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should himself chair the meet.”He said the Union ministers during their visits to Punjab, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh, had been issuing statements that farmers were being misguided on the new legislations and there was inconsistency in their remarks.Protesters also burnt an effigy of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for using teargas and water cannons to disperse farmers on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kisan-union-turns-down-centres-offer-of-talks-152716
08-10-2020||---||SDM’s wife holds protest outside his office in Ajnala||Amritsar, October 7Ajnala Sub-Divisional Magistrate Deepak Bhatia’s wife Urvashi alleged police inaction in the complaint filed by her against the former. She alleged the SDM was not allowing her to meet her children and was harassing her. Urvashi had been protesting outside the SDM’s Office for the last two days.Earlier, she had filed a complaint with the Punjab Human Rights Commission and the Women Cell in this regard.She alleged her complaints were hushed up and accused the SDM of domestic violence and dowry. However, the SDM refuted the charges and said five complaints, including a divorce case was pending in the court, and the matter was sub judice.Urvashi had also filed a complaint with Amritsar Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill on June 15. The Police Commissioner had forwarded the same to the Women Cell for further action.She said she got married to Deepak Bhatia in 2013 and they had three children – a girl and two sons - from the marriage. She alleged her in-laws never accepted the girl. She said Deepak became the SDM after marriage and her family gave dowry, including a car.The SDM alleged he had also filed a petition for the custody of the girl child. He alleged it was him and his family who was facing harassment at the hands of Urvashi. He said he will accept the decision of the court. She had filed complaints with the senior police officials and the Women Commission and I faced all the inquiries, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sdms-wife-holds-protest-outside-his-office-in-ajnala-152718
08-10-2020||---||Covid-19: With one more death, dist virus toll reaches 400 in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 7The district health authorities reported one death and 103 new Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Gagandeep Singh, a 35-year-old resident of New Golden Avenue. The district has reported a total of 400 deaths due to the pandemic to date.The new cases include 54 influenza like illness (ILI) cases and 49 contacts of positive patients. With 106 patients cured, the recovery count has reached 9,444. Meanwhile, the total positive count has increased to 10,835.Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal, who is a nodal officer for the Covid-19, said at present, there were 991 active cases.He said, “The active case load has gone down significantly, which is an encouraging sign. Residents should continue to take precautions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-with-one-more-death-dist-virus-toll-reaches-400-in-amritsar-152719
08-10-2020||Amritsar||Man ends life, wife booked in Amritsar||Youth booked for raping minorAmritsar: The Ajnala police have booked a youth for allegedly luring, kidnapping and raping a minor girl in Ballarwal village on October 2. The accused has been identified a Sarvan Singh of the same village. The mother of the victim stated that on October 1, the entire family was sleeping in the varandah and next morning when they woke up, they found their 17-year-old girl missing. She said they came to know that the accused had lured their daughter. The police have registered a case under Sections 376, and 366 of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-ends-life-wife-booked-in-amritsar-152720
08-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||A guide for 16 years, now a security officer||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 7Life is a pale shadow of his eventful past these days. Only memories are left to speak of. Rubbing shoulders with people of different nationalities and continents while visiting religious and heritage sites strewn across the district, he’s now confined to the four walls of an office.Gurinder Singh Johal was working as a guide for past 16 years — now a security officer – but had to abandon his favourite profession, vacate the rented office after flow of tourists disappeared like a vapour following imposition of the lockdown. Among 25 guides active in the city, he feels lucky to at least have a job unlike his counterparts who are out of work and on the lookout for one.“I reach office at 10 in the morning. After proper sanitisation like others I enter the premises,” he shares his day’s beginning.Gurinder works at a local office of Canada’s electronic media house. Here human interaction is negligible as hardly anybody visits the office. It is simply not his thing; a monotonous job where no creativity is required and a niggling one. The last occupation took him to places and there was no reason for being bored out of mind. “On the other hand, there was invariably a feeling that I was matching pace with time, updating and becoming more relevant,” he reminisces the old days.Good old timesAs he walks down the memory lane, he recalled that the British High Commission in New Delhi made him a permanent invitee at the annual birth celebrations of Queen Elizabeth after he had conducted a guided tour to then Ambassador James Bavon and his family in 2013. In return, he had his name written among the permanent list of invitees at the British Embassy. The same year Punjab Tourism Department flew him to Malaysia to attend an international guide training programme conducted by the United Nations World Tourism Organisation, held at the University of Malaysia’s Kota Kinnabalu campus.Those were the best days of his life. Now, not only the lifestyle but his income also underwent a drastic change — plunging to Rs10,000 per month from between Rs40,000 to Rs50,000. The gaping gap forced him to vacate his office as its monthly rental of Rs12,000 would bog him down in times of deepening crisis. He was operating Discover Punjab Tours, a travel agency providing guided tours, transportation and other ground-handling to visitors. “I had to abandon as there was no business and expenses kept mounting while the income had disappeared,” the former promoter of heritage walks and food walks says.If you ask him about the prospects of revival of international tourism, he’s straight up pessimistic. “There seems no chance even in the next year. Guides are not finding jobs anywhere else due to the pandemic effects,” he opines.His grievance with the government and its concerned departments is that neither of them spared any thought for true promoters of tourism in the state guides and taxi operators. “These professionals first interact with the tourists and their income vanished after the lockdown and continued to remain so. The Tourism Department never really tried to economically help them in this hour of crisis,” he laments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-guide-for-16-years-now-a-security-officer-152705
08-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Taking time off: Ex-cricketer is having a ball with family||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 7Former India medium pacer Harvinder Singh had tested positive for the virus last month. Home quarantined for two weeks, after his recovery he is devoting time to his children as commitments to the game in past hadn’t allowed the space.He retired from active cricket in 2009, however, he was asked to look over as a coach. “For this, I had to remain out of the house and town for nearly seven months earlier.” He had been the bowling coach of Punjab senior Ranji Trophy team and head coach of the senior Ranji Trophy team of the Railways for four years. Prior to 2009, similar duration was consumed in practicing and playing tournaments.So, spending some quality time with family is all he wants to do nowadays. His two blossoming children, a 16-year old daughter Parneet Kaur and an 11-year old son Kunwar Partap Singh, get enveloped in joy and their faces exuberate every time they listen to the tales of various captivating matches from his playing days. Meanwhile, his wife, Kamalpreet Kaur, is a commerce lecturer at the Khalsa College for women and takes care of their studies.Harvinder has donned the national shirt in 16 ODIs and three Test matches for four years since 1997. His best bowling figure in ODIs was 42-3 against Pakistan in Toronto. He has played 109 first-class Ranji matches for Punjab.Meanwhile, he was appointed as a national selector by the BCCI in March. Apart from him, there are four other selectors, including Bengaluru’s Sunil Joshi, chairman of the committee, Mumbai’s Jatin Paranjpe, West Bengal’s Devraj Gandhi and Delhi’s Sarandeep Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/taking-time-off-ex-cricketer-is-having-a-ball-with-family-152706
08-10-2020||---||Covid-19 norms thrown to the wind at Jor Mela Baba Budha in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 7Despite the Covid-19 outbreak and farmers’ agitation, a sea of devotees turned up on the concluding day of the three-day annual fair dedicated to Baba Budha at Bir Sahib on Wednesday.The roads leading from Chehharta, Tarn Taran, Chabal and Bhikhiwind witnessed jams as the devotees headed to their destination in tractor-trailers. The first head priest of Darbar Sahib, Baba Budha, is the most respected and primal figure of Sikhism.Baba Budha bestowed upon ‘Gurgadi’ to five gurus, including Guru Angad Dev, Guru Amardas, Guru Ramdas, Guru Arjan Dev and Guru Hargobind.Every year, thousands of devotees, gather at Bir Sahib in the memory of Baba Budha, who is also known as ‘Puttra De Dani’ (giver of sons). Even newly-married couples attend the fair to seek blessings. Sarabjit Singh Dhotia, a preacher with the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, said, “Baba Budha had overseen the construction work of Darbar Sahib and Akal Takht.”Once Baba Budha refused blessings to Mata Ganga, mother of Guru Hargobind, as she visited his ‘Bir’ near Thatha along with a large entourage. Later, on advice of Guru Arjan Dev, she visited the place again on foot as a humble Sikh and it is said that Guru Hargobind was born with Baba Budha’s blessing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-norms-thrown-to-the-wind-at-jor-mela-baba-budha-in-amritsar-152707
