10-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Looking to crack a competitive exam? Isolation is all you need||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 9The students aiming to crack competitive examinations to secure seats in prestigious educational institutes of the country had plenty of time on their hand amid the lockdown period. At a time when many were idling away days, this lot utilised the hours to further refine their studying rut.Shaurya Talwar, who secured 341 All India Rank (AIR) in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), observed he almost doubled his time from five hours to eight and then 10 amid the incarceration. “After putting in sustained efforts daily, the study hours were not increasing due to travel time and miscellaneous works. So it was a clear-cut advantage to increase focus,” he says.He dropped a year off after securing 11900 AIR last term. The pandemic did add to anxiety as it was postponed six times and the pattern of competitive exam was changed. “Unlike 200 marks format, this time 150 marks examination was held — heralded as the toughest in last one decade of competition’s history,” Talwar adds.A student of commerce, he decided to do a professional course as history and politics entice him. Besides, public speaking skill is his forte and used to take part in debating competitions during school days. He is sure that this quality would come handy during his professional career as an advocate.City lad Raghav Khullar secured 1825 AIR in JEE (Advanced). He is now weighing options to join either IIT, Hyderabad, or NIT, Trichi. Like Talwar, the lockdown period, empty of everyday blaring of horns and other such din, too proved a boon for him. However, for him no perplexity took shape even as the date of exam for the top engineering institutes of the country was postponed thrice.“During that period I remained in touch with my teachers and friends who not only guided but also inspired me to perform well. My aim is to pursue a degree in computer science and engineering (CSE),” he talks of his life goal.Locked in, Raghav remained stress-free all along as he spent time enjoying with his family, and of course studying. “Since the pandemic forced everyone to remain indoors, I got the chance to spend time with my family. After investing big chunk of my day in studies, I devoted the rest to my family,” he shares.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/looking-to-crack-a-competitive-exam-isolation-is-all-you-need-153472
10-10-2020||---||MC to instal sanitary pad vends, incinerators in Amritsar||Amritsar October 9To advocate personal hygiene among women and promote menstrual health among them, 65 sanitary napkin vending machines and 85 incinerators are being installed in different locations of the city under the Smart City Mission. Under this, 45 sanitary napkin vending machines and 65 incinerators are being instaled at 41 government schools.The remaining 20 machines and incinerators are being installed at different public toilets located at Gate Hakimanwala, Gate Bhagatwala, Inside IDH Market and near SI Office, Ranjit Avenue B Block Market, Hidunstan Basti, Golbagh Near PBN School, Kabir Park Market, Karon Market Hall Bazaar, Sinkadari Gate near power house, Dhab Khatikan, Lahori Gate, Dharm Singh Market, Near Rambagh Police Station, Ghee Mandi, Sangla Wala Akhara, Near Mai Sevayan Wala Bazar, Near Baba Atal Sahib, Atta Mandi Chowk, Papada Wala Bazaar and Kathiawala Bazar.These machines are being installed at a cost of Rs58 lakhs. The users will get a sanitary pad after inserting Rs5 coin and three sanitary pads after inserting Rs10 coin, which will be much cheaper than the pads available in the market. These machines will have availability of sanitary pads for 24 hours. —Komal Mittal, CEO of the Amritsar Smart City Mission and Municipal Corporation CommissionerKomal Mittal, CEO of the Amritsar Smart City Mission and Municipal Corporation Commissioner, said these machines were being installed at a cost of Rs58 lakh and users will get one sanitary pad after inserting Rs5 coin and three sanitary pads after inserting Rs10 coin, which will be much cheaper than the pads available in the market. These machines will have the availability of sanitary pads for 24 hours and the contractor will operate and maintain these machines for 5 years after the commencement of the project. A total of 31 machines and 38 incinerators have been installed so far and the remaining machines will also be installed in the next 15 days.CEO Smart City said women still hesitate to openly share and discuss about the periods and problems related to their periods due to a social taboo.As a result, they use home remedies during periods, the result of which they suffered from the several infections and diseases.While these machines will give women the freedom to use sanitary pads without any hesitation, the girls studying in the schools will also get the facility and their education will also not be affected.“Projects being planned under the Smart City Mission are being prepared keeping in mind every section of the city. Under this, sanitary napkin vending machines are being installed. Only 36 per cent of the women in the country are able to use sanitary pads and every year 23 million girls drop out of school when they reach the age of puberty,” said Komal Mittal, CEO, Amritsar Smart City.With these machines, women and girls from the poor sections will also be able to buy traditional sanitary pads at a cheaper rate, while the incinerator along with the machines can also dispose of the pads properly,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-to-instal-sanitary-pad-vends-incinerators-in-amritsar-153474
10-10-2020||---||Bouncer shot dead in Amritsar, gangster claims responsibility on FB||Amritsar, October 9A bouncer was shot dead by unknown armed assailants on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Jagroop Singh of Nangli Batha village. The miscreants reportedly fired eight bullets.Preet Sekhon, a notorious gangster, claimed the responsibility of the attack and threatened his rivals as well.Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh Bajwa said investigation is underway and they were ascertaining the claims made by Sekhon. Jagroop worked at European Night Beer Bar and Restaurant. He was returning home along with his friend, Sukhwinder Singh Goldy, after his shift.When they reached near In and Out Bakery, around four persons came in a white Swift car. Three of the occupants came out of the car and fired indiscriminately at Jagroop and fled from the spot.He suffered bullet injuries on his neck and back. Goldy rushed Jagroop to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.As per initial probe, Sekhon and Jagroop had a dispute at a marriage of a common friend in Sanghna village last year. Later, the duo had struck a compromise.“We are investigating all possible theories behind the murder of Jagroop. Preet Sekhon’s claim on social media is being verified,” said Bajwa. A case has been registered against unknown persons, he said.Gurmej Singh, elder brother of the deceased, sought immediate arrest of the accused. Jagroop is survived by his pregnant wife anda 3-year-old child.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bouncer-shot-dead-in-amritsar-gangster-claims-responsibility-on-fb-153475
10-10-2020||---||3 succumb to Covid, 93 fresh cases reported in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 9With three more deaths reported in the district due to Covid-19, the toll reached 407 on Friday. The deceased have been identified as Amarjit kaur (80), a resident of Sudhar village in border Ajnala sub-division, Sukhdev Singh (56) of Tarsikka and Balwinder Singh (66) of the Ranjit Avenue.The district health authorities reported 93 positive cases which included 40 influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 53 contacts of positive cases. It took the count to 11,021.With the recovery of 136 more patients, the total recovery count has reached 9,732.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-succumb-to-covid-93-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-153476
10-10-2020||---||Farmers gherao Jandiala toll plaza, rail roko enters 16th day||Amritsar, October 9The farmers on Friday gheraoed toll plaza at Jandiala, on the Amritsar–Jalandhar GT road, for nearly two hours. Raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi for pursuing ‘anti-farmer and pro-corporate’ policies they gave a call for boycott of products being sold by corporate companies. Meanwhile, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) spearheaded the blockade of Amritsar-Delhi railway line at Devidas Pura village, which entered the 16th day.They have been seeking rolling back of three agriculture legislations, recently passed by Parliament. These legislations pertained to the Essential Commodities (EC) Act, to free up inter-state trade of agricultural commodities and provide a regulatory framework for contract farming. They stated that these ordinances envisaged to dislodging small-time farmers to help private firms to take over.They said the government was offering MSP on 23 crops but it was not buying all of these from farmers. They added that its agencies were procuring only 6 per cent grains from farmers, majorly from Haryana and Punjab. For instance, maize was sold at Rs1,100 in the market of Punjab whereas its MSP was fixed at Rs1,850.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KMSC, have been agitating against newly enacted agri Acts. He flayed the state for registering cases against farmers for stubble and straw burning. “Farmers setting stubble afire proved the failure of the government to provide them promised machineries. Agriculture machineries were not given free of cost to farmers who own less than 5 acres of land,” he said. Also, he sought Rs 6,000 per acre compensation for farmers to wean them away from farm residue burning.Furthermore, he called upon PM Modi to convene a meeting of all farmers unions of the country to resolve the matter before requesting urbanites to boycott articles of corporate houses and support their agitation.Sit-in outside MP Malik’s residence continuesAmritsar: The indefinite sit-in outside the residence of Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik continued on Friday. Members of the Kirti Kisan Union, Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Kisan Sangharsh Committee were on Friday joined by Technical Services Union, PSPCL Employee, Democratic Teachers Front.They raised slogans against the Union government and BJP leaders for enacting anti-farmer legislations. Addressing the protestors, leaders Ashwani Awasthi and Malkiat Singh asked them to prepare for a prolonged stir. Meanwhile, on the call of the 31 farmer organisations, spearheading the agitation recently passed, members of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha held two-hour long blockade on the Baba Bakala road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-gherao-jandiala-toll-plaza-rail-roko-enters-16th-day-153477
10-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Industrialists want reopening of cross-border trade with Pakistan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 9Industrialists, including SAD trade wing, have sought reopening of cross-border trade with Pakistan to bolster the sagging economy. SAD after parting ways with the BJP raised the matter. They also sought opening of Kartarpur corridor to allow Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit Darbar Sahib in Pakistan.Rajinder Singh Marwaha, senior vice-president of SAD’s trade and industry wing and president of trade wing border zone, said the closure of Indo-Pakistan trade, Punjab, in general and Amritsar in particular were suffering acutely which would affect entire state’s economy. Not only traders but also porters, clearing agents and transporters have been affected by the closure of trade.“People are already struggling with the economic downturn due to the corona famine and instead of providing relief to them, the Central Government has not lifted the trade embargo and their situation has worsened,” Marwaha said.Another trader Charanjit Singh Puji said along with the ban on trade, the blockade of Kartarpur corridor has also proved to be detrimental to Punjab and the border district’s economy as people all over the world used to come and pay homage at Kartarpur Sahib and stay in hotels of Amritsar. Tourist hub status was also given to the city of Golden Temple and now with the closure of all this, the hotel and food industry of Amritsar have been greatly affected.Harpal Singh Walia, another trader, said 200 per cent raise in customs duty affected over half of the city traders alone. He claimed that about 125 customs agents, over 4,000 truck drivers, 2,500 labourers, parking lots and even petrol pumps on the Attari road were affected.Other entrepreneurs Kapil Agarwal, Amardeep Singh Bawa, Gurpreet Grover, Kavarun Dhawan, Amit Madan, Suresh Kumar, MM Goyal and Praveen Gupta appealed the Union Government to resume trade between the two countries so that the city’s economy and the unemployment of the people could be stabilised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/industrialists-want-reopening-of-cross-border-trade-with-pakistan-153478
10-10-2020||Neha Saini||Amritsar civic body selected for Star Leadership Award||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 9The Earth Day Network, that has been organising the annual Earth Day celebrations across the globe since its inception in 1970, has selected Amritsar for the Star Leadership Award. The award has been given to 10 cities of India which have supported environment-friendly initiatives in their city. The nomination for Amritsar was proposed by the Dilbir Foundation, a non-profit organisation, for the support it received from the administration for its organic farmers market.Earth Day Network engages with over 70,000 partners across 190 countries to take the environmental movement forward. Regional Director Asia, Karuna A Singh, Earth Day Network, in a communication to the Mayor expressed, “In recognition of the efforts of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation’s environment-friendly initiatives, in particular for supporting markets where organic products are sold by farmers, Earth Day Network is pleased to confer upon the Amritsar Municipal Corporation, the Earth Day Network Star Municipal Leadership Award.”The concept of the Organic Farmers Markets was inaugurated in 2016 at Amritsar by the then Chief Secretary, Punjab, Karan Avtar Singh. Subsequently, it was extended to Ludhiana and Tricity in the following years. The programme was further broadened into a work from home set up at various places in India.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the organic farmer’s market was like a pilot project that created awareness regarding natural farming and organic food among people. “The shift towards sustainability has been our goal as far as civic development is concerned. It’s a good initiative that is aimed at building a healthy community by sparing a thought for nature. We have been taking up zero waste initiatives such as creating awareness regarding garbage management. We have launched an initiative under which all the wards have been clubbed into sectors. We are visiting each sector and addressing the problems of the area and educating the residents about the zero waste techniques adopted for SLRM. The MC will provide the required help and support required for more such community based sustainable projects.”Gunbir Singh, President, Dilbir Foundation stated that he was delighted that the nomination made to the network has been accepted and Amritsar was recognised internationally for its exquisite action. Singh expressed his appreciation to Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, Municipal Commissioner Komal Mittal and Dinesh Bassi, Chairman Amritsar Improvement Trust, as well as the State and Amritsar leadership for their support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civic-body-selected-for-star-leadership-award-153479
10-10-2020||Amritsar||Three held on rape charge||A woman working with a cultural group was allegedly gang raped by three youth in a hotel located on Batala road here.Though the incident took place three days ago, it came to light when a complaint was lodged with the Mohkampura police in this connection. The police have registered an FIR under Sections 376-D and 328 of the IPC against the accused identified as Veeru of Dabbar village, Jagga Singh of Pugge village and Sagar of Jaffar Kot village in Ajnala.The victim stated to the police that on Tuesday, the accused called her and said that her friend Manjit Singh met with an accident and was serious. She asked to immediately come. As she had no vehicle, they called her near Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh. She said she along with her daughter came near the shrine where the accused were waiting for her.She said as the car reached near bus stand, they offered her cold drink and after consuming the same, she got unconscious. She said the accused took her to a hotel located on Batala road where they raped her one by one. She said the accused later dumped her near her house. They pushed her and her daughter out of the car and fled away. Due to this she got injured.The police authorities said that the medical examination of the victim was conducted while raids were on to nab the suspects. "The accused were known the victim as they used to perform in cultural groups," said the police officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-on-rape-charge-153480
10-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Scheduled Castes panel orders probe into atrocities on Tarn Taran village family||Raj Kumar Hans, member, Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission, on his one-day visit to Karmunwala village on Friday, 40 km from here, has ordered magisterial probe into the alleged atrocities against family members of a SC community of the village. Local SDM Rajnish Arora had assigned the probe.The victim, Virsa Singh, in his complaint alleged that village sarpanch Dalbir Singh along with 60 persons, who were armed with sharp-edged weapons, entered his house. He alleged the accused used casteist remarks against family members, pelted stones at his house, while one stone hit his nephew Gurpartap Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scheduled-castes-panel-orders-probe-into-atrocities-on-tarn-taran-village-family-153481
10-10-2020||Amritsar||2 nabbed with stolen SUV||The Majitha police have nabbed two persons and confiscated a stolen SUV from their possession here on Thursday.Those arrested were identified as Navdeep Singh of Sarangra village and Joban of Baddowal Kalan village of Fatehgarh Churian. Nishan Singh, Investigating Officer, said that they were patrolling near Bhoma village when they got a tip-off that the accused used to stole luxury vehicles, including SUVs, from other states and sell these in Punjab after forging the documents. They intercepted a Toyota Fortuner SUV (PIE 95).The vehicle was found to be stolen from Gujarat and all documents and registered number was found fake. A case has been registered in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-nabbed-with-stolen-suv-153482
10-10-2020||Amritsar||Webinar organised by GNDU||The Department of Tourism and Hospitality of GNDU organised a webinar on “Back to Roots” under the guidance of Prof Mandeep Kaur, professor in-charge. The resource person of the webinar was chef Raj Kumar, associate professor and head, Department of Hotel Management, Rayat Bahra Group of Institutions, Hoshiarpur. Kumar emphasised on the necessity of healthy food. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-organised-by-gndu-153483
10-10-2020||Amritsar||Gangster Kangla, 3 accomplices nabbed by Amritsar cops||The Amritsar (Rural) police have nabbed notorious gangster Bhupinder Singh, alias Sonu Kangla, along with three other persons. The police confiscated two pistols and 20 cartridges from their possession.Those nabbed along with Kangla have been identified as Kuldeep Singh, alias Deep, Jatin Arora and Kuldeep Singh, alias Raja. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against them.The police said they had received a tip-off that all four were moving in a car bearing registration number PB-02-DZ-4511 and were armed with weapons. The police said they laid a naka near Bhagtupura village and intercepted the car.During search, the police found two Chinese semi-automatic pistols along with 20 cartridges. Kangla has over 30 murder, dacoity, robbery, extortion and the NDPS cases registered against him. He was currently out on bail.The police said interrogation of the accused would lead to more recovery of arms. The police said they raided at numerous places in the city to nab other accomplices of Kangla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-kangla-3-accomplices-nabbed-by-amritsar-cops-153484
10-10-2020||---||Cops crack murder case, two arrested||Amritsar, October 9The police have claimed to solve a blind murder case in which a youth was found dead at a secluded place in New Amritsar on October 3.The accused have been identified as Girish Gupta and Pargat Singh, both residents of Sultanwind road. The deceased, Harjinder Singh, was a resident of Gali Jamun Wali on Tarn Taran road. The accused had also burnt his face to hide his identity.According to police, a monetary dispute between Girish and Harjinder was the reason behind the murder. Himanshu Bhagat, In-charge, New Amritsar police chowki, said Girish revealed during interrogation that Harjinder had borrowed lakhs from him and invested at different places. During the lockdown, the entire amount got stuck. Harjinder was not returning the money, which led to the incident.The police had registered a case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-crack-murder-case-two-arrested-153486
10-10-2020||Batala||Batala police seize 5-kg heroin||Decomposed body found in PattiTarn Taran: Satish Kumar (65), a retired teacher, was found murdered at his house in Patti. The decomposed body was recovered by the police on Thursday. The police said the deceased was living alone and his two daughters were married in Patti. Parmod Kumar, who is the son-in-law of the deceased, had gone to his house on Thursday and saw the deceased in a pool of blood. The police said the miscreants had used sharp-edged weapons to commit the crime. The police on the statement of Parmod had registered a case under Section 302 and 34 of the IPC. The police said they have marked a probe and will nab the accused soon. OCCIA staff seize 1-kg heroinTarn Taran: The CIA staff led by Inspector Baljit Singh recovered 1-kg heroin from the border area falling under the jurisdiction of Sarai Amanat Khan police station on Thursday. The accused has been identified as Pooran Singh Poona of Bhakna Kalan. The police said they signaled Poona to stop, but as he escaped from the spot on his motorcycle, a packet of 1-kg heroin was left behind. A case under Sections 21-C, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused. The police have initiated proceedings to arrest the accused. OCGNDU postpones reappear examsAmritsar: All annual and semester theory reappear examinations of Semester II and IV to be held on October 16 (as per the date sheets uploaded by Guru Nanak Dev University on the web portal) have been postponed and will now be held on October 26. Prof Manoj Kumar, in-charge examination, said now the exams would be held on October 26 and the time and centres of the examination would remain the same. For more information, candidates can contact the examination centre at the college mentioned on the roll number slip/hall ticket. He said that information in this regard would be available on the front page of the university website. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/batala-police-seize-5-kg-heroin-153489
10-10-2020||Staff members and residents of Kairon village have expressed their praise for Ms Rajpal Kaur Bal||Retirement of school principal||Doctors taking interest in literatureAlthough medical profession and literature are two different tastes but even then there are a large number of medicos who have developed their interest in literature and their writings are well read by general readers. Dr Karanjit Singh of Tarn Taran, who retired as director, health services, Punjab, and Dr Gurkirat Singh Aulakh, orthopaedic surgeon, are among the prominent who are regular in touch with literature. Dr Karanjit Singh, a child specialist, belongs to Patti town of Tarn Taran district. Although, he remains busy in his profession but whenever he gets a time he reads books and write articles on different topics. During service he developed his taste in photography and was known as an amateur photographer who clicked photos of chirping birds and flowers. These photos were given space in newspapers too. He wrote a number of articles in medical journals. In the past few months, Dr Karanjit Singh has written articles to aware people about the precautions to be taken against the danger of Covid-19. Majority of his articles have been published by Punjabi Tribune, his first choice newspaper, stressing in detail on pandemics occurred in the last centuries. In his recently published article on Covid-19 vaccine, Dr Karanjit’s had expressed resentment over the trend of ‘Nationalism’ by the developed countries whenever they discovered vaccines for the pandemic from time to time. He said the medicine for 1918 influenza pandemic was discovered in 1940 and it was used by rich countries in World War II as a royally (imperil). He said in the year 2009 when the swine flu vaccine was invented, the developed European countries in the name of ‘Nationalism’ purchased it in huge quantity to sell in black market. Later, the vaccine was sold to poor and underdeveloped countries after humiliating them. And the history was repeated at the time of other pandemics too. Dr Karanjit Singh said as medicine for Covid was not available in the market we must use mask, social distancing and home stay etc as the vaccine. He said that at this stage as many as 160 pharmaceuticals companies were trying to invent Covid-19 vaccine and 30 of them were at the advance stage. He said ‘Nationalism’ too would play its role this time too.Two poetry books penned by Dr AulakhDr Gurkirat Singh Aulakh, a known orthopaedic surgeon, remains busy between 10 am and 3 pm. He spares some time from his busy schedule to guide his elder son, who is a medical student, and school going younger son. He has written two poetry books ‘Beauty Unto Eternity’ and ‘The Cup of Tea’. He has penned a number of poems on Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/retirement-of-school-principal-153493
