16-10-2020||Amritsar||Palliative care course begins||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/palliative-care-course-begins-156616
16-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Shaurya Chakra awardee who fought against terrorism shot dead in Punjab’s Bhikhiwind||Tarn Taran, October 16Two armed men shot dead Balwinder Singh Bhikhiwind, a Shaurya Chakra awardee, at Bhikhiwind, 35 km from here, on Friday.Balwinder, 62, who had Leftist leanings, for years had fought bravely against terrorism and was repeatedly attacked by militants in the terror-infested area. He had even erected bunkers on the roof of his house.According to information, no sooner did Balwinder open the gate of the school he used to run than the men who were waiting for him fired at him. He took five bullets in all and was rushed to hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.SP (Operations) Jagjit Singh Walia said the attackers came in a four-wheeler, while others claimed they were on a motorcycle. The perpetrators of the cold blooded assassination of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Bhikiwind must be brought to justice immediately. I urge @PunjabGovtIndia and @PunjabPoliceInd to set up an SIT Probe to look into the murder.  Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered the constitution of a Special Investigative Team (SIT) headed by DIG Ferozepur to probe all angles of the fatal attack on Shaurya Chakra awardee Comrade Balwinder Singh. The SIT has already formed four special teams to crack the case and nab the accused.Condoling the death of Balwinder, the chief minister has directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to ensure speedy investigation to identify and bring the culprits to book at the earliest.  Taking serious note of the incident, Capt Amarinder said the probe, to be conducted by the SIT, will take into account all possibilities.  Anyone found guilty of the murder would be dealt with strictly, he added.Balwinder's was an example of how some people fought terrorism in Punjab's hinterland. He even trained his children for this. His exploits made it to the international media, including National Geographic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shaurya-chakra-awardee-who-fought-against-terrorism-shot-dead-in-punjabs-bhikhiwind-156595
16-10-2020||Neha Saini||Schools, social and religious activities allowed to function||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 15Issuing fresh guidelines under Unlock 5, the district administration has allowed the reopening of certain activities outside containment zones. The order, issued by the DC, does not include cinemas/theatres/multiplexes to reopen in accordance with the Punjab Government’s directive considering the Covid-19 situation in the state.While social, cultural and religious spaces and activities will be allowed to resume, the capping on the number of people and gatherings have been done to ensure social distancing. Under the Unlock 5 guidelines, cultural spaces, entertainment centres and parks and social clubs have been allowed to reopen.Swimming pools for sportsperson too will reopen as per the SOPs issued by the Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs. Business-to-business exhibitions too have been allowed, along with social/political/religious/ cultural events but capping the number of people attending has been put in place. In closed space, the number of people allowed is 50 per cent of the total capacity of the hall with a ceiling of 200 people. In open space, permission from the DC is required to host an event with a ceiling of 100 people.Schools and colleges have been allowed to reopen in a graded manner. For Classes IX to XII, schools require parental consent and online and distance education will continue as the preferred mode of teaching. A majority of private schools in the city are awaiting parental consent to reopen, some already announcing that they will reopen in the first week of November. Government schools will reopen from October 19, with the SOPs yet to be issued by the Department of Education.Coaching centres too have been allowed to reopen with 50 per cent staff and student capacity. Several community clubs in the city have to reopen, though not for visitors. Meanwhile, SG Thakar Singh Art Gallery reopened after a gap of seven months.No to reopening of tourist placesGiven the Covid-19 situation, the cinemas and multiplexes have not been allowed to reopen in the state despite the Unlock 5 guidelines issued by the Centre. Tourist places, too, have not been allowed to reopen and a decision to open these will depend on the number of cases to be reported in the coming days. An open-air auditorium and theatre spaces for plays too remain shut until the fresh SOPs are issued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/schools-social-and-religious-activities-allowed-to-function-156304
16-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||British national sexually harassed in Amritsar; 6 booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 15A British national on Thursday sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for early arrest of those who allegedly sexually harassed her when she had gone to a restaurant for having dinner with family friends.The incident occurred around on Saturday and the police had booked around six persons for molestation and sexual assault on the victim. However, no arrest has been made till now.The victim also demanded murder bid charge against the accused who had assaulted her and her fiance. She fractured her finger in the attack.Giving details, she said she, along with her fiancé and other family friends, had gone to a restaurant located on Airport Road. She said she was going to washroom when the accused, identified as Sahil Sharma, Saurabh Arora, Sahil Arora, Shikhan Khurana, Ritu Khurana and Gurpartap Sandhu, passed objectionable comments and touched her inappropriately. She said when she objected and called her fiancé, the accused assaulted and injured them. The police have registered a case under Sections 354, 323, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC against the six suspects in this regard while no arrest has been made even after a lapse of four days.The victim said she would get a complaint lodged with the British Embassy if the police failed to arrest the culprits who were roaming freely in the city. She said she would not leave the city until the accused were arrested.The police said that Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik was investigating the case. The victim alleged that the restaurant authorities and the security personnel also did not help them when they were assaulted by the accused rich brats. She alleged they were also not giving CCTV footage of the incident occurred on Saturday.Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh said investigation was underway in the incident. Appropriate action would be taken once the probe was complete, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/british-national-sexually-harassed-in-amritsar-6-booked-156305
16-10-2020||---||Minor girl raped, one booked||Amritsar, October 15A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a person in Rai village falling under the Lopoke police station here. Though the incident occurred five days ago, a complaint was lodged with the police yesterday. No arrest has been made till now.The accused has been identified as Bhupinder Singh of the same village. A case has been registered under Sections 376, 354 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POSCO Act. Father of the deceased, in a statement to the police, alleged that his daughter had gone to the residence of the suspect to take milk. He said when she did not return home for half-an-hour, his wife went to Bhupinder’s house where she found her crying in the verandah. The victim said Bhupinder sexually abused her. A complaint has been lodged with the Lopoke police where a case has been registered. The police official said the medical examination of the girl had been conducted while raids were on to nab the suspect who was on the run.Teen abducted from HarikeTarn Taran: A teenaged girl, a student of Class IX, of Harike area village, was abducted by an unidentified person. The incident occurred a week ago and the case was registered on Wednesday.The father of the victim, in his complaint to the police, said all members of his family went to bed on October 8. The next morning, they found the girl missing under mysterious circumstances. He alleged that someone had abducted her, luring her for marriage. The Harike police have registered a case under Sections 363, 366-A of the IPC, Section 8 of the POCSO Act . — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-girl-raped-one-booked-156306
16-10-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar MC demolishes vends, vendors hold protest||Vendors staged a protest and blocked the road after the Municipal Corporation demolished their vends at Rehri Market, Crystal Chowk, here this evening. A team of more than 100 MC employees, along with ditch machine, reached the rehri market this afternoon and demolished the years-old vends based on a private land. MC officials claimed that the rehri market did not have any approval and they were running it illegally.The vendors resisted the move and reportedly manhandled with employees of the health wing. Meanwhile, the vendors claimed that six vendors were injured while resisting the demolition move.Vijay, a vendor, said, “More than 150 persons are earning their livelihood in the rehri market. Nothing was illegal. We will stage a protest until the MC does not reconstruct our kiosks.”According to information, some of the vendors of the rehri market were misbehaved with sanitary officers of the sMC, who were there to issue challans for unhygienic surroundings on Wednesday. The sanitary inspectors gave a written complaint to the MC Commissioner to take action against the vendors. The vendors kept demonstrating on the road till late in the evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-demolishes-vends-vendors-hold-protest-156308
16-10-2020||---||Woman kills self, husband booked||Amritsar, October 15Perturbed over the alleged harassment at the hands of her husband and brother-in-law, a woman identified as Rupinder Kaur (38) of Nizampura village committed suicide by hanging herself on Tuesday.The police have booked her husband Dilbagh Singh and brother-in-law Charanjit Singh for abating suicide while no arrest has been made till now.Sarabjit Singh, a resident of Khazala village and brother of the deceased, stated to the police that Rupinder was married to Dilbagh Singh around 11 years ago. He said Dilbagh and his brother Charanjit Singh used to harass his sister who had told them about it. He said on Tuesday they got a call from Dilbagh that Rupinder had died. He said they immediately rushed to Nizampura village where they found her body. He said there were strangulation marks on her neck which indicated that she had committed suicide by hanging.The police said a case under Section 306 of the IPC had been registered while raids were on to nab the suspects who were absconding after the police started probe following receiving a complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-kills-self-husband-booked-156309
16-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Over 1 lakh litre lahan seized||The district police, in an operation launched against illicit liquor in the Mand area alongside the Sutlej and Beas, recovered 1.02 lakh litre lahan, 10 iron drums and 500-kg wood among other things on Wednesday. SSP Tarn Taran Dhruman H Nimbale said the police and excise staff and the staff of the Forest and the Wildlife departments, too, were involved in the operation.The SSP said DSP (Operation) Iqbal Singh led the operation. He said Kulbir Singh and Kuldeep Singh, both of Kirian village; Kaptan Singh of Harike; Ranjit Singh Rana and Rana of Marrar village were booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act, Water Prevention and Control of Pollution Act, 1974, was registered against the accused. The police have recovered more than 6 lakh litre lahan with other materials from the Mand area in seven operations launched during the past one month. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-1-lakh-litre-lahan-seized-156310
16-10-2020||---||3 lose battle to virus, toll 426 in Amritsar district||Amritsar, October 15As three more persons lost life to Covid-19, the toll in the district reached 426 on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Balwinder Kaur, a 55-year-old resident of Ghannupur Kale village, Raman Kumar, a 48-year-old resident of Putlighar, and Mandeep Singh, a 40-year-old resident of Verka.The district health authorities have also reported 41 new positive cases with which the total count has increased to 11,326. The new cases include 29 influenza-like illness cases and 12 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 72 patients, a total of 10,370 patients have been cured till date. At present, the district has a total of 426 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-lose-battle-to-virus-toll-426-in-amritsar-district-156313
16-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||List of works to be done on BRTS lanes is a long one||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 15The multi-crore Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) project will complete its four years in December. Astonishingly, what started in 2016 still remains undone, is lacking maintenance and totally neglected.The project is worth Rs600 crore, but the lanes don’t seem to reflect the colossal amount invested in construction as they are in pathetic condition at many points. However, no concerned department made any efforts to revive them. Moreover, the metro bus service was operationalised in 2016 without the completion of works — two of its stations at elevated road are still under construction. The bricks, gravels and other material can be seen lying on the elevated road.Meanwhile, poor planning and substandard material used has done most of the damage already to its infrastructure. The road witnessed major potholes near the railway station and Alpha Mall in the past. Apart from this, recarpeting on various points is a heavy need of the hour. During rainy season, the BRTS lanes often get flooded. The MC officials had claimed that the construction agency installed storm sewerage alongside lanes, but it is choked. As a result, two years back a major stretch of the mall had caved in due to alleged blockage and the authorities were compelled to divert the metro bus for several months.This is not it. The grillwork is also missing from several locations and for officials the drug addicts are the usual suspects. But, residents are also at fault as they have removed grills at some points for their own convenience because allegedly the lanes create a hindrance in crossing the road. Some broken grills, too, are lying on the road leading to accidents.The list seems to be never-ending. Traffic experts claimed lack of proper signage, reflectors and other safety infrastructure led to accidents on the BRTS corridor. Even a study by them at Guru Nanak Dev University found nine black spots on the 31-km-long BRTS corridor, where more than 24 persons have died. These spots have been identified as Bhandari bridge, BRTS station outside the railway station, Valmiki chowk, Putaligarh chowk, Civil Hospital, Ramtalai chowk, Husainpura chowk, Mall Mandi chowk and outside Alpha Mall.Inderjeet Singh Chawla, Chief Executive Officer BRTS, said, “The urban transport is prerogative of local governments. Recently, on September 30, the state government transferred it to the local bodies department. Now, the maintenance and repair would begin soon. It was very much required.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/list-of-works-to-be-done-on-brts-lanes-is-a-long-one-156315
16-10-2020||---||Angry farmers refuse to relent||Amritsar, October 15The farmers’ protest against three agriculture related acts brought by the Union Government has entered the 15th day at Buttari railway station near Beas. The protest being held under the collective leadership of 30 farmers associations had began on October 1.The farmers stated that they were upbeat and would see to it that the protest reaches its logical end. The farmers also accused the state government and the Centre of being indifferent towards the plight of agrarian sector.They alleged that the political parties had been trying to manoeuvre the agrarian society while their foremost priority remains to get mileage in the next Assembly elections in the state. Meanwhile, farmers and farm women are participating in large numbers in all protests being held across the state.The protests are also being held outside the residence of BJP leader Shawait Malik’s residence and Devi Dass Pura village apart from toll plazas and petrol pumps of a private group.The volunteers from various villages are helping agitators with langar at protest sites. However, with each passing day, the restlessness in farmers, especially the youth is growing and they feel that there is a need to intensify the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/angry-farmers-refuse-to-relent-156317
16-10-2020||Tribune lensman Sunil Kumar takes you through the busy streets of Amritsar this World Food Day||Best places for street food in Amritsar||Kesar Da Dhaba is one of the most iconic destinations of the city. Started by Lala Kesar Malin in 1916 at Sheikhupura, Pakistan, the dhaba shifted to Amritsar post Partition. Its traditional dal makhni, prepared in huge brass and bronze utensils overnight, has a loyal fan base not just in India, but in foreign countries as well.Giani Tea StallGiani Tea Stall at Queens Road is the most favoured morning tea and breakfast joint. Its visitor list includes CM Capt Amarinder Singh, Navjot Sidhu and Bollywood actors Rishi and Ranbir Kapoor. Its age-old recipe of tea served with kachoris, butter toast and omelette is something to die for. Run by Gurmeet Singh, the joint was opened by his grandfather in Lahore and later shifted to Amritsar.Makhan FishMakhan Fish, established in 1962, is the best place in the city to try the buttery Amritsari fish fry. A recipe that has been featured on National Geographic and Lonely Planet, apart from several other food shows, its fish preparations have become synonymous with Amritsar’s food reputation.Beera ChickenBeera Chicken serves the taste buds of a typical Punjabi. Decades-old recipes of this tandoori chicken joint have featured in national as well as international food magazines and travel shows.A Dash of sweetnessGurdasram Jalebiwala at Katra Ahluwalia has been serving piping hot jalebis for around 100 years. The shop has been built over an old well and is also known as khuh wali jalebi.Street delicacySweet lassi is served in a steel glass topped with a spoonful of cream and kesar. Several shops, serving lassi and phirni inside Katra Sher Singh, are a part of the city’s food heritage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/best-places-for-street-food-in-amritsar-156320
16-10-2020||Amritsar||BJYM activists hold protest against attack on Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma||BSF seizes heroin worth Rs 25 croreTarn Taran: A patrolling party of the 14th battalion of the BSF on Thursday recovered five packets of heroin near Pillar No.151 in the Khemkaran sector. Officials of the BSF said the consignment was recovered from the Indian side across the fencing in Kals village. The value of seized heroin in the international market is around Rs 25 crore, the BSF said. Just two days ago, four packets of heroin were recovered by the BSF from across the fencing. OCDonate blood for a cause: DCTarn Taran: Deputy Commissioner (DC) Kulwant Singh at a blood donation camp organised jointly by the District Red Cross Society and the Health Department donated blood here on Wednesday. While addressing the present the DC stressed on the need to donate blood as it was the most precious thing in the universe and it might save the lives of many at the time of need. He said that he had donated the blood for the 20th time till now. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjym-activists-hold-protest-against-attack-on-punjab-bjp-president-ashwani-sharma-156321
16-10-2020||Amritsar||State govt attempting to scuttle ‘rail roko’ stir: Farmers’ union||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has condemned the state government allegedly for joining hands with the Centre to scuttle the farmers’ ‘rail roko’ agitation that has entered 22nd day today. Committee members who blocked the Amritsar-New Delhi rail track near Devi Daspura village claimed that the state government’s double standards had been exposed.“The state on the one hand is showing solidarity with farmers, whereas on the other hand, the government had submitted in the HC that rail service disruption would lead to affecting the supply of power and other essential services and hence tracks should be vacated. We ask the CM that why he didn’t approach the court when rail services remained disrupted during Covid lockdown?” asked Sarwan Singh Pandher, state general secretary of the committee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/state-govt-attempting-to-scuttle-rail-roko-stir-farmers-union-156437
