17-10-2020||Our CorrespondentBhikhiwind (Tarn Taran)||Shaurya Chakra awardee cremated amid tight security in Tarn Taran village||A 62-year-old Shaurya Chakra winner who was shot dead on Friday was cremated here on Saturday under tight security, officials said.Comrade Balwinder Singh (Sandhu) Bhikhiwind was shot dead by some armed men on Friday at a school that his family runs on Friday. The school also served as Balwinder Singh's residence.His last rites were performed amid tensions that have gripped the area since his shooting.Balwinder Singh was awarded the ‘Shaurya Chakra’, which is counted among the country’s highest bravery award, in 1993 because of his role in fighting militancy.His family had previously refused to cremate him until his killers were arrested, but relented when district authorities intervened and promised action.Police meanwhile continue to investigate the killing. Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale said they were going through security cameras at the school, which was run by Balwinder Singh's family.Political groups such as Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) meanwhile have demanded better security for his family, and a government job to a family member.District Police said they had given three armed security men to the family for protection. Patti’s Sub Divisional Magistrate, who was at the wreath laying ceremony, said he had asked the state government to consider the demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shaurya-chakra-awardee-cremated-amid-tight-security-in-tarn-taran-village-157086
17-10-2020||---||2,800 apply for just 10 cracker retail counters in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 16The district administration has received 2,800 applications for setting up 10 retail counters of firecrackers during this festival season.Draw of lots on October 19Earlier, the cracker market used to be situated at the IDH Market near the ISBT and at the congested Pappar Wala Bazar near the Golden Temple. However, these markets had to be shifted to Jahajgarh in 2000 after a massive fire broke out at the IDH Market. Later, the market at Jahajgarh was also ruled out for holding the cracker market as it did not comply with the norms.Amritsar Fireworks Association president Harish Dhawan submitted a communiqué to Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, seeking to complete the formalities in advance to provide adequate time to traders to set up their kiosks. Following which, the district administration issued an advertisement seeking applications from interested persons to take part in the draw of lots to be held on October 19. In response, 2,800 people from diverse professions applied for these posts. The site for setting up the retail market and the date of its inception are yet to be decided.As per the norms, 70 metres space around each temporary stall should be open to sky and generators should be placed 30 metres away from the radius. Each stall should be nine feet by 25 feet, besides first aid, fire brigade and adequate police personnel must be deployed at the place.The allotted licence will specify the total weight of firecrackers to be placed in a stall. No material should be kept outside the stall and no overstocking of firecrackers will be tolerated.Dhawan reiterated the long-pending demand of his association that only those should be allowed to file applications who possessed either licences under the Explosives Act or the Union Government-issued licences under the Petroleum and Explosive Safety Act, which is necessary for the storage of firecrackers.He said in the past few years, traders had suffered losses on account of a delay in setting up the market.He said there were 32 licence holders in the city who were dealing in manufacturing, storage and possession of crackers.There are two Union Government licenced firecracker manufacturing units and over 30 storages, with each of them having a capacity to maintain nearly 1,500 kg of stock of crackers in the city.The Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organisation (PESO), Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce and Industries, allocates licences to those traders who want to sell and store firecrackers above 600 kg.Two major cracker-manufacturing units in the district are situated at Ibban Kala village on the Chabal road and another at Rajewal village on the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT road. These are allowed to manufacture “phuljhadi” (sparkle) and “anar” (flower pot).In addition, there are 15 godowns for sale and stock at Rajewal village. These traders are irked as their sale would be affected due to poor preparation for Dasehra this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-800-apply-for-just-10-cracker-retail-counters-in-amritsar-156875
17-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||The road ahead is still foggy for bus operators||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 16Though the government has allowed the inter-state movement of buses in Punjab but for the operators there isn’t much to cheer. The restriction lifted on Thursday saw the Punjab Roadways buses cross the inter-state borders for Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan for first time since the outbreak.The Punjab Roadways officials have been following all the instructions issued by the State for functioning of public transport after the lockdown but low footfall of passengers has been a niggling pain in the neck.Amarjit Singh, a conductor for a private bus which operates between Amritsar and Jalandhar, said, “We have clubbed two timings to get more passengers but it is rare when we get 52 passengers for a journey. Around 50 per cent private buses are off the road. The virus badly hit the transport sector.”Though the situation is gradually normalising in other sectors, but transport sector continues to off the hinges as before the unlocking phase. Despite the fact that there are no curbs on carrying the number of passengers, the operators are finding it hard to get required number of passengers to make the tour financially viable.Though, Punjab Roadways and PRTC resumed the services but the decline in number of passengers is making the survival hard. “The buses are being sanitised. The passengers are asked to check temperature in case of any illness. Well, the numbers are increasing but hardly acceptable to make the trip viable,” said an employee of the Punjab Roadways.Inderjeet Singh, general manager Punjab Roadways, feels that the suspension of trains has scratched the wound deeper as both are interlinked. “The buses witnessed low footfall due to suspension of trains in the region. We have reciprocal arrangements with the railway. We feed to the railway by collecting passengers from rural areas. Similarly, railway returns the favour to bus operators by providing passengers for small towns,” Singh explained. Apart from this, education institutes, including colleges and schools, provide bulk of passengers and unless they resume fully the way out of mire seems far off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-road-ahead-is-still-foggy-for-bus-operators-156876
17-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||GT Road, service lane are paths that open to horrible experience for commuters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 16The failure on the part of the authorities concerned to repair the GT road and the service lane — from the Putlighar intersection to the Kabir park — has led to the upper surface of the road to come off at places.The road and service lanes were laid after the construction of the BRTS corridor about four years ago. Moreover, major educational institutes like Guru Nanak Dev University, Khalsa College, Khalsa College for Women and Polytechnic are situated along it. Besides, the stretch connects the city to Attari village on the international border.In addition, service lanes were provided on either side of the stretch to provide safe passage to small vehicles, pedestrians and people coming out of residential areas.Encroachments are choking lifePeople have encroached upon the service lane as per their convenience. Some have installed their carts selling fruit and vegetables, construction material like gravel, sand, bricks and many other things. Many plants have withered away for want of their upkeep and due to the indifferent attitude of people working and living around these.Owing to the impact of massive movement of vehicles, the top layer of the service lane has worn out completely and a lot many potholes have emerged making driving along the stretch a risky affair. Manjit Singh, a shopkeeper, said no official ever bothered about taking stock of the road after it was laid about four years ago.People have encroached upon the service lane as per their convenience. Some have installed their carts selling fruit and vegetables, construction material like gravel, sand, bricks and many other things. Many plants have withered away for want of their upkeep and due to the indifferent attitude of people working and living around these.The condition of the service lane is deplorable as the upper layer has come off and pebbles can be seen strewn all over the stretch posing a threat to the safety of motorists.Parminder Singh, a chemist, said potholes appeared at certain spots on the main road sometime ago. In the absence of timely repair, more and more potholes started emerging.He said there were more chances of fatal accidents taking place. A majority of the vehicles on the highway are moving fast and any miscalculation can be disastrous.He wondered even the government department failed to carry out an inspection of the stretch and ask the private company to carry out repairs on time. He claimed that the company, which built the BRTS corridor, was to carry out repairs of the road and the service lane for the next five years.Surinder Chowdhury, area councillor, said staff of the company concerned damaged sewerage and water pipes on the same stretch while laying the road. He said residents of the area had to face many difficulties. Recently he got all these repaired after the Municipal Corporation (MC) passed a budget of Rs 16 lakh.He admitted that the road had been damaged at certain places and the service lane was in a deplorable condition and needed immediate attention. He said he would write to the authorities concerned to draw their attention to the infrastructure lapses and the need of timely repairs and maintenance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gt-road-service-lane-are-paths-that-open-to-horrible-experience-for-commuters-156877
17-10-2020||---||SI Sandeep Kaur still at large||Amritsar, October 16Even as the city and the rural police have failed to arrest prime suspect SI Sandeep Kaur in a double suicide case, the police investigations have reportedly identified two more cops and her accomplices who extorted money from deceased Vikramjit Singh.They were identified as Navneet Sandhu and Kammy Malara. Malara is posted with the Ludhiana police while Sandhu is with rural police, it is learnt. However, both city and rural police have yet to nominate them.Though police officials were tight-lipped over the case, a police official wishing not to be named said the names of two suspects were given in the suicide note. It was also learnt that the family of the prime suspect also met senior police officials for holding a probe into the case. However, the police officials had asked them to make her surrender before the police.Harchand Singh, SHO, Jandiala police station, said they had taken all evidence from the city police regarding the death of Vikramjit Singh. Vikramjit, who was a jeweller, had committed suicide at a hotel room in Amritsar on Saturday. On Sunday, his wife also ended her life at her residence. Two separate cases of abetment to suicide were registered at the city and rural police against Sandeep Kaur and her unknown accomplices.She has been at large since the death of Vikramjit who had named her and her accomplices in a suicide note while holding her responsible for his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/si-sandeep-kaur-still-at-large-156878
17-10-2020||---||Monitoring of pollution level begins in 13 locations in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 16  Under the Smart City Mission in Amritsar, monitoring of pollution level has started in different parts of the city. Under this process, the level of noise pollution along with air pollution will be examined. Under this, at a total 13 main places of the city, including bus stand, Maqboolpura Chowk, 100 Footi Road Chowk, Bhagatwala Chowk, DTO Office Chowk, Rialto Chowk, B-Block Market Ranjit Avenue, SSSS Chowk, Mustafabad BRTS Station (Batala Road), Ratan Singh Chowk, Cheharta Chowk, Majitha Road Bypass Chowk and Town Hall will be monitored 24 hours with Combo Dust Sampler Machine and Noise Level Meter for three days. Giving more information about it, CEO Smart City and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal said, so far, the pollution level in the city has not been investigated before at this level.  The objective of this monitoring being done under the Smart City Mission is to measure the level of pollution in different parts of the city. That is why any two working days of the week except Saturday and Sunday have been fixed for the pollution monitoring. Simultaneously, noise pollution from motor vehicles is also being monitored. All the 12 standards set by the Central Pollution Control Board for Pollution monitoring are being examined. She said this monitoring is being done under the Smart City Mission in two phases (pre and post monsoon). At present, the post monsoon phase of monitoring is going on. After this monitoring, we will know the highest level of pollution throughout the city, because at this time the level of pollution always been highest throughout the year in North India due to burning of straw by the farmers.  She said currently pollution is being investigated by the Pollution Control Board in the city from two pollution monitoring stations, one of which is located near the focal point and the other is near the Golden Temple. Due to the limited range of these stations, it becomes difficult to estimate pollution levels in the rest of the city. Apart from this, the noise pollution is not monitored in these stations. Keeping these things in mind, this monitoring is being done in different stages. Data of the monitoring will be used to prepare a comprehensive strategy to reduce the level of pollution in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/monitoring-of-pollution-level-begins-in-13-locations-in-amritsar-156879
17-10-2020||---||For exhibitors, relaxations are too late, too little||Amritsar, October 16Unlock 5 might have given a green signal to business to business exhibitions, social and cultural events, keeping in mind the cap on the number of visitors/attendees but the relief failed to cheer exhibitors and independent retail collaborators. Courtesy– the decision to reopen has come too late to make any difference.The festive and wedding season usually begins October onwards and it’s the time when most fashion/lifestyle exhibitors and collaborators in city cash in on the mood and tendency to splurge by buyers. But this time around, Covid-19 pandemic has hit hard on the pockets of every section of society.“|By this time of the year, we are usually over with four-five editions of our fashion retail exhibitions. Diwali and pre-Diwali season is also the wedding season and it’s a good time for business. But this year, there are no weddings happening and no buyers as economy has been hit hard. I had announced an exhibition for October 17 and 18 keeping in minds that unlock 5 would be announced by October 15. But I had to postpone the events as there is no buyer in the market and this is not the conducive time for a business specific exhibitions,” said Tannu Grover, a fashion and lifestyle exhibitor and organiser from city.The exhibitors, who primarily consist of local and independent brands, are refraining from organising any events as health safety as well as economic viability of such exhibitions is very low. “The absence of any festivities, weddings and the overall mood of people is not quite upbeat. Our business is co-dependent on the market economy and the rotation of money. Though the businesses have reopened, the rotation of money is yet to begin and once it does, retail exhibitions are not good business option,” said Luvika Nayyar. Pop ups and virtual exhibits are already giving suitable options for buyers who can spend on some retail therapy.“Also, the cap on number of visitors or people gathered at the event too is discouraging as it’s not possible for a business event to make profit with such a limited footfall,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/for-exhibitors-relaxations-are-too-late-too-little-156880
17-10-2020||Neha Saini||Satyam Wahi secures AIR 243; is Amritsar NEET topper||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October16Satyam Wahi, a student of Springdales Senior School, excelled in the NEET Mains exams, the results of which were declared on Friday. Satyam secured an AIR of 243 with a score of 690 out of 720. An aspiring neuro surgeon, Satyam shared that he spent five straight hours in front of computer, checking and refreshing his results as the NTA official website crashed due to technical snag after posting the results.“It was quite draining as I was excited about my rank. My result was on expected lines but I could have got a better All India Rank as this year the exam was relatively easier given special circumstances,” he shared. He is also excited to become the first doctor in his family. “My elder brother is studying architecture and my father runs his own business. My inspiration to become a doctor was my uncle who is a noted doctor in the city,” he said.Satyam wants to pursue medical studies from Safadarjung Hospital in New Delhi. After spending stressful hours on studying for NEET, Satyam now wants to spend his time off exploring himself. “I want to break the stereotype that medical students are only academically inclined or are crammers and have no other interests. I want to spend my time before the counselling begins by exploring my interests and doing things that I love.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/satyam-wahi-secures-air-243-is-amritsar-neet-topper-156881
17-10-2020|| ||Two booked, illegal cracker unit busted in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 16The city police on Friday busted an illegal firecracker unit running in the Anngarh area here. The police have booked two persons, including a woman, under the Explosives Act.  Those booked were identified as Dharminder Singh, alias Sabha, and Sarabjit Kaur, both residents of the Anngarh area. The police recovered 350 firecracker rockets, a machine, 15-kg explosive powder and 100 sand pots used for preparing crackers. The police got a tip-off that the accused were involved in the illegal manufacturing of crackers at a residence. Therefore a raid was conducted and seizure was made while the accused were yet to be arrested, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-illegal-cracker-unit-busted-in-amritsar-156883
17-10-2020||---||GNDU announces results of exit classes||Amritsar, October 16GNDU declared the results of various exit classes that were held online, on Friday evening. In the first phase, results of seven different classes were announced here today, which are available on the university website. Dr Manoj Kumar, Professor in-charge, Controller of Examinations, said students could check their results on the university website. He said the results of the remaining classes of university would be declared shortly. The results of the classes that have been announced include — Bachelors Vocational (Entertainment Technology) Semester – VI, Bachelor of Vocation (Nutrition Exercise and Health) Semester-VI, Vocational Bachelor (contemporary form of Dance), Semester-VI, Bachelor of Vocation (Management and Secretarial Practice) Semester-VI, Bachelor of Vocation (Photography and Journalism) Semester - VI, MA Business Economics and IT Semester-IV, Bachelor of Vocation (Retail Management) Semester-VI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-announces-results-of-exit-classes-156886
17-10-2020||Our Correspondent||District-level camp on crop residue management held||Tarn Taran, October 16The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Booh, organised a district-level camp on crop residue management under the project on “Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation and Machinery for In-situ Management of Crop Residue” at Assal Uttar village (Khemkaran) here on Wednesday.In his address, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh appealed to the farmers not to burn paddy straw as it would adversely affect the environment. Dr Rajbir Singh, Director, spoke of the ill-effects of burning paddy straw and explained in detail about various implements like happy seeder, chopper and mulcher which could be used to manage paddy straw properly.Dr Balwinder Kumar, Deputy Director of the kendra, gave detailed information about the importance of paddy straw in feeding dairy animals and cut down the feeding cost. Dr Nirmal Singh, Dr Anil Kumar and representatives of the area too addressed farmers on the occasion.Mentally retarded girl rapedA 20-year-old mentally retarded girl was raped in Dhagana village falling under the Patti Sadar police station. The incident occurred four days ago, while the police registered a case on Thursday. ASI Karamjit Kaur, Investigating Officer (IO), said the accused had been identified as Vishal Singh of Dhagana village.The IO said that the accused lured her with some food and took her in the fields. Parents on hearing the voices of the girl reached the spot. On seeing her parents, the accused fled the spot. A case under Section 376 of the IPC has been registered against the accused, who is at large, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-level-camp-on-crop-residue-management-held-156888
17-10-2020||---||4 booked for fraud||Amritsar, October 16A ‘Spain resident’ and a ''Customs official'' was among four persons, who were booked for allegedly duping a local resident of Rs1.70 lakh. Those booked were identified as Kaithw William of Madrid, Spain; Seema Sharma, an alleged Customs Officer, Delhi Airport; Henaz Begum and JP Singh. Victim Vinod Kumar of Rajinder Nagar told the police that he came in contact with Kaithe William through a social media platform and they became friends. He said he had a video chat and Whatsapp chat with her. He said she expressed her desire to visit the Golden Temple along with her daughter a few days ago and sought his help. He said on October 5, she sent a British Airways ticket and said that she was coming to Amritsar. He said on October 8, he received a call from a woman, who identified herself as Seema Sharma, a Customs Official at the Delhi Airport. She said Kaithe was caught by the Customs Department with $5,000. She said Kaithe told her about him and if he wanted to release her, he has to pay the fine. He said he felt pity and therefore transferred Rs35,000 and Rs1.20 lakh thorough NEFT. She said the accused demanded more cash from him. He said he understood that he was being framed. Investigating officer SI Balwinder Singh said they received a complaint and a case under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC was registered in this connection. He said further investigation was on to ascertain the facts and real identity of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-booked-for-fraud-156889
17-10-2020||Amritsar||2 held; weapon, bullets seized||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-weapon-bullets-seized-156890
17-10-2020||---||Two succumb to virus, 40 new positive cases||Amritsar, October 16As two more persons lost life to Covid-19, the toll in the district reached 428 on Friday. The deceased have been identified Kirandeep Kaur (20), a resident of Sundar Nagar in Kot Khalsa area and Babbi Mattu (64) of the Lahori Gate.The district health authorities have also reported 40 new positive cases with which the total count has increased to 11,366. The new cases include 24 influenza-like illness cases and 16 contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, with the recovery of 99 patients, a total of 10,469 patients have been cured till date. At present, the district has a total of 469 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-succumb-to-virus-40-new-positive-cases-156891
17-10-2020||The 800-metre-long Makkoran Pattan pontoon bridge has become a favourite tool for politicians to fool gullible villagers. The bridge connects mainland Gurdaspur to a cluster of 12 villages located across the Ravi. During the monsoon season||‘Bridge’ that can make or break elections||Security for BJP leadersThe Punjab DGP has issued instructions to SSPs to ensure BJP leaders get adequate protection in the wake of the recent vandalisation of Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma's car. A few years ago, when Khalistani sympathisers targeted Hindu leaders, many BJP leaders were given security. However, a majority of them refused to take bodyguards putting the cops in a piquant situation. Their contention was that it was not possible, and plausible, for them to provide the cops boarding and lodging 24 into 7. The threat to their lives was real but they would not touch the security issue even with a bargepole. In Gurdaspur, as many as nine security men were assigned to a district level leader whose only mode of transportation was a scooter. It was hilarious to see three cops riding pillion while the leader himself drove the two-wheeler. A few days later he sent in a request to the SSP asking him to withdraw the security paraphernalia. The petition, in any case, was denied. For nearly one year he had to feed his unexpected guests from his own pocket. This time, too, the portents look the same. Some BJP politicians have gone on record as saying that they will not take security. But sources say this time they will have to because the cops are sure to thrust it upon them with the farmers' agitation threatening to go against the BJP. The attack on Ashwani Sharma is a case in point.Resolution against stubble burningWith the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) threatening punitive action against farmers burning paddy stubble, Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Gurdaspur SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal joined hands to ensure the area does not end up going up in flames. The minister's interest stemmed from the fact that scores of villages of his assembly seat of Dera Baba Nanak fall in the jurisdiction of Gurdaspur police district. Both issued an appeal to all 659 villages asking, rather requesting, sarpanches to ensure not a straw of paddy was burnt. The SSP even went to the extent of sending messages on social media sites warning farmers. The appeal had a dramatic impact. As many as 658 villages passed resolutions asking farmers to refrain from lighting a match. Only one village did not adhere to the request because the sarpanch did not get along with his fellow panches. That village, falling in Kalanaur police station, was an exception. SSP Sohal had an interesting explanation to offer. "The rule is that no village burnt straw. The village in Kalanaur was an exception. And it is always an exception that proves a rule," he said. The other interesting aspect was that even SAD dominated villages listened to what Randhawa, a dyed-in-the-wool Congressman, had to tell them. "A lot of farmers listened to me. I propounded the logic that the heat from burning straw penetrates deep into the soil and kills bacterial and fungal populations critical for a fertile soil. Due to the loss of 'friendly' pests, the wrath of 'enemy' pests increases manifold and consequently crops are more prone to disease," he educated farmers. Not only Gurdaspur police district, even in the neighbouring police district of Batala, not many fires were reported.Cong leaders counter Smriti, ThakurTwo Gurdaspur leaders who have been vocal in their attack on the NDA-led Union Government on the farm laws issues are the father-son duo of veteran trade unionist and senior Congressman MM Singh Cheema and Amardeep Singh Cheema, Chairman of the Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC). Both are known Congressmen and their loyalty to the party is well known. Amardeep has also remained a member of the general body of the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR). He is a progressive farmer hailing from Batala. "I fail to comprehend how Smriti Irani and Anurag Thakur can solve the problems emanating from the farm laws. I doubt they can even tell the difference between seeds of wheat and paddy. It clearly shows that the Union Government is least interested in solving this agrarian problem.(Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bridge-that-can-make-or-break-elections-156893
17-10-2020||Amritsar||Sikh activists to file case over missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib||The SAD (Amritsar) today decided to register criminal proceedings against those found guilty of misappropriation of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’.On the other hand, some SGPC members said the apex body had abdicated its responsibility. On October 5, 18 SGPC members had jointly served a 15-day ultimatum to SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal to initiate criminal action against those held accountable for the misappropriation of 328 ‘saroops’, otherwise they would lodge a police complaint.As many as 16 SGPC officials and staff members were indicted by an investigation panel appointed by the Akal Takht.SAD (Amritsar) activist Tarsem Singh Jawarke said the SGPC had taken a U-turn on filing FIRs to save some officials. “Now, we will file a criminal case with the police. The SGPC had withdrawn its decision of registering FIRs with an excuse that the police should not interfere in a religious matter. Why, then, the sacrilege incidents are reported to the police? Why do SGPC president and other officials keep police protection around them? Actually, it was all done to save their blue-eyed officials,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-activists-to-file-case-over-missing-saroops-of-guru-granth-sahib-156873
