19-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Dasehra train tragedy: 2 yrs on, kin of victims still wait for justice||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18On the eve of the second anniversary of the train tragedy which claimed 60 lives on Dasehra, the families of the victims took out a candlelight march from Ram Talai Chowk to the Joda Phatak here on Sunday evening. Apart from paying tributes to the deceased, their objective was to draw the attention of the government to their plight and its failure to fulfill the promises of giving them jobs and fixing the responsibility.The gruesome accident and shrieks of victims and injured people still haunt residents of the area. All bereaved families belong to the low-income group earning their living by engaging in jobs like driving, daily wage earners, vendors and others.Gurjit Singh is driving an electronic rickshaw to earn a living after his father Abhay Singh, a daily wage labourer, who was among the victims, is waiting for the promised job. His mother was injured in the tragedy. His sister Sandeep Kaur had lost two minor children in the accident. She said the job would only keep her engaged though the loss of two kids would never be fulfilled.Navjit Singh, a driver whose 15-year-old son Sachin was also killed in the accident, was blessed with another son last year. “My daughter still talks about her lost brother,” he said.Vijay Kumar, whose son Ramesh was killed in the tragedy, got his daughter-in-law remarried and handed over the compensation to her. He wants his widow daughter Puja to get the job. “This could provide a livelihood to the family as he is unable to do any job owing to pain in the knees and joints due to being aged.”Deepak, who earns his livelihood by ironing clothes, is keenly awaiting a job as the pain in his knees has resurfaced. Doctors after examining had recommended him surgery again. He had lost his three-year-old daughter Nandini and eight-year-old son Vansh. His had got his knee injured in the train accident.The victims’ families had held a 12-day sit-in in December seeking jobs which were announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the then Local Bodies Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu immediately after the tragedy.After completion of the formalities, the district administration had forwarded 34 files of the applicants for jobs to the head office in Chandigarh. Three files were sent back after some objections.A special investigation team (SIT) of the Government Railway Police (GRP) and the state government carried out separate probes to fix the responsibility for the train tragedy. However, the final outcome of these probes has yet to come out.During the candlelight march, the Akali Dal supported them as Akali leader Talbir Singh Gill took part in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dasehra-train-tragedy-2-yrs-on-kin-of-victims-still-wait-for-justice-157974
19-10-2020||---||Two fall prey to virus, 31 new cases reported in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 18With two more deaths, the Covid toll in the district has reached 431 on Monday. The deceased have been identified as Baba Singh, an 85-year-old from Mangu Sohi village and Jagtar Singh, a 72-year-old from the Fateh Singh Colony.The district health authorities have also reported 31 new positive cases. The new cases include 17 influenza-like illness cases and 14 contacts of positive patients. With this, the total count of infections in the district has reached 11,430. Meanwhile, a total of 10,632 patients have been cured so far. The district, at present, has a total of 367 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-fall-prey-to-virus-31-new-cases-reported-in-amritsar-157975
19-10-2020||---||Schools resume for classes IX to XII today; arrangements in place||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18After a gap of seven months, the Education Department is all set to resume schools for classes IX to XII tomorrow.It will be a challenging task for teachers to hold orientation sessions in order to reintroduce students to classroom teaching after online classes. District Education Officer (DEO) Satinderbir Singh said as per the Covid guidelines and SOPs, all classrooms had been sanitised and disinfected. Arrangements had been put in place to ensure social distancing in classes.He appealed to all parents to send their wards to schools without any fear.Welcoming the move, Principal, Government School, Parminderjit Kaur Tapiala, said students of senior classes required personal attention. Moreover, their syllabus was vast and they required the guidance of teachers at every step.She said the last seven months had made all of them aware of all precautions needed to keep the infection at bay. Moreover, senior students were enough mature to understand the importance of wearing a mask, besides following social distancing.Adarsh Sharma, a lecturer at Government Girls’ Senior Secondary School, Mall Road, said online classes could not match the kind of knowledge a student could attain in classroom teaching. Students could clear their doubts one-on-one.Tarlochan Singh Gill, whose ward studies in Class 12, appreciated the move and said students learnt many things with exchange of information, besides holding discussions with subject teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/schools-resume-for-classes-ix-to-xii-today-arrangements-in-place-157976
19-10-2020||---||Political parties trying to torpedo agitation: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18The protest by farmer associations at Buttari railway station entered the 18th day on Sunday. The farmers also paid tributes to activists Harbans Singh of Sangrur and Jagtar Singh of Mansa, who have lost their lives during the protests, recently.The farmer leaders stated that all political parties were trying to torpedo their agitation. “The political class is presently working for the corporate sector and is indifferent about the farmers and farm workers,” said farmer leader Rattan Singh Randhawa.The farmers also demanded from the government to take action against the nexus of traders and officials involved in the purchase of paddy from Uttar Pradesh at very low prices and its sale in Punjab at Minimum Support Price.The leaders stated that while the farmers in UP were forced to sell their produce at low prices, the traders earn huge profits by selling the same in Punjab markets. They reasoned that with the agriculture market becoming solely dependent on private traders after implementation of three farm related acts, the Punjabi farmers too would be exploited. The farmer leaders stated that the protest would continue till the government is ready to revoke all the three acts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/political-parties-trying-to-torpedo-agitation-farmers-157977
19-10-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Reaching Asia’s largest wetland a tough affair for eco-tourists||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 18All four roads leading to the 800-acre Keshopur wetland, one of Asia’s largest, are in a wretched condition, and this despite the fact that government agencies responsible for maintaining the road infrastructure have got the requisite funds to set the things right.Over the last decade, the footfall of eco-tourists has gradually dropped. Locals claim before 2010, scores of ornithologists would visit the wetland almost every day when migratory birds from Central Asian countries and Siberia started arriving at their winter abode from November till March.“The micro-economy of the entire area has gone for a toss with tourists refusing to flock the area like in earlier times. Before the roads became a disaster, the economy of nearly 50-odd villages located in the vicinity used to be sustained by bird watchers. This is no longer the case now. Times have changed now,” said Manjit Singh Dala, whose native village is located nearby.In 2017, the then Tourism Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had announced a grant of Rs 3 crore during his Independence Day speech in Gurdaspur. The funds were meant to re-carpet a 6-km stretch of the road originating from Government College till the wetland. Locals were elated. The money did arrive, albeit after a gap of two years, following which work commenced.The passages were given a fresh coat of tar and were also widened. However, this development was short-lived as villagers, particularly small-time shopkeepers of Barnala hamlet, were quick to make encroachments. At many places, the road which should have been 30-ft wide has been reduced to barely 10 feet. Commuters just about manage to drive through.Fatal accidents have become common, but officials are not bothered.A 4-km stretch of thoroughfare coming from Paniyar, branching off from Amritsar-Pathankot National Highway, is in a similar condition. “In the period stretching from 1950s till the 90s, this road was commonly used by eco-tourists. Now, as things stand, it has developed potholes and seldom do tourists take this path,” said Dala. Likewise, a 6.5-km stretch of the road originating from Gurdaspur city, via the Central Jail, which leads to the wetland too, is in a deplorable condition.The responsibility of maintaining the road infrastructure is of the PWD and to some extent the Tourism Department. However, officials of both departments admit that the paucity of funds is acting as an impediment in improving connectivity. “It is a classic case of too many cooks spoiling the broth. Multiple agencies maintain the roads and their functions often overlap leading to chaos and confusion,” said a Wildlife Department official.On January 25 this year, Governor VP Singh Badnore had visited the wetland. Officials admit that his journey from the BSF complex located in the city till the wetland was indeed a bumpy one. “If things did not improve, the wetland may turn out to be a relic of the past. The area is the abode to more than 25,000 birds belonging to 75 species during the peak season. It may mark a sad end to a glorious past. The fund crunch could be solved to a great extent if visitors, like they have in foreign countries, are asked to pay a fee. If the roads remain in a shambles, so will the wetland and its micro-economy,” admitted a PWD official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/reaching-asias-largest-wetland-a-tough-affair-for-eco-tourists-157978
19-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Cop dies as carbine goes off accidentally||Tarn Taran, October 18A cop, who was Cabinet Minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi’s gunman, was killed at his native village Jauhal Dhai Wala when his carbine went off accidentally here on Sunday.The Goindwal Sahib police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. Inspector Harinder Singh, SHO, said the victim had been identified as Ranjit Singh (45) and was posted with the Ferozpur police district.The SHO said the victim had come to his house on leave on Saturday and he was cleaning the weapon when it went off accidentally. He was hit on the head and died on the spot. After the postmortem, the victim was cremated with state honours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cop-dies-as-carbine-goes-off-accidentally-157979
19-10-2020||Move on reopening of Cinema halls — Is it in the public interest?||Cine-goers eager to go back, but litmus test ahead for theatres||Mandates have to be followed at all costsFinally, there is some good news for the cinema-goers after almost eight months of the lockdown. The cinema hall operators here are currently engaged in preparations to ensure all protocols are maintained as they get ready to welcome patrons after a long period of time. Bollywood, which is the economical capital of India, mainly depend upon film industry and suffered during the nationwide lockdown. Film producers moved to OTT platform for their loss. But this will not cover their losses. Now government is going to open it while the virus is picking up pace. Festive season is ahead and there is more risk as rush is increasing in markets. It is necessary to take extra precautions during the upcoming festive season amid the pandemic. The generic measures include public health measures that are to be followed to reduce the risk of transmission. There should be adequate physical distancing of at least 6ft to be followed outside the auditoriums, common areas and waiting areas at all times. The thermal screening will have to be carried out before allowing entry into the halls and only asymptomatic individuals will be allowed. It should be compulsory to show a minute-long film or announcement before each show and before and after the interval to spread awareness among people. Use of face covers/masks to be made mandatory at all times because it is only medicine till vaccination comes.Amarjit KalsiGreat news for cinema-goers!The cinemas, theatres and multiplexes are all set to open from October 15 and fans are overjoyed. Cinema-goers had been waiting for reopening for many months now. As per the new Unlock 5 guidelines, cinemas and multiplexes have been allowed to reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity. Physical distancing is mandatory. For seating, every alternate seat will have to be kept vacant and clearly marked. Cinema-goers have been advised to avoid moving during intermission and as per the guidelines no delivery of food and beverages will be allowed inside the auditorium. During the film, it would be mandatory for the people to wear masks. After the end of the show, the entire hall would be sanitised, before the start of second show. Since the process is going to be time taking, only three-four shows could be shown in a day.Saahil HansDecision taken in favour of economyAlthough the cases are depreciating, the experts say that still we are not out of danger. The employees working in cinemas or theatres must be worried about their economy. It can't be thought of the best decision but a decision that is in favour of economic recovery after about four months. I contemplate that no country would compromise with their economy. And this is the one of the steps for recovery of economy. I think recovering period after the lockdown should be the first thing to ponder. Hence, everything should be opened but the big halls must be opened with 50% seating capacity that too with precautionary measures.IzleenRight decision amidall the gloomWith the scientific advancements, we are finding new equipments and gadgets to bring more and more comforts in our daily life. But practically it is a race between human being and nature. As we find solution for one problem, the next problem crops up. In case of health sector in the last more than 100 years, many deadly diseases came up but after great research when we controlled it the next disease showed its face. Recently, we were fighting cancer in this series but now as it is curable, hence the incurable coronavirus came up. If we wait for invention of vaccine for it than our already ailing economy will completely collapse coming to a grinding halt. So, the only solution is to open up all the sectors of the economy but with strict preventive measures like mask wearing and observing physical distancing norms. Our film industry is on the top of world in regard to number of films produced per year, thus, contributing a great share in form of employment and revenue generating. Its share in giving relief to the stressful human life is also significant. So, government''s decision to open up cinema halls with preventive measures is a step in the right direction. Prevention is better than cure, but prevention is the only cure for the virusHarsh N JoharSpot on! Many will benefit from thisThe decision to reopen cinema halls with limited capacity is correct as this industry employs many people. A person going to the cinema hall to watch a movie will benefit the filmmaker, actor, popcorn vendor and so many more. It will ultimately help the slowing economy of the country. Strict enforcement of guidelines will help to achieve the twin objectives of faster growth and public safety.Jatinderpal SinghREOPENING WITH NEW NORMS JUSTIFIEDReopening of cinema halls with all precautions and protocols is as justified as reopening any other thing in this unprecedented hard times. Proper cleaning of halls, use of body temperature detectors, grilling health check-ups of the staff and wearing masks while watching movies must be mandatory. Booking tickets and snacks online to avoid human contact would help too. Scores of people from diverse backgrounds depend on the Indian film industry for their livelihoods. The shutdown since March has cost the film industry beyond imagination. People would be sceptical about the preventive measures and it would be a challenge for the cinema owners to bring them back to the 70mm screen. Our film industry is the biggest in the world in terms of making maximum movies in a year but it is in a deep crisis now. Reopening of cinema halls by adhering to the stringent dos and don'ts would eventually help one and all.Anil SharmaFoolproof safety measures are a mustThe Union Home Ministry has allowed cinemas, theatres and multiplexes to function at 50% capacity. The decision has been welcomed with open arms by the cinema owners who have been clamouring for long to be allowed to ply their trade as the closure of the cinemas for about seven months has had a devastating impact on their source of income. The decision has given some respite to the theatre owners and exhibitors who promise to operate by fully abiding by the guidelines issued by the Central government. The lockdown miserably failed to wipe out the virus and was never going to kill it. Admittedly, we have to live with it. So, it is the right decision to stay open. People needed to be amused and entertained to escape from stresses, anxieties and strains of mundane life. It is a well thought out gamble which has the tendency to boomerang as well. Moreover, cinemas have been reopened in European countries too inspite of the virus cases being still prevalent there. China's ability to reopen its theatres and be at the top box office earner has emboldened the government to make the decision. It is a sort of push forward to reopening the economy as in a few more months the country may return to some semblance of normalcy. Since the decision has been taken to make the cinemas recover from the dire economic and financial impact of the pandemic, the theatres will have to convey a sense of safety and cleanliness to the cinema-goers. They should be committed to ensure a safe, secure and hygienic experience to their patrons. Cinemas and theatres will have to ensure foolproof physical distancing, provisions for sanitisers and hand washing, thermal screening and entry only of asymptomatic individuals in the halls. They will have to adhere to staggered show timings so as to prevent large gatherings outside the auditoriums before a film begins. This will assure the consumers to venture back to movie theatres, especially when new movies are being released or shown. All said and done, there are some lurking fears. Movie going poses a risk because the virus is said to spread more easily indoors. Movie theatres are not that high on the list of essentials, yet have been reopened. Resurgence of virus cannot be ruled out absolutely.Tarsem S Bumrah QUESTIONThe Covid cases are falling in the state and the state government has decided to open the schools from today despite the fact that a majority of the parents have shown their reluctance to send their wards to school. What do you think is the best possible solution in the current scenario?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 22).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cine-goers-eager-to-go-back-but-litmus-test-ahead-for-theatres-157980
19-10-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||He makes futile visits to clients  as demand for readymades dips||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18A readymade garments salesman, Rakesh Sharma spends his day making futile visits to cloth shops as the demand for clothes has diminished following the Covid-19 lockdown in the country.Sharma claims that the demand for the clothes has decreased by almost 80 per cent. “The shopkeepers are not ready to order new stocks as their stores are already filled with the old stock,” he said.His days start with selecting samples for a particular area that he intends to visit on a day. “Every area has different kinds of customers. We have to select samples on the basis of purchase capacity of the customers in the area in which the shop is located,” he said.Then he loads the samples on his scooter and starts from home. Talking about the market situation, he added that most of the shopkeepers had purchased clothes for summer season when nationwide lockdown was announced in March. “The shopkeepers’ investments in the summer clothing items are stuck. They could have used the money from the sales to make further purchases. Now they are apprehensive and are not ready to invest more,” he said.Sharma works as a salesman for readymade clothing manufacturers and roams markets with their cloth samples every day. “After showing the samples to shopkeepers, if they show interest I book their orders. I earn commission on the sales. But the ongoing situation has changed everything,” he added.Sharma added that as payments of the manufacturers too are stuck, he has also not received his commissions. He has also started a shop near Pipli Sahib Gurdwara hoping to supplement his income, but it too has failed to yield any profits.“It is like waiting for the better times. I cannot leave the work as no other job is available. The income these days is very low but it seems that situation would turn in one-two months,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-makes-futile-visits-to-clients-as-demand-for-readymades-dips-157981
19-10-2020||---||English Booster Clubs set up in 419 govt schools||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18As part of the Education Department’s efforts to improve communication skills of the students of Classes VI to XII, English Booster Clubs have been set up in 419 government schools.DEO (Secondary) Satinderbir Singh has said that these clubs, which have been set up to develop skills in using correct pronunciation and writing, would go a long way in inculcating a sense of confidence among the government school students.“English has been a priority among the parents when it comes to admitting their wards. Improving the standard of English would help increase the number of enrolments too. Now, government schools are no less than their private counterparts in the state as far as infrastructure and study source are concerned. More clubs will be added later,” he said.Jaswinder Kaur, district mentor (English language), said, “Around 4,000 students have become members of these clubs in the first phase. It was a general notion that the government schools cannot strengthen the children’s grasp of English. The purpose of establishing these clubs is to eliminate the hesitation in the pronunciation of English, structure of sentences and other norms among our students who will in turn change that perception,” he said.Principal Jasbir Kaur from Bal Kalan School said as per the department’s directions, the school heads, English lecturers and masters would be the mandatory members whereas the rest could obtain membership on their own will.“Yet a large membership of these clubs testify the excitement and encouragement among teachers as well as students,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/english-booster-clubs-set-up-in-419-govt-schools-157982
19-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Health Dept collects samples of eatables||Tarn Taran, October 18A team of the Health Department, led by Rajinderpal Singh, Assistant Commissioner Food (ACF), collected samples of eatables from sweet shops, bakeries and other eateries on Saturday. The ACF said samples of sweets and eatables were collected from Arora Sweet Shop, Pardhan Sweet Shop, Quality Sweet Shop, Standard Sweet Shop and Modern Bakery. The ACF said samples would be sent to a laboratory for analysis and action would be taken accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-dept-collects-samples-of-eatables-157983
19-10-2020||---||Missing ‘saroops': A month after SGPC survey, no result||Amritsar, October 18The Akal Takht-constituted probe panel and the SGPC could not find out the whereabouts of missing 328 Guru Granth Sahib “saroops”.Rattled by the missing “saroops” and facing the ire of several Sikh organisations, the SGPC has initiated a door-to-door count of the holy scripture, besides roping in devotees to trace them. Besides, public notices have been released in newspapers.Panel constitutedSGPC employees will visit each gurdwara in the state where the “saroops” were kept.They will also go to private residences to record the number of Guru Granth Sahib and their place of printing.Even after over a month, this first-ever move of the SGPC could not yield desired results.Meanwhile, the Telangana HC lawyer-headed probe panel has prepared a 1,000-page investigation report. The circumstances were thoroughly examined and the officials and employees concerned were rigorously questioned, but the question “where and on whose instance the “saroops” were issued” remained unanswered.Several Sikh bodies cornered the SGPC over its “failed administration” or it was feared to be a deliberate attempt to conceal the facts if the SGPC’s U-turn on taking criminal proceedings against 16 officials and staff members was any indication. The SGPC also faced heat for uncertainty that prevailed in the number of “saroops” that got damaged in May 2016 accidental fire at its publication branch in Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib.Consequently, an indefinite protest continued to be staged in the Golden Temple complex for the past over 20 days.Every “saroop” of Guru Granth Sahib printed from the SGPC is allotted a serial number and the private publishers do the same.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said: “The teams have been directed to get the serial number and other details of every saroop verified even from the remotest part. It could take time but we are on the job. This exercise is being done to get the lead that could help us trace the missing saroops,” he said.Two pro forma were also supplied to the officials wherein they were to fill the details of “saroops” either in the gurdwaras or in private residences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-a-month-after-sgpc-survey-no-result-157706
19-10-2020||---||Only 50% patients have enough antibodies to donate plasma: GMC||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/only-50-patients-have-enough-antibodies-to-donate-plasma-gmc-157721
