20-10-2020||---||Police not verifying British national’s claims, allege kin||Amritsar, October 19The family members of the accused in the British national harassment case on Monday accused the local police of acting in a biased manner. They alleged that the police did not hear them or hold any investigation before lodging an FIR against their kin.Addressing mediapersons, Vishakha Sharma, Rubina Sharma, Sargun Khurana and Rupneet Sandhu, residents of Rani Ka Bagh, said the police did not verify the claims of harassment by the victim with the CCTV camera footage of the restaurant. They claimed that on October 10, all the family members also accompanied the accused to the restaurant for dinner when the NRI woman allegedly entered into a verbal duel with their men.After listening to their grievance, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill has ordered Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh to probe the matter. The police have also reportedly suspended a head constable in the case.The police had booked Sahil Sharma, Saurabh, Sahil Arora, Shikhan Khurana, Ritu Khurana and Gurpartap Sandhu for allegedly passing objectionable comments and assaulting the British woman. She had also accused the police of not arresting the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-not-verifying-british-nationals-claims-allege-kin-158174
20-10-2020||---||Will withdraw protest only if Centre revokes Acts: Farmers||Amritsar, October 19 With the farmers’ protest against the three farm-related Acts at the Buttari railway station entering the 19th day here on Monday, the farmer leaders on Monday said that they would withdraw their protest only after the Union Government revokes the three laws. In response to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s appeal to ease ‘rail roko’ to allow transportation of critical items, the farmer leaders hinted that a decision might be taken after the ongoing assembly session. “If the state government rejects the three laws in assembly, a decision in this regard might be taken,” said a farmer leader. However, he added that it was too premature to comment decisively on the issue as the matter would be discussed by all farmer organisations. Speaking on the occasion, many leaders expressed worries about the unequal and disproportionate distribution of wealth in the country saying that the welfare and survival of the masses was at stake with the government supporting corporate houses for political gains. They said the boycott of BJP leaders because of the party’s unprincipled stand against the farmers’ demand would be further made effective in the coming days. The farmers agitation received a shot in the arm with local writers, poets, activists and others participating in the protest. Members of the Folklore Research Academy and Kendri Punjabi Lekhak Sabha expressed solidarity with farmers and demanded that all sections of society must rise against the injustices being meted out to farmers and labourers. Meanwhile, the protest outside the residence of Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik at Devi Dass Pura village also continued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-withdraw-protest-only-if-centre-revokes-acts-farmers-158175
20-10-2020||---||SHO suspended, dept inquiry ordered against DSP in double suicide case||Amritsar, October 19Taking a serious note of the failure of the police team to arrest absconding Sub-Inspector Sandeep Kaur in a double suicide case, the police on Monday ordered a departmental inquiry against DSP Sukhwinder Pal Singh and suspended Jandiala police station SHO Satpal Singh, who was later transferred, in this connection.The police also formed a three-member Special Investigating Team (SIT) headed by Superintendent of Police Gaurav Toora in this regard. DSP Gurinderpal Singh and SI Binderjit Singh of CIA staff were two other members of the SIT. It would submit its report to the SSP after carrying out investigation.Vikramjit Singh, a jeweller and resident of Navapind village located on the Mehta road, had committed suicide after allegedly being blackmailed by SI Sandeep Kaur who was posted at the Mehta police station and was a resident of same village. Vikramjit committed suicide in a hotel room around 10 days ago. A day after, his wife Sukhbir Kaur, a teacher, also ended her life by hanging herself. The city as well as the rural police registered two separate cases for abetting suicide against SI Sandeep Kaur. Though the police are carrying out raids to nab her, she is still at large.The names of some other cops also came to light during the investigation on the basis of the suicide note recovered from the hotel room where Vikramjit committed suicide.Meanwhile, Tanpreet Kaur, daughter of the victims, also talked to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh seeking his intervention and immediate arrest of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sho-suspended-dept-inquiry-ordered-against-dsp-in-double-suicide-case-158176
20-10-2020||---||Covid  restrictions dampen Langoor Mela festivities||Amritsar, October 19 The Durgiana Temple Committee has introduced new safety regulations during the Navratra festivities and the ongoing Langoor Mela at the temple complex. The traditional festivities have taken a hit as the pandemic threat looms large and the temple committee is ensuring that no person contract the fatal virus. Usually, the beginning of the Langoor Mela coincides with the Navratras in the city. Dressed as langoors, faces smeared with vermilion and small ‘gada’ (mace) in hands (the symbolic weapon of Lord Hanuman), children were seen lined up outside the Sri Bara Hanuman temple. The only difference this time was that many of them had put on masks.  “Every year, almost 7,000 children visit the temple during the Langoor Mela. This time the footfall has been around 3,000. We have allowed only two adults to accompany a child and barred the entry of small and large groups of dholis and troupes, who used to visit the temple dressed as langoors,” said Harish Taneja, secretary, Durgiana Temple Committee. Dancing to the beats of dhols, moving around in small groups and even performing some stunts, the langoors were accompanied by their families. The temple authorities have also stopped the prasad distribution system to avoid the spread of the contagion. “Only devotees bring their own prasad and they are asked to take it back with them,” informed Harish. Apart from the standard safety procedures like wearing masks mandatory and thermal screening of devotees, the temple management has also put up information posters for devotees to follow the Covid-19 safety norms. The Durgiana Temple gets an average of 40,000 devotees every year during the Navratras. This time due to the Covid-19 threat and limitations, the number of devotees is less as compared to the previous year. A tradition that has been followed for the past many years, the 10-day festival’s significance is widespread and people from all over country as well as overseas come to the city during the Navratras to be a part of the festival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-restrictions-dampen-langoor-mela-festivities-158177
20-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar: Smart City is a dream & false hope||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, OCTOBER 19The dreams of turning the centuries old city into a Smart City are all but far-fetched. The belief is solidified even more upon seeing the entrance road to the Bhai Gurdas Ji Nagar, known as the New Amritsar locality, which is teeming with craters.About 2 km of stretch joining the locality -- housing over 10,000 homes -- with the GT road is in dire need of mending. This is the only way in and out of the locality which is amply wide.Rashpal Singh Chauhan, president of the New Amritsar Residents Welfare Association and a resident, blamed a private contractor for damaging the road. “About five years ago, the contractor had gained entry for his equipment and vehicles on the premises for a year,” he recalls. Five years on, his equipment is still there and heavy vehicles containing construction material plied, which allegedly have been the protagonist in the decaying of the said road.“Even numerous complaints to the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) had not brought desired results,” he says.Kulvinder Singh, a resident of the locality, has been living her for years now. According to him, a number of roads and inside streets are in a seemingly good condition, though a bit of repairing is required at some places. But the main access road has to be taken care of. “A number of roads and internal streets have hardly been repaired but are in good condition; though at some points it needs repair. However, the main access road developed big potholes and erosion of the topmost crust.”“The situation becomes worse during rain. The government pays no attention. Worsening the matters was a company laying gas pipes as the works damaged the potable water lines,” he adds.Fear of accidents always looms large, but officials are least bothered. “We had raised the matter about the poor condition of the road many times, but to no avail. The condition deteriorated during the rainy season. Every time excuses are made by the civic body and there seems no sign of relief,” Singh tells.Dinesh Bassi, chairman of Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), said the road would be constructed after the undergoing process of laying gas pipes is completed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-smart-city-is-a-dream-false-hope-158178
20-10-2020||---||Two arrested for smuggling weapons||Amritsar, October 19The Jandiala police on Sunday nabbed two persons allegedly involved in the smuggling of illegal weapons while two of their accomplices were still at large.Those arrested have been identified as Vikramjit Singh of Tarn Taran and Stefen of Preet Nagar in Lopoke. Those absconding have been identified as Baljit Singh and Shaifly of Jandiala.Harchand Singh, SHO, Jandiala police station, said the police got a tip-off that the accused used to smuggle illegal weapons from Tarn Taran to Jandiala. He said they were intercepted at a checkpoint near Bandala village. He said the accused were also involved in drug peddling. The accused were travelling in a car.During a search, the police confiscated two pistols and six live rounds from their possession. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act and Sections 27, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against them. They were produced in court which remanded them in police custody for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-arrested-for-smuggling-weapons-158181
20-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers protest at Reliance petrol pump in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, October 19Under the joint banner of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, and the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal), farmers staged a dharna at the Reliance petrol pump on the local Amritsar road on the second day of their protest here on Monday.Officials of the petrol pump had already downed the shutters of the pump on Sunday. While addressing on the occasion, Bhupinder Singh Pandori Takhat Mall and Baldev Singh Bal, representatives of the farmer organisations, condemned the farm Acts and termed these as anti-farmers.The leaders said the agitation launched by the state farmers would be carried out till the revocation of the farm laws. They urged the people not to use the products of the corporate sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-at-reliance-petrol-pump-in-tarn-taran-158182
20-10-2020||---||Grooming his garden is a meditative exercise for this artist||Amritsar, October 19Being an artist, Arvinder Chamak has always appreciated simple things in life. His garden too is an example that simplicity can be creative and therapeutic. Adorning his garden are two stone sculptures that serve an aesthetic purpose and reflect upon his attention to details. “A senior artist from Amritsar, OP Verma made the love bird sculpture that has been carved out of a single sheet of stone. Another sculpture in stone has been made by an artist from Orissa. These stone sculptures represent the element of earth in my garden,” said Arvinder Chamak.A poet and a writer, Chamak spends an hour everyday in morning and in the evening in his garden that he has groomed himself. His garden has a small section where he grows micro greens including mint, tulsi and mixed herbs. In another segment, he has created a small kitchen garden where he grows vegetables such as lady finger, egg plants, gourd and other seasonal produce. “The vegetables from our garden are also a favorite pick for many of our friends. My garden is a therapeutic space for me as I relieve my stress by grooming and weeding, sometimes meditating in nature’s abundance.” He has also planted native species of flowering plants along with some medicinal herbs. “My favorite activity of the day is when I spend a few hours in the evening with my family, including my daughter and my wife, listening to music.” said Chamak.Chamak uses organic manure using his kitchen waste via composting for his garden. He personally tends to all his plants and has been growing a few species of native trees as well. He is assisted by his daughter who shares his passion for the greens. “These plants are a big stress buster and I am happy that my daughter is taking over in nurturing our garden adding to its aesthetics as well as botanical upkeep.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/grooming-his-garden-is-a-meditative-exercise-for-this-artist-158184
20-10-2020||---||One dies, daily count continues to dip||Amritsar, October 19A 50-year-old woman from Bashmesh Nagar lost her battle to Covid-19 while 35 new cases were reported in the district today. The tally of the infected persons stands at 11,465 while the death toll has mounted to 432. A total of 87 recoveries were also reported. The active caseload is 314.In a major respite for the health authorities, the number of daily average cases has decreased significantly. The district is reporting less than 40 cases every day for the last one week. The number of deaths has also gone down.Meanwhile, government hospitals have resumed daily OPD services and elective surgeries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-dies-daily-count-continues-to-dip-158186
20-10-2020||---||Farmer bodies to work for Punjab's bright future||Amritsar, October 19Representatives of farmer organisations and the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal have resolved to work together to usher in a bright future for the state.In the meeting, they decided to constitute a 15-member joint committee to chalk the future course of action here on Sunday night. They expressed concern over ignoring the interests of the farmers by favouring big corporate houses in these policies.Office-bearers of the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha and the Kirti Kisan Union discussed the problems arising out of the Essential Commodity Amendment Bill 2020.On behalf of the farmer organisations, Jatinder Singh Chhina of the Kirti Kisan Union, Parkash Singh Dhotiyan, Satnam Singh and Sukhdev Singh were present.Piara Lal Seth, president of the beopar mandal, said the GST, passed three years ago, had fallen flat at the grassroots level with over 1,000 amendments.He said the government had been trying to favour corporate houses to take over small and medium industrial houses with its various policies for the past many years. Despite their several protests and communications to the government, nothing positive came out.He felt that now farmers, industrialists and traders would jointly work to stop the government from introducing such policies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmer-bodies-to-work-for-punjabs-bright-future-158187
20-10-2020||Strap||Delay in textile policy invites traders’ wrath||Tribune News Service Amritsar, October 19Though the Union Government announced to frame a textile policy way back in 2016, its slow pace has started bothering local textile manufacturers and traders. The holy city was once compared to Manchester for its large scale production of textile.Piara Lal Seth, General Secretary of the Shawl Club of India, said the delay was costing small textile units heavily, which were already battered by demonetisation, GST and the Covid-19 pandemic.He said it was their long outstanding demand to the Central Government to frame a new textile policy. In a communique to the Union Government here on Monday, the Shawl Club of India demanded that the two components of the textile sector — organised and unorganised sector —be considered separately as the problems were very much different in each sector. The unorganised sector mostly comes under the MSME category and the New National Textile Policy should be framed to meet its requirements and redressal.The communique stated that the basic raw material for textile sector are polyester and woolen worsted yarn. Woolen yarn, which is also called greasy wool, is imported from Australia and other countries and polyester fiber yarn is monopolised by the Reliance.It said if both the raw materials are made available at the international price and particularly at the rate prevalent in China Market, the export of textile sector can increase manifolds.Free import of readymade textile, under SAARC from Bangladesh in particular, have crippled our domestic industry. So needed amendments are required, it stated.Export promotion bodies should organise international seminars, conferences during winter in the holy city, which boasts of international airport and the best of road and rail connectivity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/delay-in-textile-policy-invites-traders-wrath-158188
20-10-2020||Neha Saini||Attendance card on Day 1: 2,000/61,000||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 19Very few students chose to attend schools which reopened today for Classes IX to XII after a gap of seven months following the Covid-19 outbreak. Out of a total of 61,000 senior students in government schools of the district, only 2,000 attended regular classes on Day 1.Morning assembly and activities that require students to gather in large numbers continue to remain suspended.Abiding by the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the authorities, students brought their own food and water bottles, along with consent letters from parents or guardians. Despite thin attendance, students seemed happy to be back to classroom teaching.“It’s good to be back to school after seven months. Although online classes were also satisfactory as teachers guided us thoroughly, coming to the school and meeting friends and teachers is altogether a different experience,” said Jaspinder Kaur, a student of Class XII at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Mall Road.Susheel, another student, said the resumption of regular classroom teaching would boost their morale. “Coming to the school and one-on-one interaction with teachers is very important as you get to learn many things and clear doubts. It’s sometimes difficult to understand certain lessons in digital classes due to disturbance in network.”A teacher attributed the thin attendance to fear among parents as Covid cases are on the rise in the district. As part of the guidelines, all teachers and staff of government schools are to be tested for Covid.All schools have made elaborate arrangements for thermal screening and sanitisation at the entrance. Classrooms were thoroughly sanitised. Benches were arranged at an adequate distance from each other.“All safety norms have been put in place to ensure the safety of students, teachers and other staff members. Normally, 40 students sit in one classroom, but we have made arrangements for only 20 students to ensure social distancing. Students will be allowed to attend classes only after parental consent. The school canteen continues to remain shut. Students have been asked to wear mask, bring their own food and water and abstain from close contact with each other. Sanitisers have been placed at every point of contact,” said Mandeep Kaur, Principal, Govt Girls Sr Sec School, Mall Road.DEO (Secondary) Satinderbir Singh said schools were being sanitised twice daily. “All SOPs are in place and we are encouraging teachers to reach out to parents to inform them about safety measures being taken. Online classes will continue for those who are choosing to stay at home.”He said the thin attendance issue was temporary. “Teachers were tested for Covid before joining the duty and those found infected have been quarantined. We are following all safety guidelines,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attendance-card-on-day-1-2-000-61-000-158173
