24-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja---||Bovine care suffers as govt fails to release cess to MC||Tribune News Service Amritsar, October 23 Though the Punjab Government is levying cow cess on various products, it is not being released to the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar (MCA) for the welfare of cows. The MC is getting cow cess only from the Transport Department, which is insufficient to take care of more than 5,000 cows that roam city roads and streets. The state government has been levying cow cess on the purchase of liquor, fuel, cement and some other items since 2016. Ironically, a small share of the cess, being collected by various departments, is deposited in the MC’s account. As per the official data, the civic body has received only Rs1.34 crore as cow cess from the Transport Department from 2016 till date. With this money, the MC provides fodder to stray cows and takes care of cattle in their cattle pond. Even a gaushala is being constructed in the Nariangarh area using these funds. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “Only Transport Department is depositing its share. The cow cess, being collected by several other departments of the state government, has not been released even once since 2016. We take care of cows using this cess. A gaushala is being constructed at a cost of Rs 93 lakh. If the government releases the funds, we will make better look-after arrangements for cows.” Civic body officials claim that due to insufficient recovery of cow cess, the welfare of cows is suffering. The MC has a cattle shed with a capacity of 30 animals, which is insufficient. The proposed construction of gaushalas by the district administration is still a distant dream. Meanwhile, the MC general house also cleared the raising of two more gaushalas to accommodate 600 head of cattle in the Naraingarh area last year, but the project has yet to see the light of day. Though a large number of cow shelters are being run by religious organisations and individuals, cows are not getting proper care they need.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bovine-care-suffers-as-govt-fails-to-release-cess-to-mc-160139
24-10-2020||PK Jaiswar---||Dug up for gas pipelines once, ignored forever||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, October 23  Around 2.5 lakh residents are going through the brunt of Municipal Corporation’s delinquency regarding the road that connects Putlighar chowk on main GT road with Islamabad area.  Apart from being the place of historic shrine Gurdwara Pipli Sahib, it also leads to various localities of Islamabad area, including Ram Nagar Colony, Chhota and Vadda Haripura, Adarsh Nagar, Kot Khalsa, Nava Kot, Navi Abadi etc, which make up for the numbers that have to daily bear multiple troubles arising out of the neglected path. Rakesh Sharma, a shopkeeper, brings to life the part of the ordeal when it all began. He said that the road was dug up by the firm involved in laying gas pipelines. “When asked they told that the requisite fee with the MC’s authorities for repairing the road had been deposited. However, once the road was spaded it never was repaired opening up a host of problems for commuters as well as the inhabitants of the adjoining localities,” Sharma added. The people can’t really help their vexation. Rampant encroachments aside, the road is bristling with gravels scattered from the manholes. These small craters are a big threat as they whip up accidents every now and then.  Balram Verma, a resident of Palika bazaar, said, they had met local municipal councillor many a time for getting the it repaired and bring some respite to the people but no action has been taken till date. The construction of flyover at railway crossing No. 22 had only added to their woes as commuters were diverted to Islamabad road due to the under construction flyover. “The company involved in the construction has failed to provide a service lane to people, that could’ve soaked some of the inconvenience,” Balram shared.  Vikas Kumar, a shopkeeper, chips in, “The area on either side of Islamabad railway crossing located on Putlighar-Islamabad road always remained potholed.” Avinash Jolly, municipal councillor of the area, said that as far as the road from Pulighar chowk of railway crossing; that has been sanctioned in the plan, but was not being constructed by the MC authorities for the reasons best known to them. “The portions that were damaged by the firm involved in laying gas pipelines, it is the duty of the MC for repairing them as the firm deposits the money with it for the mending,” he told.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dug-up-for-gas-pipelines-once-ignored-forever-160140
24-10-2020||Neha Saini---||Week after reopening, govt schools see 12 pc turnout||Tribune News Service Amritsar, October 23 The District Education Department is encouraging parents to visit government schools in the city to take stock of the safety measures being adopted by the teachers and management after reopening the schools. The move comes after a marginal increase in the number of students attending schools after their reopening since October 19. The first day footfall of students in the district remained abysmally low but over the week there has been a marginal increase. The student strength in schools remained around 12% a week after reopening. While there has been a push towards word of mouth information regarding school safety, parents are still unwilling to send their kids to schools in this hour of Covid-19 crisis. “We are taking stock of the situation as we encourage parents to send their wards to school after a thorough satisfaction over our safety methods. The main cause for concern for parents remains the risk of getting infected, for which they seek a ‘guarantee’ from the school heads and principals. It’s a challenge for us to overcome the low turnout and we are looking towards possible solutions. It’s a wait and watch period for all,” said District Education Officer (Secondary) Satinder Bir Singh. The first day of reopening saw mere 5-10 students in each class attending school. The number of students attending classes has slightly gone up and remained consistent at an average of 10-12. Despite the mandatory Covid-19 testing of all the teachers and staff at government schools, other measures are being adopted to motivate students to come to school.  Mandeep Kaur, principal, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Mall Road, said students who were coming to school were being encouraged to convince others about the adopted safety measures. “Even teachers are motivating students to get their parents to visit schools. Government schools are running online classes parallel to physical classes for students studying from home,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/week-after-reopening-govt-schools-see-12-pc-turnout-160141
24-10-2020||Our Correspondent||One killed in firing||Tarn Taran, October 23One person was killed and another injured in an incident of firing that took place between family members of late Indian professional wrestler Joginder Singh Tiger over a property dispute at Sheron village, 10 km from here, on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Angrej Singh of Chhapianwali village in Mukatsar, who was in the village to see his relative (sister’s husband) Jasdeep Singh.The injured has been identified as Karan Singh, grandson of Tiger.The Sarhali police have registered a case against 15 persons under Sections 302, 307, 447, 511, 148, 149 of the IPC, and 25, 27,54 and 59 of the Arms Act. Five of the accused have been identified as Sukhwant Singh, alias Pappu Pehalwan, his son Karan Singh, Ranbir Singh, Parlad Singh and Bau, while 10 others are unidentified.In his statement to the police, complainant Jasdep Singh said that he along with his relative Angrej Singh during morning walk saw some armed persons were tilling their prime land. He said he tried to pursue them but they opened fire in which Angrej Singh was seriously injured. He was taken to a local private hospital from where he was referred to Guru Ram Das Hospital, Amritsar, where he died. Jasdeep Singh admitted that he fired in his self-defence. The police said the accused had been absconding since then.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-killed-in-firing-160145
24-10-2020|| ||Youth shot dead, brother hurt||Amritsar, October 23 A youth was shot dead while his brother was seriously injured in an attack allegedly perpetrated by Randeep Gill, chairman of the All India Akhil Valmiki Dharm Samaj and his brother Balram Gill. They were accompanied by around their five unknown accomplices when they allegedly barged into a church in Guru Ram Das Nagar near the Gilwali Gate area here on Friday. The victims were identified as Prince and his brother Manoj. They were rushed to a hospital where doctors declared Prince dead while Manoj was under treatment. Jaspal Masih, chairman, All India Christian Samaj Morcha, national secretary SAD, informed that at around 2 pm when a religious programme was underway in the church, Randip along with his brother Balram and other armed accomplices came to the church and fired indiscriminately from his licensed weapon. He said Prince sustained bullet injuries on his head leaving him dead.He alleged that Gill used to object over religious congregations at the church while Prince used to resist him. He said today he along with his armed persons attacked in the church premises. He alleged that Balram had several criminal cases against his name. Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh along with other police officials reached the spot and carried out investigations. He said the police would probe the matter and action would be taken accordingly against Randip Singh Gill and his brother Balram Gill. He said the motive behind the murder was yet to be ascertained. He said raids were on to nab the suspects who were on the run since the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-shot-dead-brother-hurt-160147
24-10-2020||---||No burning of Ravana effigy by committees this Dasehra||Amritsar, October 23This year, there will be no burning of Ravana effigy by any Dasehra organising committee in the city. Officials of the Municipal Corporation (MC) have confirmed that no such committee had applied for the permission.Now, the MC will keep a check on any violation. A letter has been issued to advertisement wing officials by the Estate Officer of the MC to keep a tab on the billboards and posters and report to them if anyone burns Ravana effigy without the approval.Estate Officer Sushant Bahtia said, “We got only one application from a Dasehra committee on Majitha Road. The venue was not under the jurisdiction of the MC and they were celebrating the festival on a private property, so we have not allowed them. No other Dasehra committee had filed application for the permission. Now we will keep an eye on any violation.”A separate letter has been issued to the MC inspectors to report about the Dasehra celebrations in the city. Meanwhile, a number of mandir committees organizing Ram Leela will celebrate Dasehra. The Durgiana Temple Committee will burn a small effigy of Ravana to observe the custom to end the Langoor Mela.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-burning-of-ravana-effigy-by-committees-this-dasehra-160149
24-10-2020||---||Farmers burn effigies of PM Modi, Ambani and Adani||Amritsar, October 23Irked by BJP president JP Nadda’s remarks that middlemen and not farmers were behind the agitation against farm laws in Punjab, leaders of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) hurled a counter allegation against the Narendra Modi government for framing laws as per the diktats of the corporate houses.They burnt the effigies of business magnate Mukesh Ambani, Gautam Adani, founder of the Adani Group, besides Prime Minister Narendra Modi in posh Ranjit Avenue, where a large number of women agitators wearing saffron colour ‘Chunni’ gathered on Friday.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KMSC, said the BJP government at the Center was enacting laws at frenzied speed which were falling apart like pins. He recalled the outcome of the demonetisation and the GST. The traders being in minority had only opposed in a limited way before the implementation of the GST, he said and added that after over 1,000 amendments the GST had now woefully failed.Similarly, the decision of abrogating Article 370, ending the special status to Jammu and Kashmir and Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) remained controversial.The KMSC spearheaded blockade of Amritsar-Delhi railway line at Devidaspura village on Friday.Activists raised slogans demanding a roll back of the three agriculture legislations which were recently passed by Parliament.Meanwhile, indefinite sit-in outside the residence of Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik continued with members of the Kirti Kisan Union, Azad Kisan Sangarsh Committee and Kisan Sangarsh Committee taking part in it. They raised slogans against the BJP leaders for withdrawal of all three laws on farming. The leaders stated that these laws would help business houses to do direct deals with farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-burn-effigies-of-pm-modi-ambani-and-adani-160152
24-10-2020||Studying the pattern of migratory birds||Theh Kanjla village a birder’s paradise||As winter season is just round the corner, Tribune lensman spent two days at the village site to capture a variety of birds through his lenses. Spending six hours a day from as early as 6 am to 12 noon, he was successful in capturing some rare species swimming in the lotus-filled sewage ponds formed out of vacant industrial plots of the Urban Estate, while others were captured in flight or while perching atop trees and wires. Some of these birds are local, while others have migrated in this new breeding ground from surrounding Asian countries. Ajay Sidhu, an avid bird watcher, guided The Tribune team towards the new location.EgretIt is a heron, which has white or buff plumage and develops fine plumes (usually milky white) during the breeding season. Purple heronIt is a wading bird in the heron family, which hunts fish, rodents, frogs and insects by either stalking them or standing and waiting in ambush.Black-winged kiteIt is distinctive with long wings; white, grey and black plumage; and owl-like forward-facing eyes. They are non-migratory, but show nomadism in response to weather and food availability.Purple sunbirdIt is a small bird found mainly in South Asia. Like other sunbirds, it feeds mainly on nectar, although it also consumes insects. It has a fast and direct flight and can take nectar by hovering like a humming bird, but often perches at the base of flowers. It has a dark and short square-ended tail and has a down-curved bill.Indian silverbillIt is a small bird found in the Indian subcontinent. It has a conical silver-grey bill, buff-brown upperparts, white underparts, buffy flanks and dark wings. The tail is black and the wings dark. It feeds mainly on seeds, but also takes insects and has been known to visit nectar-bearing flowers. Although largely sedentary, some populations make seasonal movements.Pheasant Tailed JacanaIt has elongated toes and nails. It swims or walks on aquatic vegetation. The body is chocolate brown, with a white face and the back of the crown is black with white stripes running down the sides of the neck. The wings are predominantly white. A dark eye stripe runs down the sides of the neck and forms a dark necklace on a slightly sullied white front.Plain priniaIt is a small warbler found in the Southeast Asia. It has short rounded wings, a longish tail, strong legs and a short black bill.Jacobin cuckooIt is a member of the cuckoo order of birds that is found in Africa and Asia. It is partially migratory and in India, it has been considered a harbinger of the monsoon rains due to the timing of its arrival.Black-headed swamphenIt is a large bluish-purple gallinule with a red bill and forehead shield, and red legs and feet with long toes. It is a common inhabitant of marshy, vegetated freshwater bodies such as swamps, rivers and lakes and usually lives in small groups. Black-winged stiltIt is a long-legged wader. It has slender, pink legs, a long thin black bill and is blackish above and white below with a white head.Little cormorantIt belongs to the family of seabirds. The entire body is black in the breeding season, but the plumage is brownish and the throat has a small whitish patch in the non-breeding season. Spot-billed duckThis bird is a large non-migratory breeding duck found in freshwater wetlands in the Indian subcontinent. Its name is derived from the red spot at the base of the bill. It has a scaly patterned body with a green speculum bordered by white.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/theh-kanjla-village-a-birders-paradise-160394
24-10-2020||Amritsar||Youth booked for raping girl on the pretext of marriage||The city police have booked a youth for allegedly repeatedly raping a girl on the pretext of marrying her. The victim belonged to Rajasthan and the accused came in contact with her through social media platform. The accused has been identified as Danish, a resident of Butala village. A case under Sections 376 (2) (N) and 420 of the IPC has been registered against him while no arrest has been made as the accused is on the run.The incident occurred in July this year when the accused kept her in different hotels where he made physical relations with her while promising to marry her. The victim lodged a complaint with the Rajasthan police when the accused refused to marry her.The Rajasthan police registered a zero FIR and sent to city police along with some documents and medico legal report to substantiate the claims. The Ranjit Avenue police also registered an FIR in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-booked-for-raping-girl-on-the-pretext-of-marriage-160396
