25-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Police party locked, 4 booked||Police nab two drug peddlersAmritsar: The anti-narcotic cell of the local police have nabbed Gurbir Singh of Khapar Kheri village and Tarsem Singh of Dhattal Village falling under Gharinda police station here and recovered 500gm of heroin from their possession. They were travelling on a scooter and were coming towards the Chheharta side when a police team signalled them to stop at a checkpoint. According to police, the accused tried to flee from the spot. However, the police team overpowered them and recovered 250-250 of gm heroin from their possession. A case under the NDPS act has been registered against them and further investigations are on to ascertain the source of contraband, said investigating officer SI Virsa Singh. TNSGunbir nominated GNDU senatorAmritsar: Gunbir Singh, an environmentalist and social influencer, has been nominated as senator of Guru Nanak Dev University. In a communication by the Principal Secretary, Governor Punjab, the appointment is for a two-year term. Singh has been engaged with academics for the last many decades and served as financial secretary to the Khalsa College Charitable Society for over 16 years. He also presides over World Wide Fund for Nature, India, Punjab Chapter and Dilbir Foundation. He is a former founder-chairman, CII Amritsar Zonal Council and member CII National Council on Public Policy. Reacting to his nomination, Singh said that he was grateful to Governor VP Badnore for this opportunity to further the cause of quality literacy at GNDU, which is one of the prominent and leading centre for higher education not just in Punjab but nationally. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-party-locked-4-booked-160883
25-10-2020||---||Harrowing experience: It is travails on battered internal roads||Amritsar, October 24The internal roads, leading from Bhagtanwala grain market towards Chabbal, and several other nearby villages, including Ibban Khurd, are in utter state of neglect. The link roads emerging from this road are mostly taken by devotees, who visit Baba Buddha Saheb Gurudwara, and by farmers visiting the grain market.This is one of the busiest routes in the area. Like several internal and link roads in the city, the main roads in this area are also dotted with potholes and ditches, making life of commuters more miserable, who are also battling several other civic issues.Councillor’s takeOne of the major reasons for delayed development of internal roads in this area is that it falls under two different wards, claims local councillor Reena Chopra. The main link road from Bhagtanwala towards Chabbal comes under Ward No. 69 and another one towards Ward No. 65. The area also falls under two different constituencies — South and Central Amritsar. So, the road as well as other development works need to be divided. Also, the work on internal roads got stalled due to the lockdown and later the tender process was delayed due to the monsoon.Though the Municipal Corporation had sanctioned Rs 20 crore for re-carpeting major roads, several internal roads, it seems, have not got the required attention of the civic body. The Bhagtanwala grain market, one of the major centres of commercial activity in the area a few metres away, the internal roads, especially the one from grain market leading towards Chabbal, have not been re-carpeted for the past five-six years. 'These roads have never been anyone's priority. My family has been living in this area for last three decades and I have never seen this road in a good condition. The locals are used to it but it is also a major cause of traffic congestion every day," said Prabhjot Singh, a resident who runs a mobile repair shop on the main road.The road is commonly used by commuters travelling between Chabbal and the walled city. “Anyone taking this road has to leave an hour before to avoid getting stuck here,” said Sahil Singh, a shopkeeper.One of the major reasons for delayed development of internal roads in this area, as local councilor Reena Chopra, shared, is that it falls under two different wards.“The main link road from Bhagtanwala towards Chabbal comes under ward 69 and another one towards ward 65. The area also falls under two different constituencies, ie, South and Central Amritsar. So, the road works and other development works need to be divided. Also, work on internal roads got stalled due to lockdown and later, tendering got delayed due to monsoon. We have got several development works passed and we are working on opening tenders for road works as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harrowing-experience-it-is-travails-on-battered-internal-roads-160882
25-10-2020||Cricket in this city has never been a passion||Cricket tournament turning heads around||Cash-strapped judo coach battles choppy watersDr Gurkirat Singh Aulakh, a known orthopaedic surgeon, remains busy between 10 am and 3 pm. He spares some time from his busy schedule to guide his elder son, who is a medical student, and school going younger son. He has written two poetry books ‘Beauty Unto Eternity’ and ‘The Cup of Tea’. He has penned a number of poems on Covid-19 pandemic.CM’s bold move on Bills draws a round of applauseOnce CM Capt Amarinder Singh negated the Union Government's agri Bills in the Vidhan Sabha, Gurdaspur congressmen were cock-a-hoop with joy. The first to issue a press note congratulating the CM was Raman Bahl, chairman of the Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSSB). He said if the mandi structure (grain markets) was dissolved, as was envisaged by the Bills, the Punjab Mandi Board will be rendered infructuous. "The Mandi Board undertakes a lot of development work in rural areas particularly relating to the growth and maintenance of the village road infrastructure. How can the state government carry out its projects when the board will no longer be there?" he averred. Raman was followed by two Cabinet ministers hailing from this district. Both Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa claimed that the need of the hour was to disband the Bills and "this is precisely what the CM has done." Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, too, issued a statement hailing the CM's move.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cricket-tournament-turning-heads-around-160881
25-10-2020||---||Probe into cop’s ‘objectionable’ video||Amritsar, October 24Taking cognisance of a video that went viral on social media in which a man was seen coming out of a room in objectionable position and is claimed to be a suspended policeman, the Amritsar rural Senior Superintendent of Police, Dhruv Dahiya, ordered a departmental probe into the incident here on Saturday.In the video, a woman was also seen who is alleged to be a Congress leader.The Senior Superintendent of Police, Dhruv Dahiya, in a statement issued here this evening stated that if the claims were found to be true, strict action would be taken against the policeman.The Superintendent of Police, Amandeep Kaur, has been deputed to hold the inquiry. In the video that went viral on social media, it was claimed that the man was suspended inspector Satpal Singh. He was recently suspended in the double suicide case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/probe-into-cops-objectionable-video-160880
25-10-2020||Hoshiarpur||One held with 400-gm heroin||The district police have arrested a woman drug peddler and recovered 400 gram of heroin and Rs 11.4 lakh in cash from her. The accused has been identified as Jasvir Kaur, alias Foujan, a resident of Langeri Road in Mahilpur. Divulging the details, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said that SHO Chabbewal Surjeet Singh, along with the police party, was carrying out checking in Adda Jaitpur. They stopped a woman riding a scooter having no registration number. ASP Garhshankar Tushar Gupta was informed about it, who reached the spot. The SSP said that Jasvir had already been facing 13 criminal cases, including 10 cases of NDPS Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-400-gm-heroin-160879
25-10-2020||Neha Walia||Extravagant weddings become thing of past||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 24The post Covid-19 functioning of hotels and resorts in the city has seen a major change with owners and customers focusing on caution. With nearly 60 per cent cut down on wedding extravagance and shifting to contactless service, the hotels are adopting safety guidelines in their business model while organising any social event. There is now no more self-service of food. Rather disposable cutlery and sanitisation tunnels have become the new must-haves during a wedding event.“The pandemic has changed quite a lot as far as organising social and wedding events are concerned. Most of the services are now being offered by hotels through contactless methods, especially during food service. The buffet system, which works on the basis of guests serving themselves, has been replaced by contactless food service through a single person.“The cutlery, used during wedding events, is now sanitised and wrapped in sheets and handed over to guests just before the food service opens. We also distribute masks to guests on arrival in case they come without wearing them. Masks and gloves are mandatory for the service and other staff during any event. The number of guests attending any event is also decided upon beforehand and strictly adhered to,” said Tarsem Singh, VP, Best Western Merrion.Besides cutting down on wedding services that otherwise used to be a lavish affair before the Covid-19 period, a limited menu is offered to guests to minimise wastage. According to Ravindra Das of Holiday Inn, almost all wedding events these days have limited guests and people prefer simple arrangements. So, there has been seen a big cut in décor and flower arrangements and food choices too have changed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/extravagant-weddings-become-thing-of-past-160850
25-10-2020||Amritsar||Farmer dies during protest at Buttari Railway Station||A farm activist passed away during the ongoing agitation at Buttari Railway Station near Beas here in the wee hours today. Joginder Singh of Cheema Khurd village was associated with the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha.The protest against the farm laws entered the 24th day today. The farm leaders said Joginder Singh was regularly attending the protest events. Senior farmer leaders, besides Communist leader Mangat Ram Pasla, paid respects to the farmer. Reaching out to the farmer bodies protesting at Buttari, the district administration officials announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh for the family of the deceased and a job for one member of the family. The protest is also going on continously outside the residence of Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik, toll plazas and outside Reliance Group petrol pumps. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmer-dies-during-protest-at-buttari-railway-station-160851
25-10-2020||---||Kiosks removed from busy Amritsar roads ahead of festive season||Amritsar, October 24In the wake of the festival season, the estate office of Municipal Corporation and Traffic Police conducted an anti-encroachment drive at Mall Road, Court Road, Link Road, Guru Nanak Market and the road opposite railway station here today. A large number of vends were seized and removed from these roads during the joint operation.A team of the estate wing, including inspectors Raj Kumar, Surinder Sharma, Dawinder Bhatti, Rajesh Kumar, Manoj Kumar and traffic police personnel visited these areas and seized the goods.Estate officer Sushant Bahtia said: “We got directions from Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal to remove the encroachment from roads before the start of festival session. The traffic police officials were also concerned about hassle-free movement of traffic. The joint drive will continue. We will not tolerate any encroachment on roadside. The busy markets will be our focus.”Meanwhile, the fruit vendors who were removed from Court Road on Wednesday were seen re-installing their vends on the same road. Bhatia visited at Court Road and warned the vendors against it or they would have to face the music.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said: “A large number of devotees will visit the city during the festival season. We will make good arrangements of sanitation and provide encroachment-free roads and streets. The estate wing staff has been asked to take strict action against encroachers. The vendors will be not allowed to become a hurdle in the movement of traffic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kiosks-removed-from-busy-amritsar-roads-ahead-of-festive-season-160852
25-10-2020||---||Prime accused, 2 others held||Amritsar, October 24A day after a youth was gunned down in a church, the police have arrested the prime accused, Randeep Gill, and his brother Balram Gill along with their third accomplice Suraj Kumar from Hoshiarpur after a chase on late Friday evening.Randeep Gill, a self-styled president of an organisation of a particular community and his brother, had several criminal cases registered against them in the city and in Tarn Taran. A hunt was launched after they killed Prince Atwal of Guru Ram Das Nagar in the Gilwali Gate area. His brother Manoj Pehalwan also sustained a bullet injury in the attack.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said that following the Friday’s incident, the accused were booked for murder, attempt to murder and under sections of the Arms Act and a hunt was launched to nab him. He said during investigation it was found that the deceased, Prince Atwal, had a close association with notorious gangster Bobby Malhotra, who is currently lodged in jail. A few days ago, Prince and Randeep had a dispute over some issue.Jaspal Masih, chairman, All-India Christian Samaj Morcha, and national secretary, SAD, who is a complainant in the case had called both the parties for brokering a compromise between them. However, a verbal duel broke out between them and Randeep and Balram fired at Prince and his brother Manoj. Prince was killed on the spot while Manoj is under treatment at a private hospital here. It was found that Randeep, Balram and Suraj had fled to Hoshiarpur. Following which, police teams nabbed the accused within six hours of the incident.The police recovered a revolver along with six live cartridges, one rifle with 27 bullets, three mobiles and an Innova car from their possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prime-accused-2-others-held-160853
25-10-2020||---||Time is ripe to give farmers a sense of income security, says Badnore||Amritsar, October 24The time is ripe to think beyond ‘food security’ and give back to our farmers a sense of ‘income security’, said VP Singh Badnore, Governor, while addressing the valedictory session of week-long online seminar of CII Agro and Food Tech 2020 that concluded last night.“We need to facilitate our farmers moving up the value chain, from being mere producers to agri-entrepreneurs. They need to be trained to transform their farms into production-cum- processing centres. Prosperity to farmers can be ensured by making farming a profitable preposition,” he added.He urged urge all concerned stakeholders to put in concerted efforts to bring in place a mechanism that catapults the prospects for Indian agriculture sector. This will not only lead to inclusive growth but will also provide employment opportunities for numerous landless labourers, small and marginal farmers. “Research in our institutes should be oriented to address the critical issues that hinder the development of rural businesses,” said the Governor.Ajay S Shriram, chairman, CII Agro and Food Tech 2020, said, “In the virtual arena, CII Agro and Food Tech has made its mark and presence felt across the globe. During the week, the event was addressed by five Union ministers, 8 ministers from various states, 14 secretaries from Government of India and respective state governments. There have been an encouraging number of over 130 exhibitors at the virtual exhibition arena, including international exhibitors from countries such as UK, Canada, Indonesia and UAE.”Nikhil Sawhney, chairman, CII Northern region, said, “This platform has been an endeavour to reach out to various stakeholders and bring them to a common platform for taking agriculture to the next phase of growth and development.”Abhimanyu Munjal, deputy chairman, CII Northern region, thanked partner ministries, international participants and partner country United Kingdom, sponsors, eminent speakers, media, delegates, visitors and exhibitors for their overwhelming support provided by them at the CII Agro and Food Tech 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/time-is-ripe-to-give-farmers-a-sense-of-income-security-says-badnore-160854
25-10-2020||Manmeet Gill||This embroiderer considers himself lucky to get new job||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 24A skilled embroiderer with a local unit until the coronavirus pandemic had come to affect lives and livelihood, Umesh Kumar is now working as a helper at a tea shop on Lawrence Road.Hailing from Bihar, Umesh had to return to his home after the nationwide lockdown was imposed and he lost his job. As whatever little savings he had was not enough to support him, Umesh returned to his home when the government arranged trains for migrant workers to reach their home states.With things moving towards normalcy in recent months, Umesh returned to the city hoping to get his old job. However, as the market is not promising for embroidered clothes, the unit owners too are in a fix over whether to start the work.“I consider myself lucky as I have found this job. I had fears that I would have to work as a manual labourer to which I am not very much accustomed to,” he said, adding that helping at a tea shop is easier than pulling a rickshaw or working as a porter in the construction industry.Talking about the hardships, he said, “Many of my friends have lost their livelihoods. They are making rounds of the markets daily to find any work. It is a tough world but we have other options also.” He said he expected that the markets would take an upswing in the coming months and he would be able to get his old job.“It is not about the job or earning a livelihood. It is also about what work you love to do. For me, embroidery is my passion,” he said. “I have not been able to send any money back to his parents and it pains him a lot,” rues Umesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-embroiderer-considers-himself-lucky-to-get-new-job-160855
25-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Rajinder is milking every potential drop of hope from pandemic||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 24Rajinder Singh’s usual routine is in full swing following the thinning down of pandemic and ensuing curbs.Being a milkman, he rises up as early as 3:30 am to feed his cattle. Then, till 5 he would milk his five buffaloes and four cows before collecting the remaining produce from his relatives residing nearby to full the stock.Without wasting any time, he’s on the road delivering milk to around 20 permanent customers in the city and some temporary ones here and there in different localities. Afterwards, he goes to the market to collect essentials for the livestock like medicines etc and returns home to work on his farm abounding with fodder and other crops.Check on synthetic milk requiredRajinder feels the government should buy all the milk from milk producers through its agencies and provide to consumers on a controlled rate. There should be check on the synthetic and adulterated milk. Otherwise the demand of milk is being fulfilled by the synthetic milk and farmers are not getting good price for it.However, the routine might be going smooth but isn’t yielding the desired result. About the thorn in the flesh, Rajinder says that he gets around Rs60 per liter for buffalo milk and Rs 40 per litre for cow’s; which does not suffice for expenses. “If we calculate the expenses, the milk should cost more than Rs100. The farmers are no more interested to keep the cattle. They have to spend a lot on the cattle,” he adds.His claim fits well as the accommodation, fodder, medicines and labour has to be taken care of but the price of milk is very low. He laments: “The business is not viable but we don’t have any other option.” In evening, after feeding fodder to cattle, he sets out again to deliver milk to his nearby customers like shopkeepers. goes to bed early so that he can efficiently run his chores the following day.As the pandemic dealt a heavy blow to his customers, it had a rippling effect on his income. “A few customers lost their jobs during the lockdown and now are reluctant to pay for the milk. The expected hike in the milk was also delayed,” says Rajinder, who hails from Malakpur village near Manawala.He is well aware of other milkmen resorting to unfair practices like adulteration due to very low earning in this business. “Moreover, the payments of co-operative and private dairies are not adequate for efficient functioning,” he adds.The dairyman thinks that the government could’ve done something to address the issue. Perhaps, a well-planned policy could have done the trick. “The government should buy all the milk from milk producers through its agencies and provide to consumers on a controlled rate. There should be check on the synthetic and adulterated milk,” Rajinder points out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rajinder-is-milking-every-potential-drop-of-hope-from-pandemic-160856
25-10-2020||Amritsar||Three deaths, 41  new cases reported in dist||With three more deaths in the district due to Covid-19, the toll has reached 443 on Saturday. The deceased have been identified as Gurmohan Singh (55) of Davindra Nagar, Sulakhan Singh (83) of Ram Nagar Colony and Kiran Kumari (50) of Majitha Avenue (Chheharta). The health authorities  also reported 41 new positive cases with which the total count has reached 11,669. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-deaths-41-new-cases-reported-in-dist-160857
25-10-2020||---||Owner reopens sealed gym, complainant demands action||Amritsar, October 24 A resident of Jaspal Nagar, Sultanwind Road, is at the receiving end as an “illegal” gym is functional in his locality. Even the Municipal Cooperation had sealed it last month. He had lodged complaints with the departments concerned in this regard, but to no avail. The complainant, Sukhwant Singh, says that an illegal gym has been functional in his adjoining house for the last few years. The gym operators play loud music and create a nuisance. Sukhwant filed an RTI to several departments during 2017-18 and found that the gym owner did not have change of land use (CLU) certificate from the competent authority to use the building for commercial purposes in a residential area and the mandatory NOC of the Fire Department. The Health Department of the MC issued him a trade licence and collected the licence fee. On May 2, 2018, Sukhwant Singh filed a written complaint to the Municipal Corporation Commissioner seeking action against the illegal gym. The MC didn’t respond to it. Then again, he filed a complaint at the mayor’s office on March 8 last year. When the Mayor office didn’t take any action against the gym owner, Sukhwant Singh visited the office and staff of the mayor’s office to inform him that his complaint had been misplaced. Sukhwant Singh filed another RTI to know the status of his previous complaints and demanded action taking report. When MC did not respond, he filed an application to First Appellate Authority on December 9, 2019. He was still waiting for a reply and now filed an appeal to the State Commission. Meanwhile, Sukhwant filed a complaint with the health wing of the MC to cancel the trade licence of an illegal gym on January 1, 2020. Ajay Kanwar, Municipal Health Officer, MC, said, “We have cancelled the trade licence of the gym on February 19, 2020.” During the Covid lockdown, the gym was closed but soon after the Central Government’s advisory, the gym owner opened it on August 5. Sukhwant Singh met MC Commissioner Komal Mittal and asked her to take action. On her directions, Municipal Town Planning wing of the MC sealed the gym on September 5. But after six days, the gym owner violated the directions of the Commissioner and reportedly broke open the seal installed by MTP on September 11. Sukhwant Singh again filed a complaint with MC the Commissioner and she assured her to register a case against the gym owner on September 14. Sandip Rishi, Additional Commissioner, MC, said, “The gym is illegal as the building owner runs it in a residential building. We had sealed it last month. Now, we again got a complaint that the gym owner had broken the seal. We have moved the case to get an FIR registered for breaking the seal. The gym will also be re-sealed soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/owner-reopens-sealed-gym-complainant-demands-action-160858
25-10-2020||---||Amritsar-based model and designer Yasmeen Bagga says she goes by the quality of work and not the quantity||Sheetal“Break the pattern, and don’t let monotony gets to you,”says the Amritsar-based model, celebrity stylist and designer Yasmeen Bagga. It has been three years of experience in modelling, costume designing, but she has the confidence to turn down a project that doesn’t ignite her artistic sensibilities.“When my bridal shoots went viral, I remember I was offered same kind of make-up or outfit-based shoots only. So, I stepped out of that zone that allowed me a limited space to emote as a bride. I choose to experiment instead of doing quantity work.”Born and brought up in Amritsar, she believes the city’s festive vibes, especially during Diwali and Lohri, are infectious. “If markets are flooded with people months before Diwali, then one can see the kites flying high before Lohri. I am proud of where I come from and my Amritsari dialect has only helped me gel with new groups, besides Amritsari chole kulche,” she adds.Creative streakCreativity is her passion, for she doesn’t limit herself to labels. She adds, “I will work on any project as long as it helps me explore my creative side. It could be acting, designing, modelling, painting or singing or even doing make-up.” Having completed her graduation in design from BBK DAV College for Women, Amritsar, she was also actively involved in theatre and often participated in Youth Festivals.It was during those days in 2017 that she was offered a chance to model for a bridal shoot by celebrity makeup-artist Shahid Naar. From there on, she became the muse of various bridal shoots for a jewellery company, makeup artists or costume designers.Having styled Neeru Bajwa for Atte Di Chidi’s promotional events to designing costumes for the poster shoot of Shadaa movie to styling a magazine’s Diwali shoot, featuring Japji Khaira, last year, she has come a long way in small time.True inspirationThe transformation from a college girl to a professional was so smooth that she sometimes regrets not being involved in acting anymore. “I draw my strength from my mother. She is not a person who would sympathise with me if I am having a bad day. She doesn’t pamper me or fabricate lies to boost my confidence, but would rather be a critic. That helps a lot. There are two words that help me in a difficult situation - patience and perseverance!”She recently shot a music video for singer and Rising Star Season 3 winner Aftaab Singh’s upcoming song. Having worked with big labels, she would definitely like to start her own someday!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-model-and-designer-yasmeen-bagga-says-she-goes-by-the-quality-of-work-and-not-the-quantity-160777
25-10-2020||Amritsar||25 paddy-laden trucks from UP head back||Farmers staging protests against the farm laws on the national highway near Amritsar today released 25 paddy-laden trucks to Uttar Pradesh (UP). The police and Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department officials were present there.One truck was impounded, as the driver did not have the necessary documents.The paddy had arrived illegally from Aligarh, Bulandshahr and Sitarganj of UP on October 22. The trucks were then impounded by agitating farmers near the Nijjarpura toll plaza. The grain was ordered by rice shellers of Amritsar and Tarn Taran. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/25-paddy-laden-trucks-from-up-head-back-160624
25-10-2020||Our Correspondent ||625 kg poppy husk seized, 2 held||Abohar, October 24 The Khuyiansarwer police in Abohar subdivision seized 625-kg poppy husk and 40,000 sedative tablets from a truck registered in Rajasthan. A team led by ASI Pargat Singh yesterday intercepted a truck that was transporting chemical powder bags from Gujarat for delivery in Punjab near Usmankhera village on the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway. A search operation led to the seizure of 25 bags of poppy husk and a carton full of sedative tablets that were hidden under the chemical powder bags. Driver Lakhwinder Singh Lakha of Manewala and his assistant Gurmeet Singh Matta of Wadian Kotbhai in Muktsar district were held under the NDPS Act. There has been a spurt in the smuggling of drugs through Rajasthan this month. Rajasthan had banned poppy husk sales but it was freely available in Madhya Pradesh, inquiries revealed.        On October 10, the police seized 16-kg poppy husk and 300-gm opium milk from a truck.On October 8, the police seized 100-kg poppy husk by intercepting a tractor-trailer on the Abohar-Sriganganagar highway.DSP Rahul Bhardwaj said vigil on the highway that connected Abohar with Rajasthan had been intensified. CCTV cameras were recording movement of vehicles round the clock, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/625-kg-poppy-husk-seized-2-held-160636
