30-10-2020||---||Police fail to present challan, ‘ultra’ gets bail||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 29In a major embarrassment to the Punjab Police, a sessions court today granted bail to alleged Khalistani operative Gurmit Singh, a resident of Amritsar, after the Amritsar rural police failed to present a challan in the court even after the lapse of three months. Gurmit was nabbed in June.The police had claimed to have busted a terror module with the arrest of two alleged Khalistani operatives. DGP Dinkar Gupta, during a media briefing at the time, had claimed the two were preparing to carry out a series of terror attacks and targeted killings at the behest of their Pakistani mentors and handlers. The other accused was identified as Vikram Singh.The police had claimed Gurmit was in regular touch with Pakistan intelligence service ISI and anti-India elements. “It is conceded that a period of more than 90 days has elapsed since the custody of the accused. The police have not submitted the challan while application for extension of time beyond 90 days has already been dismissed by the court. Therefore, the accused is ordered to be released on bail on his furnishing personal bonds,” the order issued by Sessions Judge BS Sandhu read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-fail-to-present-challan-ultra-gets-bail-163147
30-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||Huge quantity of firecrackers seized from Anngarh, 3 booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 29The police have seized a huge quantity of explosive material used for manufacturing crackers after conducting a raid in Anngarh area on the outskirts of the walled city.The accused have been identified as Jaswinder Singh, alias Baba Jassa, Sonu and Piara Singh, all residents of Anngarh.Cops recovered 2,000 firecrackers, thread bombs, 40-kg explosive powder, 1,400 wooden sticks, 1,000 empty iron shells of rockets, 500 pieces of cardboard and a wooden instrument from the residence of Jaswinder. Similarly, 410 thread bombs and 1,425 rockets were seized from the house of Piara.‘Mini-Sivakasi’of city is infamous for making illegal crackersEarlier, Jaswinder was booked by the police under Section 9 of the Explosive Act and had been on the run for the past year. He was booked by the police in March and September last year, besides in June 2010.Today the police raided two places and recovered around 15 kg of explosive along with over 100-kg chemical substance used for mixing and preparing firecrackers. The accused has been identified as Baldev Singh from Bhrariwal area near Anngarh, said Sukhbir Singh, SHO, Gate Hakima police station.Around two weeks ago, the police had busted an illegal firecracker unit in the area. The police had booked Dharminder Singh alias Saba and Sarabjit Kaur under the Explosive Act. Around 350 rockets, a machine and 15-kg explosives were recovered from them during the raid, besides 100 sand pots for preparing crackers.Besides bootlegging and drug addiction, the area has been infamous for manufacturing illegal crackers.Big catchCops recovered 2,000 firecrackers, thread bombs, 40-kg explosive powder, 1,400 wooden sticks, 1,000 empty iron shells of rockets, 50O pieces of cardboard and a wooden instrument from the residence of one of the accused. Similarly, 410 thread bombs and 1,425 rockets were seized from the house of second accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/huge-quantity-of-firecrackers-seized-from-anngarh-3-booked-162964
30-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||This jewellery maybe fake, but his nerves of steel are very much real||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 29The life was going smoothly working as salesman at a cosmetic shop in Putlighar area when suddenly it turned topsy-turvy due to some unavoidable circumstances in the life. The situation turned grim for Putlighar resident Suresh Kumar when the lockdown was announced in March this year.All the savings were spent to keep the survival going amid the pandemic. “With income dwindling at the shops, we were also hit as owners expressed their inability to pay full salaries until the situation turned normal,” said Suresh.With each passing day it was getting tighter and then flew in the bird of hope. He decided to do something about it. Instead of waiting for normalcy to return, he made the big decision of setting up his own kiosk. “It was very big and difficult decision for me. I had some money with me and borrowed some and started my own work of selling artificial jewellery and cosmetic materials by raising a kiosk outside a shop in Putlighar bazaar,” he said.As festival season has started, he is hoping of revival of market in the coming days. This shall also likely boost his business. “Though I do not know what the future holds for me and my family, but I wanted to give it a shot for the better,” he signed off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-jewellery-maybe-fake-but-his-nerves-of-steel-are-very-much-real-162966
30-10-2020||---||GNDU signs pact with NHAI for safer highways||Amritsar, October 29Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to conduct innovative research on different aspects, including highway design, safety and beautification.The GNDU will conduct research on around 137 km length of the national highways passing through Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Amritsar districts.Faculty of the GNDU and its scholars would conduct research on NH-3 (Amritsar-Wagha Border Section) and NH 54 (Pathankot-Amritsar section) on the aspects of geometric and pavement design, road safety audits and beautification plans. V-C Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu said the university experts would suggest innovative ways to improve road sections and junction designs, pavement materials, installation of traffic control and regulation devices to improve safety standards. Innovative urban design elements along the highways would be proposed to make the highways attractive to commuters.Department of Planning, Architecture and Civil Engineering would be working collectively in the research efforts. “State-of-the-art research labs on material testing, safety and design are proposed to be established in the university with the help of the NHAI. Students and researchers will get financial assistance from the NHAI to conduct their research. The NHAI will also offer stipend based internship/training to campus students,” he said.Prof SS Behl, Dean Academic Affairs, Sunil Yadav, Project Director, NHAI, Amritsar, and Dr KS Kahlon, Registrar, among others, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-signs-pact-with-nhai-for-safer-highways-162967
30-10-2020||Gurbaxpuri||A history of forsaking repairs||Tarn Taran, October 29This is a classic case of history repeating itself. Or so the residents of more than a dozen villages of the area feel every time they tread the ignored Dhotian link roads. The yesteryear is all about repeated requests falling to the deaf ears of concerned political leaders and authorities.These are the link roads of Dhotian, Dugri, Tur, Tanda, Chamba, Shingarpur, Benwalipur, Sheron, Rakh Sheron, Naushehra Pannuan, Feloke, Jamarai, Kot Muhamamd khan, Lalpur, Warana among others.Ravinder Singh Gill, chairman of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Social Welfare and Cultural Club, Dhotian, recalls that hundreds of letters have been written to the authorities in the last decade demanding repair of the 15 km stretch from Sheron to Jamarai, but to no avail. The road, also known as ‘Shaheed Baba Budha Singh Marg’, has been of special importance both for residents and the farmers. “At present the road wears the wretched look possible as it is all but ragged at every step. It has not been repaired for more than 12 years,” he tells. According to him, this is the reason roadways authorities have halted plying their buses on the route and the mini bus operators have followed suit as well.Making the matters more complex is the frequent passage of the heavy-duty vehicles, which take to the already feeble road to avoid the toll fee at Usman village toll palaza. Sarup Singh Dhotian, a resident of Dhotian village, president district sports organising committee, Tarn Taran, says the patch work of the road was left midway for which the dwellers have been bearing the brunt. “The shoddy work of the authorities concerned has made it an accident prone area,” he adds. The Sheron-Dhotian link road is barred to heftily loaded category of vehicles and meant for only light-weighted vehicles.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh Dhuri assured the works on most of the roads, including that of the Sheron-Jamarai, has been initiated and the rest shall also be given a face lift soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-history-of-forsaking-repairs-162968
30-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Eatables sent for Ghadri Mela||Three booked for smuggling armsTarn Taran: The rural police have booked three persons for allegedly smuggling drugs, arms and ammunition. Those booked have been identified as Ramandeep Singh of Dariya village, Sandeep Singh of Awan village and Angrej Singh of Pachhiyan village here. Sub-Inspector Sukhwinderjit Singh, who is the investigating officer of the case, said they were booked following a tip-off that the accused were in contact with Pakistan-based smugglers and used to smuggle drugs from across the fence. He said a case under Sections 21, 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act; Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act; Sections 3, 34 and 20 of the Indian Passport Act; and Section 14 of the Foreigner Act has been registered against him. He said the police were also checking the previous record of the suspects. OCOffice-bearers electedTarn Taran: A district-level meeting of the newly-appointed headmasters of the government high schools was organised here on Thursday in which the problems faced by them were discussed. Office-bearers were also elected at the meeting. Participants resolved to form a ‘Newly Appointed Headmasters' Union, Tarn Taran’ for which Jatinder Singh Boparai was elected as the district president, Jaswinder Singh Shahabpur Dial general secretary, Harinderpal Singh vice-president, Jugraj Singh Chuslevar treasurer and Amandeep Singh Daleke and Gurcharan Singh Malmohri were elected as media coordinators. OCOne succumbs, 47 new casesAmritsar: With another death reported due to the Covid- 19 in the district, the toll reached 452 on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Surinder Singh (75), a resident of Fairland colony. The district health authorities reported 47 new positive cases with which the total count of cases has reached 11,824. The new cases include 35 influenza like illness cases and 12 contacts of positive cases. Meanwhile, with recovery of 29 more patients, the recovery count has increased to 11,047. At present, the district has a total of 324 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eatables-sent-for-ghadri-mela-162969
30-10-2020||---||Two-day virtual summit to hone students’ skills||Amritsar, October 29Governor VP Singh Badnore today presided over the first edition of the two-day virtual inter-state ‘Acropolis Students’ Knowledge’ summit at Mount Litera Zee School, Amritsar. Students from 19 schools are participating in the event. Parnab Mukherjee and Sumer Singh are participating as lead organiser and mentor, respectively.The Governor lauded the efforts and said, “It is creditable to organise such an event during these troubled times.” He encouraged the students to participate wholeheartedly and fearlessly in the event to discover their talent.Stating that Mount Litera Zee School, Amritsar, was the first school in the region to host the summit, Director Manjot Dhillon said the event would feature students from schools affiliated with CBSE and ICSE.“The event is being organised to accord students a chance to intermingle and enhance their knowledge, besides honing their oratorical skills and exploring their hidden abilities,” she said.The event included Baba Ala Singh memorial multi-format (turncoat and extempore) debates in English, Jallianwala Bagh centenary memorial general quiz and discursive writing.Students from New Delhi, Mumbai, Varanasi, Pune, Indore, Begumpet, Dehradun, Sanawar, Siliguri, Kalyan, Greater Noida, Madurai, Nabhaelpro, Bokaro, Nabha are participating in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-day-virtual-summit-to-hone-students-skills-162972
30-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Three booked for abducting, raping teen||Tarn Taran, October 29Three members of a family of Ahemadpur village have been booked for abducting and raping a school-going teenage girl of the same village. The incident occurred on October 27 and a case has been registered by the Kacha Pakka police on October 28. The suspects have been identified as Jassan Singh, his father Boota Singh and mother Rajo. The victim, in her complaint to the police, said on October 27, she was coming back from her school when the suspect Jassan Singh stopped her and took her to the nearby brick kiln where he exploited her sexually. Parents of the accused came to the brick kiln and took her to the village and handed her over to her parents the next day. The police said the accused had been absconding and had been booked under relevant sections of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-booked-for-abducting-raping-teen-162975
