05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Confusion prevails over who will foot migrants’ train fare||Soon after Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday asked the party’s State units to bear the cost of rail travel of migrant workers, the Railways said the “sending States” needed to pay for sending people home on the ‘Shramik Specials’. “As per the guidelines issued, the sending State will pay the consolidated fare to [the] Railways. The sending State may decide to bear this cost or take it from passengers or take it from the receiving State after mutual consultation or may charge it to any fund. It is purely their prerogative,” a Railway spokesperson said. At a regular briefing, Health Ministry spokesman Lav Aggarwal, claimed that though the government started the ‘Shramik Specials’ at the request of the State governments to help stranded people, the Centre would bear 85% of the cost and the States the remaining 15%. The government clarification was seen as damage control coming as it did after the Congress announcement. The party also cited a May 2 order where a senior Railway Board official said, “The local State government authority shall hand over the tickets to passengers cleared by them and collect the ticket fare and hand over the total amount to the Railways.” Nitish’s gesture Amid the controversy, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar chipped in to say that his government would not only bear the travel costs of the migrant workers, students and tourists but also give each of them Rs. 500 after their 21-day quarantine period was over. BJP general secretary B.L. Santoshi, however, said in a tweet, “Let alone charging Railways don’t have any ticket counters .. Trains are run on state requests. After the request Kerala, Rajasthan, Maharashtra make #MigrantLabourers pay & @INCIndiaChief issues statement & usual suspects pump it up.” Earlier, in a statement, Ms. Gandhi called it “disturbing” that the Railways and the Centre were charging the migrant workers even for distress travel when it could spend nearly Rs. 100 crore on a public programme in Gujarat, a veiled attack on the ‘Namaste Trump’ programme to welcome U.S. President Donald Trump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/confusion-prevails-over-who-will-foot-migrants-train-fare/article31506357.ece
05 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State tally at 1,650 as 3 districts continue to report more cases||The State has tested 10,292 samples, the highest in a day, and detected 67 fresh COVID-19 positive cases from six districts in 24 hours. The tally of positive cases has gone up to 1,650 and 36 patients have recovered leaving a total of 1,093 active patients. The toll remained 33 as no new deaths were reported. Kurnool district reported 25 new cases followed by Guntur (19) and Krishna (12). Visakhapatnam, that has the least positivity rate, reported six fresh cases while Kadapa and Chittoor districts reported four and one fresh cases respectively. In Kurnool, nine patients have recovered and were discharged. Eight patients each were discharged in Chittoor and Prakasam, six in Nellore, three in West Godavari and two in East Godavari. Till date the State has tested 1,25,229 samples with a positivity rate of 1.31%. So far, Kurnool reported 491 cases, Guntur 338, Krishna 278, Nellore 91, Kadapa 87, Chittoor 82, Anantapur 78, Prakasam 61, West Godavari 59, East Godavari 45, Visakhapatnam 35 and Srikakulam five cases. Meanwhile, officials of the Health Department and others concerned, in a review meeting, told Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy that testing of 32,792 persons identified in fever survey with symptoms like fever, cough and cold would be completed by Tuesday. Mr. Reddy was told that the testing capacity of the State had now gone up to over 10,000 per day and 11 (RT-PCR) laboratories and 45 TruNet test centres are functioning at present. The 11 laboratories have been using 22 RT-PCR machines and soon the number will increase to four machines per district, they said. The State’s tests per million ratio has gone up to 2,345 overtaking Delhi which has conducted 2,224 tests per million. Central team visit A two-member doctors’ team sent by the Central government will tour Kurnool district on Tuesday to assess the situation and note down the measures being taken to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-tally-at-1650-as-3-districts-continue-to-report-more-cases/article31506349.ece
05 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Liquor shops draw huge crowds on Day One||About 2,500 liquor outlets that opened across the State on Monday after a gap of 40 days witnessed a heavy rush. People lined up in long queues often violating social distancing norms and even jostled at some places forcing police to use mild force. At some places, like Agiripalli in Krishna district, local people, especially women, protested against the opening of the liquor vends. Police tightened security at the liquor shops to prevent any untoward incidents. The AP Beverages Corporation Limited resumed the sale of liquor at its outlets with the Centre relaxing COVID lockdown norms in green zones. The government, however, issued instructions that social distance should be maintained and consumers should wear masks while purchasing liquor. Shops were not opened in Prakasam and parts of Krishna district as a precautionary measure. As the liquor outlets were not opened on the Andhra Pradesh-Tamil Nadu border, public crossed over from Ramapuram and B.V. Palem to make purchases. “When lockdown is continuing how can the government open liquor shops? People from different places are crowding the shops without following social distance. There is a threat of a spurt in coronavirus cases due to the sale of liquor,” a woman protester fumed. Celebrations In Jangareddygudem in West Godavari district, tipplers danced in front of the shops and celebrated the occasion. Villagers were seen sitting in long queues for liquor at Gannavaram in Krishna district. At some places, women were seen queueing up for liquor. “Except the shops located in red zones and containment areas, remaining liquor outlets were allowed to conduct sales,” Inspector General of Police (IGP-Enforcement) Vineet Brijlal told The Hindu.  However, the district Collectors and the local police could take a decision whether to allow liquor sale depending on the rush and the law and order situation there. “The liquor outlets will be kept open from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. As per the information, a majority of the shops were opened, but a few on Tamil Nadu border were not allowed to do sales. Compared to other States, sale of liquor went off peacefully on Day One,” the IGP, who is also the Director (Prohibition and Excise), said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/about-2500-liquor-shops-opened-in-state-after-40-day-dry-period-page-1/article31506344.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Several hurt in shed collapse at Koheda market||Collapse of a large shed has resulted in injuries to several people, some of them serious, when an unexpected hailstorm ravaged the newly-shifted fruit market at Koheda in Rangareddy district on Monday. Unclear figures According to local sources, 14 persons were hurt in the incident with four among them receiving serious injuries. A few have been shifted to private hospitals nearby while others have been brought to Vanasthalipuram area hospital. However, Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy said 26 people were injured and one of them seriously. Eye witnesses said that isolated thunder storm with hail and strong winds was experienced during the afternoon at Koheda and nearby areas. While the fruit market had four sheds with nothing but aluminium tin sheets of small sizes laid one over the other for roofs, one among them collapsed completely. Roofs of the remaining three were tossed away in the storm. Video clips were circulated on social media showing how the tin sheets flew away like leaves in the strong wind. Workers, hamalis and traders numbering in hundreds were present inside the sheds at the time of the incident, eye witnesses said. Several tonnes of mangoes which were brought to the market by farmers were damaged in the rain, they said. Compensation demand Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, who visited the site, demanded compensation to the farmers and the injured. Terming the incident unfortunate, Mr. Niranjan Reddy assured help to all the injured in the incident. He said that they had information that the condition of one of the injured was serious and the government would provided medical care to all the injured. Mango arrivals According to the Agricultural Marketing Department officials, two huge sheds were constructed and opened recently and another was under construction on a war-footing as the government had decided to allow mango arrivals only at Koheda to reduce congestion and over-crowding in Kothapeta and Gaddiannaram markets. About five acres was also given to TS-Transco recently for construction of a sub-station there. Construction of sheds and other infrastructure facilities were taken up with Rs. 65 lakh and sheds with a total built-in area of 1.26 lakh square feet are being constructed there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/several-hurt-in-shed-collapse-at-koheda-market/article31506587.ece
05 May 2020||Srinagar,||Three CRPF jawans killed in militant attack||Three Central Reserve Police Force jawans and one unidentified person were killed in an attack in Kupwara district of north Kashmir on Monday. “Around 6 p.m., unknown militants attacked CRPF troops of the 92 Battalion deployed for law and order duties near Wangam Stop in the Qaziabad area of Handwara. Three CRPF jawans were injured in the attack and succumbed to their injuries,” said a CRPF spokesperson. Stand-off fire CRPF sources said the militants engaged the CRPF personnel in a stand-off fire, before fleeing. Two CRPF men were killed on the spot, they said. One unidentified person, whom the CRPF suspect to be an attacker, was also killed in the firing. Immediately after the attack, the CRPF personnel made an attempt to repulse the attack and chased the militants. “A cordon and search operation by the CRPF was immediately launched after the attack to trace the militants,” the CRPF official said. However, a senior official in Kupwara said the local administration was ascertaining the identity of the person killed at the spot. “No weapon was recovered from the pit where the person was found dead,” the official said. The attack comes a day after four soldiers, including two officers and a policeman, were killed in an 18-hour-long operation, also in Handwara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-crpf-jawans-killed-in-militant-attack/article31506538.ece
05 May 2020||Palakkad,||568 return through Walayar||As many as 241 vehicles carrying 568 Keralites who had been stranded in other States reached here through the Walayar check-post on Monday. The return of Keralites trapped elsewhere began on Monday. District Collector D. Balamurali said all of them were given entry after strict check at Walayar. Sixteen counters have been erected to check the credentials and health condition of the returnees. Most of them were families stuck in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and other neighbouring States. Mr. Balamurali said only those with private vehicles and those coming by taxi were given permission to enter the State. He said the government would soon decide on bringing those who depend on public transport. Mr. Balamurali said only those having two passes (one from the originating place and the other from the place of destination) were given entry. No passes for intermediate places are needed. “That means, if you are coming from Bengaluru and passing through Tamil Nadu before reaching Kerala, then you don’t need a pass for Tamil Nadu,” the Collector said. People having no symptoms were allowed to go home and remain in self-quarantine for two weeks. “Anyone with symptoms will be placed in our COVID-19 care centre,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/568-return-through-walayar/article31506638.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Minister directs DPI officials to get ready to hold SSLC exam||Signalling an end to the anxious wait of lakhs of students, Primary and SecondaryEducation Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Monday asked the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) to start preparations to hold the SSLC examination. However, the dates have not been finalised. In a videoconference meeting with the Deputy Directors of Public Instruction of all 34 educational districts in the State, the Minister was informed that students were eagerly waiting for an announcement on exam dates. Speaking after the meeting, he said all 34 DDPIs and other senior officials were of the opinion that the exam should be conducted as it is part of a crucial stage in the students’ lives. He also said that officials were told to make changes in seating arrangements to ensure that sufficient distancing is maintained. They were also directed to prepare, after a spot inspection, and submit to the heads of districts a report on the additional exam centres and other facilities needed for holding the exam smoothly. “I have also directed officials to ensure precautionary measures such as keeping sanitisers in exam halls, wearing masks, and temperature checks are all taken,” Mr. Suresh Kumar added. The State government had to put off the SSLC exam in the wake of the spread of COVID-19. It was originally scheduled from March 27 to April 9. Revision classes The Minister also said that the Doordarshan Chandana channel would start telecasting revision classes for SSLC students in English in a few days. Revision classes for Kannada-medium students are already being telecast. “I have directed the officials concerned to make sure that revision classes in English are also telecast. The shooting has begun, and the classes will be telecast from Thursday or Friday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-directs-dpi-officials-to-get-ready-to-hold-sslc-exam/article31506401.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,||In sharp spike, T.N. records 527 cases||Tamil Nadu witnessed its sharpest rise yet of COVID-19 patients on Monday, with a record 527 cases. The fresh cases were reported from 19 districts, with Chennai accounting for 266 of them and Cuddalore witnessing a sudden spike, recording 122 cases in a single day. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 3,550* in the State. Twenty more children — aged 0 to 12 — have tested positive, and among them are a newborn in Cuddalore, a three-day-old and a 10-day-old in Chennai. The State reported another death, taking the toll due to COVID-19 to 31. A 65-year-old man from Chennai, who was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, died at 12.45 a.m. on Monday. He had comorbidities, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The State has 2,107 active cases on date. A large number of the fresh cases were linked to the Koyambedu market, the bulletin said. Chennai’s tally of COVID-19 cases increased to 1,724, of which 264 had been discharged, 1,438 were active cases and 18 died. Cuddalore's 122 new cases took its count to 161. There were 49 cases in Villupuram, 25 in Perambalur, 11 in Tiruvannamalai, 10 in Dindigul, nine each in Tenkasi and Tiruvallur, six in Ariyalur, four each in Chengalpattu and Tiruchi, three in Ranipet, two in Tiruvarur and Virudhunagar, and one each in Karur, Madurai, Ramanathapuram, Thanjavur and Tirupattur. “We are focusing on Chennai, and are lifting more samples from the city. All our containment activities are continuing. We are taking up daily surveys in the containment zones and lifting samples from persons with fever and cough. Our main aim is early detection and breaking the chain of transmission,” a health official said. A majority of those who tested positive were contacts of COVID-19 patients. As per the bulletin, there were 36 primary cases in Monday’s count, while the remaining were contacts. Officials have been maintaining that the number of contacts per positive patient in Chennai was higher. “In other districts, the number of contacts per positive person is about 20 to 30 but it is much more in Chennai,” the official said said. Another official said that a few persons who had visited Puttaparthi and returned to the State had also tested positive. Officials have been maintaining that the number of contacts per positive patient in Chennai was higher. “In other districts, the number of contacts per positive person is about 20 to 30 but it is much more in Chennai,” it said. Another official said that a few persons who had visited Puttaparthi and returned to the State had also tested positive. “About 150 of them from various districts had stayed there for 15 to 20 days and have been returning. We have lifted samples from some of them,” he said. A further 30 persons were discharged from hospitals in the State, taking the total number discharged to 1,409. The number of samples tested increased to 12,863. With this, the total samples tested in the State stood at 1,62,970. A total of 1,53,489 individuals had been tested till date. Testing of 862 samples were under process, while 9,481 samples were repeats. One more testing facility was approved in the government sector - the Government District Headquarters Hospital, Ariyalur. With this, the State has 50 testing facilities - 36 in the government sector and 14 in the private sector. A total of 2,662 persons with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 are in isolation wards. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-sharp-spike-tn-records-527-cases/article31506445.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nod for return of stranded Indians||The government has decided to allow hundreds of thousands of Indians stranded in different parts of the world to return home in a “phased manner” beginning May 7, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) announced on Monday. In the first phase, “distressed citizens” will be brought back on commercial aircraft and naval ships, according to a list prepared by the respective embassies, strictly on “payment-basis”, the government added. The returnees would also have to pay for quarantine and hospital facilities. Sources told The Hindu that in the first phase from May 7- 14, the government would allow more than 60 “non-scheduled, commercial” flights to operate from about 12 countries to India to bring back 15,000 citizens. At least half of those flights will be from the Gulf region, including UAE, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait and Oman, while the rest would bring passengers from the U.S., the U.K., Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines and Bangladesh. The flights would be spread over 10 States identified as having the largest numbers to return, with Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Delhi (NCR) receiving the maximum number of flights. A meeting held at the Ministry of Civil Aviation looked specifically at flights, mainly operated by Air India, while it awaits a final plan from countries where Indians need to be airlifted from. The first flights planned at present are from Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Riyadh and Doha, flying directly to Kozhikode and Kochi. In a tweet, Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac said the State is “hoping to meet the challenge of more than 5 lakh Keralite migrants returning home”, indicating that the State expects to receive the bulk of returnees in the next few months. While the full estimate of Indians needing to return home could cross 10 lakh, with more than two lakhs having registered to return from the UAE alone, officials said their return would be “prioritised and staggered”. Much of the migrant population in the Gulf will return aboard Indian naval ships, but officials say women, particularly pregnant women, will be given first priority on the aircrafts returning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nod-for-return-of-stranded-indians/article31506360.ece
05 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Migrants take to Surat streets in protest, clash with police||Chaotic incidents involving hapless and desperate migrant workers continue in Gujarat as they grow impatient to return to their native States. On Monday, in the Kadodara area of Surat, hundreds of workers came out on the roads demanding that they be allowed to return to their States. The mob went berserk and clashed with policemen. The police used tear gas shells to disperse the crowd. More than 10 tear gas shells were lobbed. Around 70 people were detained and released after the situation became normal. “Now the situation is under control. The police had to lob tear gas shells as the mob was growing with workers pouring in on the street,” a local official from Surat said. This is the fourth such incident in the migrant hub. In Palanpur Jakatnaka within Surat city, hundreds of workers gathered with the same demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/migrants-take-to-surat-streets-in-protest-clash-with-police/article31506362.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||States with high swine flu rate record most COVID-19 cases||Five States — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi, Tamil Nadu — account for about 70% of India’s confirmed COVID-19 cases, that on Monday stood at 46, 416. However, data from the Health Ministry’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), show that these are also States that consistently accounted for the bulk of swine flu cases, or seasonal influenza (H1N1) since 2015. Last year, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi and Maharashtra accounted for 15,580 cases of confirmed H1N1 — or 54 % of the confirmed infections. In 2018 again, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Gujarat, made up 65% of H1N1 cases. In 2015, which saw 42,592 cases, the largest spike in cases since the swine flu pandemic of 2009-10, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Delhi polled 63% of the cases . Excluding 2016, Maharashtra and Gujarat have either led or been among the top three in India’s swine flu count.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-with-high-swine-flu-rate-record-most-covid-19-cases/article31506364.ece
05 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No new cases in State for second day running||Kerala did not report any COVID-19 case for the second consecutive day even as it put 61 people on the recovery list on Monday. A total of 462 people out of the 499 COVID-19 cases reported so far in the State have fully recovered from the disease. At present, only 34 patients are undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the State . As of Monday, Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram and Kozhikode have discharged all patients and join Ernakulam, Thrissur and Alappuzha which do not have any COVID-19 patients at present. The patients under treatment in hospitals are as follows: Kollam 3, Pathanamthitta 1, Kottayam 6, Idukki 1, Palakkad 1, Wayanad 1, Kannur 18 and Kasaragod 3. The number of persons under surveillance is 21,724, out of whom only 372 are isolated in various hospitals while the rest are in home quarantine. The State has tested 33,010 samples so far, of which 32,315 have returned a negative result. Of 2,431 samples tested as part of a sentinel survey among select groups in the population, 1,846 samples have tested negative. No new hotspots have been added to the current list of 84 in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-new-cases-in-state-for-second-day-running/article31506636.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Stores open, but liquor to cost more from today||The relaxation in lockdown rules that saw liquor shops opening their doors saw bumper queues and business on Monday. But from Tuesday, consumers will have to shell out more for liquor. Excise Department officials said that according to the budgetary proposal, the price of Indian-made Liquor (IML) willbe increased by 6% from Tuesday. “The lockdown has been in place for more than a month. On Monday, shop owners sold the old stock. From Tuesday, they will get fresh supply of liquor with revised price tag. The State Budget for the current financial year had proposed a 6% increase in theprice of IML. The price of beer will remain unchanged,” an official. Rs. 45 crore in revenue The Excise Commissioner, in a press release, said that on Monday, 3.9 lakh litres of beer and 8.5 lakh litres of IML were sold, generating Rs. 45 crore in revenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stores-open-but-liquor-to-cost-more-from-today/article31506402.ece
05 May 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi registers sixth COVID-19 death||Kalaburagi, which had reported India’s first COVID-19 fatality with the death of a 76-year-old man (P-6) on March 10, on Monday reported its sixth casualty, apart from two more positive cases for the disease. With this, Kalaburagi shares the top position with Bengaluru as far as COVID-19 deaths are concerned. Patient 587, a 56-year-old man who was on April 29 admitted for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) along with complaints of cough and fever is the latest victim. The information provided by the authorities said that his chest X-ray showed bilateral patchy pneumonitis. The new cases are P-641 (a 36-year-old woman and a contact of P-604) and P-642 (a 37-year-old man from Chincholi who had a history of travelling to Hyderabad in neighbouring Telangana). With the new cases, the number of positive cases in the district rose to 63, including six deaths and 21 persons discharged. The district is in the fourth position as far as total number of positive cases is concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kalaburagi-registers-sixth-covid-19-death/article31506563.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Special Corona Fee’ on liquor in Delhi||Following a day of chaos at liquor shops, the Delhi government has decided to charge 70% over and above the maximum retail price of alcohol as a “Special Corona Fee”. The additional charges, a government spokesperson said, would come into effect from Tuesday morning. The Delhi Excise Act was amended to include these on Monday. A proposal to this effect was prepared by the Finance Department. According to a notification, the ‘fee’ would entail “70% of the MRP on all categories of liquor sold through licensees for consumption off premises”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-corona-fee-on-liquor-in-delhi/article31506539.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||In the slow lane||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-the-slow-lane/article31506450.ece
05 May 2020||Mumbai,||Sensex falls over 2,000 points||The Sensex plummeted over 2,000 points taking cues from the global markets after the U.S. said it had evidence to prove that COVID-19 originated in a China lab. The break in the four-day rising streak was mirrored by the rupee plunging 64 paise to 75.73 against the dollar. Market participants attributed the drop in equity indices to the overall weak trend in global markets following rising tensions between the U.S. and China. On the domestic front, the 14-day extension of the lockdown dampened investor sentiment. The 30-share Sensex lost a whopping 2,002.27 points, or 5.94%, to close at 31,715.35.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sensex-falls-over-2000-points/article31506350.ece
05 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Sub-registrar offices to be reopened||The government has decided to reopen sub-registrar offices outside containment zones and implement the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) prescribed by the Central government, according to an official release. Among the SOPs are: compulsory wearing of face masks by the registering public and staff, District Registrar and DIG (Stamps & Registration) offices, maintenance of a social distance of six feet by the staff and registering public at the said offices and proper care in taking thumb impressions and handling other touch points by taking disinfection measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sub-registrar-offices-to-be-reopened/article31506351.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||1,074 recover as India adds 2,573 cases||India on Monday registered the biggest single-day recovery so far of 1,074 COVID-19 patients, taking the total to 11,761. The recovery rate stood at 27.52%. The 24-hour period also saw 2,573 new cases, pushing the tally to 42,836, of which 29, 685 are active cases. With 83 new deaths, the toll rose to 1,389. The Union Health Ministry, in statements, noted that the outcome ratio (recovered vs death) for all closed cases, which indicates the clinical management status in hospitals, was analysed since April 17 and this had shown improvement. Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary , said, “Earlier, the ratio was 80:20. It’s now 90:10.’’ Data from the State Health Departments put the tally at 46,416, of which 32,203 are active cases. The death toll stood at 1,494, while 12,719 people have recovered. During the relaxation period, States and Union Territories should ensure that rigorous containment measures were taken, the Ministry said. “They must also ensure effective case clinical management and focus on infection prevention and control. It’s important that as lockdown eases. We should follow protocol and preventive measures like hand hygiene and environmental hygiene,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1074-recover-as-india-adds-2573-cases/article31506358.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Tasmac to open shops on May 7||The State government on Monday announced that outlets run by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) would open on May 7. The shops would open for business at 10 a.m. and wind up operations by 5 p.m. However, bars attached to Tasmac outlets would remain closed. A source at Tasmac told The Hindu , “We will not open shops in containment zones. Tasmac workers from containment zones will also not be called for work.”  A senior government official said that over the next two days, all Tasmac outlets would be disinfected. “Employees will be given gloves and masks. We will have proper barricading in front of the shops. Tipplers who come without a mask will not be allowed to purchase. We will come out with detailed guidelines on the do's and don'ts before the shops open,” he said. Strict social distancing norms along with personal consumption limits would be followed, he added. On Monday, the statement issued by the government pointed out that with neighbouring States, including Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, opening liquor shops, people in border districts of Tamil Nadu were crossing over in large numbers to buy alcohol. Crowd management was proving difficult and hence the decision, the government said. "People have been crossing borders to purchase liquor and in the last few days there have been several complaints pertaining to illegal liquor being made at home and sold in black. The opening of shops will ensure people don't go to neighbouring States or brew liquor," a Tasmac union member said. During the lockdown, the cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government reportedly lost Rs.85 crore to Rs. 90 crore in sales per day. Tasmac usually witnesses brisk beer sales during summer. The State has over 5,300 liquor outlets, which employ over 25,000 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tasmac-to-open-shops-on-may-7/article31506446.ece
05 May 2020||COIMBATORE,||Industries to start operations on May 6||Industries are permitted to operate in Coimbatore and Tirppur districts from May 6. Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani held a meeting here on Monday with representatives of industrial and trade associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/industries-to-start-operations-on-may-6/article31506494.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police probe vulgar posts on social media||Taking suo motu cognisance of social media posts in which teenage boys have glorified rape and posted obscene photos of women and minor girls, the Delhi police on Monday launched a probe. “We are registering a case under relevant sections of IPC and IT Act for obscenity,” said DCP (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-probe-vulgar-posts-on-social-media/article31506536.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||349 new COVID-19 cases, no death reported in city||Delhi reported 349 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total number to 4,898, said the government. In all, 1,431 people have recovered and 3,403 are under treatment. No death was reported on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/349-new-covid-19-cases-no-death-reported-in-city/article31506535.ece
05 May 2020||BHILWARA,||Labourer completes quarantine on a tree||A migrant labourer, who walked 160 km from Ajmer to his village in Bhilwara district of Rajasthan, has completed the 14-day quarantine period on a platform built on a tree in his field outside the village. Kamlesh Meena, 24, took the unusual step when residents of Sherpura stopped him from entering the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/labourer-completes-quarantine-on-a-tree/article31506537.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Centre’s zoning criteria dubbed ‘unscientific’||Although Karnataka has atleast 12 districts with over fiveactive cases reported in the last 21 days, the classification of only three as red zones has surprised many. A source said there were several districts with many cases and doubling rates higher than those in the three red zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centres-zoning-criteria-dubbed-unscientific/article31506397.ece
05 May 2020||KALABURAGI,||Seven in Bidar catch coronavirus infection||Bidar recorded seven new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday, taking the total number of such cases in the district to 22 that included a death (P-590, an 82-year-old man who, with a complaint of SARI, was admitted on the evening of April 27 and died the next day at the COVID-19 designated hospital and tested positive for the disease on May 2) and 10 people who have discharged upon recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-in-bidar-catch-coronavirus-infection/article31506562.ece
05 May 2020||UDUPI,||Seven with symptoms admitted to hospitals||As many as seven persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in Udupi district on Monday. Of the seven persons, three are suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and two from Influenza Like Illness (ILI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-with-symptoms-admitted-to-hospitals/article31506565.ece
05 May 2020||Chennai,||Stranded migrants stage protests in Chennai||As thousands continued to throng the Majestic bus stand to get home, the State government extended the free bus service for stranded migrant workers till Thursday. The aim is to discourage people from turning up in large numbers at the bus stand, against social distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-bus-service-for-migrants-till-thursday/article31506398.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Koyambedu market to be shifted to Thirumazhisai||The Koyambedu wholesale market will be temporarily closed from May 5. The market will function from Thirumazhisai from May 7, according to the Koyambedu Market Management Committee. The decision was taken following vendors and labourers in the market testing positive for COVID-19. Arrangements are being made to set up wholesale shops in Thirumazhisai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/koyambedu-market-to-be-shifted-to-thirumazhisai/article31506447.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,||People with ‘own vehicles’ can leave for other States||Natives of other States stranded in Tamil Nadu owing to the COVID-19 lockdown will be permitted to leave “in their own vehicle” from Tuesday. All such persons, who have registered on the portal, nonresidenttamil.org , would get e-passes for their vehicles and allowed to cross the borders only during daytime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengaluru-starts-limping-back-to-normalcy/article31506400.ece
05 May 2020||Kovvur (West Godavari),||4brief1||Tension prevailed in the town on Monday when stranded migrant labourers reportedly threw stones at officials and police personnel expressing resentment over not being sent to their native places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4brief1/article31506353.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian health workers on edge in Oman||As thousands of Indian expatriates wait to return home once the government begins to facilitate repatriation, 44-year-old J. Ramachandran, a medical professional in Oman, said he fears for both his health and future, as the numbers of those contracting the novel coronavirus in the West Asian country grow. Mr. Ramachandran, who works as a hospital administrator at one of the big healthcare chains, said that hospitals are running out of space for patients. “Everyday we are receiving more and more cases of patients with coronavirus symptoms,” Mr. Ramachandran told The Hindu over the telephone, “In most cases, we turn away those who don’t have very serious symptoms as we don’t have enough beds,” he added, explaining that as “frontline workers” Indians face the highest risk from the virus. According to official figures, Oman has about 5,000 hospital beds, which include only about 147 ICU beds. As the number of COVID-19 patients crossed 2,700, with a sharp upswing in the past two weeks, officials have been warning about a shortage of facilities. In April, Health Minister Mohammed Al Said reportedly told journalists at a press conference that if the pandemic continued to accelerate, the “number of beds in ICUs in Oman may not be enough to accommodate cases”. In particular, said medical professionals, drugs to treat COVID-19, personal protective equipment (PPE) and masks were in short supply in private hospitals. ‘Not that bad’ However, Indian embassy officials said the situation was under control. “COVID situation in Oman is not that bad,” said a diplomat, adding that “Oman had the least number of cases per million and deaths per million in the GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council) region”. Mr. Ramachandran said the biggest fear for him and other hospital staff who were registered to leave, was that of contracting the novel coronavirus before they were able leave, as the government had made it clear it would not allow anyone with COVID symptoms to board the planes and the ships being organised to bring them back. At the same time, Mr. Ramachandran said professionals and workers, who make up a large number of the 7.7 lakh Indians who live and work in the Gulf kingdom, were worried about losing their jobs. Last week, Oman’s Finance Ministry issued a new set of guidelines ordering state-owned companies to “expedite replacement of expatriates with Omanis”. Mr. Ramachandran said he had worked in Muscat and the Omani city of Sohar for the past year before deciding to tender his resignation in March, and returning to his hometown of Coimbatore. “Now that the government has said it will allow stranded Indians to return, I am happy, but I don’t really know how long it will take before I get my turn,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-health-workers-on-edge-in-oman/article31506311.ece
05 May 2020||Berhampur,||Transgender teen placed in quarantine with four men||Due to the lack of separate arrangements for transgender persons at a quarantine centre, Prasant*, an 18-year-old transgender person, had to spend a 14-day quarantine period, till April 29, with a group of men. Prasant is a resident of Mathura panchayat in Khallikote block of Ganjam district. Violating lockdown restrictions, Prasant had visited Purushottampur in the second week of April to take part in rituals related to the Danda Jatra festival. When Prasant returned home, the sarpanch of the area, as a precautionary measure against COVID-19, directed the teenager to remain in institutional quarantine at the Mathura panchayat. Upon admission, Prasant was shocked to find there was no separate provision for the transgender community. Although Prasant contacted the sarpanch, no other solution emerged. During their survey of preparedness of 120 quarantine centres in 18 panchayats of Ganjam district, activists of Youth for Social Development (YSD) met Prasant, who was sharing a single room with four men. According to YSD director Bibhu Prasad Sahu, Prasant’s repeated appeals for a separate room were not heeded. YSD’s survey found separate arrangements had been made for men and women in all 120 quarantine centres surveyed. However, only 10 out of 18 panchayats had made separate provisions for pregnant women, only two had made separate provisions for young children, and only four panchayats had separate provisions for people with special needs. None of the panchayats had any facilities for the transgender community. YSD urged authorities to take into account the special status of the transgender community. Mr. Sahu said, many men displayed a derogatory attitude towards the transgender community. (* Name changed to protect identity )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/transgender-teen-placed-in-quarantine-with-four-men/article31506316.ece
05 May 2020||Srinagar,||3 CRPF jawans killed in attack||Three Central Reserve Police Force jawans and one unidentified person were killed in an attack in Kupwara district of north Kashmir on Monday. “Around 6 p.m., unknown militants attacked CRPF troops of the 92 Battalion deployed for law and order duties near Wangam Stop in the Qaziabad area of Handwara. Three CRPF jawans were injured in the attack and succumbed to their injuries,” said a CRPF spokesperson. CRPF sources said the militants engaged the CRPF personnel in a stand-off fire, before fleeing. Two CRPF men were killed on the spot, they said. One unidentified person, whom the CRPF suspect to be an attacker, was also killed in the firing. Immediately after the attack, the CRPF personnel made an attempt to repulse the attack and chased the militants. “A cordon and search operation by the CRPF was immediately launched after the attack to trace the militants,” the CRPF official said. However, a senior official in Kupwara said the local administration was ascertaining the identity of the person killed at the spot. “No weapon was recovered from the pit where the person was found dead,” the official said. The attack comes just a day after four soldiers, including two officers, and a policeman, were killed in an 18-hour long operation, also in Handwara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-crpf-jawans-killed-in-attack/article31506284.ece
05 May 2020||Kolkata,||Death rate high in Bengal: Central team||The Inter Ministerial Central Team (IMCT), which was stationed in Kolkata on Monday, sent its final observations to the West Bengal government highlighting “extremely high mortality rate” from COVID-19, and urging that the State government should be “transparent and consistent” in reporting figures pertaining to the pandemic. In a letter addressed to Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha, Apurva Chandra, team leader of the IMCT, stated that the Central team had written seven letters to him, and addressed four others to the Principal Secretaries of Home, Health, Municipal Affairs, and Food and Supplies Departments. Referring to the information shared by the State government on April 30 which “put the mortality to 105”, Mr. Chandra also highlighted in his communication: “For a total reported number of 744 + 72 = 816 COVID patients, the mortality rate of 12.8 % is highest in the country. This extremely high mortality rate is clear indication of low testing and weak surveillance and tracking.” Mr. Chandra also added that the State needed to be “transparent and consistent in reporting figures and not downplay the spread of virus”. The IMCT, which added that there was no evidence of daily surveillance of individuals in containment zones, lauded the State government’s efforts to increase the number of tests from 400 on April 20 to 2,410 on May 2. The IMCT is returning to Delhi after spending two weeks in Kolkata. Two IMCT teams, one for south Bengal and the other for north, arrived in the State on April 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-rate-high-in-bengal-central-team/article31506294.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Chaos, crowding in front of shops unfortunate, says Kejriwal||Terming the chaos and crowding in front of shops, without mentioning those engaged in the sale of liquor, in the Capital on Monday as “unfortunate”, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government would revoke relaxations and seal the areas where social distancing norms are not being followed. He said the relaxations were announced in Delhi as per the Central government guidelines and appealed to the citizens to practise social distancing. “The whole of Delhi is in the red zone, and hence very few activities are allowed. We have decided to adhere to the Central government’s guidelines for the red zones and allowed certain activities in Delhi,” he said. Talking about “crowding in front of shops”, Mr. Kejriwal said it was “unfortunate” to see that people were not following social distancing at “a few locations across the city”. “Overcrowding and chaos were reported at these locations. What needs to be realised is the risk of contracting the virus that comes with these actions. This puts families of those people at high risk too. These actions are not acceptable. If needed, we will have to take stringent decisions like sealing areas where the social distancing protocol is not followed by the people, and I will have to withdraw all the relaxations announced yesterday [Sunday],” he said. These relaxations, he said, had been allowed to restart the economy and bring the lives of the people back on track. “If there are violations, we will have no option but to revoke these relaxations. Shopkeepers should take responsibility for the same, or we will have to seal those shops where violations are being reported.” Mr. Kejriwal requested the people to support the government in its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic just like they had done in the drive against dengue last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chaos-crowding-in-front-of-shops-unfortunate-says-kejriwal/article31506541.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Venkaiah defers decision on MPs’ panels meetings||Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu has deferred a decision on allowing parliamentary panels to hold a meeting via videoconference. Several Opposition members have asked both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha Secretariats to find a way to hold meetings of the parliamentary panels to oversee the government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and the adverse economic fallout. In his first meeting with the House Secretariat officials since the lockdown began on March 25, Mr. Naidu, according to sources, observed that there was need for undivided focus of the Executive on containing COVID-19 and a view on holding meetings of the department-related standing committees and other committees of the House would be taken later. Chairman of Parliamentary Panel on Home Affairs Anand Sharma had written to Mr. Naidu asking him to reconsider his decision on allowing the panels to hold a meeting via videoconference. The meeting of his panel, scheduled for April 28, had to be cancelled after the Secretariat declined permission. Rules not amended Congress leader and head of the Standing committee on Information and Technology Shashi Tharoor had also approached Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla seeking permission to hold a meeting. After initially agreeing, the Lok Sabha Secretariat balked and told Mr. Tharoor that the rules had not been amended to allow videoconference. In Monday’s meeting Mr. Naidu asked the Secretariat to reduce the expenditure with decline in government revenues and the economic slowdown due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/venkaiah-defers-decision-on-mps-panels-meetings/article31506305.ece
05 May 2020||Jaipur,||Rajasthan defers staff salaries as revenues dry up||The revenue collection in Rajasthan in the first month of fiscal 2020-21, after the COVID-19 lockdown was enforced, has fallen by 70%, even as there was a shortfall of Rs. 18,000 crore in the last fiscal 2019-20, according to the State Finance Department. While the State had budgeted for revenues of Rs. 8,400 crore, including Rs. 6,800 crore through taxes and GST compensation and Rs. 1,600 crore of non-tax revenue, it has achieved only Rs. 1,800 crore by April-end. Massive shortfall In March, there was a shortfall of Rs. 3,500 crore, putting the State in a fiscal crisis. Rajasthan has allocated Rs. 1,200 crore for the expenses to deal with the impact of COVID-19, including the expenditure for providing free wheat under the public distribution system to the beneficiaries of National Food Security Act. The biggest decline in tax revenue earnings has been witnessed in stamp duty and registration and vehicle taxes, as there was almost no sale of property and vehicles during the lockdown. Against the target of Rs. 466 crore for stamp duty and registration in April, the State has got only Rs. 6 crore. For vehicle tax, the target was Rs. 500 crore, while the State collected only Rs. 8 crore. In view of the adverse impact on revenue collection of States due to the lockdown, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who also holds the finance portfolio, has demanded from the Centre a grant of Rs. 1,00,000 crore for the States, which can be distributed according to the States’ share in Central taxes or as per the standards prescribed by the GST Council or Inter-State Council. In a 15-point note submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi after his video-conference with the Chief Ministers on Monday, Mr. Gehlot said the revenue loss compensation given to the States for five years since the implementation of GST should now be increased to 10 years, looking at the local circumstances and economic situation of every State. Besides, a six-month, interest-free moratorium should be granted on payment of instalments of principal amount and interest on loans taken by the State governments, their boards, corporations or companies, including the power companies, from the Union government and its various institutions, such as the Power Finance Corporation. The fiscal expenditure should be encouraged to bail out the economy at this challenging time, said Mr. Gehlot. For this, the Union government should immediately release the first instalment of its share of centrally sponsored schemes and the process of releasing the amount should also be simplified. The Chief Minister welcomed the decision of increasing the limit for Ways and Means Advances to 60% and demanded that full rebate should be given on interest on advances to the States. Also, the limit of net loan that the States can take should be increased from 3% of State GDP to 5% without any conditions. As the State’s GDP is around Rs. 11,00,000 crore, the 2% raise will enable the State to borrow about Rs. 20,000 crore more from the open market. As part of the measures to deal with the crisis situation amid rapid deterioration of financial condition, the Rajasthan government has partially deferred the salaries of MLAs and its employees, including the all India services officers, in March, while five days’ salary was deducted as contribution to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund for COVID-19. In the postponement of salary payment, 75% salary of legislators, 50% salary of all India services officers and 30% salary of other government officials has been deferred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-defers-staff-salaries-as-revenues-dry-up/article31506282.ece
05 May 2020||Bhopal,||‘Private hospitals delaying discharge’||A 70-year-old man, who never contracted the coronavirus, was discharged from the isolation ward of a private COVID-19 hospital in Indore after 34 days. The only member in his family to have tested negative, the man, a blood pressure patient, could not be left behind at home unattended. So, he too was admitted to the hospital along with 20 family members and waited as they were cured one by one. He was the last to step out. The man underwent four tests and all were negative. Whenever a family member walked out, they requested that he be discharged too, but to no avail. Many COVID-19 patients, and their family members complain that private hospitals arbitrarily delayed their discharge. Most had their samples taken four-five times, many were not even informed of the results. A high test pendency earlier and delay in sample collection by private hospitals, claimed district officials, had resulted in patients being discharged late. Ideally, a person has to test negative twice back to back 14 days after the samples are collected to secure a discharge. An official in Indore’s COVID-19 team, requesting anonymity, claimed private hospitals were wilfully delaying entering sample details online on the State portal to delay patient discharge and show their bed capacity to be full. “This way they can save expenses and don’t have to admit new patients,” she said. Impacts recovery rate In Indore, five government-run hospitals and 16 government-backed private hospitals are helping combat COVID-19. Delaying discharge, in the State’s hardest-hit city would mean pulling down the recovery rate. While it was 7.5% as of April 23, it climbed to 22.5 by May 3.  District Chief Medical and Health Officer Pravin Jadia admitted that backlog of samples had earlier caused the delay in discharge. “Sometimes it had taken even 10 days. Now test reports are issued the next day.” D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/private-hospitals-delaying-discharge/article31506302.ece
05 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Thousands return to Ganjam district||A large numbers of migrant workers are continuing to reach Ganjam district in Odisha by special trains and buses, while incidents of unruly scenes at quarantine centres are being reported. On Monday, over 2,800 persons got down from three special trains that reached the Jagannathpur railway station on the outskirts of Berhampur. In the morning, a train from Kerala, on its way to Khurda Road, reached Jagannathpur, and 606 persons got down from it. At 12.40 p.m., a special train from Surat reached Jagannathpur with 1,188 migrant workers of Ganjam district. Another batch of over 1,100 migrant workers returned by a train that arrived in the evening. All returnees underwent medical check-ups at the Jagannathpur Railway Station. They were then transported by buses to their respective panchayats for a 14-day quarantine. More trains with migrant workers are expected to reach Ganjam district in a few days. Thirty-nine students stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota also reached Berhampur in two vehicles on Monday afternoon. According to the Berhampur Municipal Corporation, they have all be ordered to remain in 14-day home quarantine. On Monday, unruly scenes were reported from a quarantine centre at Gokarnapur in Digapahandi block of Ganjam district. Around 210 returned migrant workers quarantined here complained of lack of beds, and adequate arrangements for water and toilets, and held a protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thousands-return-to-ganjam-district/article31506314.ece
05 May 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata accounts for 65% of deaths in Bengal, show data||Of the 133 COVID-19 deaths in West Bengal, 87 have been recorded in Kolkata accounting for 65% of them. North 24 Parganas has accounted for 18 deaths followed by Howrah with 17. The metropolis along with two districts has accounted for 122 — which is more than 91% — of the 133 deaths. The State government released a detailed district-wise break up of the COVID-related cases on Monday. Amid questions being raised about the number of cases, the Health department in the three-page bulletin said Kolkata recorded 24 infections in 24 hours and Howrah 21. Earlier in the day, Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha gave an explanation on how the State government has “retrieved missing data” and that there were certain issues in obtaining “real time data”. Mr Sinha said 1,259 cases were recorded of which 918 are active cases. Kolkata has recorded 683 cases which is about 54% of the infections. He said 218 persons had been discharged after recovery. In an interesting revelation, the Chief Secretary said the audit committee set up by the State government is not looking into every death of COVID-19. “We are only collecting COVID-19 deaths… There are 72 co-morbidity deaths, no more will come to us because the hospitals have been told not to report them,” Mr. Sinha said. The State government also said it has tested 25,116 samples so far including 2,201 in the past 24 hours. Buses allowed The State government also announced a series of relaxations to the lockdown in accordance with the orders issued by the Centre. Maintaining that it feels that the lockdown will be violated by the relaxations, Mr. Sinha said exemptions are aimed at giving some relief to the people. According to the State government, inter-district bus services have been allowed. Tea shops and liquor shops will remain open and construction in rural areas is allowed. Private offices can operate with 25% staff. The Chief Secretary said no activity will be allowed in the 516 containment areas, 318 of which are in Kolkata alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kolkata-accounts-for-65-of-deaths-in-bengal-show-data/article31506300.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||SC to hear PIL on food security for all||The Supreme Court is set to hear on Tuesday a public interest litigation petition filed by Congress Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh seeking universal coverage under the Public Distribution System and food security for all amid an “acute food shortage” due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown. The lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic was imposed on March 25 and has been extended twice. It has now been extended up to May 17, though most restrictions have been lifted in designated green zones — districts that have remained free of a new case of infection for the last 21 days. In his PIL petition, Mr. Ramesh has sought relaxations in the requirement of ration cards for supply of rations under the Public Distribution System during the COVID-19 pandemic in order to help mitigate the food shortages and prevent deaths of the poor. He has argued that there have been numerous deaths due to starvation since the commencement of the lockdown and that there are many marginalised sections of people who are not covered under the National Food Security Act and in dire need of rations. Any alternative remedy at this stage would take a long time, which could further accentuate food shortages and lead to wide-scale starvation deaths, Mr. Ramesh has contended. “It may be further appreciated that this Hon’ble Court has, in the past, suspended the requirement of releasing rations against ration cards in situations of drought, etc. in Swaraj Abhiyan II v. Union of India,(2016) 7 SCC 498,” he said in the petition. In the 2016 judgement, the SC had ruled that “it would be inappropriate for the State Governments to deprive any household in drought affected areas of the requisite food grains merely because they do not have a ration card”. The apex court had held that the ration card could be substituted by a valid identity card or any proof of residence. The Congress MP has further argued that the Supreme Court had on earlier occasions observed that the right to life, enshrined under Article 21, implies the right to food, water, a decent environment, education, medical care and shelter, and is intrinsic to our survival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-pil-on-food-security-for-all/article31506309.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers’ group seeks waiver of crop loans||Farmers groups are planning a nationwide campaign to demand full loan waiver, given the impact of the COVID-19 crisis, accusing the government of not keeping its promise to procure produce at minimum support prices from the fields. This will start with a social media campaign on May 4 and 5, and will be followed by wider agitations and protests as the lockdown is lifted, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said in a statement.  ‘MSP claim belied’ The working group of the AIKSCC, an umbrella platform of more than 200 farmers groups, met on Sunday to discuss the impact of the lockdown on farmers and others dependent on the agricultural economy. “Under conditions of blockade and restricted private purchase, the government promised them procurement from the field at Minimum Support Prices. Unfortunately this promise largely remained confined to government claims, its weighment centres remained non-functional in most places and to top it all, it placed several restrictions on quantity to be procured in mandis and it ordered severe deductions due to allegedly shrivelled grains,” said the AIKSCC statement. The group claimed that the Centre was not ready to provide relief to farmersfacing difficulty with repaying crop loans or getting new loans, although Rs. 68,700 worth of bad corporate loans have been waived off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-group-seeks-waiver-of-crop-loans/article31506312.ece
05 May 2020||BHILWARA,||Migrant labourer completes quarantine on a tree||A young migrant labourer, who walked 160 km from Ajmer’s Kishangarh to his native village in Bhilwara district of Rajasthan after the extension of COVID-19 lockdown last month, has completed his mandatory 14-day quarantine period on a makeshift platform built on a tree in his agricultural field outside the village. Kamlesh Meena, 24, took the unusual step when residents of Sherpura in Jahazpur tehsil stopped him from entering the village fearing the spread of the novel coronavirus. A section of the villagers advised him to go to the district hospital first and get himself tested. Tension erupted when his family members and some others wanted him to be allowed to stay at his home. A medical team was called from the Community Health Centre to collect his samples. It gave him the option of staying at the quarantine centre in Bhilwara. Away from the village After a long debate, the villagers decided to quarantine Kamlesh at a secluded place outside Sherpura. When Kamlesh offered to stay in his family’s agricultural field, a kilometre from the village, the villagers erected a wooden platform on a tree, plastic sheets serving as its roof. A temporary ladder made of bamboo was placed beside the tree. His father Sagarmal went to the field twice every day to deliver food, water and essential items. “Kamlesh has completed his 14-day quarantine and has been found to be healthy, without any virus infection. A medical team went to the field every day to examine him,” Panchayat Elementary Education Officer Soji Ram Meena, in charge of COVID-19 control in Sherpura, told The Hindu on Monday. The youngster has since shifted to his mud house to live with his family comprising his parents and a differently-abled brother. Bhilwara’s achievement Kamlesh, who worked as a tractor driver on daily wages, embarked on his journey when he heard that the lockdown was going to be extended beyond April 14. Sherpura, a small village with a population of around 600, is 90 km from Bhilwara. The Bhilwara district, which had emerged as the first hotspot in Rajasthan after the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, has successfully controlled the spread of the disease with its containment model. Activist Sanjay Ladha said the labourer’s initiative should be treated as an instance of citizens’ cooperation with the administration to fight the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrant-labourer-completes-quarantine-on-a-tree/article31506331.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Centre has not stopped any funds to States’||The Centre has not stopped any funds to the State governments, the Finance Ministry informed The Hindu on Monday adding that “in fact, [the] Central government is also facing a very difficult financial situation”. The Ministry statement was in response to a news report — Scramble for funds as Centre tightens purse strings — published in these columns on Monday. The report said a dip in the Kerala government’s own tax revenue, coupled with a delay and cut in Central transfers, has resulted in a severe resource crunch. “A tranche of Rs. 1,276 crore provided by the Centre as revenue deficit grant was perhaps the only major revenue inflow into the [Kerala] treasury this month,” said the report. In its rebuttal, the Centre said it had in fact released Rs. 2,980.45 crore to the Kerala government during April, including Rs. 894.53 crore as tax devolution, Rs. 1,276.92 crore as post devolution revenue deficit, Rs. 157 crore for the State Disaster Response Mitigation Fund and GST compensation cess of Rs. 652 crore. “... Net tax revenue is negative [after adjusting refunds]. Still, the tax devolution to the States is made on the basis of Budgetary Estimates for the FY 2020-21,” said the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-has-not-stopped-any-funds-to-states/article31506277.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India flays nod for Gilgit-Baltistan polls||The External Affairs Ministry issued a “strong protest” on Monday over an order by the Pakistan Supreme Court allowing the Imran Khan government to hold elections in the region of Gilgit-Baltistan of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). India said it had issued a demarche to protest what it called Pakistan’s attempt to make “material changes” to the disputed area, by bringing federal authority to Gilgit-Baltistan (G-B), which has functioned as a “provincial autonomous region” since 2009. Centre issues demarche On April 30, a seven-judge Bench of the Supreme Court in Islamabad, headed by Chief Justice of Pakistan Justice Gulzar Ahmed, had allowed the government to organise general elections in G-B, and to set up a caretaker government there before that. As a result of the coronavirus lockdown, the demarche was issued via email to the Minister (Political) in Pakistan’s High Commission in Delhi. “The Government of Pakistan or its judiciary has no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it. India completely rejects such actions and continued attempts to bring material changes in Pakistan-occupied areas of the Indian territory of Jammu & Kashmir. Instead, Pakistan should immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation,” the Ministry spokesperson said in a statement. Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) responded to the demarche by referring to the government’s decision in August last year to amend Article 370 as “illegal and in clear violation of UNSC resolutions”. India’s reaction is consistent with its previous objections against elections in G-B and in other parts of PoK, which it refers to as “Azad Jammu Kashmir”.  Government of Pakistan or its judiciary has no locus standi on territories illegally occupied by it external Affairs Ministry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-flays-nod-for-gilgit-baltistan-polls/article31506292.ece
05 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat reports 376 cases and 29 deaths||Gujarat’s COVID-19 infection rate continues to remain high with 376 cases and 29 deaths added on Monday. The State’s cumulative figures now are 5,804 cases and 319 fatalities, while the recovery numbers stand at 1,195, including 153 patients who were discharged on Monday. Monday was the fourth day that the State recorded 300 plus cases and 20 plus deaths as the contagion is spreading in areas beyond the hotspots identified by the local authorities. With 259 cases on Monday, Ahmedabad’s numbers have climbed to 4,076 cases and 234 deaths. It continues to account for nearly 70% of cases and fatalities. The city is the worst hit after Mumbai in the number of infections and fatality. The recovery figure is 620, including 87 patients who were discharged on Monday. 25 on ventilator support At present, there are 4,265 patients undergoing treatment at various places while 25 are critically ill and have been provided with ventilator support. The State has tested 84,648 samples till Monday 5 p.m. Vadodara reported 35 infection cases and two deaths, taking the city’s numbers to 385 cases and 27 deaths while Surat recorded 20 cases and one death, bringing the numbers to 706 infections and 31 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-reports-376-cases-and-29-deaths/article31506297.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||PM slams Pakistan in virtual NAM meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday made an indirect reference to Pakistan during an online meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) Contact Group, and said some countries were fomenting terrorism in the midst of the global pandemic. Mr. Modi supported a more representative post-COVID-19 world order and urged the World Health Organization (WHO) to focus on building health capacity in the developing countries. “Even as we fight COVID virus, some people are busy spreading other deadly viruses such as terrorism, fake news and doctored videos to divide communities and countries,” Mr. Modi said in a video statement to the NAM grouping, which met on the theme of “United against COVID-19”. The remark may be seen as a reference by Mr. Modi to Pakistan’s role in supporting cross-border terrorism in recent days, with a spike in ceasefire violations across the Line of Control in Kashmir. The comment also takes a dig at Pakistan’s alleged role in the ongoing social media spat between Indian and Gulf-based commentators. Indian authorities have maintained that some of the social media posts against Indian interests in the Gulf were promoted by Pakistan-based activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-slams-pakistan-in-virtual-nam-meeting/article31506326.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||DRDO develops a disinfection tower||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed an ultraviolet (UV) disinfection tower for rapid and chemical-free disinfection of high infection-prone areas. The equipment named UV Blaster is “useful for high-tech surfaces like electronic equipment, computers and other gadgets in laboratories and offices that are not suitable for disinfection with chemical methods. The product is also effective for areas with a large flow of people such as airports, shopping malls, metros, hotels, factories and offices,” a DRDO statement said. It was designed and developed by Laser Science & Technology Centre (LASTEC) based in Delhi with the help of New Age Instruments and Materials Private Limited, Gurugram. For a room of about 12 ft x12 ft dimension, the disinfection time is about 10 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-develops-a-disinfection-tower/article31506329.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mumbai police move SC against TV anchor||The Maharashtra Police approached the Supreme Court on Monday against news anchor and Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami, accusing him of using his position to indulge in “vicious propaganda” against the police force and the Mumbai Police Commissioner. It said the conduct of the journalist was “smeared with arrogance.” The State police are investigating two FIRs — a hate case registered against Mr. Goswami and a complaint filed by the journalist alleging he was attacked. While in the first case, Mr. Goswami was questioned by the police, two persons were arrested in the second case. On April 24, the Supreme Court had protected Mr. Goswami from arrest in the hate case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-police-move-sc-against-tv-anchor/article31506279.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Confusion over who will pay migrants’ train fare||“What is particularly disturbing is that the Central government and the Rail Ministry are charging them for train tickets in this hour of crisis,” she said. “Post the partition of 1947, this is the first time India witnessed a tragedy with such a massive human cost as thousands of migrant workers and labourers were forced to walk home several hundred kilometres on foot -- without food, without medicines, without money, without transportation, without anything except for the desire to return to their families and loved ones,” Ms. Gandhi stated. By making a “humble contribution”, the Congress would stand “shoulder to shoulder in solidarity with the workers”, she added. ( With inputs from Amarnath Tewary )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/confusion-over-who-will-pay-migrants-train-fare/article31506286.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Nod for return of stranded Indians||While the full estimate of Indians needing to return home could cross ten lakhs (a million), with more than two lakhs having registered to return from the UAE alone, officials said their return would be “prioritised and staggered”. Much of the migrant labour population in the Gulf will return aboard Indian naval ships, but officials say women, and particularly pregnant women will be given priority on aircrafts. It is unclear how much the tickets will cost, and how the fare will be collected. Defence Ministry sources said specific instructions are awaited from the MEA on the movement of the ships, which are on standby. According to a source, the first ships likely to be sent are the INS Jalashwa , the Navy’s largest amphibious platform, and a few smaller Landing Ship Tank (LST) vessels. Officials of the MEA, MHA, Ministry of Civil Aviation and Defence have been planning the massive repatriation exercise, which has been prompted by appeals from thousands of Indians who were stranded after the government announced a complete ban on incoming travel from March 22.   (With inputs from Dinakar Peri, Jagriti Chandra and Vijaita Singh)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-for-return-of-stranded-indians/article31506285.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Stranded workers clash with police in Surat||This is the fourth such incident in the migrant hub. In Palanpur Jakatnaka within Surat city, hundreds of workers gathered with the same demand.. Over the last three days, the Gujarat government has arranged over a dozen trains to ensure the return of migrant workers from Ahmedabad and Surat, However, as a hub for migrant workers from Odisha, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other States, there are a huge number still awaiting their turn. Labour officers On Monday, nine more trains with 10,500 migrants left for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. The Labour department has decided to deploy labour officers at major stations and collectorate offices to facilitate the movement of workers. The Labour and Home departments have issued clear guidelines to Collectors regarding the movement of workers through trains. According to official sources, almost two million people working in different locations from the State have enrolled with the local authorities for return to their States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stranded-workers-clash-with-police-in-surat/article31506288.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||1,074 recover as India adds 2,573 cases||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday held a meeting with Madhya Pradesh Health Minister Narottam Mishra to take stock and review the situation in the State. He expressed concern over the high fatality rate due to COVID-19. “It is painful to know that in few districts, the fatality rate is higher than the national average. Proper interventions, more aggressive surveillance and early diagnosis shall be on the top priority of the State to reduce the mortality rate due to COVID-19,” Dr. Vardhan noted. Advocating good hand hygiene as one of the most basic yet powerful tools against COVID-19, Poonam Khetrapal Singh, WHO regional director for South-East Asia, noted that all public and private health facilities should make functional hand hygiene stations readily accessible. “In our regions, we should urgently provide universal access to public hand hygiene stations as we embark on the next phase of the pandemic response, including at the entrances of every public or private commercial building and at all transport locations, especially major bus and train stations, airports and seaports. Regular and thorough hand-washing with soap or use of an alcohol-based rub are critical measures each of us can take to protect ourselves, each other and those who care for us,’’ she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1074-recover-as-india-adds-2573-cases/article31506287.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||CPI(M) reaches out to other Opposition parties||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has reached out to other Opposition parties to bring them on a common platform to deliberate on the adverse economic fallout of the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP president Sharad Pawar, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, DMK president M.K. Stalin, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, Aam Aadmi Party convenor Arvind Kejriwal and four Left parties, passing on the economic roadmap drafted by his party and calling for more ideas. He said the Union government was getting clueless — first stalling the movement of migrant workers and then herding them back after nearly 40 days of suffering.  Mr. Yechury told The Hindu, “It is very necessary for the sake of our country and we are working hard to make it happen. We find that on the one hand problems of people are actually getting compounded and no relief is in sight. The government’s financial package is merely one per cent of the GDP [Gross Domestic Product].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-reaches-out-to-other-opposition-parties/article31506291.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mallya seeks approval to move U.K. Supreme Court||Businessman Vijay Mallya has sought permission from the U.K. High Court to move the Supreme Court against last month’s order dismissing his appeal challenging the lower court’s clearance to his extradition to India in the IDBI Bank fraud case. On April 20, a Division Bench of the High Court of Justice in the U.K. had turned down the businessman’s appeal, concluding that there was a prima facie case of conspiracy to defraud, misrepresentation, conspiracy and money laundering against him. “After the appeal was rejected, Mr. Mallya had 14 days to file an application in the High Court for an approval to appeal in the Supreme Court. He has submitted the application, which is likely to be taken up soon. We are hopeful that the plea will be dismissed, given the strong observations in the April 20 judgment,” said a senior Enforcement Directorate official. If Mr. Mallya fails to get the permission and the final authority in the U.K. government clears the request for his extradition, investigating agencies will have 28 days to bring him to India. In its 43-page judgment, the High Court did not find any merit in the objections raised by Mr. Mallya to the Senior District Judge’s order on December 10, 2018, approving India’s extradition request that was made on February 9, 2017.  The businessman faces allegations of wilful loan defaults to the tune of Rs. 9,000 crore. He had flown out of India on March 2, 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mallya-seeks-approval-to-move-uk-supreme-court/article31506278.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Most COVID-19 cases in States with high H1N1 rates||The number of swine flu cases dipped to a 5-year-low of just 1,786 cases in 2016. In 2010, that saw the swine flu dig its heels in India, Mahrashtra, with 6,814 cases, Delhi (2,725) and Karnataka ( 2,575) topped the list of infections. While both HIN1 and COVID-19 are due to pathogens that trace their origins to viruses from non-human hosts, they belong to different families. While both infiltrate the lungs and cause characteristic pulmonary infections, they have varying lethality. Swine flu infections have a higher case fatality rates (deaths per confirmed cases) and can cause significant deaths in children as well as those less than 60. COVID-19 on the other hand relatively more dangerous to those above 60 and almost harmless in children. “It may be too early to say this because we are still in the middle of a pandemic but it is possible that Sars-CoV2 may replace H1N1,” Director, NCDC Sujeet Kumar Singh, told The Hindu. “But we’ve noticed this pattern (of high number of COVID and influenza cases) in Gujarat and Maharashtra.” February-March are typical months for influenza in India. Most influenza activity in northern India was seen during the summer months, but in southern and western India, cases occurred mostly during winter months. In 2017, there was a summer and winter spike, the NMJ paper notes. Given the novelty of Sars-CoV2, scientists nowhere can rule out another spike later in the year. Infections in India, so far, are yet to peak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/most-covid-19-cases-in-states-with-high-h1n1-rates/article31506289.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Dharma and wisdom||In both the Ramayana and Mahabharata, we find adherence to dharma and we also come across people who violate the tenets of dharma, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. Rama was the embodiment of dharma. When He is informed that He has to go to the forest, He willingly agrees, for He knows the importance of obedience to a parent. When Sita wants to accompany Him, He initially turns down Her request. He warns her of the dangers of forest life. But Sita cannot bear to be separated from Him. Kamban captures Her love for Rama, in a very emotional verse, where Sita asks Rama whether the hardships of forest life will be harsher than separation from Rama. Sastras say that a man must not do something his wife disapproves of. Rama, therefore, does not insist that Sita must stay behind, but takes Her to the forest. Wise men know that it is Lord Narayana who is in control of our lives. They remain unmoved by disaster or good fortune. Vidura is a virtuous and wise man, and this is evident in his advice to Dhritharashtra. Vidura, after advising Dhritharashtra, says that Krishna’s plans will ultimately prevail. Such wisdom as Vidura’s is hard to find, for it is equally valid at all times. But there is another character in the Mahabharata who sees God’s hand in everything. Krishna is preparing to meet the Kauravas as a messenger of the Pandavas. Yudhisthira is not keen on war. Arjuna wants war, and Bhima is aching to kill Duryodhana. Sahadeva is silent and does not offer an opinion. Krishna asks him what he wants. Sahadeva says, “If I say I want war, will it happen? If I say I do not want a war, will that happen? If there is a war, can we predict who will win? And if we win, can we predict whether we will be joyful? Only You, Krishna, can answer all these questions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharma-and-wisdom/article31506319.ece
05 May 2020||Bhopal,||Nine more die in M.P.||Nine persons died of COVID-19 on Monday in Madhya Pradesh while undergoing treatment at hospitals, taking the Statewide toll to 165, according to the State’s Directorate of Health Services. Five deaths were reported in Ujjain, two in Burhanpur, and one each in Indore and Raisen, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate. The case fatality rate in Ujjain touched 21%, making it the State’s worst-hit city. So far, the city has reported 166 cases and 35 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nine-more-die-in-mp/article31506301.ece
05 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Uncertainty over Puri rath yatra||The Managing Committee of Shree Jagannath Temple, Puri, on Monday recommended construction of chariots used in the annual rath yatra, but uncertainty continued to prevail over holding the mega festival scheduled for June 24. As per tradition, construction of three majestic chariots for deities — Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra — begins from the auspicious day of Akshaya Tritiya. Since the nation was under COVID-19 lockdown, the chariot construction was not allowed. After zone-wise selected activities were allowed in the lockdown-3, the committee members discussed the issue of chariot construction at a meeting held through videoconferencing on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uncertainty-over-puri-rath-yatra/article31506307.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Civil Services preliminary exam put off||The preliminary examination of the Civil Services has been deferred from May 30, the Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions Ministry said in a press statement on Monday. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) held a special meeting on Monday to review the situation after extension of lockdown till May 17. “Taking notice of the extension of restrictions, the Commission decided that it will not be possible to resume examinations and interviews for the present. The Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination, 2020, scheduled to be held on May 31, 2020 therefore stands deferred,” the statement said. The statement said that when new dates were decided, “it will be ensured that candidates are given a notice of at least 30 days”. “Since this examination also serves as the screening test for the Indian Forest Service examination, the schedule for the Indian Forest Service examination is also deferred. The situation will be reviewed again on May 20, 2020 and fresh dates for these examinations shall be notified on the UPSC website in due course,” it said. The Commission has already deferred the following: personality test for remaining candidates for the Civil Services Examination, 2019, and notifications for the Indian Economic Service/Indian Statistical Service Examination, Combined Medical Services Examination,the Central Armed Police Forces Examination, and the NDA & Naval Academy Examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/civil-services-preliminary-exam-put-off/article31506306.ece
05 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha police book six for Tik Tok video||The Bhadrak police in Odisha have booked six returnees undergoing quarantine for uploading their song-dance act on Tik Tok. They have been accused of violating social distancing norms. The incident took place in the Bhatapara panchayat quarantine centre in Bhadrak district, where migrants, who had returned from West Bengal, were put up. According to the Tihidi police, cases under Sections 188/269/270 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act have been registered. Director-General of Police Abhay said, “Any conduct endangering the safety of others in the context of COVID-19 will be strongly dealt with as per law.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-police-book-six-for-tik-tok-video/article31506318.ece
05 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||IAS officer quits citing safety reasons||Rani Nagar, a 2014 batch IAS officer of the Haryana cadre, tendered her resignation from service on Monday on “personal safety” grounds. Ms. Nagar, who is presently posted as Additional Director, Social Justice and Empowerment, and Additional Director, Archives, sent her resignation to the Chief Secretary. She also posted the letter on her personal Twitter handle. In 2018, Ms. Nagar had levelled harassment allegations against a senior IAS officer, who had denied the charges. In a video posted on Facebook in April this year, Ms. Nagar said she was staying at a guest house in Chandigarh with her sister and both were in constant fear of threat to their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ias-officer-quits-citing-safety-reasons/article31506317.ece
05 May 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi tally crosses 600-mark||Dharavi reported 42 new COVID-19 cases on Monday — a sharp drop from Sunday’s spike of 94 — bringing its tally to 632. So far, 20 people have died of the virus in the area. Among the new cases is a one-month-old baby from the Matunga labour camp. While some of the patients are from areas that have previously reported cases (Mukund Nagar Kalyanwadi and Social Nagar), some are from newer parts such as Sabrina Bai chawl and Jalil compound. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has attributed the rise in cases to aggressive testing through fever clinics, dispensaries and survey of senior citizens. It has screened around 80,000 people for symptoms so far. Most of the positive cases have been found among close contacts of existing patients, and a majority are asymptomatic. The BMC has set aside four hospitals in Dharavi for symptomatic positive cases. It has increased the institutional quarantine capacity to 3,000. “We have 2,380 people in institutional quarantine right now,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavi-tally-crosses-600-mark/article31506295.ece
05 May 2020||Srinagar,||Pregnant women in J&K to be screened||Jammu and Kashmir has made COVID-19 testing of all pregnant women mandatory, after a local court on Monday took suo motu cognisance of the deaths of two pregnant women in Anantnag district. “They have to undergo the test at least a week before [delivery],” said Shabir Sidiqui, Medical Superintendent of the Lal Ded Maternity Hospital in Srinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pregnant-women-in-jk-to-be-screened/article31506298.ece
05 May 2020||Bhopal,||Medha seeks help for the stranded||Narmada Bachao Andolan’s Medha Patkar began a 24-hour fast along with other activists in Madhya Pradesh’s Barwani district on Monday morning demanding immediate transport for thousands of returning migrant workers stuck on the State’s border with Maharashtra. “No one cares for workers who contribute the most to the economy,” said Ms. Patkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/medha-seeks-help-for-the-stranded/article31506303.ece
05 May 2020||Guwahati,||Swine flu puts wildlife officials on high alert||The recovery of 28 pig carcasses from a stretch of the Brahmaputra river flowing through the Kaziranga National Park (KNP) has alarmed wildlife officials in Assam. There have been reports of pig farmers disposing of carcasses in the Brahmaputra and its tributaries after the outbreak of African Swine Fever (AFS) in mid-April. The Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department said the disease, earlier suspected to be classical swine fever, has killed more than 2,500 pigs. “Our Biswanath Division removed 28 pig carcasses from the river and had them disposed properly. But a major worry is the contamination of the river water which the animals and people in these parts use for drinking,” KNP Director P. Sivakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/swine-flu-puts-wildlife-officials-on-high-alert/article31506327.ece
05 May 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata is running police state: Governor||The war of words between West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and the ruling Trinamool Congress continued unabated with Mr. Dhankhar on Monday writing another strongly worded letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Mr. Dhankhar accused Ms. Banerjee “of running a police state’. The Trinamool leadership responded saying the remarks put “parliamentary democracy under threat”. “West Bengal is, unfortunately, emerging as a police state with anyone posting on social media, to the distaste of the ruling dispensation, gets a police knock at his door,” the Governor said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-is-running-police-state-governor/article31506299.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||BENGALURU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengaluru/article31506324.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Why not mobile booths for testing: HC||The Madras High Court on Monday wanted to know from the State government the possibility of establishing mobile booths to test people for COVID-19. It directed the government to submit its response by Wednesday. Justices Vineet Kothari and Pushpa Sathyanarayana also called for a report on the number of testing kits available in the State and the steps taken so far to procure more kits. The orders were passed on a case filed by advocate A. Amal Anthony of Tiruchi. Nominal charge The litigant had sought a direction to conduct such tests on homeless people, destitutes and other street dwellers, besides making the tests either free of cost for all or to charge a nominal amount of Rs. 500 per test from those who could afford to pay. V. Ponraj, an associate of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, had also filed a case seeking disclosure of number of RT-PCR and Quantitative PCR (qPCR) testing equipment available with universities and other research institutions in the country. The judges ordered notices, returnable by May 12, to the Centre as well as the State governments on the petition and directed them to file their counter affidavits, if any. In his affidavit, the litigant also sought a direction to deploy the available equipment for testing SARS-CoV-2. He said depending on Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) PCR laboratories alone may not be sufficient to conduct maximum number of tests and hence labs attached to universities as well as other research institutions should also be pressed into service forthwith. He claimed that Tamil Nadu alone might have 126 such labs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-not-mobile-booths-for-testing-hc/article31506470.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu accounts for over 600 cases in T.N.||The Koyambedu market is emerging as one of the biggest clusters of COVID-19 infection in Tamil Nadu. As of Monday, the cluster accounted for more than 600 cases, and was the reason behind the spread of the infectious disease to at least half the State, said officials. The Health department, in its bulletin, noted that a large number of the day’s COVID-19 count of 527 cases were linked to the market, though it did not specify the exact number of cases. The majority of those infected were vendors and daily wage labourers, and their contacts. While cases from the cluster began to emerge last week, “by Monday, the cases had spread to half of Tamil Nadu... Districts as far as Ariyalur and Perambalur reported positive cases among persons who had visited Koyambedu market,” a Health department official said. Cuddalore, for instance, reported 107 new cases among those who returned from the market. In fact, in many districts, the administrations have asked persons who visited the market to report to officials. Contact tracing “When compared to other districts, the persons who test positive in Chennai have more contacts. Take the Koyambedu cluster as an instance. A vendor who has tested positive has more number of contacts. We are lifting samples from all their contacts whether they have symptoms or not,” an official said. Unlike in the case of persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, getting a list of persons who visited the market is next to impossible, another official said. “Now, we have started to ask people if they had travelled to Koyambedu like how we used to ask for travel history earlier. “This is one of the biggest emerging clusters in the State,” he added. K. Kolandaswamy, a public health expert, said that the majority of those who have tested positive were vendors and their contacts. “Customers who visited the market would have had a very brief interaction. Persons who visit markets to purchase vegetables should wash their hands thoroughly,” he said. He noted that the spread had happened despite massive and regular disinfection works at the market. Sharp dip in customers With the increase in cases at the market, the Koyambedu wholesale market witnessed a sharp dip in the number of visitors on Monday. With only the wholesale vegetable market allowed to function before a decision to shut down was taken on Monday evening, the market received about 120 truckloads of vegetables, which is less than half the daily load. Wholesale merchants noted that the dip in the number of visitors could be due to the fear of COVID-19. Some vegetable shops, particularly those selling onions, were closed too due to the threat of infection. On Monday, only about 2,000-3,000 retail traders visited the market and most of them were from the city. Those from neighbouring places such as Arakkonam and Chengalpattu did not visit the market. Vegetables unsold About 40-50 truckloads of vegetables remained unsold for want of takers, according to traders. Though the number of visitors has dipped over the past few days, hygiene issues among the labourers is still a concern. Many of the labourers do not follow the practice of wearing masks, traders said. There are about 1,000 labourers now in the market. C||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-accounts-for-over-600-cases-in-tn/article31506460.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Confusion over norms follows easing of lockdown curbs||A day after the State government issued guidelines following a partial relaxation of lockdown restrictions for various sectors, confusion prevailed as standalone retailers in the city opened their shops, only to be asked by the police to down their shutters. The confusion was mainly due to a misinterpretation that the relaxed norms, applicable outside containment zones, were effective from Monday, whereas the government order had stated that they will come into effect on May 6. “Going by the government order, we went ahead and opened our stores in Chennai and across the State. However, the police arrived and said this was not allowed, and we had to shut our shops,” said L. Subhash Chandra, managing director, Sangeetha Mobiles. He also called for clarity on the norms and clear communication from the enforcing authorities. An official at another major mobile retail chain echoed Mr. Chandra’s views. Consumers queued up at various electronics stores. “Most customers were looking to buy accessories, and we closed the shops following instructions from the police,” a shop owner said. The story was similar in the case of home appliances and electronics stores like Vasanth and Co and Viveks. “Since ours was a standalone shop, we opened [it]. But the officials said we need to check with the Collector. I have branches in other districts as well, and we faced similar issues there. So we will wait for further orders,” said a chief executive of an appliances shop. “I opened the shop as the G.O. allowed [us] to do so. But I was told that since I had ACs running in my shop, I must close it. I closed it in half an hour,” said a mobile shop owner at Pondy Bazaar. Appliance retailers also pointed to other issues which could lead to confusion. “The guidelines state that AC mechanics can be allowed to work after obtaining passes. In case of a new product, we deliver it in a day, and the brand owner sends their staff for installation. The procedure for applying for passes for these kinds of services is not clear,” an official at a top retailer said. Most IT firms in the city have preferred to continue with the work-from-home strategy, despite the relaxations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/confusion-over-norms-follows-easing-of-lockdown-curbs/article31506479.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People with ‘own vehicles’ can leave for other States||Natives of other States, stranded in Tamil Nadu owing to the COVID-19 lockdown, will be permitted to leave “on their own vehicles” from Tuesday. All such persons, who have registered themselves on the portalnonresidenttamil.orgwould get their e-passes for their vehicles and be allowed to cross the borders only during daytime. “We would issue e-passes for vehicles for those who have registered online from midnight and allow vehicles to leave Tamil Nadu from Tuesday,” a senior official told The Hindu on Monday evening. However, persons who intend to leave Tamil Nadu on a government-arrangement vehicle or special trains would have to wait for a few more days. All those leaving Tamil Nadu on their own vehicles would have to go through medical check-up near the inter-State borders. There are about 107 roads touching other States but only about two or three roads in each district would be allowed for such vehicular traffic, the official said. “But, such vehicles would be allowed through all National Highways during daylight.” Asked whether the Tamil Nadu government-issued vehicle pass would be valid in States through which the vehicle would be passing, he replied in the affirmative. For instance, if a vehicle leaves Tamil Nadu for Odisha passing through Andhra Pradesh, the T.N. government-issued vehicle pass should be sufficient, he said. However, persons who have registered on the portal intending to return to Tamil Nadu may have to wait for some more time. As of Monday evening, no specific date and time was fixed from when the inflow of persons into Tamil Nadu would be allowed. “We are in the process of setting up quarantine facilities in the inter-State borders and are co-ordinating with District Collectors in this regard. We should allow inflow of such traffic in the next few days,” he said. On Monday, the Tamil Nadu government also appointed 22 IAS, IPS and IFS officers as nodal officers for specific States over the movement of stranded persons to and from States and Union Territories concerned. According to a G.O. issued in this regard, they were to facilitate smooth movement of stranded persons across State borders as per SOPs and to co-ordinate with the nodal officers of other States and with district administration. The officers are: Kakarla Usha (Andhra Pradesh), S.J. Chiru and R. Sudhan (Assam and the North East), Kumar Jayant and Najmal Hoda (Bihar), K. Srinivasan and Nihar Ranjan (Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand), C. Samayamoorthy (Odisha), T.P. Rajesh (West Bengal), Anil Meshram (Haryana), M. Sudha Devi (Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir), B. Chandramohan (Karnataka and Sikkim), Johny Tom Varghese and T. Ritto Cyriac (Kerala), Rajesh Lakhoni (Madhya Pradesh), Pooja Kulkarni (Maharashtra), Mangat Ram Sharma (New Delhi), Gagandeep Singh Bedi (Punjab), R.K. Jagenia (Rajasthan), N. Venkatesh (Telangana), Pinky Jowel (Uttar Pradesh) and Pradeep Yadav (Other States and Union Territories).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-with-own-vehicles-can-leave-for-other-states/article31506486.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Spike in cases due to targeted testing: official||Targeted testing of all persons associated with the Koyambedu wholesale market and other markets, will lead to a rise in COVID-19 positive cases, said Greater Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan. Mr. Radhakrishnan told mediapersons on Monday that the civic agencies would chalk out strategies to control the spread of COVID-19 in markets. “We will activate COVID-19 care centres in various areas to quarantine infected residents. Residents are requested not to worry about the rising numbers. They only have to be careful. We request residents to wash hands after every visit to the grocery shop, wear a mask and avoid crowding at markets,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan. “A team of young IAS officers has visited various quarantine spaces of the Corporation. We will get a report on the preparedness of the quarantine spaces today. The Corporation has announced the creation of 4,000 beds in quarantine centres in various buildings, including Chennai Trade Centre in Nandambakkam. D.G. Vaishnav College has already set up a COVID-19 care centre. Many persons who have been admitted to hospitals have requested to shift them to COVID-19 care centres, which will provide all facilities,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan. Stressing on the need for focussed testing of workers in Koyambedu and other areas, Mr. Radhakrishnan said: “The focussed testing of Koyambedu workers who have reached their native villages in other districts will be done with the support of district administration. We have collected the names of persons associated with the market. They will be traced in each district and will be tested for COVID-19,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan. Pointing to efforts of CMDA on the closure of over 3,500 shops in Koyambedu a few weeks ago to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Mr. Radhakrishnan said the officials had permitted only 200 wholesale outlets of vegetable market and 300 shops in the grain market to ensure availability of essential commodities.  Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said there had been a slight slowdown in the door-to-door survey after eight workers tested positive for COVID-19. “We are getting active inputs from the survey,” said Mr. Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spike-in-cases-due-to-targeted-testing-official/article31506453.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A few industries commence operations in State||A handful of industries from across Tamil Nadu commenced operations with skeletal staff on Monday, after being shut since March 25 due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Another section of industries opened their premises and ensured that they were fully sanitised before employees report for duty this week. A few firms indicated that they will gradually resume operations in the coming weeks in a phased manner. “We have started production,” S. Ravi Shankar, GM - Manufacturing, LOTTE India Corporation Limited, said on Monday. Of a total of 220 employees, only 70 were on the work site, maintaining physical distancing norms. Some employees, who stay 60-70 km away from the workplace, were given accommodation in the company guest house to avoid commute, he added. “We started [operations] with 10% of our people on Monday,” said, M. Manickam, chairman of Sakthi Automobile Components, a firm which supplies critical components to car manufacturers. “We have taken adequate precautions,” he added. Automobile firms said they were making arrangements for physical distancing, and after that, they will announce the opening dates. But a few players, who fall under a containment zone, said they needed to wait longer. A senior official from one of the automobile firms said they were making certain alterations to the shop floor so that social distancing could be maintained. “We will call employees for work only after we make sure that the factory is following all protocols issued by the government,” he added. V.G. Sakthikumar, managing director of SCHWING Stetter India Pvt Ltd, said the firm will resume operations from May 6. He added, “We are awaiting approval through the government portal. But the portal has technical issues. We are ready, and hope the authorities would sort this out soon.” Representatives of industrial estates, which house MSMEs, said they had spoken to the respective Collectors in their zones and were waiting for approvals. K.V. Kanakambaram, president, The Industrial Estate Mfrs. Association, said MSMEs in Guindy had not received permission to operate. "We are waiting for further orders," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-few-industries-commence-operations-in-state/article31506485.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin milk distribution hit in several parts of north Chennai||Supply of Aavin milk was hit in several areas including Perambur, Vyasarpadi, MKB Nagar and parts of Anna Nagar, on Monday after a section of employees at the Madhavaram dairy abandoned work. This was after they got information about one employee testing positive for COVID-19 on Saturday and civic body officials wanted to test his contacts, said official sources. The man had gone to Koyambedu to buy vegetables. Consumers said that they received milk as late as 10 a.m. due to the delay. T. K. Pandian of Anna Nagar said that supply was delayed on Sunday and Monday. “As it is people are buying in bulk and milk gets over very quickly. It is summer and people are buying more to make curd,” he said. The dairy supplies 3.5 lakh litres of milk a day to the city. Aavin Managing Director M. Vallalar said that they were taking steps to ensure timely supplies. Adequate precautions “We have brought in experienced staff from other dairies to work at Madhavaram. Also adequate precautions are taken at all dairies, which are being sanitised regularly. All staff are scanned for temperature and provided gloves and masks when they enter our premises,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-milk-distribution-hit-in-several-parts-of-north-chennai/article31506462.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Asymptomatic patients being shifted to quarantine facilities||Government hospitals in the city are continuing to shift asymptomatic and stable patients to quarantine facilities to accommodate the increasing number of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) patients. On Monday, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) shifted 85 asymptomatic and stable patients to the facility at Chennai Trade Centre, Nandambakkam. R. Jayanthi, dean of RGGGH, said the hospital at present had a total of 377 patients, of which 363 were COVID-19 positive. The remaining were individuals suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19. At Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, 169 patients were shifted to a private college and to Tondiarpet peripheral hospital, officials said. “We took up another unit at the peripheral hospital. We gave the option to the patients to decide on the centres. Some of them living nearby chose Tondiarpet. With this, we have 147 patients at Stanley Hospital,” an official said. He added that this move was to reserve the beds in hospitals for patients in need of treatment. “Patients with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and lung infection should be treated at the hospital,” he said. P. Vasanthamani, dean of Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital said the Health Minister, Chief Secretary and Special Nodal Officer for Greater Chennai Corporation inspected the quarantine facility at NSTI, Guindy. “We are getting ready to shift patients to the facility. Minor works are going on at the centre, and we have also requested the Corporation to arrange for security and sanitation workers,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/asymptomatic-patients-being-shifted-to-quarantine-facilities/article31506483.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation extends validity of passes||The Greater Chennai Corporation has extended the validity of passes issued by it to May 17. But getting a pass remains a challenge for many residents in the city. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said validity of passes given to industries were extended to May 17. According to a release, the validity of all essential services passes issued to attenders, caregivers and senior citizens have been extended till May 17. Similarly, passes given to medical shop workers, telecommunications, bank workers, food products manufacturers have been extended to May 17. The passes for 670 companies and workers were issued till March 14. Their validity was extended to May 3 and then to May 17. V. Sukumar Babu, former floor leader in the Corporation Council, said many residents had complained about the delay in getting the passes for caregivers. “Many senior citizens and their caregivers are unable to apply online,” said Mr. Babu. After the recent announcement pertaining to the change in the system of issuance of passes, residents have reported a delay in issuance of passes.Residents have requested the government to permit children of senior citizens to visit their home town in other districts to be with their parents. Corporation officials said they had refused permission to children of senior citizens go to other districts because of the risk of COVID-19. “More than one lakh people in the city need passes. It will increase the risk to senior citizens, said an official. According to estimates, less than 20% of the applications for passes are approved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-extends-validity-of-passes/article31506454.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DCP who was on duty at Koyambedu tests positive||A Deputy Commissioner of Police in the city has tested positive for COVID-19, police sources said on Monday. The officer, who was supervising crowd control measures at Koyambedu market and conducted a couple of visits or inspections there, tested positive for the virus on Monday, the sources said. The official was immediately quarantined and health officials were taking samples of his close contacts, including family members, colleagues and friends he had met since then. DCP quarantined A woman DCP working in the office of the Commissioner of Police has gone into self-quarantine at her house after her driver tested positive on Sunday. Thirty-six police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 in the city so far. At present, 26 policemen, including an IPS officer and 10 policewomen, in the city are under treatment. Ban orders Meanwhile, Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan on Monday extending the prohibitory orders by two weeks. It will remain in force up to midnight of May 17. Mr. Viswanathan extended the orders prohibiting assembly of more than five persons at public places and imposing other restrictions in Greater Chennai Police limits. “Any contravention of this order shall be subjected to prosecution under the Indian Penal Code, ” he said in the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dcp-who-was-on-duty-at-koyambedu-tests-positive/article31506456.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Market to be shifted||The Koyambedu wholesale market will stay shut on May 5 and 6 as it is being shifted to Thirumazhisai. It will become functional from May 7, according to the Koyambedu Market Management Committee. According to a release, the decision was taken in the wake of many vendors and labourers at the market testing positive for COVID-19. To ensure availability of vegetables and help farmers, it was decided to temporarily shift the market to Thirumazhisai. Traders said the decision was sudden. M. Thyagarajan, president, Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants Association, said: “We are unclear about the facilities in Thirumazhisai. We have to decide on shifting to the new place.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/market-to-be-shifted/article31506457.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Domestic help can't resume work in TN during lockdown: Govt||The Tamil Nadu government has decided against permitting domestic help to resume work during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. On Monday, it amended the May 3 order of the Revenue and Disaster Management Department, effectually removing domestic help from the category of people in the unorganised sector who were allowed to resume work from May 6.  As per the original order, domestic help, called household workers in official parlance, were included in the list of those who would be allowed to resume their work, after getting permission of the Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation in the city or from the District Collectors concerned in the rest of the State.  In the list for areas under the jurisdiction of the Greater Chennai Police, the domestic help were clubbed with workers such as plumbers, electricians, AC mechanics, carpenters and home care providers for persons with special needs while in the list for the rest of the State, they were grouped with caregivers for persons with special needs, differently abled, senior citizens and patients.  The latest order has excluded the domestic help from both lists, rendering them ineligible to resume their work.  (This report has been factually corrected)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/domestic-help-cant-resume-work-in-tn-during-lockdown-govt/article31506484.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temperature set to rise||The city was spared of scorching heat on the first day of the peak summer season, popularly called as Agni Natchathiram , as Monday’s maximum temperature was normal. But interior places such as Madurai and Karur may continue to sizzle for two more days, according to Meteorological department officials. Normally, the period between May 4 and May 28 is considered to be peak summer. On Monday, the weather stations at Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a maximum temperature of 36.2 degree Celsius and 36 degree Celsius. Tiruttani recorded 40 degree Celsius. N. Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai, said south and southeasterly winds prevailing over the coastal areas prevented the day temperature from rising above the average. If the low-pressure area over south Andaman sea was stronger, it would have influenced a hotter weather over coastal places, he said. Interior areas would experience relatively hot weather as the cool wind would not be able to penetrate much distance and a calm wind continued to blow in those places, he said. Chennai will experience a day temperature of 37 degree Celsius till Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/day-temperature-may-rise-in-interior-districts/article31506463.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR & CE dept. withdraws circular for transfer of temple funds||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department on Monday withdrew a circular it had issued on April 22 for transferring Rs. 10 crore to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund from the surplus revenue of 47 top temples in the State so that the poor could be fed during the COVID-19 lockdown. The circular was withdrawn following a batch of three public interest litigation petitions filed against it in the Madras HC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hr-ce-dept-withdraws-circular-for-transfer-of-temple-funds/article31506468.ece
05 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries in Coimbatore, Tiruppur to start operations on May 6||Industries are permitted to operate, according to the Government Order issued by the State Government, in Coimbatore and Tirppur districts from May 6. In Coimbatore, Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani held a meeting on Monday with representatives of industrial and trade associations. As many as 42 representatives took part. An official press release, issued after the meeting, said industries located in rural areas would start operations from May 6 and shops in these areas would be permitted to open. Those located in town panchayats with a population of more than 15,000 would be inspected by the District Collector and permitted to operate. In the case of shops, those without air conditioner and have space to maintain social distancing would be permitted to open. Industries, across sectors, located within Coimbatore Corporation limits do not have permission for operation yet. The press release said 325 large-scale industries are located in rural areas in the district and 100 in the periphery of Coimbatore Corporation limits. No industrial or trade activity would be permitted within the containment zones. The units at SIDCO Industrial Estate can operate from May 6. T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, said the district administration and the Minister had assured complete support to the industries to operate. According to Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy, all micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) in the Corporation limits had sought permission to start operations. “The Minister has promised to take up the issue with the Chief Minister,” he said. C.T. Narayanan of Coimbatore Builders and Contractors Association said the builders and contractors would commence works at construction sites from Wednesday. “The district administration has granted us permission to bring workers to the site once. They have also said the supervisors and staff do not need special permission to travel within the city and it will be enough if they produce their ID cards,” he said. Another major demand placed by the industries was ensuring that the migrant workers remained here. They also wanted permission for inter-district movement of workers. The association heads who participated in the meeting said the Minister had pointed out that the Central Government had said that the special train was only for those migrant workers who were not taken care of by the employers. In Coimbatore, most of the workers were taken care of by the employers. In Tiruppur district, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said industries in rural areas would be permitted to operate from May 6. For those in urban areas, only export units would be permitted. Regarding job working powerlooms, those linked to fabric exporters would be permitted to function. In the case of shops, only those permitted can open. The industries had decided to make necessary arrangements, as prescribed by the district administration, to check the health of the workers regularly. The units would have to make transport arrangements for the workers. The district administration would take a survey of migrant workers who wanted to return to their State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-in-coimbatore-tiruppur-to-start-operations-on-may-6/article31506512.ece
05 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Team asks Coimbatore Corpn. to carry out more tests||The State-constituted Field Inspection Team headed by IAS officers E. Saravanavelraj and R. Gajalakshmi has asked the Coimbatore Corporation to collect more number of swabs for COVID-19 test, sources who attended Monday’s meeting with the team said. The Corporation now lifts 100-150 samples a day, mostly from containment zones. The team wanted it increased to 200-250 a day. Of the samples lifted from the zones, it wanted 75% to be from people who could be secondary contacts and 25% to be random samples. Thus far, the Corporation had lifted 2,280 swabs samples from people across the city. It also wanted the Corporation to continue taking random samples from field staff – police, conservancy workers, paramedical staff, journalists and other groups who worked during the lockdown period. The team also wanted the Corporation to put in place a mechanism to test the staff at the 12 budget canteens (Amma Unavagam). The civic body had decided to test the workers at the canteens instead of asking them to assemble at a place. The team also suggested that the containment zones be restricted to the vicinity of houses where positive cases were reported, to make the lifting of samples more representative. The sources also said the team had asked the Corporation to ensure the availability of essential commodities and devise a plan for every two days and not a week, as it did now, to make it dynamic and reflect the ground situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/team-asks-coimbatore-corpn-to-carry-out-more-tests/article31506510.ece
05 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police not to allow plying of auto rickshaws, taxis||While the Government has prohibited the plying of autorickshaws and taxis during the extended lockdown that began on Monday, several autorickshaws were found on the roads in Coimbatore city. While the police said they would strictly enforce the Government order, Coimbatore District Autorickshaw Drivers Union (affiliated to CITU) planned to call on the District Collector on Tuesday to seek relaxation of norms. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) R. Mutharasu told The Hindu that police personnel had been instructed to ensure that taxis and autorickshaws did not ply on the roads to ferry passengers. He said that details of violations involving autorickshaws and taxis, if reported, would be available by Tuesday morning. When stopped by police, some autorickshaw drivers said they had come out for personal work. A senior traffic police officer said that photo challan facility would also be used to levy fines on drivers of taxis and autorickshaws in case of violation. General secretary of the union and president of the federations of auto rickshaw unions in Coimbatore P.K. Sugumaran said families of autorickshaw drivers were in dire straits as the lockdown has hit their income. “CITU-affiliated union is planning to petition District Collector along with Coimbatore MP on Tuesday to seek relaxation of norms for autorickshaws. On May 8, the CITU will stage a State-wide agitation to press for a financial aid of Rs. 15,000 for every autorickshaw driver,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-not-to-allow-plying-of-auto-rickshaws-taxis/article31506514.ece
05 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable prices fall in Coimbatore||Wholesale vegetable prices in Coimbatore have fallen sharply in the last four days. According to the wholesale traders, the prices started falling a day after the four-day total lockdown in the city. Carrot prices ranged between Rs. 15 to Rs. 20 a kg, cabbage Rs. 5, brinjal Rs. 6 and bottle gourd Rs. 6 a kg. Small onion prices were Rs. 40 a kg (new arrivals). The traders said that though arrivals to the market had reduced, the demand was also down because hotels were shut and vegetable movement to Kerala was not permitted. So there was no issue of shortage. The arrivals were relatively high this year and demand remained low. Hence, the prices had fallen, the sources said. A recent trend was several people came to the markets and bought vegetables to sell in their neighbourhoods. This was a welcome move as people coming to the market reduced, the traders said. The Thyagi Kumaran market vegetable traders requested Minister SP Velumani on Monday to permit them to start selling from the market instead of the bus stands where the sellers had set shop temporarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-prices-fall-in-coimbatore/article31506504.ece
05 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||24,640 persons arrested in first two stages of lockdown in Coimbatore district||The police registered 22,272 cases and arrested 24,640 persons who violated prohibitory order in Coimbatore district during the first two stages of the national lockdown -- from the midnight of Marchl 24 to May 3. The police seized 22,010 vehicles from the violators, who were released on bail. The Coimbatore city police registered 6,338 cases, arrested 6,580 persons and seized 6,508 vehicles from violators during the two stages of the lockdown. The Coimbatore rural police arrested 18,080 persons in 15,934 cases and seized 15,502 vehicles from them. On Sunday alone, the Coimbatore city police registered 65 cases, arrested 66 persons and seized 61 vehicles. The Coimbatore rural police registered 357 cases, arrested 414 persons and seized 340 vehicles on Sunday. On Monday, the police had a tough time managing the crowd at busy market places and commercial areas where people came in large numbers for purchases. The police assisted officials of civic bodies and the Revenue Department in various control measures, apart from managing traffic and maintaining law and order.  Staff Reporter adds from Salem  The Salem City police on Sunday registered 152 cases against 152 persons and detained 116 vehicles. The Salem District Police registered 190 cases against 230 persons and detained 130 vehicles. Namakkal police registered 131 cases against as many persons and detained 76 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24640-persons-arrested-in-first-two-stages-of-lockdown-in-coimbatore-district/article31506506.ece
05 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Quarries seek withdrawal of tax hike on fuel||The stone quarries, crushers, and readymix concrete (RMC) making factories will be affected by the State government’s decision to increase Value Added Tax on petrol and diesel, according to K. Chinnaswamy, president, stone quarry and crushers owners association. Mr. Chinnaswamy said Coimbatore district had over 100 RMC plants and more than 100 crushing units. The quarries, most of which were small and located on just five to 10 acres, were nearly 250 in the district. On an average, a small crushing unit would have 10 to 20 lorries and bigger ones, such as those present in Karur, would have nearly 100 lorries. The crushing unit, quarry and RMC plants would have to shell out at least Rs. 2,500 more for every lorry every day even if they were transporting the goods within a short distance because of the hike in tax on fuel. No other State had done so. “For more than a month, all production facilities have remained idle. The industry faces the threat of migrant workers going back home soon. In such a situation, increasing tax on diesel and petrol, and fuel costs going up will only hit the industry,” he said. “The crushing units, quarry owners, and RMC plants are not asking for special support for revival. But the government should ensure that the production costs do not shoot up. Demand is expected to be low when the industries restart and this will add to the financial burden of the crushing units and quarries,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quarries-seek-withdrawal-of-tax-hike-on-fuel/article31506505.ece
05 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||45 held for selling arrack||Coimbatore district (rural) police conducted raids in rural areas and arrested 45 persons for possession of illegal arrack. The police registered eight cases against them and seized 22.4 litres of arrack and 35 litres of fermented wash from them. The police also seized 198.5 litres of toddy during the raids and registered 35 cases on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-held-for-selling-arrack/article31506515.ece
05 May 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Wild elephants damage coffee plantation||Wild elephants destroyed a coffee plantation in Adalur village in Kanniwadi forest limits in the district on Sunday. The coffee plantation on three acres of land had been destroyed by the elephants. With COVID-19 pandemic, the farmers who lived indoors were unaware of the elephant movement on Sunday. “Only after when some passersby informed us, we learnt about the damage done to our crops,” said Boopathi, a farmer in Adalur. He added that eight months ago, when they had encountered a similar problem, the District Forest Officer from the district and other officials inspected the place. They assured to take ample steps to ensure that the wild animals stayed in deep forest. An officer even claimed that they were in the process of digging huge trenches, which would prevent the animals from crossing the demarcated lines. But, nothing had been implemented, he alleged. Another farmer Xavier said that they were even given tips to install solar fencing by the Horticulture department officials last year. The farmers were facing problems in some way or the other for the last three years. “We are not able to repay loans in the bank. We have pledged our valuables to make both ends meet. Apart from this, we have some private borrowings too from money lenders,” he added. When the crops were ready for the harvest, the elephants had damaged them totally. The village panchayat presidents in the past too had suggested to give compensation to the patta land holders as and when they complained about such animal intrusion but nothing materialised. A forest official in the district said that the elephants may have entered the village in search of food and water. “We will inspect the village and step up vigil by deploying more volunteers/anti-poachers in the vicinity,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wild-elephants-damage-coffee-plantation/article31506712.ece
05 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Lack of clarity keeps most shops closed in Erode||With lack of clarity from the district administration on reopening shops and the police instructing traders to down shutters, less than half of the shops were opened in the city and across the district on Monday. With no active COVID-19 cases in the district, it was placed in orange zone and the State government had allowed opening of stores selling hardware, construction materials and electrical items. However, permission was not granted for opening malls, textile showrooms with a/c and saloons. On Monday, hardware shops on Sathy Road and across the city were not opened. Shops selling mobile phones and household products were opened, but did little business throughout the day. Only medical shops, grocery shops and a few hotels were opened in the city as traders said there was no clarity from the administration on opening of the shops. Traders at Solar said that at 10.15 a.m., the policemen asked them, including grocery stores, to down shutters as they did not receive any communication from the administration. Same situation prevailed in rural pockets. Meanwhile, many people were found moving on the road in vehicles as very few policemen could be seen on the arterial roads. However, entry of vehicles from other districts was restricted on the inter-district borders. Over 400 migrant workers submitted applications at the Collectorate to get permission go to their natives in special trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lack-of-clarity-keeps-most-shops-closed-in-erode/article31506498.ece
05 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Case against man for entering Erode illegally||The district police have registered a case against a 34-year-old man for entering the district illegally by hiding in a commercial vehicle. Police said that the man was working as a contract labour in a private company in Ranga Reddy district in Telangana and had reached his house in Surampatti in the city on Sunday. His neighbours alerted corporation officials who held inquiries with him. He told officials that he had entered the district without being tested at the check posts. Officials told him to remain in home quarantine. But he refused and argued with the officials.  Surampatti police were alerted and a complaint was lodged. A case was registered against him and he was lodged in a quarantine centre. Officials said that people entering the district without being tested pose threat to all and hence asked the public to alert officials, if they have visitors, or come to know of people from other States visiting homes, offices or industries in their area. They should alert the government hospitals, police stations or Tahsildar’s office immediately. They can also contact the control room at 0424-2260211, toll free number 1077 and WhatsApp number 96773-97600.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-man-for-entering-erode-illegally/article31506511.ece
05 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 500 people quarantined in Erode||As many as 545 persons who entered Erode from others districts were lodged in the 16 quarantine centres for 14 days, as a precautionary measure against COVID-19. Since there were no active cases, the district was moved from red to orange zone on April 30. Following this, people from other districts tried to enter the district, but were prevented at the inter-district check posts. Only vehicle pass holders were allowed after verification and medical check-up. The district administration has established one quarantine centre in each of the 14 blocks and two in corporation limits, while work is on to establish four more centres in the district. Schools and colleges in each block were converted into quarantine centres. Centres Number of persons in each centre are as follows: Ammapettai – Guruvareddiyur Higher Secondary School (21 persons); Anthiyur – Government Boys Higher Secondary School (33); Bhavani – Kavindapadi GHSS (51); Bhavani Sagar – GHSS, Thottampalayam (10); Erode – Kongu Engineering College (38); Gobichettipalayam – Gobi Arts and Science College (67); Kodumudi – Bharathiyar University Arts and Science College, Elumathur (68); Modakurichi – Modakurichi GHSS (18); Nambiyur – GBHSS (11); Perundurai – Kongu Polytechnic (24), Sengunthar Engineering College (97), IRT (4); Sathyamangalam – Sri Ragavendra HSS (46); Don Bosco School, Kadambur (11); T.N. Palayam – J.K.K.M. Engineering College, Bungalowpudur (37), and Talavadi – Don Bosco School (9). Revenue officials faced opposition from residents in Modakurichi and Kodumudi blocks after they identified two schools in the blocks for establishing the centre. Later, two other centres were identified and disinfectants sprayed before accommodating people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-500-people-quarantined-in-erode/article31506495.ece
05 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of essentials begins||Distribution of essential commodities free of cost for May to 6.84 lakh cardholders through 1,146 ration shops in the district began on Monday. Tokens were given on May 2 and 3. On Monday, people waited in queue at the shops to get the commodities. Markings were done to ensure personal distancing. People in hill areas in Bargur and Kadambur, who did not have ration cards, urged the administration to supply essentials to them at the ration shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-essentials-begins/article31506496.ece
05 May 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal on the edge of a precipice despite being in the green zone||Despite being classified as green zone with no COVID-19 case, the Karaikal administration finds itself on the edge of a precipice surrounded by districts categorised as red and orange zones. Karaikal district shares borders with Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam categorised as red zone and orange zone respectively, and welfare organisations have been raising concerns about two-way movement of people through the check posts on the borders. “The district administration has not done enough to prevent entry of people from Nagapattinam district through the Nandalar Check Post,” said V.R. Dhanaseelane, president, Karaikal District Citizens and Rail Users' Welfare Association. Liquor outlets must remain closed until the surrounding districts come under green classification. Else, Karaikal will witness movement of potential COVID-19 carriers. “There is bound to be a spurt in the movement of people from the Tamil Nadu side into Karaikal since liquor is available for cheaper rates,” he said. The Puducherry Government has neither the financial resources nor medical infrastructure to handle an outbreak, said S. Anandkumar, president, India Against Corruption, Karaikal. The police department has plans to rope in NCC cadets in rural parts and security guards in urban places to step up measures for containment of COVID-19 infection. Citing the advisory issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, District Collector Anand Sharma said though Karaikal is a green zone,the administration has the leverage to put additional restrictions in place as it deems fit as it is surrounded by Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts where the COVID-19 infection is high. Lifting of lockdown restrictions in Karaikal will be based on the rate of spread of the infection in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts, the Collector said. Though economic activities are important, restrictions will be lifted only in a phased manner, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karaikal-on-the-edge-of-a-precipice-despite-being-in-the-green-zone/article31506756.ece
05 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri moves from green zone to orange||Krishnagiri moved from green zone to orange zone after two women tested positive for COVID 19 here in Shoolagiri. The women, 52 years and 60 years of age, both flower sellers near Shoolagiri bus stand, are believed to have contracted the infection from a Villupuram man, who travelled to Shoolagiri for a wedding in the family of one of the women. Speaking to The Hindu , Deputy Director of Health Govindan said the women had shown mild symptoms of fever and cough on Friday. Their swabs were collected on May 2 and 3 respectively and sent for testing. The tests returned positive and the women were placed in home quarantine. “They are in good condition, and 5 other family members of one of the women were also isolated.” No information was forthcoming from the health authorities on when was the marriage was held, how the travel was allowed and the number of attendees. Kamarajar Nagar and Anna Nagar in Shoolagiri were cordoned off as containment zones. It appeared that the authorities would once again dub the testing of the women as imported cases. “It is an “imported case” and there are no real cases in Krishnagiri,” Dr.Govindan said. On Friday, a 67-year-old Krishnagiri man tested positive after a week of quarantine in his home in a village in Krishnagiri upon his return from Puttaparthi. However, he was stopped at the border in Salem. So it was counted under Salem district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-moves-from-green-zone-to-orange/article31506487.ece
05 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Spurt in positive cases in southern districts||Five of the 10 southern districts, which had reported only four COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, recorded 23 new cases on Monday. Dindigul reported 10 fresh cases, Tenkasi nine cases, Virudhunagar two cases and Madurai and Ramanathapuram one case each. Health officials in Dindigul said all the 10 positive cases were vegetable vendors or those employed in Koyambedu wholesale vegetable market in Chennai. They belonged to Chitarevu Ottupatti, Sevugampatti, Sirumalai Pazhayur and Chettiapatti. They were admitted to Government Karur Medical College Hospital. In Tenkasi district, fresh cases were again reported from Puliyankudi. Already, a little over 90% of the total patients (49) in the district were from the same area and they belonged to one family. In Ramanathapuram, a newly recruited woman police constable, from Appanoor near Mudukalathur, has contracted COVID-19 virus. She had been to Kamudi police recruitment school two days ago along with 17 other selected women personnel. Her native village has been cordoned off. All the 17 other women constables have been kept in isolation. After reporting no positive cases in the last nine days, Virudhunagar district registered two fresh positive cases on Monday. A man and a woman in Malaipatti village near Aruppukottai tested positive. “During contact tracking of positive cases, we got information that some persons who had tested positive in Ramanathapuram district had travelled to this village to attend a funeral some 10 days back,” Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said. Among the villagers whose samples were tested, these two turned positive, he said. In Madurai district, a 35-year-old man from Palaiyur village in Sedapatti block tested positive. Collector T.G. Vinay said the patient had been living in Chennai for almost eight years and had arrived here on May 2. The patient did not display any symptoms or have any comorbidities. Meanwhile, hundreds of people took to streets as the district administration relaxed restrictions. Police checking at various areas, except containment zones, was lenient. P. Swarnalatha, a resident of Anna Nagar, said several hundred people went for walk in her area around 5 p.m. “It’s hard to keep cooped up for a long time. However, everyone must understand that it is important to protect oneself from the virus and not step outside even if it is frustrating,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spurt-in-positive-cases-in-southern-districts/article31506733.ece
05 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman seeks custody of child||A woman from Salem district has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking custody of a male child, currently under the care of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) in Virudhunagar district. In her petition, the woman, A. Ambika of K. Puliyankadai, said her husband, a daily wager, was the sole bread winner of the family. The couple had two sons and she gave birth to the third child, a boy, in October 2019. Already suffering under the pangs of poverty, she developed health issues following the childbirth. The couple came to the conclusion that they could not take care of the child, and decided to give it for adoption. The petitioner said she was informed by a distant relative from Virudhunagar that a childless couple in Gopalapuram village in the district had expressed interest in adopting the child. The couple adopted the child and took care of the medical expenses of the woman. However, the couple were unable to get a birth certificate for the child as they had not followed the legal procedures for adoption. The CWC, Virudhunagar, took the child in its custody and both the couple were called for an inquiry. Agreeing that no procedures were followed by them, Ambika said she had willingly given the child for adoption. She said the CWC could not take custody of the child and she wanted to take it along with her. She was being forced to give an undertaking that she would not give her child for adoption, she added. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan ordered notice to the CWC, Virudhunagar, and the couple who had adopted the child. The case was adjourned till June 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-seeks-custody-of-child/article31506726.ece
05 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Milling crowds and the merriment amiss||“For the people of Madurai and nearby towns, the celestial wedding of Lord Sundareswarar and Goddess Meenakshi is like a family function,” says R. Lakshmi, a resident of Kakka Thoppu Street, who has never once missed the wedding in the past 25 years. “Hundreds of devotees throng Meenakshi temple to witness the wedding, which is the highlight of the annual Chithirai festival. For the people of Madurai, the wedding is an event to renew their relationships and commitments. However, witnessing the wedding through digital platforms, in the wake of the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, makes us feel it incomplete. But we are at least grateful that we were able to witness the wedding through digital platforms,” she says. It was the first time that the celestial wedding took place without any public gathering due to the lockdown. The temple administration had been livestreaming the event on its website for the past few years. This time, the event was livestreamed totally on digital platforms with the inclusion of the temple’s Facebook page and YouTube, and TV channels were not given the live telecast rights. Shanmuga Thirukumaran, a Tamil teacher who has given running commentary for the event for many years, says that from 1981, the annual event was held on Adi streets, so that hundreds of devotees could witness the wedding. “A huge number of people from nearby villages and towns used to reach Madurai to take part in the wedding. But, this year, the wedding took place at the mandapam inside the temple,” he says. For L.T. Sanjayan, a trader from Pudhu Mandapam who sells packages containing kungumam, turmeric and the sacred yellow thread, the festival is the time when he does good business. “I have been preparing these packages at home and selling them for the past 30 years. Thousands of women buy these packages and replace the sacred thread that holds the ‘mangalsutra’ with a new one during the celestial wedding. But, due to the lockdown, there are no buyers for the packages that we make ready from March,” he says. The wedding is incomplete without the ‘kalyana virundhu’ or the wedding feast which was served at Sethupathi Higher School for the past few years, says K.S. Narayanan, Headmaster of the school. “Usually, the feast would be coordinated by Pazhamudir Solai Thiruvarul Murugan Bhaktha Sabhai Trust and would have contributions of vegetables and groceries by hundreds of people. Those who could not contribute would volunteer to cook and serve food for thousands of people. However, this could not happen this year due to the lockdown,” he says. “But, on the brighter side, we are able to distribute food to the homeless who are suffering due to the lockdown,” says Chamundi Vivekanandan, president of the Trust.  It is incomplete without ‘kalyana virundhu,’ served at Sethupathi Higher School for the past few years  K.S. NarayananHeadmaster||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/milling-crowds-and-the-merriment-amiss/article31506728.ece
05 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CRRI students sore about quality of hostel food||Following a house surgeon having been tested positive for COVID-19 on May 2, those doing compulsory rotatory residential internship (CRRI) at Government Rajaji Hospital here have raised a complaint on Monday that they did not get to eat proper food for the past two days. They took to social media on Saturday to air their grievances. The Tamil Nadu Medical Students Association has sent a representation to the the Collector, urging him to ensure that the students were provided proper food. According to a student, when the hostel was shut down after the house surgeon tested positive, mess workers became apprehensive about coming to the hostel. While some students in charge of the mess arranged for food, the quality was not good. “A good meal is one of the few incentives for working hard and fighting a deadly disease,” the student said. A GRH source said food had been arranged for 150 CRRI students and 30 postgraduates at the hostel. “We have already provided them two good meals today, including hygienically prepared non-vegetarian food,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crri-students-sore-about-quality-of-hostel-food/article31506729.ece
05 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Licences of 10 wholesale vegetable shops revoked||The licences of 10 wholesale vegetable shops at M.G.R. bus stand here were cancelled on Sunday night, after the shop owners and customers were found violating physical distancing norms. Madurai Corporation officials seized vegetables from these shops. Following reports of crowding and violation of physical distancing norms at the wholesale vegetable market, Collector T.G. Vinay and Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected the shops at the bus stand and the helipad of Amma Thidal on Ring Road. Shop owners in question would not be allowed to renew their licences for next three months, they said. A Corporation official said that every night, at least 10,000 people had been crowding the bus stand to purchase vegetables. “Despite repeated appeals by the police and the civic body, a large number of people thronged the market every night, with total disregard for physical distancing norms. After the Koyambedu market in Chennai turned into a COVID-19 hotspot, we have been taking all necessary measures to ensure that such an incident does not occur here,” he said. To avoid crowding of customers at the bus stand, the civic body had readied around 100 more wholesale vegetable shops at the helipad of Amma Thidal, which began functioning on Sunday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/licences-of-10-wholesale-vegetable-shops-revoked/article31506464.ece
05 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Thousands witness live webcast of celestial wedding||Thousands of people from all over the world, on their mobile phones, laptops and computers, witnessed the live webcast of the celestial wedding performed without crowds at Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple in Madurai on Monday. In the wake of COVID-19 lockdown rule on physical distancing, the temple administration had made arrangements for the webcast for the benefit of devotees who used to throng the temple in thousands. The temple’s Joint Commissioner, N. Natarajan, said that people from Canada, the United States of America and rest of the world were excited about seeing the live event, which registered 45,000 views on YouTube and 8,500 on Facebook. Although the temple administration provided four links to view the event, it was not available on two of them - the temple’s official websitewww.maduraimeenakshi.organd Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department’s websitewww.tnhrce.gov.in. The celestial wedding began at 8.15 a.m. as usual and concluded by 10.30 a.m. at Sethi Mandapam near Swami Sannithi. Lord Sundareswarar and Piriyavidai were brought to the Mandapam first. They were followed by the entrance of Goddess Meenakshi. All the deities were dressed in bright and festive colours with elaborate floral decoration. The knot was tied between 9.05 a.m. and 9.30 a.m. As per custom, thousands of women changed their mangalsutra, the sacred thread, as a mark of renewal of bonds, at the same time at home. Only four priests, a handful of temple staff, a videographer, an odhuvar and a tavil vidwan were present during the ceremony. Police personnel manned all the entrances of the temple to prevent entry of devotees. “We took all the essential precautions and made sure that physical distancing was in place,” the Joint Commissioner said. Steps will be taken to continue the temple’s foray into the digital world in the coming years too, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meenakshi-sundareswarar-celestial-wedding-goes-digital/article31506466.ece
05 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Over Rs. 2 lakh collected in fines for not wearing mask||District Collector K. Megraj said here on Monday that Rs. 2.20 lakh has been collected in fines till date from persons who ventured out without wearing masks. After Mr. Megraj, Superintendent of Police Ara.Arularasu and other senior officials held discussions with traders’ associations here on Monday, the Collector told presspersons the discussions were on relaxations provided during the lockdown. The traders were asked to ensure facilities for hand sanitatising and physical distancing among customers. Mr. Megraj said that in Namakkal, stores selling groceries, vegetables and other essential outlets would be open from 6 a.m to 4 p.m. Those selling hardwares and opticals would be open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Hotels would function from 6 a.m to 9 p.m, but provide only takeaways. Malls, salons, beauty parlours, gymnasiums and other stores with air-condition facilities would not be allowed to function. The Collector said strict checking was being carried out 14 check posts in the district. “Till date, samples have been collected from about 250 persons and we have received results for 170 of these, which are negative”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-rs-2-lakh-collected-in-fines-for-not-wearing-mask/article31506507.ece
05 May 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Goats charred to death||Eight goats were charred to death in a fire that broke out in a thatched shed put up on a farm land at Pudhuviralipatti village in the district on Sunday. The goats belonging to S. Chandrasekar - a farmer - were tied inside the thatched hut. Police said Chandrasekar had tied the goats and had left home on Sunday evening. He was informed about the fire and rushed to the spot where he found all the eight goats charred to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goats-charred-to-death/article31506745.ece
05 May 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Industrial units resume operations in Puducherry||Giving hopes of revival of economic activity in the Union Territory, standalone shops and industrial units resumed operations on Monday, after shutters were downed about 40 days ago in a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. Shops in the town and suburban areas resumed functioning on Monday after an initial delay due to want of clearance from the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-units-resume-operations-in-puducherry/article31506467.ece
05 May 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||3 more check posts in Pudukottai to monitor entry of people||Three more check posts have been created in the district increasing the number to 20 so as to monitor entry of people from other districts and States into Pudukottai in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, Collector P. Uma Maheswari said on Monday. A round-the-clock vigil was being maintained at the 20 check posts jointly by police, revenue and health department officials besides local body, Ms. Uma Maheswari said. Speaking to reporters here, Ms. Uma Maheswari said medical teams deployed at the check posts were screening those entering the district. All vehicles entering the district were being sprayed with disinfectants as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of virus. Steps had been taken to put even those who were coming from other States with due permission under quarantine, the Collector said. A person who had recently entered Pudukottai from Koyambedu in Chennai has been put under quarantine after undergoing medical checks at the government hospital. Those had come from other States and districts into Pudukottai should get themselves tested at government hospitals, she said The State government had announced certain relaxations and granted permission for opening of certain category of shops with restrictions. The Collector said instructions have been given to officials to seal those shops and units which failed to follow the prescribed norms and did not ensure personal distancing. Ms. Uma Maheswari said the district administration has been carrying out precautionary measures on a war-footing to check the spread of the viral disease. Essential commodities for the month of May were being distributed through 1,020 ration shops in the district to 4.5 lakh card holders. Meanwhile, an official release issued on Monday here said that permission has not been granted to open air-conditioned and non air-conditioned jewellery outlets and textile shops - both retail and wholesale in the district as the lockdown had been extended up to May 17. Action would be initiated against those found violating the government’s directive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-more-check-posts-in-pudukottai-to-monitor-entry-of-people/article31506755.ece
05 May 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Online classes begin at Pudukkottai Govt. Medical College||The Pudukkottai Government Medical College has commenced online classes for first year MBBS students on Monday after a break of 40 days in view of the novel coronavirus outbreak. The students have been asked to take to remote learning at their homes and log into classes for which a schedule has been sent. Out of the 150 medical students enrolled at the college, 140 were connected online on Monday morning. B. Sujatha, Vice-Principal, Government Medical College, Pudukottai and Professor of Physiology, handled the class. “As it was a video class, power point presentations were made and doubts posed by students were cleared, just like we would do in a class,” Ms. Sujatha said. Dean, AL. Meenakshi Sundaram who inaugurated the classes and welcomed the students said that digital learning would continue till regular classes commence. “For the first few days, we have decided to take three classes per day of 30 minutes each. The duration will be increased based on the need”, he added. More than 30 doctors teaching at the college attended the class. The effort was to ensure that the students were kept occupied and their minds stimulated in these testing times, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-classes-begin-at-pudukkottai-govt-medical-college/article31506751.ece
05 May 2020||R. SivaramanCHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stranded migrant workers take to Chennai’s streets||Migrant labourers staged minor protests in some parts of the city, demanding that they be allowed to return to their native States. In Koyambedu, over 1,000 migrant labourers hailing from Bihar, who were working as loadmen and engaged in other tasks in the market, approached the Koyambedu police station for assistance as they were unable to find food or shelter. Police personnel prevented them from proceeding towards the MGR Central Railway Station and held talks with them. Their particulars were collected to facilitate their return. Similar instances of unrest were witnessed in other parts of the city, including Aminjikarai, Tambaram, Pallavaram and Ambattur. Local police personnel held talks with the workers and promised to make arrangements for their return to their native places. However, some of the workers reached the railway station and the offices of the Chennai Corporation and the Chennai Police Commissioner by foot, and urged the authorities to give them details of the arrangements being made to facilitate their return. Over 1,000 construction workers staged a protest at a building site in JK Nagar, Alapakkam, as their employer had denied them permission to leave their shelter, the police said. The construction labourers hailed from villages in Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. Since Sunday evening, they had been staging protests, demanding that they be allowed to return to their native towns. “I came here with around 400 people from a village in Bihar. We were working at a construction site. A few days ago, the contractors collected our Aadhaar and identity cards to arrange for our return home. They have not arranged anything, and are instead asking us to work now,” said Habib, a migrant worker. The police have beefed up security at the premises since Sunday evening. Rahul Sharma from West Bengal said, “They collected all our documents on the pretext of arranging our return journey. Now they are asking us to resume work since the lockdown has been relaxed for construction activity. We had received information from our friends that there will be a special train for us [to return home]. I am afraid that I will miss the train and the chance to see my family soon.” Balaji Sampath, founder of Aid India, said, “It is the responsibility of the authorities to redress the grievances of migrant labourers. The authorities are yet to pay attention to the grievances of migrant labourers. They are under stress. When the government is about to operate train services, the firm has refused them [permission] to leave in this case. They need to go back to their homes to see their families. They will definitely come back.” A senior police officer said, “It is a dispute between a private firm and its labourers. Our personnel have been deployed [there] to ensure that no untoward incident takes place.” A senior official of Chengalpet police said the migrant labourers were housed in Sadanandapuram area of Perungalathur. Earlier in the day the migrant labourers numbering more than 1,200 had protested regarding the non-payment of wages due to the lockdown. Tension prevailed in Perungalathur near Tambaram after more than 1,200 migrant labourers, engaged in construction work for a multi-storey apartment building, staged a protest, demanding that they be sent to their native places in northern parts of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stranded-migrant-workers-take-to-chennais-streets/article31506477.ece
05 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Heavy traffic on roads in Salem||The crowd on roads on first day following relaxations was in stark contrast to the precautionary measures advised by the governments. It was traffic as usual on roads here on Monday with many people stepping out of their houses to report at offices and for other services. Automobile workshops, hardware and spare parts outlets and other non-essential businesses started functioning from Monday. Long line of vehicles were noticed at automobile workshops for periodical maintenance and other services. Long queue was also noticed at super markets, mobile phone outlets and electronic appliances store, raising concerns regarding the spread of COVID-19. Several mobile outlets arranged chairs outside their stores for customers to wait maintaining physical distance. V.Shakthi, who was waiting at a grocery store, said, “Many are not wearing masks and physical distancing has not been taken seriously by the public.” P.L.Palanisamy, secretary of Salem District Hotel Owners Association, said, that only less number of hotels and bakeries had opened only for takeaways. However, the industry had suffered huge loss due to lockdown and it was not profitable to operate only with takeaways. P.Thangadurai, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) said that vehicle checks would be focused mainly on city borders and vehicles coming in from outside the district would be checked. Those coming into the district would be quarantined at the facility set up at Karuppur Engineering College and they would be tested for COVID-19. “We have quarantined about 200 persons till date here and if the results are negative, they will be advised home quarantine for 14 days,” he said. S.Deepa Ganiger, Superintendent of Police, said checks had been intensified at 20 check-posts here and they were mainly checking for inter-district travellers and those returning from Koyambedu market. Revenue and health officials were alerted regarding suspicious cases and quarantine facilities had been set up at multiple places in rural limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-traffic-on-roads-in-salem/article31506508.ece
05 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Two held for preparing fake e-passes||The Kumbakonam East Police have arrested two persons on Sunday on charges of preparing and using counterfeit ‘e-pass’ to help people travel from Chennai to Thanjavur district. According to police, the District Administration received a letter from Senguttuvan of Kumbakonam last week where Senguttuvan wondered how come a tourist operator at Thiruvidaimaruthur was able to get an ‘e-pass’ with ease while his own application remained unattended. In his letter, Senguttuvan stated that he had applied for an ‘e-pass’ to bring one of his relative from Chennai to Kumbakonam a fortnight ago. As his application was not cleared, his friends suggested him to contact a tourist operator at Thiruvidaimaruthur to get things done. Subsequently, Senguttuvan approached the tourist operator, Nagaraj of Thiruvidaimaruthur and paid Rs. 5,000 in cash along with a photo copy of his Aadhaar card . A day later, Nagaraj took Senguttuvan in his vehicle with the ‘e-pass’ issued in the name of Senguttuvan and brought his relative to Kumbakonam. When Senguttuvan checked the status of his application last week it still remained ‘under process’. Thus annoyed by the development, Senguttuvan wrote a letter to the district administration wanting to know how the tourist operator was able to get the ‘e-pass’ with ease while his original application was still pending with the officials. Stunned by the letter, the district administration forwarded the letter to the police and on investigation it was found that Nagaraj had prepared a fake ‘e-pass’ with the help of his friend, Arivazhagan of Kumbakonam. Further, Nagaraj had reportedly helped more than 50 persons from Chennai to reach their native places in Thanjavur district by preparing fake ‘e-passes’. Both Nagaraj and Arivazhagan were arrested on Sunday and remanded to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-preparing-fake-e-passes/article31506741.ece
05 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Sops for farmers of Theni district: Collector||Reaching out to the farmers in the district, the agriculture department has opened up cold storage facilities to stock perishables free of cost, said Collector M Pallavi Baldev here on Monday. Speaking to reporters, she said that with the COVID-19 pandemic situation, the State government had announced a series of welfare measures for different sections in the society. Thanks to the Agriculture Marketing Committee, which has go-downs and cold storage facilities across the district, farmers could store their produce without any fee or rentals. Cotton growers too can stock their goods, Ms. Pallavi Baldev said and added that the farmers who required advances can draw against their commodities. The interest component would be a meagre 5 % only and the loan would be given up to 50 % of the total stocked up value in the market. The State government has also announced that the farmers can repay the loan in 180 days. The interest on the borrowings for the first 30 days would be waived. Hence, it is a boon for the small and marginal farmers to make use of the opportunities. Interested farmers can contact Deputy Director (Agriculture Marketing) at 94420-09901, Agriculture Marketing Secretary at 9443423734. Farmers from Theni and Periakulam can contact the Superintendent at 9843625889, Cumbum and Uthamapalayam at 8438348176, Chinnamanur and Andipatti can contact at 9994716960 and those in Bodinayakkanur can contact the officer at 98421-98075, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sops-for-farmers-of-theni-district-collector/article31506713.ece
05 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||39 more test positive in central region||Thirty-nine persons, many of whom returned to their home towns from the Koyambedu market in Chennai, tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Monday. Of them, 25 belong to Perambalur while six belong to Ariyalur, four to Tiruchi, two to Tiruvarur and one each from Thanjavur and Karur districts. In Perambalur district, 22 of the 25 patients who tested positive had returned to their homes after working at the Koyambedu market. The patients were tested on May 2, and the results returned positive for all. The other three patients were women - a relative of a man who returned from Chennai, a Village Health Nurse and her daughter. The nurse, a 40-year-old woman was a colleague of a man who tested positive at the Thungapuram Primary Healthcare Centre here last week. The woman’s 18-year-old daughter too, has contracted the infection. All patients, except five of them, are undergoing treatment at the Perambalur Government Headquarters Hospital. Five patients over the age of 50 have been sent to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. The new cases have increased the total positive cases in the district to 36. Meanwhile, on Monday, samples were lifted from 173 more people who had travelled to Perambalur. District Collector T. Santha announced that total lockdown would be enforced in nine villages- Nallarikkai, Keezha Perambalur and Puduvettakudi in Veppur block and Kolathur, Iluppaikudi, Thimmur, Arunagirimangalam, Sillakudi and Nannai in Alathur Block, from Tuesday to Thursday. No shops will be allowed to open. Hospitals and medical shops are exempt. No resident will be allowed to exit the containment areas while outsiders will not be allowed inside. Police personnel will monitor the areas round-the-clock. The Collector also said that there will be no relaxation in the lockdown norms in Perambalur district due to the increasing number of cases. At the other three containment zones of Labbaikudikadu, Athiyur and Thungapuram, meat and fish shops must remain closed and all other shops will be allowed to open from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. Shops across the rest of the district will open from 9 a.m to noon. In Ariyalur district, six patients, all men have tested positive for the infection on Monday. Samples were lifted from them after they arrived in the district on May 2 and were admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital. All patients who are asymptomatic will be monitored by the doctors at the Ariyalur GH while patients with co-morbid conditions such as blood pressure and diabetes will be sent to Tiruchi, officials here said. District Collector D. Rathna said that the new relaxed lockdown norms announced by the State government would not apply to the Ariyalur municipality. Only shops selling essentials, vegetables, milk would be allowed to open between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. A total of 148 individuals were facility quarantined and samples have been lifted from 105 people on Monday and sent to the Tiruchi K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College for testing. Meanwhile, In Tiruchi district, four men tested positive after returning to their hometowns from Chennai. Samples of 363 people, including 28 who arrived from Koyambedu were lifted on Sunday after they were all home quarantined. Of them, the four have tested positive for the infection and have been admitted to the Tiruchi GH while the remaining 359 have tested negative. However, all 359 of them have been asked to remain in home quarantine for a period of 14 days by health officials. As on Monday, eight patients from Tiruchi, nine from Ariyalur, four from Perambalur and one from Pudukottai, a total of 22 patients are undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi GH. In Karur district, a 20-year-old man, who travelled to the district from Koyambedu on Monday morning was stopped at a toll-gate and taken to the Government Medical College Hospital where he tested positive. The patient is asymptomatic, official sources here said. In Thanjavur, a 28-year-old woman of Adhiyambanallur near Kabisthalam tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. According to official sources, she was one among the four persons who had returned to Thanjavur district recently from Chennai. She was staying along with her husband at Koyambedu where he worked as a daily wage labourer. The couple were intercepted by officials on duty at the Neelathanallur check post and swab samples were collected from them. While the woman tested positive for the virus on May 5, her husband’s sample has turned out to be negative. The woman was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and their native Adhiyambanallur was brought under the surveillance of the health department, sources said. In Tiruvarur district, two patients, a 19-year-old man and a three-year-old baby girl tested positive for COVID-19 . Both patients have been admitted to the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/39-more-test-positive-in-central-region/article31506754.ece
05 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Karur textile units gearing up to resume operations||Handloom made-ups manufacturing units of Karur are gearing up to resume operations, at least partially, from Wednesday. The COVID-19 pandemic had dealt a body blow to the export industry, leaving most units facing huge losses, cancellation of orders and deferred payments. Shipments from the town remained suspended since the last week of March leading to a pile of stocks worth about Rs. 500-600 crore as orders were cancelled or put on hold by customers in Europe and the USA. On Monday, Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabhaskar, along with Collector T. Anbalagan, briefed the industry representatives of the town, on the relaxations allowed by the government. Later, he told reporters that manufacturing units within the urban limits can function with 30% of workers while those in rural areas can function with 50% of their workers. They will have to strictly adhere to the Standard Operating Procedure notified by the government. The relaxations, however, will not apply to the containment zones, he said. The 750-odd MSME units in the town involved in manufacturing and export of made-ups such as table cloths, kitchen towels, bed sheets, curtains and other home furnishing products, provide direct employment to 1.50 lakh persons and indirect employment to an equal number. Industry representatives say that most units would restart with less than half their capacities. “We are getting ready to resume operations though the workload may vary from unit to unit. It depends on the individual units and the buyers – some may have pending works at different stages. Most of the units can be expected to work to 25 to 50% of their capacities for the next one month. We will get to know of the future prospects only as we move along,” said ‘Atlas’ M. Nachimuthu, president, Karur Textile Exporters Association. “We can complete the urgent works initially and hope to gain traction gradually. However, there could still be some practical difficulties such as arranging and bearing the cost of transportation for the employees. Only when we resume working, we will come to know of the issues,” said K. G. Prithivi, Secretary, Karur Textile Exporters Association. “The relaxation is definitely an interim relief. We can get back to the pending works as the lockdown was rather sudden,” said A. Sethu, Chairman, Confederation of Indian Industry, Karur. “We have also flagged certain practical problems such as entry into neighbouring district where many dyeing units are located. The Minister has promised to address the issues,” he added. “The relaxation is a big relief. If it had been postponed any further, the future would have become very uncertain. By resuming operations at least we can start tackling the problems,” observed P. Sudhakar, former chairman, CII, Karur. “Our biggest task now is to find a way to get some cash flow as many overseas customers had deferred payments. We have lost a season (summer orders) and will have to focus on the next (winter). It is a tough task and we will need a lot of support from the government. We hope the government will come out with its second package for the MSME’s soon,” Mr.Sudhakar said. But as Mr. Sudhakar observed the resumption of the operations would at least help infuse some confidence among buyers: “It will at least send the message that we are back in action and they need not look for alternative sources of supply.”  Resumption of work will at least send the message that we are back in action and the buyers need not look for alternative sources of supply P. Sudhakar Former chairman, CII, Karur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karur-textile-units-gearing-up-to-resume-operations/article31506746.ece
05 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||He waves away COVID blues by making palm leaf fans||An agricultural labourer has resorted to stitching and selling fans made of palm leaves to make a living amid the lockdown. The man, who worked on agricultural fields in Manikandam block now cycles from his home to the city to sell these fans. S. Palaniswamy leaves from home at 6 a.m. each day to reach Tiruchi city by 8 a.m. “I prefer riding my bicycle early in the morning as otherwise the scorching sun tends to wear me out,” he says. Once in the city, he travels along the Bharathidasan Salai and around the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital where people usually purchase his fans. The fans are sold at Rs. 30 a pair, Mr. Palaniswamy says. The palm leaves are collected from the farms where he used to be employed. “The landlords are kind enough and allow me to pluck the leaves as they are unable to employ me now, he says. “I return home by noon after selling them and go to pluck the leaves before sunset. There are insects and snakes crawling everywhere, I even get bitten sometimes but I return with enough leaves for at least 10 fans a day,” he says. Once at home, Mr. Palaniswamy and his wife first remove the middle vein from the leaves and other hard fibres from the edges before they fold and stitch them to a thick stalk which would make the fan’s handle. Each fan takes about half an hour to make, he says. Some days his wife stitches the fans while he leaves to sell some in the morning. Mr. Palaniswamy says that he had a tumour in the right cheek which had to be surgically removed last year. “I could not go to work for at least four months following an operation and my children - two boys who are in class 5 and 8 suffered the most,” he says. They did odd jobs to earn some money for the family and still continued to go to school, he said and added that he could not bear to watch it, he says. “When my employer asked us not to go to work until the lockdown ended, I knew I had to do something this time. I can go to sleep hungry but my sons do not deserve to,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/he-waves-away-covid-blues-by-making-palm-leaf-fans/article31506753.ece
05 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Administrative works begin at railway workshop, divisional office||Administrative works resumed at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here on Monday after a gap of 40 days when the lockdown was announced in late March to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The administrative staff numbering over 125 who had reported for duty at the workshop belonged to accounts, stores, mechanical, electrical and personnel sections. Workshop authorities told The Hindu on Monday that administrative works resumed with 33% staff. It was done by adhering to precautionary measures and directives for COVID-19 management. However, the core activities at the workshop such as periodic overhaul of broad gauge diesel locomotives and passenger coaches were yet to resume. Sanitiser was sprayed on the hands of employees by the duty Railway Protection Force personnel deployed at the Armoury Gate as they entered the workshop premises. The authorities said the administrative works had resumed after 40 days with skeletal strength. The staff were subjected to thermal scanning before entering their respective offices. Personal distancing was maintained at the workshop as a precautionary measure in the wake of spread of COVID-19, the authorities said. Though all activities at the workshop were suspended since March 24 , some skeletal staff was deployed to carry out urgent works as directed by the Railway Board, New Delhi, such as converting passenger coaches into quarantine / isolation coaches, manufacture of cots for railway hospitals and making of Personal Protective Equipment. The workshop had recently converted over 100 passenger coaches into quarantine coaches besides making 33 pedal operated hand washing units for its internal use. The authorities said the workshop had so far manufactured over 900 Personal Protective Equipment for railway doctors, 10,000 masks and about 400 litres of hand sanitiser for internal requirements. Prior to lockdown, the workshop with a workforce of around 4,000 had been carrying out periodic overhaul of over 1,000 broad gauge passenger coaches and more than 100 broad gauge diesel locomotives in a year. Railway sources said a section of administrative staff of different departments such as accounts, general administration, engineering, traffic, electrical, signal, operating and commercial had reported for duty at the Divisional Railway Manager’s office here. Only one third of staff had reported for duty on Monday, a senior railway official said. However, those involved in train operations had been working even during the lockdown period with skeletal strength in Tiruchi Railway Division due to operation of freight and special parcel trains. Personnel of the Railway Protection Force had also been working guarding the railway stations and property belonging to the railways. Meanwhile, construction works were underway at the new integrated passenger terminal building at Tiruchi airport. A senior Airports Authority of India official said the works were on by ensuring all norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Ration items were supplied on Monday to over 600 labourers who were residing near the work site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/administrative-works-begin-at-railway-workshop-divisional-office/article31506744.ece
05 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||No permission required for MSMEs in rural areas to resume operation||Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) situated in rural areas in the district do not require individual permission to resume operations from May 6, Collector S. Sivarasu clarified on Monday. The units can function as per the guidelines issued by the government,he said in a press release MSMEs and big industrial units functioning within urban areas should however obtain permission by applying online in the portal:https://tnepass.tnega.org Those who want to travel within the State or outside can apply for passes for their four-wheelers at the same portal. Migrants who want to return to their home States can register in https:/rtos.nonresidenttamil.org and those who want to return to Tamil Nadu from other States should register in https:/rttn.nonresidenttamil.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-permission-required-for-msmes-in-rural-areas-to-resume-operation/article31506747.ece
05 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Amma canteens to offer free food up to May 17||The Amma Unavagams (Amma canteens) in the city will continue to offer food to the people at free of cost up to May 17, according to sources in the Tiruchi City Corporation. A senior official of the Corporation said that the AIADMK functionaries of the city had promised to bear the cost of the expenditure for all 11 canteens in the city up to the end of curfew. The people would be offered food thrice a day. There was no limit for eating food at the canteens, the official said. P. Kumar, district secretary, Tiruchi urban, paid Rs. 3 lakh on behalf of the party to the Corporation Commissioner on Monday towards meeting the expenditure for offering food in six Amma canteens in Tiruchi West constituency. However, the Amma canteens at Zam Bazaar, Kuppankulam and EB Road would offer free food until May end as the Corporation had received Rs. 5 lakh from Amar Jewellery. This amount was handed over to the officials by Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amma-canteens-to-offer-free-food-up-to-may-17/article31506748.ece
05 May 2020||Tiruchi/Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Monday sees eager shopkeepers, anxious shoppers on the roads||Many commercial establishments and shops in the city resumed business on Monday although the relaxations in the lockdown restrictions announced by the State government are slated to come into effect only on Wednesday. The opening of shops also saw a big rush of people in the city’s main bazaar for a few hours on Monday morning. Many traders, who had faced loss of business since the imposition of curfew on March 24, opened their shops and business establishments. Anxious to get back to normalcy, they started cleaning their premises and resumed business. As a few shopkeepers began opening their outlets in Big Bazaar Street and surrounding areas in the morning, many others followed suit quickly. With the movement of businessmen and workers, the city’s main commercial areas of Singarathope, Big Bazaar Street, NSB Road and West Boulevard Road witnessed heavy rush and traffic for some time. Many did not seem to be bothered about adhering to social distancing norms. While some traders wore face masks, many others did not bother to do so. However, big textile showrooms on NSB Road and Chinnakadai Street remained closed though a few small readymade garment shops were open. “We are happy to open the shop after about one and half months, but we have opened it mainly for carrying out repair works,” said A. Rafeek, who works in a ready-made shop on NSB Road. As per the announcement, shopping malls, tea shops, air conditioned textile showrooms, jewellery shops, saloon and spas, bike and car showrooms are to remain closed. However, other shops and business establishments such as mechanic shops, spare parts stores, hardware stores, stationeries, cement, electric and electronic shops can resume operation from Wednesday. Collector S. Sivarasu, in a press release, said shops in urban areas can be opened from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and those in rural areas can function between 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.from Wednesday. Meanwhile, in a statement, Ve. Govindarajulu, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaipu, urged the Collector to allow opening of the flower and garland shops and groceries at the Gandhi Market. He also appealed to the Collector to allow maintenance and cleaning works in air-conditioned textile shops, malls and commercial establishments as they had remained closed for more than 40 days and their stocks could have been damaged by rodents. In Thanjavur, shopping areas such as Keezhvasal, South Street, East Street, Ayyankadai Street, Railway junction corner and other shopping zones bustled with activity as people moved around in their vehicles to get their works completed. Some shops like furniture showrooms, footwear showrooms functioned with half-the shutters opened. Meat stalls in the town drew customers in large numbers. There was also increase in movement of people in Kumbakonam, Pattukottai, Peravurani and Adhiramapattinam. Reports indicated that people moved around freely in Tiruvarur district too on Monday morning. Large number of people thronged shops in places such as Tiruvarur, Thiruthuraipoondi, Mannargudi and Muthupettai as the stand-alone shops had opened their shutters after a long period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monday-sees-eager-shopkeepers-anxious-shoppers-on-the-roads/article31506743.ece
05 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||North Indian contract workers stage sit-in on KKNPP campus||Over 1,500 contract labourers of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP) struck work on Monday and staged sit-in on the KKNPP premises where they have been kept in the temporary sheds, urging their contractors to send them back to their native places immediately. After stalling the ongoing construction of reactors 3 and 4 and the earthwork for construction of reactors 5 and 6 for a while following the nationwide lockdown, the KKNPP resumed the activities a week ago. When the works were stalled, the 5,000-odd construction workers from the North Indian States, who are living in the sheds erected on the KKNPP premises, were not allowed to go out of the campus fearing that they might contract the viral infection outside. Even as the construction activities and the earthwork resumed following relaxation of lockdown, power generation in the first reactor of KKNPP was stopped on April 30 last for the scheduled annual maintenance during which 33% of the spent fuel would be replaced with the fresh enriched uranium fuel bundles. Though this exercise would be completed robotically, it would also require a good number of workers, mainly contract labourers, for the allied activities happening outside the reactors. In the meanwhile, a larger section of these contract labourers, who had been kept idly in the sheds with asbestos or tin roof, became unrest due to space constraints and paucity of water and toilets. The protesters said they, after a proper medical screening of every labourer on the KKNPP campus, should be sent back to their home States. After the talks held with the protesting labourers by the contractors’ representatives failed, the KKNPP officials, mostly the officials taking care of construction activities, held talks with them in the presence of police and the revenue officials. “In fact, we were preparing the list of the labourers willing to go back to their native places after they started reiterating it. Since most of the contract labourers involved in the construction activities are firm in their decision of going back to their native places, we’re in touch with the contractors, police and the revenue officials in finalising their travel back to their States. If it comes through, they will be sent back,” said a senior KKNPP official, who participated in today’s talks with the labourers. Accepting this assurance, the protesting contract labourers gave up their protest and returned to work. Meanwhile, appealing to the district administration to take immediate steps to send them back to their home States of Bihar and Jharkhand, a group of migrant workers from these two north Indian States, staged a dharna for a while in front of the Collectorate and submitted a petition to the officials on Monday. They said after being left unemployed owing to the lockdown, they were struggling a lot for food and shelter. Hence, they should be sent back to their home States at the earliest, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/north-indian-contract-workers-stage-sit-in-on-kknpp-campus/article31506720.ece
05 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring committees formed||Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has formed monitoring committees in all urban and the rural local bodies to monitor the returning of outsiders from other districts or the States to their native places in the COVID – 19 outbreak and subsequent isolation of the newcomers. According to Ms. Shilpa, who inaugurated a round-the-clock control room for these monitoring committees at the Collectorate on Monday, the district administration had deployed monitoring committees comprising of volunteers and the panchayat secretaries in all 204 village panchayats and the urban local bodies to monitor the entry of outsiders, especially people from other districts, States and the foreign countries, and inform immediately to the officials concerned for appropriate action. Moreover, these monitoring committees would also create awareness among the public of maintaining ‘physical distancing’ while getting assistances or buying essential commodities in the ration shops or in the vegetable shops as part of anti-COVID -19 operations. The Committees would ensure proper 14-day ‘home quarantine’ of those who had come to their native places from other districts or States or countries and the public wearing masks as they come out for buying essential commodities. They would prepare the schools or the community halls in their areas for quarantine if they cannot be quarantined in their houses and ensure the proper supply of food and medicines to those are in quarantine. The Committee, after informing the officials concerned about the arrival of outsiders, would make arrangements for screening the newcomers and create awareness among their family members of quarantining one of their family members as they had returned home from other districts or States. They would also inform the officials if the quarantined people violate the self-isolation, Ms. Shilpa said. After inaugurating the information centre at the Collectorate, the Collector handed over the COVID – 19 awareness handbooks to the members of these committees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-committees-formed/article31506718.ece
05 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown relaxation triggers crowding||The lockdown relaxation shockingly opened the floodgates here on Monday with all the roads getting mobbed by the public riding their bikes and cars at will as they did before the pandemic outbreak and more than 90% of the business establishments resuming their operations. As Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts have been categorised as ‘orange zone’ following steep fall in the number of fresh COVID -19 cases, lockdown has been relaxed in these districts. Unfortunately, the relaxation led to the crowding of all roads in these four districts with the bikes and the cars moving around freely.    Special buses were operated from the Vaeinthaankulam new bus-stand for taking health workers to their workplaces in Thoothukudi, Tiruchendur, Tenkasi, Sankarankovil and Papanasam.   In Thoothukudi, the more than 70% of the shops including a few jewellery and the textile showrooms were opened with the people coming out freely for their shopping. As there was no ‘physical distancing’ in any of the shops that transacted business on Monday, Collector Sandeep Nanduri and the Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan ordered the closure of the shops. As similar situation prevailed in Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts also, the police had to intervene to bring back orderliness on the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-relaxation-triggers-crowding/article31506715.ece
05 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Hairdressers want to resume work||Frustrated over the denial of permission for them to reopen their shops, a good number of hairdressers, who gathered in front of the Collectorate submitted a petition to the officials appealing to the Collector to allow them to resume their work. Though the State Government has allowed the business establishments involved in a range of trades to resume their activities in the wake of relaxed lockdown, the hairdressers have been left in the lurch. The petitioners said around 350 hairdressers of Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai and their families were battling with poverty for the past 42 days after the lockdown was clamped following pandemic scare. Since Tirunelveli district has been categorized as an ‘orange zone’ following sharp fall in fresh cases, the Collector should allow the hairdressers to resume work. “We assure the Collector we’ll follow all safety measures to be followed,” the petitioners promised. Appeal for PPEs A group of functionaries of Aathi Thamizhar Peravai submitted a petition seeking proper personal protection equipment to the conservancy workers being involved in the anti-COVID – 19 operations. “Quality personal protection equipment, now being given to the frontline healthcare workers, including the doctors and the nurses, should be given also to the permanent and temporary conservancy workers of the Corporation,” they said. The petitioners also demanded for periodic PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) health check for the conservancy workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hairdressers-want-to-resume-work/article31506716.ece
05 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Automated thermal scanner installed at Tiruppur Collectorate||As part of the precautionary measures against COVID-19, an automated thermal scanner was installed at the entrance of the District Collectorate in Tiruppur on Monday. Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and District Revenue Officer R. Sukumar inspected the walk-through scanner on Monday morning. The scanner was designed by Priyam Industries and Engineering Private Limited. “The equipment will help scan many people at the same time,” said M. Prabhu, assistant manager at Priyam Industries and Engineering. After the company installed similar automated thermal scanners at the Salem Collectorate in April, the Tiruppur District Administration contacted them. The scanner costing Rs. 25,000 was installed free of cost at Tiruppur Collectorate, Mr. Prabhu said. Mr. Prabhu said that more such automated thermal scanners would be installed in other districts in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/automated-thermal-scanner-installed-at-tiruppur-collectorate/article31506519.ece
05 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Revenue officials deny allegations||Revenue officials in Tiruppur on Monday denied media reports of lack of essential supplies for residents of Mudalipalayam housing unit. The housing unit with nearly 2,000 families is part of a COVID-19 containment zone. The officials said all essential supplies were ensured for the families by the district administration and five kg of rice and other groceries would be given to them on Tuesday. Five COVID-19 positive cases were from the housing unit, which is under the control of Mudalipalayam Village Panchayat on the outskirts of Tiruppur city. The housing unit is expected to remain in the containment zone for another one week, according to the officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-officials-deny-allegations/article31506513.ece
05 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Stir for train services in Tiruppur||Over 500 migrant workers staged a protest near the Tiruppur railway station on Monday, demanding train services to their respective hometowns. According to the police, the protesters gathered near the station around 8 a.m. and raised slogans demanding that the State government send them home. Inspector of Tiruppur North police station V. Ganesan and Revenue Department officials visited the spot and held talks with the protesters. Mr. Ganesan said the workers were shifted to the Jaivabai Municipal Girls Higher Secondary School, where the district administration officials noted down their particulars as part of arrangements to facilitate their journey. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said the officials made the migrant workers register themselves with the State government’s online portal for residents of other States residing in Tamil Nadu. “Arrangements will be made soon,” he said. The protesters dispersed following the registration process, he said. A railway official said the government must ask Southern Railway to operate trains for migrant workers, based on the number of such workers in each district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stir-for-train-services-in-tiruppur/article31506475.ece
05 May 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Over 22 lakh tonnes of paddy procured - Minister||A total of 22.08 lakh metric tonnes of paddy had been procured from farmers in Tamil Nadu during the current season, according to Food Minister R. Kamaraj. While 16.22 lakh tonnes of paddy was procured from farmers in delta districts, 4.80 lakh tonnes came from non-delta districts and another 1.05 lakh tonnes was procured through cooperatives till April 30, he said in a press release. Out of the total 22.08 lakh tonnes of paddy, 2.44 lakh tonnes was procured from 33,630 farmers during the lockdown period starting from March 24, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-22-lakh-tonnes-of-paddy-procured-minister/article31506749.ece
05 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||43 drivers to be tested for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris||Samples are being collected from 43 goods vehicle drivers, who had delivered vegetable loads to Koyambedu Market in Chennai recently, to test for COVID-19, the district administration said. Collector J. Innocent Divya, said that of the 43 drivers, samples have been collected from 33 persons. The results are awaited. As many as 585 drivers of goods vehicles had travelled outside the Nilgiris, and they too are being tested for COVID-19 since May 1, she added. The Collector urged people not to share any unverified information about people testing positive for COVID-19 through social media or mobile messaging applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/43-drivers-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-in-the-nilgiris/article31506520.ece
05 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Resume work in a phased manner’||Virudhunagar district administration on Monday held a discussion with representatives of fireworks, printing, export-oriented industries on the modalities for reopening the industrial units. Minister for Dairy Development, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, who chaired the meeting, said that the State Government had decided to relax the curfew norms and allow industrial units to resume operation to protect the industries like fireworks, printing and weaving and the livelihood of the workers. The industrial units could resume work in a phased manner from Wednesday. Mr. Bhalaji asked the representatives to ensure that standard operating procedure should be followed scrupulously. They owners should also ensure that the units are properly disinfected and workers maintained social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resume-work-in-a-phased-manner/article31506724.ece
05 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||DMK helpline getting more calls seeking help: MLA||Increased number of phone calls seeking help received to the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s “Ondrinaivom Va” from Sivakasi and Tiruthangal have revealed that the most of the jobless employees of fireworks units are badly hit, said Tiruchuli MLA, Thangam Thennarasu. Mr. Thennarasu, who is also the DMK Virudhunagar north district secretary, said that except for a few popular brands of fireworks units, most of them are run on a contract basis and employees do not get much support from the employers. “We have been distributing essential goods, including rice, dal, edible oil and vegetables to the needy people for the last five days. But, the number of calls that was around 150 from Tiruchuli, Sivakasi and Virudhunagar Assembly constituencies has now increased to more than 500 as the number of jobless days was increasing now. More number of calls are from Sivakasi and Tiruthangal,” he added. Besides, the DMK cadre were also attending to other emergency needs of the poor people. “Many of them were asking for medicines for chronic ailments and our cadres are attending to them at the earliest,” the MLA said. The DMK office-bearers were also trying to reach out to vulnerable sections of the district, like folk artistes, auto and van drivers, who have lost their livelihood for the past 40 days due to the lockdown. “We have so far covered over 3,500 families in the district,” he added. They have also planned to cover all the Sri Lankan refugee camps and distribute groceries and vegetables to every household, Mr. Thennarasu said. He also added that the DMK functionaries had appealed to the Viruhunagar district administration to open fireworks industry at the earliest, though with all safety restrictions, to ensure that the workers get their livelihood back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-helpline-getting-more-calls-seeking-help-mla/article31506723.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Life as usual on Monday morning||By about 9 a.m. on Monday morning, several retailers on Cross Cut Road in the city had the shutters of the shops rolled up partially. Some of the staff started cleaning the outlets. The two-wheeler parking space on the roadside was getting filled up and one after another, the retail showrooms opened. Traffic police were at the junction regulating traffic. It was life as usual in most of the commercial streets of the city as retailers geared up to reopen business after more than a month of lockdown. Shops selling textiles, watches, footwear, kitchen ware, home decor, duty paid goods, and stationery were open in Gandhipuram and RS Puram. In the old town area, including Edayar Street and Uppara Street, essential and non-essential wholesale sellers had opened the outlets. Goods carriers parked to unload and load parcels, two-wheelers and four-wheelers vied for space on the narrow lanes, resulting in slow movement of vehicles and traffic snarls in some areas. And, the shops had customers too. Though public transport was not available, most of the staff at these outlets were able to come as they were either staying nearby or in-house or came on their vehicles. Branded retail outlets remained shut. The security men posted at these shops said they were not opening as they awaited details from the government. Traffic signals were functional in some of the junctions. A few taxi operators, autorickshaws and offices were also functional on Monday. With vehicle movement increasing and more people visiting the shops, by Monday afternoon, the police asked the retail outlets to down shutters. They said the shops can be opened only after clear instructions from the district administration. Manufacturing industries did not operate as they had a meeting with Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-as-usual-on-monday-morning/article31506503.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lessons to follow after lockdown||Physical distancing and personal hygiene seem to be the main weapon to combat COVID-19. “Life over Livelihood” is slowly getting replaced with “Livelihood over Life” given the nature of our country where 70% of the people live by that day’s work for that day’s survival. Instead of implementing a strict complete lockdown for short time, a long-term nationwide partial lockdown in some sectors with shorter complete lockdown in hot spots with minimal socio-economic interventions and strict implementation of safe practices is better. On a positive note, the lockdown could facilitate the Central and regional governments to fine-tune its policy guidelines by bringing all registered specialists, including epidemiologists, strategists and scientists spread across the nation on a common web portal. While releasing the lockdown in phases, it is very important to clearly define the criteria for every phase, as there is a possibility of a second wave which can be more severe than the first wave. High-risk population Instead of doing screening testing for the population in general, the priority should be testing high risk groups, such as contacts of people working in COVID hospitals, quarantine centres, COVID-testing labs, cemeteries and graveyards, as well as attendees involved with COVID positive case and people who are allowed to travel with passes and handling essential services, as well as the general population in identified red zones. Isolating and quarantining suspected COVID-19 cases should be in community/marriage halls and hotels. Handling bodies During pandemics of this magnitude, all deaths, unless tested negative, should be considered as COVID positive cases. The staff should be well trained to handle infected dead bodies with complete PPE. Family members should be counselled not to handle the body directly, and they should be allowed to see the body only after placing the body in a transparent sealed leak proof plastic cover, which has been sprayed with disinfectants. The body should be handed over to the Corporation office for cremation. The body should not be kept in the mortuary. Some crematoriums should operate round-the-clock to avoid storing the body for long. There should be restrictions to allow only 10 members with all social distancing and disinfection protocols followed at the funeral process.    Safe practices The governments should mandate that their staff should not travel beyond their containment zones, and if necessary, manpower across all levels should be deputed on long-term basis from their existing government offices to those within their containment zone. The same applies to employees of the semi-government, quasi government, public limited and private limited units. Educational institutions across the country should not be re-opened till all restrictions are lifted. In the meanwhile, they can avail online services. Entertainment industry, tourism industry and public gathering should be the last to reopen. Factory owners should be able to run their units in total isolation, if within city limits or otherwise. Temporary tents or vacant flats near industries and factories should be made available to accommodate workers during the entire lockdown period. Labour should only be allowed from green zone areas. Thermal screening and health profiling should be done on a daily basis. Courier, postal (includes letters, domestic and industrial parcels) and cargo services involve multiple handling of parcels across various travel zones. The items should be covered with a strong leak proof plastic cover, and sprayed with disinfectant at each transit point. All persons in contact with the parcels from the pick-up point till delivery should use proper PPE and disinfection measures in handling the parcel, including using digital non-touch methods for getting acknowledgements. Courier pick-up and delivery persons should not travel across containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lessons-to-follow-after-lockdown/article31506474.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand desilting of KRP Dam||KRP Dam that had recently undergone replacement works of all its eight shutters was drained bone dry to the bed last week. The reservoir bed that was bared for the first time in 62 years had not been desilted in that long a time. In its wake, farmers in the reservoir’s catchment areas have raised concerns about the extent of silt deposits on the reservoir bed. Farmers have also flagged the urgent need to desilt the reservoir before the monsoons hit the district. The dam built across Thenpennai river in 1957 has a 52 feet capacity with an area of 8 km. The reservoir’s right canal runs 14.20 km and left canal runs 18.20 km. The dam has been instrumental in increasing the irrigable area to over 40,000 acres, according to sources. The dam’s sill level capacity of 30 feet is the extent of the reservoir’s water holding capacity, and the remaining 22 feet is filled with sedimentation and silt. According to farmers, this had impacted the full holding capacity of the reservoir. The reservoir’s water capacity should be to its full 52 feet. The farmers have demanded that the reservoir be desilted in order to enhance its capacity in time before the arrival of the monsoons. The reservoir, once desilted will enable filling to its full capacity and also enable filling up of the intervening small and big lakes and aid in water harvesting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-demand-desilting-of-krp-dam/article31506500.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac to open shops from May 7||“Employees will be given gloves and masks. We will have proper barricading in front of the shops. Tipplers who come without a mask will not be allowed to purchase. We will come out with detailed guidelines on the do's and don'ts before the shops open,” he said. Strict social distancing norms along with personal consumption limits would be followed, he added. On Monday, the statement issued by the government pointed out that with neighbouring States, including Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, opening liquor shops, people in border districts of Tamil Nadu were crossing over in large numbers to buy alcohol. Crowd management was proving difficult and hence the decision, the government said. "People have been crossing borders to purchase liquor and in the last few days there have been several complaints pertaining to illegal liquor being made at home and sold in black. The opening of shops will ensure people don't go to neighbouring States or brew liquor," a Tasmac union member said. During the lockdown, the cash cow of the Tamil Nadu government reportedly lost Rs. 85 crore to Rs. 90 crore in sales per day. Tasmac usually witnesses brisk beer sales during summer. The State has over 5,300 liquor outlets, which employ over 25,000 people.   The State has over 5,300 liquor outlets, which employ over 25,000 people||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-to-open-shops-from-may-7/article31506481.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 527 cases||“About 150 of them from various districts had stayed there for 15 to 20 days and have been returning. We have lifted samples from some of them,” he said. A further 30 persons were discharged from hospitals in the State, taking the total number discharged to 1,409. The number of samples tested increased to 12,863. With this, the total samples tested in the State stood at 1,62,970. A total of 1,53,489 individuals had been tested till date. Testing of 862 samples were under process, while 9,481 samples were repeats. One more testing facility was approved in the government sector - the Government District Headquarters Hospital, Ariyalur. With this, the State has 50 testing facilities - 36 in the government sector and 14 in the private sector. A total of 2,662 persons with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 are in isolation wards. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-527-cases/article31506482.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID UPDATE||No. of persons in hospitals: 249 (Male -67, Male child – 5, Female – 175, Female child - 2) Govt. hospitals – 184 Private hospitals – 65 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No new case on Monday) Active cases: 11 Recovered cases: 134 No. of deaths: 1      House quarantine cases: 1,031 Samples lifted: 3,989 Declared: 3,758 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on May 4) Negative: 3,644 Results awaited: 231 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 110||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-update/article31506516.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre’s zoning criteria ‘unscientific’||Although Karnataka has at least 12 districts with more than five active cases reported in the last 21 days, the classification of only three districts as red zones has surprised many. On Sunday, following the Centre’s guidelines, the State government notified only Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Mysuru as red zones (which was 14 as on Friday) and re-classified many with active cases as orange and green zones. While State officials said the classification was based on the Centre’s criteria that looked at the number of positives in the last 21 days, doubling rate and preparedness, sources in the State’s COVID-19 taskforce termed the classification as ‘unscientific’ and ‘irrational’. A source pointed out that there were several districts with a high number of cases and doubling rates higher than those in the three red zones. For instance, Davangere, where 22 new cases have been reported on a single day, falls under orange zone. The doubling rate here is the highest in the State. “This indicates that the State has no say in managing the pandemic in its jurisdiction,” said a member of the expert group set up to study the epidemiology of COVID-19 cases in the State. “We will take it up in the expert group meeting on Tuesday,” he said. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said the classification of zones has been made on the basis of four parameters - number of positive cases in the last 21 days, doubling rate, number of tests conducted and surveillance measures and preparedness. “As this is a dynamic situation, the Centre will modify the classification every week based on performance. It cannot be done on a day to day basis,” he said. Munish Moudgil, director of the State COVID War Room, said the fact that some districts such as Davangere, Kalaburgi, Belagavi and Bagalkot have been classified as orange zones although they have a number of active cases has been brought to the notice of the Centre. Replying to a query, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar said, “This categorisation is done by MOHFW of Government of India based on previous data. It will be updated based on latest data every week.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centres-zoning-criteria-unscientific/article31506418.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free bus service for migrant workers extended till Thursday||As thousands continued to throng the Majestic bus stand to get home, the State government extended the free bus service for stranded migrant workers till Thursday. The extension aims at discouraging people from turning up in large numbers at the Majestic bus stand, endangering social distancing norms. On Monday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the extension of free bus travel has been done for the benefit of migrant workers and appealed to them to make use of the facility by not gathering in large numbers. Earlier, the State government had announced that free bus travel would be available till Tuesday. On Sunday, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operated 500 ‘Karnataka Sarige’ buses till late night and close to 15,000 people travelled. On Monday too, thousands reached Majestic bus stand to catch a bus home. In the absence of transportation facilities, people walked miles to reach the bus stand. Veerupaksha, a migrant worker said: “By the time I reached the bus stop, there were hundreds of people waiting. After reaching the designated platform, I had to wait for more than an hour to board the bus.” A KSRTC official said that not only migrant workers, but others too have been using the free facilities. “Free bus travel is primarily meant for transportation of migrant workers but hundreds of other people are using the facility to reach their hometowns. It is very difficult to differentiate them. We are hoping that from Tuesday, the number of people coming to Majestic bus stand will drop.” On Monday, the KSRTC operated 800 buses from the point and more than 24,000 people travelled to 101 destinations. A total of 1,000 buses were operated across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-bus-service-for-migrant-workers-extended-till-thursday/article31506434.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City limps back to normalcy||Life and businesses started limping back to normalcy after the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions were eased in most parts of the city from Monday barring the 21 containment zones. Most shops and commercial establishments opened their shutters. But hotels, malls, cinema halls, markets and barber shops remained closed. As the police had permitted free movement of vehicles without pass from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., a large number of vehicles hit the road due to which traffic snarls were witnessed in parts of the city. A few flyovers, including Mysuru Road Flyover and Anand Rao Circle Flyover, were opened vehicles, resulting in slow moving traffic in and around their vicinity. Highways such as Old Madras Road and Tumakuru Road drew a large number of vehicles as inter-district passes were not required for movement of people in cluster of five districts around Bengaluru. People were seen travelling to and from Nelamangala and Hoskote in Bengaluru Rural district and Kolar district via Tumakuru Road and Old Madras Road highway. Chickpet sees activity Chickpet, one of the most important trading areas in the city, saw some activity as many cloth, readymade garment, and book shops were opened, but did not see much business. “Pending works like stock checking, cleaning and accounting are being carried out. We hope to see some business in the coming days,” said Sajjan Raj Mehta, a trader. Though many jewellery shops across city opened, they don’t expect business to pick up any time soon. Dinesh Pagariya of The Jewellers Association said that jewellers, goldsmiths, and others in the chain of business were looking at a bleak six to 12 months ahead. “As we are the last category on which people spend, it will take a long time for our business to come back to normalcy,” he said. Offices still cautious Many workplaces remained closed and employees of various firms continued to work from home, as employers and companies remained cautious. Many companies have adopted a wait-and-watch policy and have asked employees to continue to work from home until further notice. An Indian multi-national company, with offices in Mumbai and Bengaluru, has cut down travel budgets and asked its employees to work from home. An employee of the company, who wished to remain anonymous, said employees, especially those with children below the age of five and elderly parents, had been asked to not travel and work from home until intimated otherwise. With the BBMP also allowing construction activities in wards that have not reported cases of COVID-19, some developers are likely to resume work shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-limps-back-to-normalcy/article31506403.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two more deaths in State||Two deaths - one in Kalaburagi and another in Davangere - were reported in the State on Monday, taking the toll to 27. Both are known SARI cases with comorbidities. A 56-year-old male resident of Kalaburagi, who was admitted on April 29 with complaints of cough and fever, succumbed to the infection on Sunday. Another 48-year-old female resident of Davanagere, who was admitted on May 1, died on Monday. She had hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism. Meanwhile, 37 new cases including Sunday’s 21 reported in Davangere, have been detected on Monday taking the total positive cases to 651. Addressing presspersons on Monday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said 22 of the 37 new cases are from Davangere. “Nineteen of the 22 Davangere cases contracted the infection from a nurse of a primary health centre there, who tested positive. The nurse had attended a wedding in Bagalkot. Except one patient, who is a Influenza like Illness (ILI) case, the others are contacts of another positive patient,” he said. The other cases include seven from Bidar, two each from Mandya and Kalaburagi and one each from Chickballapur, Haveri, Vijayapura and Bengaluru Urban. In Bidar, one positive patient spread the infection to seven others. “The lone positive case reported from Bengaluru Urban is of a 40-year-old police constable,” the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-deaths-in-state/article31506414.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Serpentine queues, bumper business as liquor shops open||Serpentine queues and chaos in some places marked the opening of liquor shops in the city on Monday after 40 days. People started queuing up from early morning till evening to purchase liquor. At many places, maintaining social distance became a challenge for both the police and staff of the shops. In many shops, stocks of beer were exhausted by 3 p.m. In some other places, the police decided to close shops by 6 p.m., forcing many to return empty handed. Ravi Prakash, a resident of R.T. Nagar, said: “After the lockdown was announced, people were selling liquor in black charging exorbitant rates. Now, MRP shops are open. I stood for more than an hour to get inside the shop.” Some people decided to hoard lest shops are closed again. “Due to the lockdown, we could not get liquor for more than a month. The lockdown has already been extended before. So I stocked up,” Ashish, a resident of Sahakarnagar, said. Jagadish, the owner of a liquor shop in Kogilu Cross, said: “Due to the lockdown, our employees had gone to their home town. We had to run the business with limited staff. Most of our stock was exhausted.” Many shops put up boards stating that liquor will be sold only to those wearing masks. The Excise Department had directed the shops to allow five people inside for purchase and maintain 6-ft social distancing. The department maintained that there was enough stock of liquor in Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Ltd. (KSBCL) depots and measures have been taken for operations of distilleries and breweries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/serpentine-queues-bumper-business-as-liquor-shops-open/article31506406.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FIR against L&T company, staff||The BIAL police registered an FIR against L&T company and its workers for allegedly attacking the police and vandalising the patrolling vehicle on Saturday. Head constable Poojappa said he rushed to L&T colony situated at BIAL after receiving information that the labourers were clashing with the L&T staff demanding that they be allowed to go to their native places. The workers created ruckus and ransacked the premises, demanding their pending wages, food and arrangements to return to their native place, the police said. Poojappa, who was on patrolling duty, tried to contain the situation. An agitated group of 400 employees attacked the police party and started pelting stones. Poojappa, along with his colleague, took cover and informed the control room seeking back up. Additional police personnel brought the situation under control, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fir-against-lt-company-staff/article31506424.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police, Fire staff to get insurance cover||Police, fire and emergency services, civil defence personnel and prison staff deployed for COVID-19 duties will be given insurance and ex gratia cover on a par with medical staff, DG&IGP Praveen Sood said here on Monday. Personnel deployed for special duties during the lockdown will get Rs. 30 lakh insurance cover or ex gratia, whichever is applicable, he tweeted. This decision is a morale boost for the personnel who have been working on the frontline as first responders on a par with the health staff risking their lives while working close to infected persons. This benefit would be over and above any other insurance coverage availed by the beneficiary. Risk involved Considering the nature of work and risk involved, the Home Department proposed to the government to provide insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh to personnel, including the police and fire force, home guards, civil defence, and prison department officials. After deliberations, the government approved the Rs. 30 lakh cover to corona warriors who are first responders along with health staff. The insurance cover has also been extended to anganwadi workers, pourakarmikas, sanitisation workers, drivers, and loaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-fire-staff-to-get-insurance-cover/article31506425.ece
05 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nearly 200 IAS aspirants from State stranded in New Delhi||Nearly 200 students from Karnataka, who are in New Delhi for civil service coaching, are stranded due to the lockdown and are frantically trying to return to their native places. Most of them are civil service aspirants residing in the IAS coaching hub of Karol Bagh and New Rajendra Nagar and have completed their annual coaching classes and want to return home as the civil service examinations have been put off. But they allege that applications of almost all, barring a handful of students, have not been considered for returning home when they uploaded their details on the Karnataka government’s online forum. They also alleged that their efforts to reach out to the nodal officers from Karnataka who are in-charge of New Delhi have not yielded any results. Speaking on behalf of stranded students, Kavana Gowda J., a student from Bengaluru, said their efforts to seek New Delhi government’s help too did not materialise as the authorities advised them to contact the home State government. “All of us are staying here in different rooms or apartments on a twin/triple sharing-basis. It has become difficult to spend even a day here as it is tough to source groceries and other essentials. There is no point continuing here as the libraries too are closed,” she said. Also, it has become financially tough for many students, who have completed their coaching schedule, to continue to stay in New Delhi. “Each of us spend anywhere from Rs. 7,000 to Rs. 8,000 a month on rent alone,” she said, appealing to the Karnataka government to help them return home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-200-ias-aspirants-from-state-stranded-in-new-delhi/article31506427.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No additional footfall on tech campuses||The industrial lockdown relaxation by the State government seems to have received a cold response from the Bengaluru Inc., with the key industry stakeholder — IT and ITeS — continuing to mostly work from home. Nasscom vice-chairman U.B. Pravin Rao earlier said the IT industry was not in a hurry to move work to offices, instead it would only scale up in a slow and phased manner, week after week. A quick check run across a bunch of domestic and MNC tech firms in the city revealed that the lockdown relaxation has not increased techie footfall on campuses/offices. “We have 10% per cent working from office now. We don’t expect any sudden scale up this month,” said the HR head of a leading tech firm. However, biotechnology and biopharma sector reported a slight increment of people. Biocon said: “We are ramping up gradually. There was a marginal increase in the number of people who reported at site today in comparison to April 30 last week.” Meanwhile Small and micro industries body KASSIA said: “Up to 25% of industries at Peenya, Bommasandra, Rajajinagar, Kamakshipalya, Bommasandra, and Jigani have been able to work. Worryingly, however, the labour attendance is very thin.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-additional-footfall-on-tech-campuses/article31506404.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State Congress offers to pay migrants’ rail fare||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on Monday asked the State government to arrange Shramik special trains to bring back Karnataka people stranded in different States during the lockdown. The KPCC said it was ready to bear this cost to the Indian railways. Following the party high command’s suggestion, KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, in a letter to Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, urged the State government to arrange the special trains.  “The State government may negotiate with the railways to strike a good deal so that more people can be brought back home. This would be a one-time effort,” they said in the letter. The KPCC on Sunday had offered to pay Rs. 1 lakh to the KSRTC to ferry stranded labourers between districts within Karnataka. Following this, the State government announced that they would be ferried for free.  Meanwhile, in the wake of severe financial difficulties faced by families during the lockdown, Mr. Siddaramaiah on Monday appealed to the State government to amend the Right to Education (RTE) Act to provide free education for one year. In a series of tweets, the Congress leader said: “Many people will face difficulties to pay school fees. Govt. should amend RTE & provide free education for one year to all those who will find it difficult to pay the fee.” He also wrote to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and said the State government should ensure that houseowners do not force tenants to pay rent till the lockdown ends. He also demanded that banks and other financial institutions extend the moratorium for repayment of loans by one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-congress-offers-to-pay-migrants-rail-fare/article31506437.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 2.39 lakh collected as fine for not wearing mask||The BBMP has collected Rs. 2.39 lakh in fine from residents of the city for not wearing masks in public places. In a circular that was issued recently, the BBMP said not wearing a mask would attract a fine of Rs. 1,000. It will be Rs. 2,000 for the subsequent offence. On the first day, it collected Rs. 51,700. On Sunday it collected Rs. 98,350, and on Monday Rs. 89,455.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-239-lakh-collected-as-fine-for-not-wearing-mask/article31506405.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Food packets distributed||Reaching out to those in need, Rajarajeswari Medical College and Hospital has been distributing food packets along with masks to nearby villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-packets-distributed/article31506409.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pricey deal for workers from other States||Migrant workers from other States who are travelling in the ‘Shramik train’ to reach their hometowns are shelling out huge sums. Each passenger is paying between Rs. 990 and Rs. 1,150 depending on the destination and the price includes Rs. 130 BMTC bus fare for transporting them from their camps to the railway station. Two trains The South Western Railway (SWR) operated two trains on Monday — one from Chikkabanavara to Jaipur and the other from Malur to Danapur. The State government has directed the BMTC to collect rail and bus ticket fares from the migrant workers. 100 buses Close to 100 buses were operated from various camps such as in Yelahanka, Palace Grounds, Baiyappanahalli, and Marathahalli. A BMTC official said that after de-boarding the migrant workers at the railway station, money collected from them towards the railway ticket would will be paid to SWR officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pricey-deal-for-workers-from-other-states/article31506435.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More discharged||On Monday, the number of discharged COVID-19 cases (321) exceeded active positive cases (296) in the State. The average discharges per day as of last week are 16 and average daily positive cases are 14. This trend is continuing, said Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-discharged/article31506421.ece
05 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||622 stranded in other districts reach Dharwad||As many as 622 persons who were stranded in Bengaluru and other places due to lockdown were brought back here on Monday. According to officials, these workers are natives of Dharwad district and most of them were engaged in construction and other sectors in Bengaluru and some other places. They arrived here in 25 buses on Sunday night and in the early hours of Monday. Officials said that those who are residents of Hubballi and Dharwad were immediately sent home, while those from other parts of the district were provided food and accommodation at different hostels here and sent to their native places by buses arranged by the administration in the morning hours. On Monday, people from other districts who were stranded here started leaving. The officials have made arrangements for sending workers, students and others back home on NWKRTC buses. Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa visited the new bus station here and inspected the arrangements made to help passengers reach their destinations. Ms. Deepa said that officials have arranged for registration of passengers going to other parts of the State at the new bus stations in Hubballi and Dharwad. Ms. Deepa immediately responded to the pleas of over 20 workers from Hadagali village of Aland taluk in Kalaburagi district who were stranded at Nigadi village near here since the lockdown was announced and directed the officials concerned to arrange for their travel. A total of 309 passengers, 180 from Dharwad and 129 from Hubballi, left here for their destinations by 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/622-stranded-in-other-districts-reach-dharwad/article31506567.ece
05 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Two patients recover||Two more COVID-19 patients were discharged from KIMS, Hubballi, on Sunday night, Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has said. A 37-year-old man (P-236) and his five-year-old boy (P-235) have recuperated, and their throat swab samples tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-patients-recover/article31506568.ece
05 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan residents return to work||The residents of Hassan returned to work and business activities resumed after a break of five weeks, as the lockdown was relaxed on Monday. KSRTC began its services, autorickshaws hit the streets and a majority of shops were opened on the day. The roads, which wore a deserted look all these days, turned busy with traffic. The Hassan district administration relaxed the lockdown as the district with no confirmed case of COVID-19 fell under the green zone. However, instead of allowing shops to stay open on all seven days, the administration let the shops, including liquor shops, to do business only three days a week. People took out vehicles and many visited the district stadium for morning walks. KSRTC began its services to taluk centres from Hassan city. Many government officials travelled by government buses to reach their workplaces as all government offices in the green zone began working with full attendance. The teaching staff of the degree colleges were asked to report to duty, though classes remain suspended. The staff at KSRTC bus stand in Hassan took the names and contact numbers of passengers before letting them get enter the bus. In each bus, a maximum of 27 people were allowed to travel as it is mandatory to maintain social distance. The corporation is expected to extend its services gradually. As of now, the corporation has restricted its services within the district. There were long queues in front of liquor shops, which started selling liquor on the day. The shopkeepers and policemen had a tough task in ensuring social distancing in front of the shops. The employees of the shops were seen as appealing to the public to maintain distance in the queue. However, the officers imposed a penalty on those who failed to ensure social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hassan-residents-return-to-work/article31506579.ece
05 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Honoured||Members of Rotary Club, on Monday, felicitated frontline workers engaged in the efforts to avoid the spread of COVID-19 here. The club members garlanded doctors, paramedical staff and municipal workers and had lunch with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honoured/article31506575.ece
05 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Beeline in twin cities||As liquor outlets opened their shutters on Monday with the government giving conditional permission, people of different age groups, including girls and women, lined up in front of them in the twin cities to buy drinks of their choice. In some areas people lined up as early as 6 a.m., although the shops were scheduled to open only at 9 a.m. People waited patiently for hours and religiously followed all instructions given by shop owners to buy liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beeline-in-twin-cities/article31506569.ece
05 May 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Two Mumbai returnees test positive in K.R. Pet||Two Mumbai-settled young women, one of them pregnant, have tested positive for COVID-19 in K.R. Pet of Mandya district. The duo and some of their relatives had returned to Jaginakere of K.R. Pet taluk on April 24 in a multi-utility vehicle, after passing through several check-posts just based on a “mother card” issued to the pregnant woman. It is suspected that the MUV had reached the district following an ambulance of V.N. Desai Government Hospital at Santacruz from Mumbai that brought the body of an autorickshaw driver, who was cremated near B. Kodagahalli near Melkote of Pandavapura taluk on April 24. Mandya Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh said that the housewife (P-637), a seven-month pregnant woman, had procured the ‘mother card’ from the authorities in Mumbai. The vehicle had passed the check-posts at Belagavi, Hubballi, Davangere, Kadur, Arsikere, Shravanabelagola and other places in Karnataka with the help of that card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-mumbai-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kr-pet/article31506420.ece
05 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No lengthy queues in front of liquor shops||Unlike in many parts of the State where tipplers lined up in front of liquor shops well ahead of the opening hour to buy liquor, not a single soul was visible near liquor shops in Mangaluru before 9 a.m. on Monday when standalone shops opened their shutters. However, people began to trickle in as the day progressed in some areas and lined up to buy liquor. The State government has allowed sale of liquor in CL2 (standalone wine shops) and CL11 (MSIL outlets) to mop up revenues as lockdown-3 commenced on Monday. The owner of an MRP outlet in Valencia in the city who was arranging barricades in front of his shop early in the morning said that people didn’t line up early as they were aware that shops would remain open till 7 p.m.  Normal traffic There was no mad rush of vehicles either on the roads when the relaxed lockdown began in the morning. However, vehicular density increased as the day progressed resembling pre-lockdown period, albeit without city buses. The district administration on Sunday had made it clear that though relaxation hours were extended till 7 p.m., it did not mean that people can come out and roam around. The relaxation was to facilitate economic activities that had come to a standstill during the first two phases of lockdown. There was no let down in the number of police pickets as well as curbs on vehicular movement across the city. Unlike huge crowds in front of grocery and vegetable shops in the relaxation hours during lockdown, no crowd was seen on Monday. A shopkeeper said that since people were sure that they could buy essential commodities at their convenience, the crowd was sparse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-lengthy-queues-in-front-of-liquor-shops/article31506571.ece
05 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Are autorickshaws safe?||A senior police officer wondered whether it was proper to allow operation of autorickshaws without there being proper measures to prevent COVID-19 contagion. One would understand the rationale behind allowing operation of autorickshaws when their owners/drivers were facing difficult times. But what is the guarantee that passengers travelling by autorickshaws do not leave behind the contagion, the officer wondered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/are-autorickshaws-safe/article31506578.ece
05 May 2020||NALGONDA,KARNATAKA||A.P. police reject travel passes given by Telangana police||Extreme situations of stranded people continued at the inter-State border here at Wadapally in the district on Monday, as Andhra Pradesh police denied entry to its returning migrant population. Nearly 300 persons, including those belonging to other States, waited at the check post for hours, after which they were diverted to other routes. Nalgonda Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath, along with Miryalaguda MLA N. Bhaskar Rao, reviewed the situation and spoke to top officials on the other side, but it did not yield results. “The problem is that AP Police do not have instructions, and they are not accepting the passes. We convinced most of the waiting groups to take other routes,” Mr. Ranganath said. However, about 70 people stayed back at the check post hoping for entry relaxation. The numbers increased by night. Local police along with legislator Mr. Bhaskar Rao arranged water, lunch and biscuit packets for the migrant groups. Protest for pending dues Meanwhile, about 15 km away, a large group of workers employed at the Yadadri Thermal Power Plant at Damaracherla, staged protests, demanding clearance of pending salaries. Of the 2,200 workers employed at the project, about 1,800 are from Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. SP Ranganath held talks with labour contractors of the protesting groups and, following guidelines, said that transport facility would be arranged for those willing to return to their native places. Police pacified the workers for the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ap-police-reject-travel-passes-given-by-telangana-police/article31506413.ece
05 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Shops to do business on alternate days||To ensure better crowd management and social distancing while shopping, shops in Gandhi Bazaar and Durgigudi, downtown areas of Shivamogga city, would function on rotation basis, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said. “Though permission has been granted for resumption of a few economic activities in the district from Monday, precautions would be taken to maintain social distancing. In both these business areas, shops on the left side of the road would function one day and those shops on the opposite side would remain open the next day,” he said at a press conference here on Monday. He said that shops and commercial establishments would remain open in the district from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. till further orders. Beauty parlours and salons have re-opened. He said that intra-district KSRTC bus services have resumed. To a query, he said that passes would be issued to bring back those residents of Shivamogga district who are stranded in other districts owing to enforcement of lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Action would be initiated against those who try to enter the district in an unauthorised manner, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shops-to-do-business-on-alternate-days/article31506574.ece
05 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Udupi city returns to near normal||Udupi city returned to near normal on Monday after nearly one-and-a-half months of strict lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic. Though Udupi district has been placed in the Green Zone, the district administration allowed lockdown relaxation in the district from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. as a precautionary measure. Most of the shops and business establishments, except those barred under lockdown guidelines, were open here. As a result of the relaxation today, a large number of vehicles were seen moving on the main streets leading to traffic snarls in places such as Kavi Muddana Road, Maruthi Veethika and Kalsank. The increased traffic movement was also because of the fact that the relaxation was only till 1 p.m. Autorickshaws and taxis were also operating. Movement of city and inter-district buses was barred. Meanwhile, there were long queues in front of wine shops here. While social distancing was being followed in some places, in other places it was not and the police had to intervene to ensure social distancing was maintained. Similar queues were seen in front of wine shops and MSIL shops in other places, including Manipal, Kundapur, Karkala, in the district. There are 14 MSIL shops and 89 wine shops in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-city-returns-to-near-normal/article31506572.ece
05 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||It is 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. from today||Shops and business establishments will remain open in Udupi district from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. from Tuesday, said Additional Deputy Commissioner Sadashiva Prabhu here on Monday. Shops and business establishments were open from 7 a.m. to only 1 p.m. in the district on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-is-7-am-to-7-pm-from-today/article31506573.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Karnataka frames stringent rules to discipline government employees||The State government has come out with draft rules for the Karnataka Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) (Amendment) Rules 2020, aimed at disciplining government employees by imposing stringent penalties, including removal from service and compulsory retirement. The draft rules notified on May 2 by the Deputy Secretary, Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (Service rules-II), has come out with over two dozen stringent penalties for government staff if they indulge in misconduct or misbehaviour, sexual harassment, and unauthorised absence. Objections invited The government invited objections for proposed changes in the draft rules and rules would be taken up for consideration after 15 days from the date of their publication in the official gazette. Withholding increments Under the draft rules, the government can withhold three annual increments in case of unauthorised absence for a period exceeding one month and less than four months, and employees would be sacked form service for unauthorised absence for a period exceeding four months. Employees would be removed if he or she found giving or taking or abetting giving or taking of dowry. Misappropriation of funds Five annual increments would be withheld in case of temporary misappropriation of government money less than Rs. 10,000, and there would be reduction of pay to a lower stage in the time-scale of pay of the post in the case of temporary misappropriation of government funds exceeding Rs. 10,000, according to the draft rules. Compulsory retirement The employee would be sent on compulsory retirement in the case of misappropriation/misuse of government money. In the case of procedural lapses, draft rules said it would lead to censure on the first occasion and reduction to a lower stage in the time-scale of pay on second and subsequent occasions. In the case of unreasonable/unjustified delay beyond the time limits prescribed in manuals of office procedure etc., the employee would be ‘censured’ on the first occasion and withholding of at least one annual increment on the second and subsequent occasions. Employees would be reduced to a lower post if found involved in sexual harassment cases. Two annual increments would be withheld in the case of refusal to obey written instructions of superior officers. In the case of using official position or influence to get employment for members of the family in any company/institution, then employee’s pay would be reduced to a lower stage in the time-scale of pay. The employee would be sent on compulsory retirement from service in the case of taking part in politics or elections in violation of the Karnataka Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1966, and in case of giving contract to a family member engaged in trade or business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-frames-stringent-rules-to-discipline-government-employees/article31506410.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In a pickle: Lockdown hits procurement and processing of Midi Maavu||The lockdown has adversely affected procurement and processing at industries that prepare pickle using Midi Maavu , the tender variety of mango in Malnad and coastal districts known for their aroma, brittleness and taste.  Midi Maavu are wild and riverine varieties of mango used for preparation of pickle. Appe Huli , a thin gravy is another mouth-watering preparation from this tender mango. The banks of Sharavathi, Netravathi, Aghanashini, Kumudvathi, and Varada rivers are dotted with Midi Maavu trees. Even, the rural roads in Malnad region are lined by these trees.  Jeerige Appe, Mente Appe, Adderi Jeerige, Anantha Bhattana Appe Midi, Bolwar Kukku, Mundappa are some of the popular varieties. The nomenclature is based on the taste, size, the thickness of the pulp, the place where they are grown, and some are also named after the breeders. Former Chief Ministers, the late Ramakrishna Hegde and the late S. Bangarappa, were admirers of the pickles made from the Anantha Bhattana Appe Midi variety from Aghanashini river bank. Mr. Bangarappa during his tenure as MP had planted a sapling of Anantha Bhattana Appe Midi at the garden of his official residence in New Delhi. The admirers of Appe Midi attribute the unique taste and aroma to the river water and the moist soil on its bank. Source of income The landless agriculture labours harvest these tender mangoes and sell them to pickle factories. It is a source of income for them in summer, off-season for agriculture activities. This year, the price per kilo was around Rs. 300. The mangoes are harvested from March first week to May first week. Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada districts have more than 100 units that prepare pickles from Midi Maavu . Owing to restriction on movement of people during lockdown, the rural labours refrained from harvesting the mangoes and bringing them to the market. M.R. Satish, managing partner of Shiralakoppa-based M.N. Pickles, told The Hindu that the total procurement of Midi Maavu by his firm every year was around 120 tonne against which they were able to procure only around 20 tonne this time. There was around 85% decline in the procurement in other pickle industries also in Malnad and coastal districts this year owing to the lockdown. The pickle factories in Shivamogga district engage more than 1,500 labours during the summer season for the processing. Owing to lockdown, the pickle industries faced shortage of labour, said Rekha Ramakrishna of R.R. Pickles in Ripponpet. The Midi Maavu pickles enjoy great demand in urban areas and the sales have plummeted this time, she said. All the three main stakeholders — those who bring the produce to the market, the pickle industry owners, and the workers — have suffered loss owing to the lockdown, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-a-pickle-lockdown-hits-procurement-and-processing-of-midi-maavu/article31506430.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State plans health database of all citizens||The Karnataka government plans to maintain a health database of all citizens and a health register to keep track of health issues of the people, said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. He said the project would be implemented first in Chickballapur district on experimental basis. He was speaking to district officials of Chickballapur district on Monday. The Minister said that COVID-19 had proved that there was a need to maintain health data of each person. He said the government would undertake a survey using a team of Primary Health Centre officials, revenue officials, Education Department staff, and ASHAs. They will visit each household and collect the data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-plans-health-database-of-all-citizens/article31506423.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Social distancing forgotten||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/social-distancing-forgotten/article31506408.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Life as it is...||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/life-as-it-is/article31506577.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Waiting to go home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/waiting-to-go-home/article31506412.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||DPI officials told to be ready to hold SSLC exam||The State government had to put off the SSLC exam in the wake of the spread of COVID-19. It was originally scheduled from March 27 to April 9. The Minister also said that the Doordarshan Chandana channel would start telecasting revision classes for SSLC students in English in a few days. Revision classes for Kannada-medium students are already being telecast. “I have directed the officials to make sure revision classes in English are also telecast. The shooting has begun, and the classes will be telecast from Thursday or Friday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dpi-officials-told-to-be-ready-to-hold-sslc-exam/article31506422.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Alleged breach of protocol||There was an alleged breach of quarantine protocol on Victoria Hospital premises on Sunday during the showering of flower petals by defence personnel on the COVID-19 designated hospital. Sources said many paramedical staff and nurses, who came out to witness and cheer the event, were under quarantine at the BMCRI hostel after working for seven days in the COVID-19 ward. “As per protocol, those under quarantine are not supposed to come out till their 14-day period ends,” sources said. C.R. Jayanthi, dean and director of BMCRI, denied this and said those who came out would have completed their quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alleged-breach-of-protocol/article31506428.ece
05 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Medicinal plants garden project launched in Thanneermukkom||The Thanneermukkom grama panchayat in the district has launched a Thulasivanam project with an aim to create a garden of medicinal plants in all households and reduce pollution. As part of the project, one lakh saplings of basil, neem, amla, among other species, will be planted in 15,000 households in the local body. Panchayat authorities said on Monday that the local body would ban the burning of rubbish for a period of two months. This will help make the air cleaner. Dry leaves will be used to make organic manure. The project was launched by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Monday. Speaking at the function, Dr. Isaac said local bodies in the State should initiate measures to revive agriculture in view of the crisis created by COVID-19 pandemic. “We may face a food shortage due to COVID-19. The State is dependent on supplies from other States to meet its demands for food consumption. We need to grow vegetables and foodgrains here, which will help us overcome a crisis created by a lack of supply from other States. The panchayats should take the lead and everyone should join the farming initiative,” the Minister said. Apart from the Thulasivanam project, the panchayat launched another project for waste management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medicinal-plants-garden-project-launched-in-thanneermukkom/article31506706.ece
05 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||1 killed in van, motorcycle collision||A 48-year-old man was killed in a road accident at Karuvatta, near Haripad, on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Binu Gopalakrishnan of Thanneermukkom in the district. A government employee, he was going to his office in Thiruvananthapuram when the accident happened. A van heading to Ernakulam collided with the victim’s motorcycle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1-killed-in-van-motorcycle-collision/article31506707.ece
05 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||9 in hospital with symptoms||Nine people were admitted to hospitals with symptoms of COVID-19 in the district on Monday. Officials said that the number of people under observation in hospitals stood at 13. They included four persons in Taluk Hospital, Kayamkulam, eight in Taluk Hospital, Haripad, and one in Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha. Besides, 1,325 people are in home quarantine across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/9-in-hospital-with-symptoms/article31506708.ece
05 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||127 Keralites cross Muthanga border||As many as 127 Keralites who were stranded in other States crossed the Muthanga check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border on Monday. “Those who have registered through NoRKA Roots and COVID-19 Jagratha online application can now enter the State through the check-post after getting permission from the officials concerned,” District Collector Adeela Abdulla told media persons after evaluating the facilities at a mini health centre opened for returnees at the check-post on Monday. The returnees should obtain permission from their respective district administrations through the Jagratha app prior to continuing their journey, Ms Abdulla said. The health condition of the returnees will be assessed at the check-post. District Police Chief R. Ilango and Wayanad Sub Collector Vikalp Bhardwaj accompanied Ms. Abdulla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/127-keralites-cross-muthanga-border/article31506651.ece
05 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||37 wards declared containment zones in Wayanad||As many as 37 wards in five local bodies were declared COVID-19 containment zones on Monday after a positive case was reported in Wayanad district three days ago. A 52-year-old truck driver under the Mananthavady municipal limits, who returned from Chennai recently, had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. The person in question had come into contact with people in ward numbers 7, 8, 9, 10, 21, 22, 25, 26 and 27 in Mananthavady municipality; wards 12, 14 and 16 in Edavaka grama panchayat; wards 9, 10, 11 and 12 in Vellamunda; wards 8, 9, 10 and 17 in Meenangadi; and all the 17 wards in Thirunelly grama panchayat, said District Collector Adeela Abdulla. The Thachambat and Mangod tribal settlements in Meenangadi and Thirunelly grama panchayats in the district were also declared containment zones to stop the spread of the pandemic among tribespeople, said Ms. Abdulla. Restrictions Stringent norms, including restrictions on movement, would be executed in containment zones. However, medical shops, supermarkets, and grocery, vegetable, meat and fruit shops could be opened, said the Collector. Restrictions were imposed for a period of 14 days, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/37-wards-declared-containment-zones-in-wayanad/article31506648.ece
05 May 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Heavy rush at Talapady check-post||The Talapady check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border witnessed heavy rush of vehicles carrying Keralites from outside the State since early morning on Monday. Personnel at the 100-odd help desks, opened at 8 a.m., had a tough time as several people who had not registered for travel permission also arrived at the check-post. A large number of Keralites, most of them from north India, are expected to arrive through National Highways 66, 47 and 48. Health status District Collector D. Sajith Babu said around 4,500 people had registered on the government website, and accordingly, arrangements were made to check the health status of those arriving at Talapady. Only three persons in four-seater vehicles and five persons in seven-seater vehicles are allowed to cross the border. People with COVID-19 symptoms will be sent to the observation centres in ambulances. The district administration has arranged vehicles at Talapady to ferry people up to Payyanur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rush-at-talapady-check-post/article31506646.ece
05 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi shops down shutters citing health concerns||All shops in Broadway Market, except those vending food and groceries, downed shutters owing to health concerns on Monday. The move was in view of the fact that they are located too close to one another. Several shops opened simultaneously in the morning after over a month owing to relaxations in Ernakulam district, which was declared a green zone. “Soon afterwards, police vehicles went around announcing that shops not selling essential commodities must shut down in line with COVID-19 precautions,” said a trader. K. Lalji, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Ernakulam, said the police were awaiting clarification from the district administration on whether shops in ‘clusters’ like the Broadway Market too could be opened, as relaxations were applicable only to standalone shops. “There are over 500 shops at Broadway with a few thousand employees. Customers will add to crowding, and hence we decided on the move,” he added. On shops functioning at the nearby Menaka Junction, Mr. Lalji said most of them sell mobile phones and spare parts. They also take turns, with each shop opening once in three days as per a fixed schedule. In the meantime, it is learnt that action will be taken against traders who display spices and other food items well into the footpath, since they stand the risk of getting contaminated. G. Karthikeyan, president, Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce, said traders were shocked at the police ordering closure of shops at Broadway, Market Road, and Jew Street, the very day they were permitted to open them. Heavy traffic The closure of shops on Broadway, Jew Street, and Market Road on Monday morning is viewed in the backdrop of the heavy traffic on arterial roads and junctions. This led to a fear that more motorists would swarm the city later in the day, despite buses and autorickshaws staying off the road. A section of taxi cars operated. The police conducted a route march at Thevara on Monday following warnings that migrant workers might crowd various places or even take out processions demanding transport facilities for them to return to their home States. The police assured them that they would visit workers’ camps and provide whatever help possible. The route march led by Assistant Commissioner of Police Rajesh T.R. was taken out from the Ernakulam South police station, with announcements in Hindi. Route marches were also taken out at Thripunithura, Maradu, Cheranalloor, and Ambalamedu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-shops-down-shutters-citing-health-concerns/article31506641.ece
05 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Focus on hand hygiene as life returns to normality||As people’s life is returning to normality in a phased manner in green zones that have not reported COVID-19 for more than three weeks, hand hygiene is an important point to remember for keeping infections away. It is also a vital part in the phase 2 of the Break the Chain campaign. “Make hand hygiene a global priority and inspire behaviour change. These are the basic lessons that need to be taught at school,” said G.S. Praveen, Assistant Professor, Community Medicine, Ernakulam Government Medical College. “Even masks may get discarded in a few months from now, but hand hygiene stays,” he said. On Tuesday, the World Health Organisation is observing Global Hand Hygiene Day with the campaign Save Lives: Clean your hands. The World Health Organisation (WHO) calls upon health workers and members in the community to play a role by practising regular and frequent handwashing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-hand-hygiene-as-life-returns-to-normality/article31506644.ece
05 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Court asks CBSE to correct student’s name||The High Court has observed that to have a name and to express it in the manner they wish is part of the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19 (1) (a) and the right to liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. Justice Bechu Kurian Thomas made the observation on Monday while allowing a plea by a student for a directive to the CBSE to correct her name in school records. The court said that name was something very personal to an individual. It was an expression of one’s individuality, one’s identity and one’s uniqueness. It was the foundation on which he/she moves around in a civil society. In a democracy, free expression of one’s name in the manner he/she prefers is a facet of individual right. The State or its instrumentalities cannot stand in the way of use of any name preferred by an individual, the court added. Dinky Gupta, daughter of Prakash Gupta of Mattanchery, had changed her name to Kashish Gupta by a gazette notification in 2017. However, the CBSE refused to correct her name in the school records despite her request. The court directed the Regional Officer, CBSE, Thiruvananthapuram, to correct the name in the certificate within six weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-asks-cbse-to-correct-students-name/article31506663.ece
05 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CBSE, ICSE schools begin fee collection||Schools in the unaided stream have started collecting fee for the new academic year despite no clarity yet on reopening of educational institutions following the pandemic crisis. Parents have started receiving letters from managements of CBSE/ICSE/Kerala board schools asking them to pay the fee for the academic year 2020-21. The payment can be made online. Some managements have said that fee cheques can be deposited at drop boxes set up at the school entrance. The fee collection has been started bypassing the statement by Chief Minister on April 11 that the managements should not pressurise parents to remit the fee during the lockdown period, considering the impact on family income because of the COVID-19 situation. No order On whether the government has issued any orders permitting the managements to start collecting the fee, the Education Department authorities said there was no order restraining fee collection. “The government position was announced by the Chief Minister and there has been no change in it till now,” said a senior official. T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan, president, Kerala CBSE School Managements Association, said the managements were collecting fee arrears only. “Schools will not be able to disburse the salary to the staff without resuming the fee collection.” he said. Hike in bus fee However, the parents said they had received notices from schools to pay the fee for the new academic year. Several managements had dropped the move to hike the tuition fee in view of the current situation. But some had decided to increase the bus fee, they said. The parents can approach the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights against the fee collection. The complaints can be filed as per the provisions of the Right to Education Act, according to Education Department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbse-icse-schools-begin-fee-collection/article31506669.ece
05 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Agri societies offer soft loans||With the COVID-19-induced job loss and resultant economic crisis adversely affecting society, primary agriculture cooperative societies have come up with gold and interest-free loans across the State. A few societies began offering gold loan on Monday. The Kanayannoor Taluk Cooperative Agriculture Village Development Bank in Kochi has announced a gold loan scheme by offering up to 80% of the value of gold as loan amount for an interest rate of 10% for one year. If one could close the gold loan in six months, the interest would be 9.5%. “Till now, the bank has been focusing on property-based loan schemes. But procurement of property-related documents for availing of a loan would not be an easy task during the lockdown period,” says P.S. Siju, manager of the Palarivattom branch. On the day one, there were no takers for its gold loan. Such loans would be offered at the Mulanthuruthy branch located on the outskirts of the city too after evaluating the customer response, he says. Special loans The Vennala Service Cooperative Bank, which offered interest-free loans for up to Rs. 5,000 during the early days of outbreak of the pandemic, has started offering COVID special loans up to Rs. 25,000 for an interest of 5%. Under the new scheme launched on Monday, Rs. 2 crore would be disbursed, says A. N. Santhosh, bank president. The primary agriculture cooperative societies numbering 1,606 have been asked to disburse such loans at reduced interest rates, says A. Alexander, Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Kerala. The societies have been asked to cap the interest rate at 7%. Some cash-rich societies may offer loans at lower rates. The societies would also offer soft loans for the tourism sector to help entrepreneurs revive the business, he says. Meanwhile, those at the State Bank of India, the public sector major, say no new loan schemes have been announced in the post-COVID period. The manager of a major private sector gold loan company, which renewed the business last week, says there are not many takers for its gold loan schemes.  Primary agriculture cooperative societies numbering 1,606 have been asked to disburse such loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agri-societies-offer-soft-loans/article31506687.ece
05 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Father, daughter among 3 killed in road accident||A man and his 11-year-old daughter were among the three killed after a car rammed an autorickshaw and hit a few people near a shop at Muttom near Aluva on Monday evening. Majesh, 35, of Thrikkakara and his daughter Archana were about to step out of the autorickshaw when the speeding car rammed the vehicle. The car also hit Kunjumon, 52, of Muttom who was standing close to a shop selling iftar snacks, killing him on the spot. The police said Majesh was returning with his daughter after visiting his wife who has been admitted to the ESI Hospital at Pathalam near Aluva for delivery. The car was moving in the Aluva-Ernakulam direction, and it rammed the autorickshaw from behind. The car driver escaped with injuries. 3 killed at Valakam In another incident, three persons were killed after the car in which they were travelling rammed a shop and another building at Valakam near Muvattupuzha on Sunday night. The deceased are Basil George, 30, of Nadaparambil, Mekkadambu, who played the lead role in the movie Poovalliyum Kunjadum ; Nidhin, 35, of Ilavangathadathil, Valakam, and Aswin Joy, 29, of Illel Veetil, Valakam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/father-daughter-among-3-killed-in-road-accident/article31506654.ece
05 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||59 arrested for lockdown violations||The Kochi City Police on Monday registered 40 cases, arrested 59 people and seized 17 vehicles in connection with lockdown violations. The police booked 80 people for not wearing masks. Nine activists of Welfare Party were arrested at Polakandam Market for protesting against the lockdown. The Ernakulam rural police filed 52 cases, arrested 46 people and seized 25 vehicles for violating lockdown. Case was filed against 16 people for not wearing masks. The police far arrested 9,004 people and seized 5,416 vehicles, said K. Karthik, Ernakulam Rural SP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/59-arrested-for-lockdown-violations/article31506642.ece
05 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Heavy rush of vehicles in Kottayam district||On a day when partial relaxation in lockdown restrictions kicked in, streets and market places in Kotttayam witnessed a heavy rush in major trade centres. A good number of shops and establishments, even in hotspots areas, reopened on Monday across the district with strict restrictions. Though two wards in Kottayam municipality, where the town market and Kodimatha vegetable and fish markets are located, have been marked as containment zones, the district administration decided to reopen the markets to ensure supply of food materials to different parts of the district. Monitoring However, a strict monitoring mechanism was put in place to regulate the movements to and from the market. All vehicles were subjected to disinfection prior to their entry into the market and truck employees underwent a compulsory medical examination. Trucks carrying perishable goods, including fruits, vegetables and fish, were permitted to unload the stock from 4 a.m. to 6 a.m., while groceries were allowed to enter the market between 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. Assisted by the police and municipal employees, the traders opened a helpdesk at the entry point of the market to coordinate activities. Kottayam tahsildar and Incident Commander P.G. Rajendra Babu has been tasked to oversee all the operations within the market. More concessions Earlier in the day, the District Collector granted more concessions on the lockdown restrictions in areas outside the containment zones in the district, which is included in the red zone. Among those permitted to operate in the urban centres as per the latest order include industrial parks and export-oriented units, and construction sites that do not draw workers from outside. At the same time, all industrial and commercial establishments and constructions sites in the rural areas have been allowed to function normally. The ban on all remaining services including public transport, cinemas and social gatherings will continue across urban and rural regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rush-of-vehicles-in-kottayam-district/article31506693.ece
05 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Twelve recover in the district||In a major relief to Kottayam, 12 out 17 COVID-19-affected persons in the district were declared completely recovered from the disease here on Monday. According to authorities, they have twice tested negative for the virus infection. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district has come down to five. Recovery list Among those recovered included two headload workers in the Kottayam town market and two health workers at the district hospital and Parampuzha primary health centre respectively, besides a male nurse in Panachikkad, his mother and one of their relatives. Two truck drivers from Manarcad, a Tamil Nadu native scrap dealer from Changanassery, two women from Melukavumattom and Samkranthi too were tested negative. Eleven of them were discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital here on Monday while the patient at the General Hospital is awaiting nod from the medical board to leave the hospital. Sample collection unit Meanwhile, the district administration is all set to launch the State’s first mobile sample collection unit in the district. The facility is a mobile version of the sample collection kiosks launched recently at government hospitals in the district. Using the facility, the Health Department seeks to collect samples of vulnerable people, including the elderly, pregnant women and police personnel, to assess the possibility of community transmission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twelve-recover-in-the-district/article31506694.ece
05 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Centre’s protocol to decide NoRKs’ airlifting||The proposal of the State government to airlift Non Resident Keralites (NoRKs), especially from the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, will depend on the Centre’s guidelines to evacuate Indians from abroad in a phased manner from Thursday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has drawn up a protocol based on the demand for repatriation from various countries. Details sought Already the GCC countries — United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar, Kuwait, and Bahrain — have begun collecting details of Indians who want to come back. As such, all those who have registered with the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs (NoRKA) will not be on the priority list being prepared by the MEA. Currently, 4.25 lakh persons have registered with NoRKA to return to Kerala. The Embassies or the Consulate Generals of India have been receiving applications from expatriates from last week. All applicants have been asked to furnish the reason for repatriation such as facing deportation, expiry of visa, job loss, elderly, pregnant woman, and treatment for terminal illness. Besides, the applicant should also state whether s/he had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. The most deserving categories such as workers in acute distress and who lost their jobs, emergency medical cases, pregnant women, and the elderly would get first priority. The Indian missions abroad have clarified that registration does not guarantee a flight ticket to India. It is only to create a database to estimate the number of people who wish to return. U.K.’s case The High Commission of India in London has asked Indian citizens keen on returning to register with the High Commission on its website. Kuwait has promised to evacuate workers and illegal migrants stranded in its territory while the UAE has agreed to assist India to airlift Indian nationals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centres-protocol-to-decide-norks-airlifting/article31506659.ece
05 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IIMK raises Rs. 1 crore||The Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIMK) has raised close to Rs. 1 crore for COVID-19 relief work. An amount of Rs. 32.09 lakh will be donated to the Prime Minister’s PM Cares fund of which Rs. 7.09 lakh has been raised through voluntary contribution of a day’s salary by the IIMK Director, staff, and faculty members. Donation to CMDRF The institute will contribute Rs. 25 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). Another significant contribution of nearly Rs. 40 lakh is being raised by the IIMK Alumni Association for various COVID-19 relief efforts at the community level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iimk-raises-rs-1-crore/article31506639.ece
05 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Day of relief for Kozhikode||Forty-three days after COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode for the first time, the Health Department heaved a sigh of relief on Monday when all the patients undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital recovered from the infection. No new SARS-CoV-2 positive cases have been reported for the past 11 days. According to a release, those recovered were a 31-year-old health worker from Kodenchery, a 23-year-old native of Vadakara, a 23-year-old medical student from Kannur, and a 67-year-old native of Tamil Nadu. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said 1,029 people were under surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/day-of-relief-for-kozhikode/article31506655.ece
05 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rema flays DYFI||K.K. Rema, widow of slain RMPleader T.P. Chandrasekharan, has flayed the DYFI for posting a picture of K.K. Mohammed Shafi, fifth accused in the murder of her husband, as entry for a contest on Facebook. She said the DYFI was glorifying a person sentenced to life imprisonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rema-flays-dyfi/article31506738.ece
05 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||In Manjeri, lockdown tears down boundaries of religion||When Malavika, a student at an entrance coaching centre at Manjeri, was leaving for home on March 22, she found fellow student Lukmanul Saba alone and sad at the hostel. Saba, a resident of Agatti in Lakshadweep who was taking medical entrance exam classes at Manjeri, was unable to return home due to the travel restrictions imposed in connection with the outbreak of COVID-19. Malavika’s family took her to their house in Manjeri. A month-and-a-half later, the four-member Hindu family is winning hearts by observing Ramzan fasting along with Saba. “We found her crying alone as all the others were leaving for home. Then we took her home. And now, she is like one of us,” said Malavika’s father Pradeep P., an employee at Eranad Taluk Office, and her mother Bindu, a teacher at Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Manjeri. When Ramzan fasting began on April 24, Saba said she would manage with the food the family made and did not want anything special. But Ms. Bindu insisted that Saba’s choice should be given priority. And thus the family began observing Ramzan fasting and celebrating iftar the way Muslim families do. “Now we are used to the Islamic way of fasting. We all fast along with her, and break our fast with her,” said Mr. Pradeep. They make special dishes such as tharikanji , kichdi and pathiri for iftar . “It is amazing and heartening. We have wonderful iftars here together with Achan, Amma and my friends,” Saba told The Hindu . The teenager said the boundaries of religion had crumbled before the love displayed by Mr. Pradeep and his family. Saba’s father Abdul Rahman, an Ayurveda doctor in Lakshadweep, said he was proud and grateful for the love and care given by Mr. Pradeep and his family to his daughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-manjeri-lockdown-tears-down-boundaries-of-religion/article31506656.ece
05 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Man in quarantine damages ambulance||A 25-year-old man who was being taken in an ambulance to be quarantined at the taluk hospital at Ottapalam turned violent and damaged the vehicle on Monday. From Mettupalayam The man was picked up by health workers from Tenur after he arrived here from Mettupalayam. He reportedly turned violent inside the ambulance. When the vehicle stopped at Lakkidi, he got out and threw stones at it, breaking the glass and a nebuliser insider. The police took him to the hospital, and later shifted him to the District Hospital in Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-in-quarantine-damages-ambulance/article31506657.ece
05 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Wind and rain wreak havoc in Thiruvalla taluk||A fierce whirlwind, accompanied by heavy summer showers, wreaked havoc in many parts of Thiruvalla taluk on Sunday evening. The panchayat limits of Kadapra, Niranom, Peringara, and Kuttoor and Thiruvalla municipality were badly hit. Trees and electric posts got uprooted and fell over buildings and damaged them in different parts of the taluk. Roads blocked Many roads in the taluk remained blocked for a long time as it took hours together for the Fire and Rescue Services personnel and the local people to clear the uprooted trees and electric posts. Not less than 100 houses were damaged, besides heavy loss to standing crop in the region. Power supply has been disrupted in all affected areas since Sunday evening. A large number of electric posts were broken and transmission lines snapped, disrupting power supply to many parts of the taluk, including Thiruvalla town. According to Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) sources, 80 electric posts were damaged. It took 22 hours for the KSEB to restore power supply to the areas of Kuttoor, Thalayar, Mazhukeer, Thengeli, Thirumoolapuram and many other parts of Thiruvalla. Vehicular traffic too remained disrupted for a long time on many roads in the affected areas. Mathew T. Thomas, MLA, accompanied by tahsildar John Varghese and other revenue officials, visited the affected areas on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wind-and-rain-wreak-havoc-in-thiruvalla-taluk/article31506696.ece
05 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||U.K. returnee tests positive again||The lone COVID-19 patient who has been remaining at the isolation ward of the Pathanamthitta General Hospital since March 24 was once again tested positive for the virus infection on Monday. According to hospital sources, the man who came from the United Kingdom was first tested positive for COVID-19 on March 25. Though the clinical examination of his throat swab sample was tested negative twice during the past two weeks, he was not declared cured as the results of the successive throat swab examinations were positive to the viral infection, sources said. No COVID-19 case was reported from any part of the district for the 22nd consecutive day on Monday. According to an official medical bulletin released here in the evening, a total of six persons remain at the isolation wards set up at various hospitals in the district as on Monday. District Medical Officer A.L.Sheeja said three persons, one of them a COVID-19 patient, were at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, one at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, and two others, with symptomatic fever, at the General Hospital in Adoor. So far, a total of 181 persons, who included 16 persons cured of COVID-19, have got discharged from the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district. The DMO said a total of 4,212 throat swab samples have been sent from the district to the virology laboratory in Alappuzha for clinical examination and only 17 of them tested positive for the virus infection so far. The department awaits test results of 177 throat swab samples, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uk-returnee-tests-positive-again/article31506697.ece
05 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Thiruvananthapuram becomes pandemic-free again||The district became COVID-19-free yet again on Monday after two patients being treated in the Government Medical College Hospital here tested negative for the infection. A 68-year-old Tamil Nadu native, who hails from Melpalai in Kanyakumari, and a 48-year-old Neyyattinkara native recovered from the illness less than a week after they were diagnosed with the disease. 170 under surveillance The district authorities placed 170 people under surveillance as part of the ongoing efforts to contain the pandemic. Ninety-two people were excluded from quarantine after completing the isolation period. A total of 2,774 people are currently quarantined in the district. Among them, 2,637 people were quarantined in their homes. Nine people were admitted to various hospitals with symptoms of the disease, while 14 people were discharged on the day. The Thiruvananthapuram City police booked 133 people for violating the lockdown curbs and seized 95 vehicles. As many as 150 people were penalised for failing to wear masks. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police registered cases against 415 people, arrested 430 people and confiscated 244 vehicles. The district showed its first signs of limping back to normalcy as restrictions were considerably relaxed with the third phase of lockdown in force. In view of the considerable increase in vehicular flow, several traffic signals were switched on city roads after a hiatus of nearly one-and-a-half months. While several commercial outlets functioned, the prevailing confusion over the enforcement of restrictions in the Chala market deterred many traders from conducting business. The restrictions imposed by the police for vehicle entry within the market area also appeared to have hampered sales. Despite the government’s plea, the public came out in large numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thiruvananthapuram-becomes-pandemic-free-again/article31506701.ece
05 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Total curbs in hotspots, containment zones only||The State government on Monday said the total restrictions on mobility and retail would apply only to localities classified as COVID-19 hotspots or containment zones irrespective of the area falling in districts classified as red, orange and green zones. However, it has banned public transport across the State. Not more than three persons, including the driver, could travel in private vehicles. Ideally, motorists should not engage the car air-conditioner. Only spouses or close relatives could travel pillion on two-wheelers. Maximum of 20 persons The ban on assemblies, congregations and social and religious events would continue in the third phase that ends on May 17. However, a maximum of 20 persons could attend funerals or weddings. Liquor ban The government has banned the sale of liquor despite the Central government partially lifting the restrictions on the retailing of alcohol. Malls, salons and cinema halls would remain closed. However, barbers could make home visits. Educational institutions would remain shut. But they could open for examinations. From 7 a.m. Retail businesses in the green zone could open at 7 a.m. and shut at 7.30 p.m. Sunday is a mandatory and enforceable holiday for all activities, except essential services, across various epidemic zones. Hotels and restaurants could open for deliveries and takeaways. However, they should not allow the dine-in facility. Huge textile and jewellery showrooms would remain closed. However, small textile shops employing less than five persons could open for business. Automobile showrooms and workshops can open for business. COVID-19-vulnerable persons, particularly those with chronic health conditions and above the age of 60, should optimally remain home till May 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/total-curbs-in-hotspots-containment-zones-only/article31506666.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSBB to develop ‘concept bank’ to tackle pandemics||When you are faced with a pandemic, sometimes the answers could be closer to home than you think. Working on this premise, the Kerala State Biodiversity Board (KSBB) is developing a ‘concept bank’ with biodiversity-linked research and inputs that could prove valuable in handling COVID 19-like scenarios. The KSBB has invited experts and institutions to chip in with ideas and concept notes on field problems on which “research and immediately implementable projects or action plans” can be crafted. The central theme being how sustainable management of bioresources/biodiversity can benefit health care. “We are looking at relevant ways to prevent pandemics such as COVID-19, to build up our immunity or to develop health consciousness. There are studies that have been done but have not been implemented or taken onto the field. We do not need to reinvent the wheel. We think that a concept bank is important so that we will be ready in future,” says KSBB chairman S.C. Joshi. WHO estimation In its note on the concept bank, the KSBB draws attention to a World Health Organization (WHO) estimation that about 60% of emerging infectious diseases are those transmitted between animals and human beings. Urbanisation and the consequent shrinkage of habitats and migration of wild animals to human habitations have been cited as major reasons for this, the KSBB says. On a related front, the KSBB is also studying the possibility of utilising the vast trove of traditional knowledge in Kerala for tackling COVID-19-like situations. While ethnobotany studies have been conducted on a large scale, much of the results are gathering dust on the shelves. Out of all such studies, especially those on tribal knowhow, only a small percentage has undergone lab tests. The board intends to see whether the most promising ones can be selected for further validation, Dr. Joshi says. The KSBB also hopes to use constructive ideas submitted for the concept bank for building a strategy and action plan for biodiversity conservation in the State over the next decade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksbb-to-develop-concept-bank-to-tackle-pandemics/article31506661.ece
05 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM focusses on economic growth||With COVID-19 apparently on the retreat in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday unveiled a plan to chart a new course in the State’s economic development. The scheme chiefly hinged on the reasoning that international businesses would decentralise global supply chains rapidly. They direly need to prevent a future COVID-19 scale epidemic outbreak from disrupting production and causing shortages worldwide. Mr. Vijayan said Kerala’s success in containing outbreaks and its high quality of life index made it a magnet for global investors seeking to shift industries from established production centres in Asia and Europe. Potential investors could also hope to harness the skills and global experience of Non-Resident Keralites returning home. Clearance in a week Several entities had evinced interest in investing in Kerala. The State would clear their application for starting industries within a week. The businesses had to give an undertaking that they would complete the mandatory procedure within one year of the start of operations. He said Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Kannur, with their airport, seaport and railway connectivity, would become logistic hubs for commercial activity. The government would open logistics parks to facilitate import and export of goods and services. It would upgrade the Azhikkal harbour to a world-class commercial port. A mega food park was in the offing in Palakkad. The government would grade investors as gold, silver and bronze star categories based on the employment they generated locally and the spin-off benefits to society. Opportunities too Mr. Vijayan sounded optimistic and said the crisis had also created opportunities. He slammed the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) for being irreconcilably partisan in matters of Kerala’s development. Mr. Vijayan blamed the media for amplifying the conspiracy theories of the UDF and said such reporting did not augur well for the State. He defended hiring by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-focusses-on-economic-growth/article31506677.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||24 Keralites return via Inchivila||The opening of the Inchivila inter-State border check-post on Monday facilitated the return of 24 Keralites stranded in other States during the COVID-19 lockdown. Confusion prevailed on the border during the initial hours, but the teething issues were soon resolved. Two Thrissur natives who turned up at 7 a.m. were required to wait for over three hours to undergo screening with officials turning up much later. The duo were barred entry after it emerged they arrived in a vehicle different from what was registered in a pass issued by the Thrissur Collector. They were later shifted to the corona care centre that functioned in the Mar Ivanios College hostel. Among those who passed the border were 10 Thrissur natives, five from Pathanamthitta, three each from Idukki and Malappuram, two from Alappuzha and a Thiruvananthapuram native. Officials expressed confidence that 500 people could be screened simultaneously with the screening centre becoming full-fledged. A special registration counter has been set up for those who have not enrolled prior to their journey. The district administration anticipated the entry of at least 5,000 people through the Inchivila border. The Dr. Somerwell Memorial CSI Medical College Hospital in Karakkonam has been readied up to treat those diagnosed with COVID-19 symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/24-keralites-return-via-inchivila/article31506699.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Five trains for migrants cancelled as Bihar refuses permission||The Bihar government has denied permission to the five Shramik Special trains that were scheduled to depart from the State on Monday, jeopardising the return of migrant workers stranded in the State due to the lockdown. The trains were scheduled to start service from Alappuzha, Aluva, Ernakulam, Tirur and Shoranur. The decision of the Bihar government to refuse No Objection Certificate (NOC) came as a surprise to the State as Railways had already operated 11 Shramik Specials from Kerala to Jharkhand, Odisha, and Bihar to facilitate the return of the migrants. Only with NOC The authorities of Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad Railway Divisions were ready to run the trains. Railway sources said they would operate Shramik Specials for migrants only after getting the NOC of the destination State. “State governments decide on the destination of the Shramik Specials in consultation with the receiving State and based on the number of stranded migrants. Railways have been given authority to run these special trains only till May 17. The transportation of migrant workers has to be completed by then.” As rakes are available with the two railway divisions, Railways are of the view that the State government should look for another destination. Only 12,562 migrants have been transported by 11 special trains from Kerala as social distancing norms have to be followed in the sleeper class coaches. For Kerala, Monday’s cancellation of trains is a jolt as migrants held up in camps and houses are restless and want immediate return. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-trains-for-migrants-cancelled-as-bihar-refuses-permission/article31506675.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Trains sought to bring back Keralites||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has sought the support and intervention of the Union government in arranging special trains to bring back the Keralites stranded in other States. “I have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bring back stranded Keralites by the special non-stop trains being used to send the migrant labourers from Kerala to other States. I have also requested the Prime Minister to allow special non-stop trains from other places also to Kerala. Our government’s policy is to bring back those stranded outside,” he said on Monday. 1,66,263 register As many as 1,66,263 Keralites from other States have registered on the NoRKA website to return to the State. “People in other States require transportation by trains as it would be too long and hard for them to travel by road,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said efforts were being taken by the government to bring back those stranded in Lakshadweep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trains-sought-to-bring-back-keralites/article31506676.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lockdown spells doom for driving schools in district||In the lockdown period, when vehicles have disappeared from roads, those who impart driving lessons to thousands of people each year are also having a hard time. With driving schools remaining closed, the many who depend on these for their daily bread are looking at an uncertain future, as it is still not clear when all the restrictions would be lifted. Sarath, who has been working with one of the driving schools in the capital, used to have a busy schedule till two months back. Now, he says that he has been remaining cooped up inside his house, as there is no money coming in. “I used to work part of the time as an instructor at the driving school, and the rest as a school bus driver on temporary basis. But with the schools also closed, I am not getting that wages too. I haven’t got out of home in the past few days,” says Sarath. Suraj, who runs Swapna Driving School at Jagathy, says that many of the driving school owners are going through tough times as loans are pending and there is no way to pay their driving instructors. “I have five cars, out of which three are relatively new and for which loans are pending. Due to the moratorium announcement, I haven’t paid the instalments in the past two months. There there are the pending building rents, taxes and annual insurance payments. I have paid the wages of the staff till March, but after that there was no money to pay. These two months of summer are the peak season for us, as a lot of students join the classes before their college year starts. Homemakers too come in large numbers during the summer season. We have a whatsapp group of those who run driving schools, where others are also sharing similar woes,” says Suraj. As those working in the sector do not have a welfare fund, they have been requesting for financial aid from the government. “The MVD had stopped the learners’ test and driving tests many days before the lockdown. We can collect the balance fee from the students only after the driving test. ,” says Saraswathy Amma, who runs the Saras driving school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-spells-doom-for-driving-schools-in-district/article31506702.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Space studies go online in the time of lockdown||At 10 a.m. on Monday, Shaun E.C. Phangcho, a second-year student at the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST), was ready for a one-hour session on analogue electronics. But the youngster was not seated in a classroom at the institute’s sprawling campus at Valiyamala here, but before a computer screen at his residence in Assam. While the COVID-19 pandemic has forced the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) to put off missions, it has not wholly derailed the equally serious business of moulding future space scientists for the national space agency. Regular classes at the IIST — an autonomous institute under the Department of Space — have simply transformed into virtual ones. Given the COVID-19 scenario in Kerala, the IIST had suspended classes and directed the students to vacate the campus in mid-March. The students were soon scattered all over India. Nonetheless, within two weeks classes migrated to the online platform with the faculty leading the sessions from their homes. The IIST offers two undergraduate programmes and a dual degree course in addition to postgraduate, doctoral and post-doctoral programmes. Various options “We have given the students different options. They can attend online sessions using the Zoom platform at specific hours or download audio-embedded PowerPoint lectures circulated by faculty,” IIST director V.K. Dadhwal says. Lectures under the National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL)/MOOC prescribed by the faculty form the third option. Early April, the students were asked to get in touch with Sudheesh C., Associate Professor, Department of Physics, for remotely accessing the high performance computing (HPC) resources of the IIST. Similarly, arrangements have been made so that the students could access the e-resources of the institute’s library from their homes. Research scholars have been instructed to be in regular contact with their doctoral guides and undertake presentations using videoconference apps.  That said, there are critical aspects of academics at the IIST that have indeed been affected by the continuing lockdown, says Dr. Dadhwal. “Of course, the students cannot do the experimental projects. For that they have to wait until the campus reopens,” he adds. Internships are another casualty. The IIST enjoys international collaborations with institutions such as Caltech, the University of Surrey and the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP). Given the COVID-19 scenario, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has directed that this year all internship should be carried out on the campus. “Of course, we have a slight advantage as some of the students can go to the various ISRO centres,” Dr. Dadhwal says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/space-studies-go-online-in-the-time-of-lockdown/article31506682.ece
05 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||G.S. Bedi is SASO, SAC||Air Marshal G.S. Bedi has taken over as Senior Air Staff Officer (SASO), Southern Air Command (SAC), Thiruvananthapuram. Commissioned as a fighter pilot in the flying branch of the Indian Air Force in June 1984, he has over 3,700 hours of accident-free flying to his credit on MiG-21 and Mirage 2000 aircraft. He took part in the Kargil conflict, for which he was awarded the Vayu Sena Medal (Gallantry). He had commanded a fighter squadron and a front-line fighter base.  He has been the recipient of the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal and Vishisht Seva Medal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gs-bedi-is-saso-sac/article31506705.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UGC panels’ suggestions disruptive: Gurukkal||Kerala State Higher Education Council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal has termed the recommendations made by two expert committees constituted by the University Grants Commission (UGC) on the academic calendar and online education ‘pointedly disruptive’ to the State’s higher education scenario. According to Prof. Gurukkal, the proposals by the panels chaired by the Central University of Haryana Vice Chancellor R.C. Kuhad and Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) Vice Chancellor Nageshwar Rao have sought de facto switching over to virtual learning. The Mr. Rao-headed panel had recommended to the UGC that all open universities, universities with NAAC grading above 3.0 and the top 100 National Institutional Ranking Framework-ranked universities be permitted to conduct undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in online mode. UGC norms However, the move differed with the UGC Regulations of 2018 under which only universities with a NAAC score above 3.26 could offer stand-alone online courses, while the rest of the universities could tag only 20% of their programmes to massive open online courses (MOOCs). Now, the panel has proposed a hike to 40% in the particular criterion, thereby pushing at least 200 universities to go fully online and forcing an unprecedented number of teachers to a mode unfamiliar to them. Besides, the committee has also proposed a single online podcast of course material for various courses except engineering, medicine, law, dentistry, pharmacy, nursing, and architecture. Internet access “While online teaching and evaluation are being projected as the new normal on the pretext of the pandemic crisis, the mode is unfeasible in the case of about 30% of students for want of Internet connectivity at houses. As such, it upsets the State’s avowed objectives of access, equity, and excellence in the higher education sector. Further, this massive shift to online mode is tantamount to leaving one third of the teaching faculty redundant. There is an implicit intention to cut public expenditure on higher education by replacing a considerable portion of the teaching faculty component. Moreover, administering of courses online on short notice will compromise quality,” Prof. Gurukkal cautioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ugc-panels-suggestions-disruptive-gurukkal/article31506668.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM’s pat for online arts festival of govt. school||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan lauded the Government Higher Secondary School in Thattathumala in Thiruvananthapuram for organising an online arts festival. The school had launched a YouTube channel titled ‘Mizhi’, in which the arts festival ‘Mizhi pooram’ was organised from April 22 to 30, with students sending in the home recordings of their performances in various disciplines over WhatsApp. Members of the school’s alumni association ‘Past’ uploaded these in the YouTube channel. Around 600 videos have been uploaded in the channel as part of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cms-pat-for-online-arts-festival-of-govt-school/article31506662.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Five PWD officials suspended||The government has suspended five officials of the Public Works Department (PWD), including a superintending engineer, besides initiating action against 23 others for flaws in executing work in the offices of PWD Roads section in Thrissur district during 2015-2017. Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran said the five officials had been suspended based on a report of the Finance Inspection Wing. Fake contract agreements, tampering of stamp paper documents, sanctioning of funds without executing work, misuse of bitumen, and failure to collect security deposit and performance guarantee money have been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-pwd-officials-suspended/article31506647.ece
05 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Many held up on borders: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said on Monday that hundreds of Keralites from other States were stranded on the borders because the government had made no arrangement to transport them home. Mr. Chennithala said his office had received calls from distressed citizens stuck on the Walayar border in Palakkad district. They had no means to get home on their own given the lockdown. They were isolated without food, water or access to toilet facilities, he said. Opaque orders “Opaque orders” from the Chief Secretary Tom Jose had caused the distress, he alleged, adding that the government had arranged no vehicles or camping facilities for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-held-up-on-borders-chennithala/article31506678.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Disha touches one-lakh mark||The Disha help desk, which has been a pillar of support for many during the COVID-19 period, completed a major milestone on Monday by receiving one lakh calls. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja received the call that completed the milestone from Sreelekshmi, based in Chennai, who wanted to know about the precautions to be taken when her brother returns home from Maharashtra. The Minister applauded the services of those working at the help desk round the clock as well as doctors and other department officials helping them. Since Jan.22 The help desk has been providing answers to all queries regarding COVID-19 since January 22. It can be contacted at the toll-free number 1056 and on 0471-2552056. People from outside the State, migrant workers and those from overseas had contacted Disha. At the help desk are 15 counsellors from the National Health Mission, a floor manager and 55 postgraduate (social work, sociology) students. The services include consultations with doctors, ambulance services and help from the Health and other departments. Due to the lockdown, queries regarding other services are also being received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/disha-touches-one-lakh-mark/article31506680.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Citizen council||The Citizen Council Ananthapuri distributed Ramzan kits on Monday. Vocalist Anwar Sadath distributed the kits at a function held at Vallakkadavu. Council president Ragam Rahim and others were present, a pressnote issued here on Monday said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/citizen-council/article31506703.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||New normal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-normal/article31506653.ece
05 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||With no new cases, tally in Anantapur remains at 78||No new cases were reported from Anantapur district on Monday and the total number of positive cases remained at 78, of whom six had died, five were referred to the Centre of COVID Care in Tirupati and 28 were discharged, including four on Monday. Focus, however, remained on the containment zones in Hindupur, which had turned the hotbed of the cases in the district. Awareness campaigns District Collector Gandham Chandrudu has been participating in awareness campaigns in the town for the past three days urging people to follow the COVID guidelines. He is also holding review meetings with doctors and readying the government hospital at Hindupur for any contingency. Joint Collector S. Dilli Rao and other officials held a meeting with Muslim religious leaders and prevailed upon them to avoid gatherings during the month of Ramzan. Meanwhile, several philanthropists came forward to donate PPEs and masks to medical and paramedical staff working in the town. S.R. Constructions and Infrastructure Limited donated general grocery items and other essentials to the needy. Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu toured the entire town and reviewed the implementation of containment operations, while officials kept a watch from the new Command Control Centre set up there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/with-no-new-cases-tally-in-anantapur-remains-at-78/article31506368.ece
05 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Research on pearl millets earns award for ANGRAU||Their research on pearl millets, that included a study on development of new varieties, execution of trials, organising training for farmers, frontline demonstrations, and supply of good quality bajra seed during the year 2019 - 20, earned the Agricultural Research Station at Rekulakunta in Anantapur district national recognition. The All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Pearl Millet of Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University(ANGRAU) has been awarded with the best centre of the AICRP in India at the 55th Annual Group Meeting, said Principal Scientist and head of ARS R. Veeraraghavaiah. Department of Agricultural Research and Education Secretary Trilochan Mohapatra and Indian Council of Agricultural Research - AICRP on Pearl Rajasthan Project Coordinator C. Tara Satyavathi, handed over the certificate to the centre. Mr. Veeraraghavaiah said the recently released variety of the centre ‘ABV 04’ performed well across the centres and stood first among all the released varieties of pearl millet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/research-on-pearl-millets-earns-award-for-angrau/article31506365.ece
05 May 2020||ANANTAPUR/TIRUPATI/KADAPA/CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor consumers in Anantapur a disappointed lot||Confusion prevailed in Anantapur city with regard to opening of wine shops outside the containment areas (red zones) from Monday. Those who queued up in front of the government outlets saw a ray of hope when many of them opened in the buffer zone outside the red zone area. Their joy, however, was short-lived as the police reached there and got the shops closed them down even before the first bottle could be sold. The disappointed liquor consumers made their way to nearby towns and mandal headquarters to get their quota. Anantapur Prohibition and Excise Inspector Swarnalatha told media persons that since all the shops within the municipal limits of the city fell in the containment zone, shops would not be allowed to function till May 17, as per the instructions received by them from higher officials. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu ordered closure of all wine shops in Anantapur city and Hindupur town as both were in the red zone areas. On the Bellary Bypass Road in the city, a large queue was witnessed, but many of them rushed to Nayanapalli Cross on Anantapur to Tadipatri Road once the shop was not allowed to be opened. Heavy crowd Special Correspondent from Tirupati adds: Long queue lines were found in front of every outlet in the city, where people waited patiently braving the hot sun, though maintaining social distance. In view of the one-metre mandatory distance, the crowd moved into the residential areas, where the public felt the pinch. Two lathi-wielding constables were posted at every outlet to manage the crowd, in case it appeared to go out of control. Token system Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) A.V. Ramesh Reddy personally visited such crowded spots and instructed the police to maintain order. “We expected the crowd to surge in view of the long gap, but social distancing norms should be adhered in any case to avoid the COVID spread,” he cautioned the staff. Mr. Reddy also discussed with his excise counterparts the possibility of introducing token system or sale in staggered timings to prevent crowding. In Kadapa, Congress working president N. Tulasi Reddy flayed the YSRCP regime of lacking commitment to prohibition. “Encouraging alcohol consumption is irresponsible at a time when coronavirus spread is rampant and hence would prove a disaster,” he cautioned. Wine shops closed Staff Reporter from Chittoor adds: The turnout of crowds caught the administration off guard, forcing the Excise and Prohibition officials to close down 14 wine shops in Satyavedu and Nagari Assembly constituencies in the district as the crowds threw social distancing norms to the wind. Officials said that the heavy turnout was due in large part to an influx of a large number of customers from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. An uncontrolled frenzy was witnessed at Nindra, Vijayapuram, Nagari and Satyavedu mandals. Thousands of men from the villages and town of Tiruvallur district of neighbouring Tamil Nadu flocked to the wine shops, leading to commotion. Chaos prevailed in Palasamudram mandal, which shares a lengthy border with Vellore district of Tamil Nadu, with thousands of men arriving at the wine shops flouting all norms. At Varadiahpalem, groups of people who purchased the bottles resorted to dancing after consuming liquor in public. Price hike defended Deputy Chief Minister and Excise minister K. Narayanaswamy, speaking to reporters at his residence in Puttur town said that the crowds were expected as the wine shops were opened after 43 days. Defending the 25% increase in liquor prices, he said that the move was aimed at imposing total prohibition, besides gradually reducing the number of wine shops. Deputy Commissioner (Excise and Prohibition) T. Naga Lakshmi told The Hindu that out of the total of 340 wine shops in the district, 332 were opened on Monday. “ Wine shops at the inter-State border areas of Satyavedu, Nindra and Vijayapuram, were forced to close 14 wine shops. We don’t want to risk the possibility of COVID-19 spread,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-consumers-in-anantapur-a-disappointed-lot/article31506767.ece
05 May 2020||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders in Karnataka head out to meet workers||A day after the Opposition Congress in Karnataka got media attention for their leaders’ proactive role of visiting the Kempegowda bus stand in Bengaluru to interact with migrant workers returning to their native places, the BJP leaders on Monday visited it and all bus stands in the district centres. Interact with workers According to sources in the BJP, the party leadership has instructed its leaders to visit the bus stands in their district centres and interact with the migrant workers. The BJP leaders in Bengaluru including Transport Minister Laxman Savadi, Revenue Minister R. Ashok, and Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar visited the Kempegowda bus stand along with P.C. Mohan, MP. Food distributed They distributed water bottles and food packets. The party leadership is learnt to have asked its elected representatives and cadre to help the workers who are returning to their native places through buses from different places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leaders-in-karnataka-head-out-to-meet-workers/article31506332.ece
05 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, daughter end life after family tiff||A woman allegedly committed suicide along with her daughter, reportedly vexed with her husband’s heavy drinking habit, here at Palamaner Town on Monday night. The man, identified as Chokkalingam (55), a resident of Palamaner, reportedly rushed to a wine shop after it opened on Monday morning and drank heavily till evening. Frustrated over his addiction to alcohol, his wife and daughter allegedly ended their lives at their house when Chokkalingam was in an inebriated condition. The deceased were identified as Jagadamba (50) and her daughter Nandini (24).  People having suicidal thoughts are urged to call the 100 helpline for free counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-daughter-end-life-after-family-tiff/article31506768.ece
05 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State police in forefront in containment strategy, says DGP||The lockdown in containment zones would continue for some more time in tune with the guidelines of the State and Central governments, said Director General of Police, Andhra Pradesh, Gautam Sawang. “We appeal to people to make sure that there is no scope for congregations. The police will allow essential services and we urge people to show restraint and follow directions as we brace for a graded opening up of lockdown in two weeks,’’ Mr. Sawang told The Hindu as the nationwide lockdown entered its third phase on Monday. “COVID-19 is an unprecedented challenge and there is no conventional methodology to respond to this. With constant guidance and support from Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the AP Police went about in a systematic fashion in contact tracing and breaking the chain of virus spread,’’ he said.  Stating that the State police have been tracking foreign returnees ever since the outbreak of the virus was reported from Wuhan in China in the end of December, the DGP said that the police were able to get the data of students returning from Wuhan from the Ministry of Home Affairs. Out of 22,266 persons with a history of foreign travel, 11 persons tested positive and six of their primary contacts have been identified. Delhi meet cases Later, on March 25, the first COVID-19 positive case of a man who had attended the religious congregation of Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi had surfaced in Guntur. His travel history showed that he visited Ajmer, Delhi and the police used standard investigation tools like Call Data Records to establish that he had attended the Delhi event. “The AP Police shared this piece of vital information with the Intelligence Bureau and we began working with the Central government’s agencies to arrive at a figure. A total of 1,185 persons attended the gathering, out of which 258 persons tested positive. Identification of their primary and secondary contacts was a herculean task and we have identified 4,855 contacts and ensured contact tracing of all these persons was done in quick time,’’ said Mr. Sawang. Effective curbs Enforcement of lockdown was another huge challenge and the police moved to quickly seal off 128 check-posts across the State but orders were issued to ensure movement of vehicles of essential services. An Integrated Command Control Centre, manned by five IPS officers and 10 IAS officers, was set up to ensure identification and movement of essential services vehicles. A research and analysis wing was also set up to constantly monitor the cluster containment strategies. “Technology was used in a big way. We updated 64 drones to record and communicate oral messages to people in containment zones. I am sure that we will emerge from this crisis stronger and more resilient,’’ added the DGP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-police-in-forefront-in-containment-strategy-says-dgp/article31506771.ece
05 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allowing liquor sale amid pandemic shocking: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party leaders have come down heavily against the YSRCP government for allowing the sale of liquor amid the lockdown. TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu wondered how could the government allow the sale of liquor when there were severe restrictions in the containment zones. He said social distancing norms were not being followed at the wine shops. “Has the government issued any proper directions over the social distancing protocol? The sights of men thronging the wine shops in towns and villages is shocking. How could the government look the other way when there are serious concerns about the spread of the pandemic?’’ asked Mr. Naidu on Monday. Party legislative council leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said the decision of the government to hike the prices of liquor by 25% had imposed a burden of Rs. 5,000 crore on people and said that it would severely affect the livelihood of families. Excise policy TDP leader K.S. Jawahar said there was not much difference between the liquor policies of the governments of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy and Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “The YSR government had raised the revenue from sale of liquor from Rs. 300 crore to Rs. 30,000 crore. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is also encouraging the belt shops,” he said and alleged that the YSRCP leaders were making money by selling arrack and ID liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allowing-liquor-sale-amid-pandemic-shocking-naidu/article31506782.ece
05 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man in quarantine turns into COVID-19 volunteer||Life in a quarantine centre can be tough. Living with strangers at an isolated facility, far from the comforts of home, can test the patience of many and can leave many at the end of their wits. But not Sk. Khasim, a 30-year-old man from Pedaparimi village near Tadikonda mandal. Ever since he has been discharged from the quarantine centre at Gorantla, Mr. Khasim has been coming to the centre, distributing biscuits to children and motivating the inmates. Mr. Khasim is among the secondary contacts of a man who tested positive, and he was shifted to a residential complex at Gorantla in the first week of April. “Police told me that I was spotted at a mosque in Old Guntur during Friday prayers where some persons who had tested positive were present. I came to this centre on April 6, and though initially I was taken aback, I began to adjust and help others. I would like to show through my actions that there is no stigma attached to COVID-19 and there should be no discrimination against those in quarantine centres,” said Sk. Khasim. The quarantine facility was set up at a residential complex of a corporate educational group in Gorantla in the first week of April. In many centres, people are rising to the occasion by taking part in such activities. There are 38 such quarantine centres with a total capacity of 5,171 beds. As of Sunday, 1,402 persons are in quarantine and most of these are the primary and secondary contacts of those who tested positive. “We have ensured that most families are placed in individual rooms with separate toilets. Most of the people have expressed their happiness over the quality of food, snacks and refreshments. We have given Rs. 2,000 to those who have been discharged from quarantine,” said Yugandhar Kumar, Project Director, DRDA and nodal officer for quarantine centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-in-quarantine-turns-into-covid-19-volunteer/article31506764.ece
05 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narasaraopet new COVID hotspot||A month-long aggressive COVID-19 containment strategy appears to be effective in slowing down the spread of coronavirus in Guntur city, officials said. However, the strategy is proving to be ineffective in Narasaraopet, which has emerged as the new COVID hotspot in the district. Out of 13 new cases, nine cases are from Narasaraopet and the fact that the virus is concentrated in just one area (Oravakatta). Superintendent of Police (Guntur Rural) Ch. Vijaya Rao said that police and municipal and health personnel have been working overtime to identify the contacts. Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar had deputed Tenali Sub-Collector Dinesh Kumar to take control of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narasaraopet-new-covid-hotspot/article31506772.ece
05 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Salary deferment Ordinance challenged||The recently promulgated Ordinance that empowers the government to defer payment of salary and allowance of employees of the government and government-owned institutions has been challenged before the Kerala High Court. The petitions have been filed by various employees’ organisations including the Kerala NGO Association and Higher Secondary School Teachers Union. 25% of pay According to them, the Kerala Disaster and Public Health Emergency (Special Provisions) Ordinance has provided for deferment of the pay in part in the event of disaster and public health emergency in the State. In fact, 25% of the pay could be deferred every month as per the Ordinance. Circumvention The petitioners point out that it was issued to circumvent an order of the High Court staying a government order which sought to deduct six days’ salary every month from April to August. The petitioners allege that there was mala fide intention on the part of the government in issuing the Ordinance. The payment of salary and other service conditions of government employeess are governed by the Kerala Service Rules (KSR) and Kerala State & Subordinate Service Rules (KSSS) formulated under Article 309 of the Constitution. Rights and benefits Unless the service rules are amended in accordance with the law, the rights and benefits conferred on the employees could not be taken away. The remuneration paid to the government employees for the service rendered by them should be paid in a month and not in part. It is the right of property of every government employee and in view of Article 300(A) of the Constitution that right could not be deprived of except in accordance with the due process of the law. Therefore, the Ordinance is illegal and arbitrary, the petitioners contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/salary-deferment-ordinance-challenged/article31506333.ece
05 May 2020||KOVVUR (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Desperate migrant workers hurl stones at officials in Kovvur||Tension prevailed in the town on Monday when stranded migrant labourers reportedly threw stones at government officials and the police expressing their resentment over not being sent to their native places. Police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the workers. Officials clarified that they could not allow the labourers to leave the camps without clearance from the nodal officers of the concerned States. Additional forces were deployed in the town. Later, the officials held discussions with the labourers. Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) K. Rajeswar Reddy said about 2,200 labourers were kept in shelter homes at Kovvur during the lockdown period. After a long stay, some of them started demanding that they should be allowed to go home, particularly in the last three days.  No work  “The migrant workers from Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh working in the sand reaches on the Godavari bank in Kovvur have been rendered jobless after the lockdown and are desperate to go back to their native States,” the DSP told The Hindu . A few of them were engaged in some industries in the area. Stuck for the past 40 days, the workers began to panic following the extension of curbs till May 17 and no visible efforts by the officials to send them back. “There is no work and no money with us. We are suffering for the last 40 days in camps. Officials are dragging the issue for the last four days and are not making any arrangements for our transport,” lamented a worker. “Officials are trying to explain to the workers about how the government is planning to send them back, and the situation is under control in Kovvur. Police pickets have been arranged at all the shelter camps in the town,” Mr. Rajeswar Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/desperate-migrant-workers-hurl-stones-at-officials-in-kovvur/article31506799.ece
05 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||High-risk patients triumph over COVID-19 in Kurnool||Many COVID-19 patients aged over 60, and with comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension, were discharged from hospital in Kurnool district, in a huge morale booster to the district administration which is struggling to control the spread of the pandemic. District Collector G. Veerapandian on Monday said that while 25 new cases were reported, taking the total number of positive cases to 491, the number of persons getting discharged also rose to 24. “We are happy to say that many of these 24 persons getting discharged on Monday are above 60 years of age and have comorbid conditions, but they have weathered this pandemic to go home happily,” Mr. Veerapandian said. Out of the 25 new cases, 13 came from Kurnool city and 11 from Nandyal, indicating that the new cases are limited for the past several days only to these two towns, Mr. Veerapandian observed. He added that by now, the administration has full information about the persons who have returned from Delhi, and has also traced their primary and secondary contacts. The Collector said that even in quarantine centres, out of the 3,016 persons lodged there, all were sent home and those who tested positive at these centres were shifted to either of the two COVID-19 Hospitals - one at Shantiram and the other at Viswabharathi. Only serious patients aged above 60 with comorbidities were being taken to GGH Kurnool, which is now a State COVID-19 Hospital, the Collector said. All the quarantine centres would be converted into COVID Care Centres, where medical doctors along with paramedical staff would be deployed from among those recruited on Monday and COVID patients with mild symptoms or asymptomatic patients would be housed, with several teams from the Revenue Department, police and sanitation taking care of other needs. Migrants arrive Meanwhile, 31,000 migrant labourers had been brought into the district from Guntur and Prakasam green zones, out of over 40,000 of them stuck in other districts, Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli said. All of them were let in only after valid passes were issued by the authorities. The medical teams are screening the migrant labourers for any health conditions. Those with symptoms or asymptomatic, need to be in home quarantine for 14 days, Mr. Kaginelli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-risk-patients-triumph-over-covid-19-in-kurnool/article31506372.ece
05 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA picks holes in door delivery system||The door-delivery system in the red zone areas in Kurnool city has failed as people come on to the streets. Hence the gaps in the system must be identified and plugged by the district administration, according to Kurnool MLA Abdul Hafeez Khan. At a press conference here on Monday, he found fault with a majority of people who feel that the coronavirus cannot touch them, and were roaming on streets. He appealed to people to come out only for buying essentials once in a week. “In the red zones, we need to strengthen our delivery system so that people do not find an alibi to come out from the containment region and infect others,” he opined. ‘Low death rate’ While appealing to people to stay at home, he said there was nothing to panic. The death rate was just 1% and too among people, who were above 60 and had comorbid conditions -- ailing with other diseases like heart ailment, cancer, diabetes or respiratory problems. He appealed to the administration to reactivate the Urban Health Centres and have a doctor, paramedical staff, and provide them with PPEs and treat patients with minor complaints so that they do not go to the GGH. Pat for civic staff He appreciated the municipal corporation employees and said they were doing their best and sanitation was satisfactory, though there was always a scope for improvement in the spraying of sodium hypochlorite or bleaching powder as per WHO standards. He asked the police personnel not to harass people by confiscating their vehicles and imposing large amounts as challans without understanding as to why they were coming out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-picks-holes-in-door-delivery-system/article31506370.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea challenging appointment of additional judge rejected||The Supreme Court on Monday rejected a petition filed by a district judge challenging the appointment of a ‘junior’ judicial officer as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court on the ground that it breaches the seniority rule. The court dismissed the plea just half an hour before the swearing-in of Padmaraj N Desai. A Bench of Justice Deepak Gupta and Justice Aniruddha Bose said it generally does not interfere with the President’s order on appointment of judges at the 11th hour. In his plea, Shivamogga Principal District Judge RKGMM Mahaswamiji said: It is a case of superseding/passing over of a senior District judge (who was appointed on February 25, 2008, under reserve category ie., Scheduled Caste) by junior district judge and recommendation of Respondent No. 11 (P N Desai) by the collegium of Karnataka High Court is unlawful, arbitrary and in clear violation of statutory rules / administrative instructions contained in the official memorandum dated October 9, 1985, and involved bias of malafide and it clearly violated the functional rights guaranteed to the petitioner under Articles 14 and 16 of the Indian Constitution.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-challenging-appointment-of-additional-judge-rejected/article31506347.ece
05 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP encouraged liquor mafia in State: Dharmana||Alleging that the TDP government had encouraged liquor mafia in the State and created a perfect platform for belt shops in villages, former Minister and Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao on Monday said that the TDP had no moral right to criticise the liquor policy of the YSRCP government. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is committed to making A.P. a liquor-free State in a phased manner,” he told the media here. He said the Centre was appreciating the steps taken by the State government to check the spread of the COVID-29 and making arrangements to bring back all the migrant workers stranded in other States home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-encouraged-liquor-mafia-in-state-dharmana/article31506783.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||For second day in a row, no new COVID-19 case in Kerala||While Kerala did not report any COVID-19 case, Karnataka registered two deaths on Monday. Andhra Pradesh detected 67 fresh cases from six districts and Telangana reported only three cases on Monday. Two deaths, one in Kalaburgi and another in Davangere, were reported in Karnataka on Monday, taking the toll to 27. Both are known cases with comorbidities. A 56-year-old male resident of Kalaburgi, who was admitted on April 29 with complaints of cough and fever, succumbed to the infection on Sunday. A 48-year-old female resident of Davanagere, who was admitted on May 1, died on Monday. She had hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism. Meanwhile, 37 new cases, including Sunday’s 21 reported in Davangere, have been detected on Monday, taking the total positive cases to 651. Addressing press persons, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said 22 of the 37 new cases are from Davangere. “Nineteen of the 22 Davangere cases have contracted the infection from a nurse of a primary health centre there, who has tested positive. The nurse had attended a wedding in Bagalkot. Except one patient, who is a Influenza like Illness (ILI) case, the others are contacts of another positive patient,” he said. The other cases include seven from Bidar, two each from Mandya and Kalaburgi and one each from Chikkaballaoura, Haveri, Vijayapura and Bengaluru Urban. In Bidar, one positive patient has spread the infection to seven others. “The lone positive case reported from Bengaluru Urban is of a 40-year-old police constable,” the Minister added. Tamil Nadu witnessed its sharpest rise yet of COVID-19 patients on Monday, with a record 527 cases. The fresh cases were reported from 19 districts, with Chennai accounting for 266 of them and Cuddalore witnessing a sudden spike, recording 122 cases in a single day. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 3,550* in the State. Twenty more children, aged 0 to 12, have tested positive, and among them are a newborn in Cuddalore, a three-day-old and a 10-day-old in Chennai. The State reported another death, taking the toll due to COVID-19 to 31. A 65-year-old man from Chennai, who was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, died on Monday. He had comorbidities, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The State has 2,107 active cases on date. A large number of the fresh cases were linked to the Koyambedu market, the bulletin said. Chennai’s tally of COVID-19 cases increased to 1,724, of which 264 had been discharged, 1,438 were active cases and 18 died. Kerala put 61 people on the recovery list on Monday and did not report any case for the second consecutive day. A total of 462 people out of the 499 cases reported so far in the State have fully recovered from the disease. At present, only 34 patients are undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the State. 10,292 samples tested Andhra Pradesh has tested 10,292 samples, the highest in a day, and detected 67 fresh COVID-19 cases from six districts in 24 hours. The tally of positive cases has gone up to 1,650 and 36 patients have recovered, leaving a total of 1,093 patients active. No new deaths were reported, and so far the death toll is 33. Kurnool is continuing to report more cases by the day and 25 fresh cases have been reported in 24 hours. Guntur reported 19 fresh cases and Krishna reported 12 fresh cases. Visakhapatnam with one of the least positivity rates has reported six fresh cases and Kadapa and Chittoor reported four and one fresh cases. Also, in Kurnool, nine patients have recovered and were discharged. In Chittoor and Prakasam eight patients were discharged while in Nellore six patients were discharged, in West Godavari three persons were discharged and in East Godavari two patients were discharged. Drops to single digit The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana dropped to single digit again as only three samples tested positive for the virus on Monday. All the three cases are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. Of the patients admitted to isolation wards, 40 more were discharged. A total of 1,085 cases were reported till May 4. Of them, 471 are active cases, 585 were discharged and 29 people suffering from the disease have died. Director of public Health G. Srinivasa Rao detailed week-wise peak in COVID-19 cases in Telangana.    (With inputs from Chennai, Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram and Hyderabad Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-second-day-in-a-row-no-new-covid-19-case-in-kerala/article31506336.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala govt. opens six border checkposts||Ending 40 days of uncertainty, the first batch of Keralites who had been stranded in various States across the country since the COVID-19 induced lockdown were able to step into their home State on Monday through six inter-State border checkposts the government threw open for them. The stranded who registered in the website of the Department of Non Resident Keralites and managed the digital vehicle pass that were issued from Sunday evening onwards on registering on the website www.covid19jagratha.kerala.nic.in were the first to reach the border checkposts early in the morning, taking the authorities by surprise. The border check-posts at Inchivila in Thiruvananthapuram, Aryankavu in Kollam, Kumily in Idukki, Walayar in Palakkad, Muthanga in Wayanad and Manjeshwaram in Kasaragod were the designated entry points. There were initial teething problems. There were tense moments in Inchivila near Parasala on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border after natives of Thrissur, who were the first to arrive with the vehicle pass of the District Collector, were told by officials that their entry will be allowed only on Tuesday. In all, 24 people entered the State through the designated checkpost. Till noon, 515 stranded Keralites were able to enter the State after completing the formalities and health screening to confirm that they do not have symptoms of COVID-19. Over 28,272 people have applied for vehicle passes to enter by road and 5,470 passes have been issued till now. In Manjeshwaram, 60 counters were set up to receive the returnees. School teachers were roped in to man the help-desks. Police, health and revenue officials in large numbers were in attendence to assist. The district administrations had also arranged facilities at each designated entry point to accommodate at least 500 persons at a time. The district administration has also readied ambulances to take symptomatic persons to the designated hospitals. Those without any symptoms were allowed to leave from the border check posts with the directive to undergo 14 days of home quarantine. Those from neighbouring States seeking medical aid in Kerala, pregnant women, family separated from children due to lockdown, students, senior citizens and those who have lost their jobs are given priority over others to enter Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-govt-opens-six-border-checkposts/article31506340.ece
05 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 trains cancelled in Kerala over NOC||The Bihar government has denied permission to the five ‘Shramik Special’ trains scheduled to depart from Kerala on Monday, jeopardising the return of migrants stranded in the State due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The trains were scheduled to leave from Alappuzha, Aluva, Ernakulam, Tirur and Shoranur. The Bihar government’s decision to refuse No-Objection Certificate (NOC) came as a surprise to Kerala as the railways had already operated 11 ‘Shramik Specials’ from Kerala to Jharkhand, Odisha, and Bihar to facilitate the return of the migrants. Tension at Kovvur Tension prevailed in Andhra Pradesh’s Kovvur on Monday when stranded migrant labourers threw stones at government officials and the police expressing their resentment over not being sent to native places. Police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the workers. Officials clarified that they could not allow the labourers to leave the camps without clearance from the nodal officers of the concerned States. Additional forces were deployed in the town. Later, the officials held discussions with the labourers. Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Rajeswar Reddy said about 2,200 labourers were kept in shelter homes at Kovvur during the lockdown period. After a long stay, some of them started demanding that they be allowed to go home, particularly in the last three days. “The migrant workers from Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh working in the sand reaches on the Godavari bank in Kovvur were rendered jobless after the lockdown and are desperate to go back to their native States,” the DSP told The Hindu . Meanwhile, there was no heavy rush of stranded workers or others at the exit and entry points on the inter-State border between Telangana and Maharashtra on the National Highway 44 on Penganga river bridge in Adilabad district as expected on Monday. The proceedings were orderly and those headed towards Maharashtra had only to wait for 10 to 15 minutes before the formalities were completed. The outgoing persons were thermal screened and their details noted down. The incoming persons were not only being screened but also being stamped for home quarantine once they reached respective destinations.  (With inputs from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-trains-cancelled-in-kerala-over-noc/article31506338.ece
05 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||No bells ringing at ‘divine’ wedding destination||The temple of Lord Venkateswara in Tirumala is a popular wedding destination, with thousands of families from across the country and abroad heading to the temple city every year to get their children married. March and April which witnesses over 5,000 weddings in Tirupati, wore a deserted look due to the lockdown this time. The hill town of Tirumala, Tirupati city downhill and nearby Tiruchanur collectively have 250 kalyana mandapams and convention halls. The city is home to 140 wedding planners and event managers. Similarly, convention halls, floral decors, caterers/banquet managers, illuminators, traditional instrumentalists, orchestra troupes and priests form the spokes in the wedding industry’s multilateral wheel. Every sector has now been affected due to the lockdown. “Anything between Rs. 5 lakh and Rs. 1 crore is spent on conducting a wedding, depending on the scale of operations, grandeur and spending capacity of the host,” said C.B.V. Saikumar Reddy of Blue Petal Events. While many families decided to conduct the weddings at home in a simple affair, those planning for a lavish wedding decided to postpone the event till the lockdown is completely lifted. “We used to get 7-8 weddings a month during the normal season, with the number rising to 15 during this auspicious March-April season. Many weddings have been cancelled while some were held in private. We agreed to adjust the advance amount for any date up to six months, but there appears to be a confusion over when the lockdown will be lifted,” said Kandati Prakash of Padmavathi Convention Centrein Tiruchanur. He said due to the decline in cash inflow, he is worried about repaying his loan that he had taken to construct a building. He expects the bleak situation to continue. On a much smaller scale, the ‘Nadaswaram’ players, garland makers, photographers, priests and small caterers with a team of three cooks and ten servers are struggling to make ends meet. Even if the lockdown is lifted , the industry is not expected to look up immediately, as the ensuing period is considered unsuitable, if not entirely inauspicious, for performing weddings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-bells-ringing-at-divine-wedding-destination/article31506780.ece
05 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD resumes operations on a cautious note||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) began resuming its operations on a cautious note from its administrative building here on Monday after a partial relaxation of the lockdown. The administration was functioning in ‘work from home’ mode ever since the lockdown was imposed, with only a skeletal staff coming to work at the administrative building. ‘Follow guidelines’ Joint Executive Officer P. Basanth Kumar said that employees reporting at the administrative building would have to compulsorily wear masks. He also laid down several guidelines, such as entering through the thermal scanner at the main entrance, wearing a mask for the entire duration of their working hours, and maintaining a distance of six feet from fellow employees. “Meetings shall be avoided and in case of an emergency, video-conferences shall be conducted,” he said. 0 As the departmental and section heads started arriving from Monday, the temple, treasury, accounts, health, vigilance and security departments are required to have 100% attendance, while others continue to function with one-third of the actual strength and the rest working from home. OP services resumed At Balaji Institute of Surgery, Research and Rehabilitation for the Disabled (BIRRD), the TTD’s orthopaedic superspecialty hospital, outpatient (OP) services resumed on Monday. BIRRD Director Madanmohan Reddy said that the hospital would follow the norms prescribed by the government while registering and treating patients. OP tickets will be generated at five counters from 8 a.m. to noon from Monday and all patients with valid tickets will be provided medication, Dr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-resumes-operations-on-a-cautious-note/article31506774.ece
05 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Containment zones in Tirupati down to 3||STV Nagar, Padmavathi Nagar and Kola Street continue to remain as containment zones in Tirupati, while Thyagaraja Nagar and Yasodha Nagar that had hitherto been under red zone category were declared green on Monday. The two areas were declared corona-free after the positive persons were shifted home after treatment and the mandatory 14-day isolation. However, restrictions were imposed in Padmavathi Nagar on Sunday after a SVIMS healthcare worker tested positive. ‘Exercise caution’ MCT Commissioner P.S. Girisha and Superintendent of Police A.V. Ramesh Reddy announced on Monday that strict lockdown norms would continue to be in force in containment zones and any relaxation would be applicable beyond their periphery. “People aged above 65, children aged below 10 and pregnant women should not come out of their homes,” they cautioned. Activities Meanwhile, Global Hindu Heritage Foundation and Save Temples.Org jointly distributed food packets to 300 persons and bananas to stray cattle. Chairman Velagapudi Prakash Rao said the organisation was conducting charitable activities in Chittoor, Anantapur and Guntur districts during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/containment-zones-in-tirupati-down-to-3/article31506373.ece
05 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to ensure strict compliance with protocols||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took stock of the COVID-19 containment measures at a review meeting attended by Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang and Health Commissioner K. Bhaskar. Mr. Jagan ordered that the containment protocols should be strictly followed at the COVID hospitals while ensuring compliance with social distancing norms. Officials told the Chief Minister that the number of tests increased to 2,345 per million as compared to 2,224 in Delhi, and far more when compared to other States. A total of 10,292 tests were done in the last 24 hours, and the number of positive cases went up to 1,650 including 1,093 active ones. The death toll stood at 33 while the positivity rate was at 1.32%.  11 labs functional Eleven laboratories were functional as on date. The daily testing capacity has been increased from 6,000 to 10,000. The State has 65 very active clusters and 86 and 46 active and dormant clusters respectively, the CM was informed. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed the officials to display the telemedicine helplines at the ward and village secretariats. He clarified that migrant workers, tourists and others stuck in various States would be allowed entry as per the Central Government guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-ensure-strict-compliance-with-protocols/article31506787.ece
05 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nearly half of Vijayawada’s 220 cases come from two areas||The city has turned out to be one of the worst affected cities by COVID-19 as there seems to be no end in sight for the number of fresh cases being reported day after day. Krishna district, as of May 3, the district reported a total of 266 cases and of them, 220 are from the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation. Vijayawada Rural and Penamaluru mandals, which are very much part of the city, together reported 24 cases while the remaining eight mandals scattered in the district reported just 22 cases. Hotspots Though the city had not seen many cases post Tablighi Jamaat episode, two persons in Krishnalanka and Karmika Nagar near Machavaram caused the numbers to nearly triple. A truck driver in Krishnalanka reportedly spread the infection to at least 40 persons while a foreign returnee in Karmika Nagar infected more than 20 persons in a couple of days after March 25 when the total cases were just around 100. Now, the number has been more than doubled to 220 and in Krishnalanka alone there are 75 cases while Karmika Nagar and Machavaram areas reported 43. Nearly every street in the Krishnalanka, Ranigari Thota areas have at least one positive case. Remaining cases come from Ajith Singh Nagar (13), Kummaripalem (8), Khuddus Nagar (7), Gandhi Nagar (7), Kothapeta (7), Moghalrajpuram (5), Madhura Nagar (5) and other areas, as per the list released by the district administration. Officials on toes As the numbers are surging by the day, District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz along with Commissioner of Police Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao took to streets to sensitise public about the need for maintaining social distance. As per the district COVID-19 bulletin, so far 12,582 samples had been tested and results of 1,564 samples are awaited. Out of the 266 patients, 46 have recovered and more would be discharged in a couple of days while eight have died from the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nearly-half-of-vijayawadas-220-cases-come-from-two-areas/article31506762.ece
05 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Set up more helplines, Kanna urges Chief Secy.||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana urged Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney to arrange at least 10 or 12 helpline numbers with multiple lines at the State level to facilitate the return of people coming from other States, and send back those stranded in A.P. Mr. Lakshminarayana said in a letter that the existing two contact numbers were grossly inadequate to handle the calls and pointed out that lakhs of people from A.P. were stuck in other States. The BJP leader also requested the Chief Secretary to set up helplines in the district headquarters to ensure the movement of people within the districts. “If easy communication access is not provided to , the situation could become uncontrollable,” he warned. Mr. Lakshminarayana said migrant workers not only included unskilled and blue-collar workers in the agriculture and construction sectors but also unorganised white-collar workforce. They were finding it difficult to reach their hometowns due to the curbs on transportation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/set-up-more-helplines-kanna-urges-chief-secy/article31506789.ece
05 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thunderstorm likely in some parts of State||The low pressure area over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal and associated cyclonic circulation extending up to mid-tropospheric levels persists. The trough/wind discontinuity, extending up to 0.9 km above mean sea level now runs from east Madhya Pradesh to south interior Tamil Nadu, across east Vidarbha, Telangana and Rayalaseema, according to the India Meteorological Department. Thunderstorm and lightning accompanied with gusty winds (30 – 40 km/hr) are likely to occur at isolated places in the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam and at isolated places in Rayalaseema, and in Yanam till Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thunderstorms-likely-at-some-places-in-state/article31506374.ece
05 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social distancing goes for a toss as hundreds queue up at wine shops||Hundreds of people queued up from dawn before the liquor outlets as the State government run wine shops reopened after 40 days in Visakhapatnam the district. Ignoring social distancing norms, many people thronged the shops without even wearing a mask. At areas like HB Colony, Kancharapalem, Peda Gantyada, Malkapuram, Pendurthy, Anakapalle and many other areas, people started to form queue lines since 8 a.m. though government clearly stated the shops would open at 11 a.m. At many stores, there was jostling and arguments, as people failed to maintain minimum distance between themselves. The same situation prevailed continued till 7 p.m. A few rushed to the wine shops feeling that the shops would be closed within one or two days after reports of overcrowding. “I came here at around 12 p.m. and purchased liquor at 1.10 pm. Hike in prices is not a problem now, but the crowd is a matter of concern. Better the government provide door delivery option by charging additional money,” said P. Sai Narayana, a student, who came to purchase liquor at Asilmetta. “There is mad rush because the shops were opened after almost 40 days. We may see such crowds for two to three days after which the situation may become normal,” said a senior official from the Excise and Prohibition Department. According to the officials, out of 313 retail outlets in the Visakhapatnam district, 275 outlets were opened on Monday as others are in containment zones. Officials said that the government has increased the Additional Retail Excise Tax (ARET) component at flat rate per bottle on the issue price of liquor. Meanwhile, residents of a few areas like H.B Colony, Seethammadhara and a few others were irked as the queue lines stretched in to the lanes creating trouble to the inmates of apartments. “A number of people were standing throughout the day before our apartment. What’s concerning that none of them were maintaining social distancing and a few were spitting there. Moreover, the entry to our houses and apartments were completely blocked. The police should make sure that the queue lines do not reach the interior lanes and be limited to the main roads only,” said Ravi Kumar, a resident of Seethammadhara. Members of the CPI (M) and a few other women organisations protested against the government’s decision of opening wine shops. Most of the daily wage earners, will exhaust their savings in purchasing liquor and their families will suffer, said CPI (M) State Secretariat Member Ch. Narasinga Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-as-hundreds-queue-up-at-wine-shops/article31506806.ece
05 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 more cases ‘emerge’ in Vizag district||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district has gone up to 37, with one more case being reported from Siva Nagar, Marripalem, late on Sunday night and two cases reported from Dandu Bazaar area on Monday evening. The two cases of Monday was confirmed by the district health officials, but will be confirmed by the State health bulletin on Tuesday. The woman from Madhavadhara area, who had tested positive for COVID-19, had contact with the Delhi returnee (23rd positive case). The person, who has tested positive late on Sunday night, was in close contact with the Madhavadhara woman. Of the five new cases reported till Sunday evening, four belong to Dandu Bazaar, while one was from Marripalem, Meanwhile, it learnt that the authorities are trying to locate contacts of this person, who tested positive. The two persons, who tested positive from Dandu Bazaar area on Monday evening include, a 7-year-old kid and 26-year-old woman, who had both contacts with the persons, who tested positive from Dandu Bazaar earlier. “The four cases from Dandu Bazaar, include close contacts of the 60-year-old woman who tested positive four days ago and their neighbours. Another case from Marripalem is a close contact of the woman from Madhavadhara area who tested positive a couple of days ago,” according to officials. The growing number of positive cases is causing apprehensions among the citizens. The authorities, however, say the new cases had close contacts with the positive cases detected in the past. They say the Chest Hospital and GITAM Hospital are geared to treat positive patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-more-cases-emerge-in-vizag-district/article31506804.ece
05 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown will continue in containment zones: Minister||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has clarified that the lockdown will continue till May 17 in the containment zones as per the directions of the Central and the State governments. However, in areas outside containment zones, there will be relaxation from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. The Minister held a review meeting with the officials and non-officials at the Task Force Committee meeting, on COVID-19, held under the auspices of the District Collector V. Vinay Chand, at the VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Monday. Addressing the media after the meeting, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the relaxations in the non-containments areas would be subject to the observance of social distancing norms, wearing of masks and other COVID-19 guidelines. Prohibitory orders would be in force and mass gatherings would not be allowed. Marriages and other ceremonies would be allowed in the non-containment areas but the gathering should be limited to 50 in the case of weddings and 20 in the case of funeral rites. Hotels, cinemas and shopping malls would not be allowed for some more time and social, political and religious meetings are banned. The places of worship will remain closed to devotees and the general public would not be allowed on the roads from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. In the non-containment zones people would be allowed to come out for their needs like purchase of vegetables and essential commodities from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m.. He said that committees have been formed to accord permissions to daily wage earners to take up work in their respective areas while observing social distancing and other norms. Those given permission to take up work should invariably wear masks and observe other mandatory guidelines.  Police Commissioner R.K. Meena, SP Attada Babujee, VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivas and Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-will-continue-in-containment-zones-minister/article31506802.ece
05 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IT units stare at gloomy future||The IT and IT-enabled services (ITES) sector in Andhra Pradesh has kept its fingers crossed with the COVID-19 dealing a body blow to the investors who are struggling hard to put up a good show in the new financial year. An uncertain future looms large with many apprehending loss of orders from their clients in the United States and Europe. Resource crunch leading to downsizing and right-sizing are inevitable, many stakeholders in IT and ITES sector say. ‘A mixed bag for BPOs’ IT Association of Andhra Pradesh (ITAAP) president R.L. Narayana while admitting that the new situation was posing a big challenge, told The Hindu that it could bring a mixed bag particularly to Business Processes Outsourcing (BPO) segment. He said they were successful in installing office desktops with required software at the houses of most of the employees after declaration of the lockdown to enable them to work from home. This might bring a large volume of business now handled by countries such as COVID-hit Philippines. Cost-cutting measures “The shutdown of units in some countries in the post-pandemic phase may prove beneficial to the BPO units in India. However, the losses in core sectors such as aviation, hospitality, tourism and travel industry will lead to drastic cost-cutting measures,” said Mr. Narayana. Rushikonda IT Park Association vice-president Naresh Kumar said all players in the IT sector needed to reorient their strategies and priorities post-COVID. He said the sector was expected to suffer client payments and credit cycles. Small companies with no cash reserves might be constrained to down their shutters. “The billing amount will not see any increase in the near future with 25% to 30% of the MSME IT firms engaging less than 100 employees may endure a very gloomy future,” he said. He said most profit-making companies might run on tight margins with focus shifted to high-end visual servers with better connectivity to higher bandwidth, cloud computing and data security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/it-units-stare-at-gloomy-future/article31506795.ece
05 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anxiety mounts among stranded workers||Manas Biswal, 40, hailing from Dhenkanal of Odisha has been earning his livelihood by selling pani poori in MVP Colony of the city for the last 13 years. The outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and imposition of lockdown has made his life uncertain. He is among many migrant workers from Odisha who are stuck in various parts of Andhra Pradesh and want to go home. “With no income, we are almost facing starvation,” said Mr. Manas. He, along with 12 others, who eke out a living by selling pani poori and chaat in the city are in trauma as they are yet to hear a word of promise for their evacuation to their native places . Manas and others stay in ramshackle tenements near Kailasagiri. They were happy when members of Utkal Sanskrutika Samaj gave them ration and other materials as a humanitarian gesture on Monday. Despite talks held between the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, no official has contacted the migrant workers who are living in deplorable conditions. When contacted, a senior official of Odisha government said they would allow the stranded workers to come home only if they arranged their vehicles and get clearances from the officials of the Statewhere they were stranded. “Do we have money to hire a vehicle? We migrated for work to distant places as we belong to below poverty line families,” said Mr. Manoj Swain, who works in a small-scale industry in the industrial hub of Gajuwaka. “We have been registered as migrant workers wiling to go to our homes. Our dhaba owner is kind enough to provide us ration . The dhaba is closed now,” said Abani Sahu, a cook stuck in Nellore, adding that 17 of them were stranded in Nellore .  Appeal to Odisha govt. Utkal Sanskrutika Samaj president J.K. Nayak, who distributed ration, sanitisers, masks and other essentials to the stranded workers, said the Odisha government should take the initiative to run a Shramik Special train from Visakhapatnam to Bhubaneswar or ply buses to transport these workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anxiety-mounts-among-stranded-workers/article31506794.ece
05 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||14-year-old crushed under boulder||A 14-year-old boy was crushed under a boulder that came tumbling down a hillock in Pentayya Nagar in Gajuwaka, late on Sunday night. The deceased was identified as D. Vamsi. His brother D. Jaswanth was also critically injured in the incident. Their father D. Appa Rao is a daily wage earner. The incident occurred when a huge boulder came crashing down the hill on their house, which is located in the foothill. According to the Gajuwaka police, the soil would have become loose after the rains on Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-year-old-crushed-under-boulder/article31506808.ece
05 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rice, eggs distributed||Lok Sabha MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana on Monday distributed 5 kg rice and four eggs each to 8,000 fishermen families in Ward No. 19 of Visakhapatnam East Assembly constituency at the party office at Lawson’s Bay Colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rice-eggs-distributed/article31506807.ece
05 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Liquor shops reopened as per norms’||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana on Monday alleged that former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and former Minister for Finance Yanamala Ramakrishnudu had put the State in financial distress and were now trying to tarnish the image of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government notwithstanding its efforts to help all sections of society during the lockdown period. Mr. Satyanarayana reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Vizianagaram district and later spoke to media here on Monday. Violators warned “The opposition party is making allegations over the reopening of liquor shops. The government allowed them only in line with the relaxation given by the Centre. It does not want to to make money with the sale of liquor since it is committed to making Andhra Pradesh a liquor-free State in a phased manner,” he said. The Minister further said that the State government has allowed opening of all shops and business establishments between 7 a.m. and 1 p.m. and relaxed norms with regard to private transport. “Private cars and autorickshaws can ply till 7 p.m. with one or two persons on board. Maintaining social distancing and wearing of mask are compulsory. The Police Department is given power to take action on persons who violate the COVID-19 protocol,” the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-shops-reopened-as-per-norms/article31506792.ece
05 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal varsity launches digital classrooms||Central Tribal University, Vizianagaram, on Monday launched classes for its students through digital platforms and directed all the 25 professors to complete the syllabus by end of May, according to CTU Special Officer and former Vice-Chancellor of Ambedkar University Hanumanthu Lajipathi Rai. He said that each and every department had been directed to prepare an action plan for the completion of syllabus. He directed professors to meet the expectations of the Andhra University which was its mentor and State government since the CTU was established in 2019-20 with great difficulty. He said that the students in remote areas were responding positively for online classes. Administrative Officer Suryanarayana said that the students were personally contacted to avail the benefit of digital classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-varsity-launches-digital-classrooms/article31506775.ece
05 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reopening of liquor outlets draws flak in two districts||Social distancing rules were completely ignored at liquor shops where one could find serpentine queues from the early hours of Monday. People from different walks of life strongly opposed the government’s move to reopen liquor shops and said that the very purpose of six weeks of lockdown was defeated in a single day. A retired government official D.S.P. Lingam asked the government to close down liquor shops immediately since coronavirus would spread within notime. “Police imposed unprecedented rules and made people to stay indoors almost 42 days. Police are now posted at liquor shops to control people,” he alleged. A shop owner in Sri Balaji Textile Market B. Srinivasa Rao expressed displeasure over the delay in permissions for opening of regular shops. “The government halted economic activity but showed interest in sale of liquor through its outlets. It is absolutely unfair,” he said. Naa Vooru-Vizianagaram founder Gummuluru Vishala urged the government to review its decision to protect the spread of COVID-19. “New cases were found in places like Srikakulam although the neighbouring district was also under green zone. So, there is a chance for positive cases in Vizianagaram district too. So, liquor shops should be closed immediately in the larger interest of the society,” she added. Vizianagaram Rotary Club Central former president Motamarri Srinivas asked the government to sell liquor to persons only after submission of their Aadhaar numbers. “The government spends huge amount on welfare schemes in spite of its financial difficulties. The public money should not be wasted on those persons since they have the purchasing capacity to buy liquor and others,” he added. Srikakulam Citizen Forum president Baratam Kameswara Rao said that many poor families would be ruined financially with the sale of liquor. “A large number of men will certainly harass their wives for money to buy liquor which is also sold at an exorbitant price. The government which is keen to make the State liquor-free should stop its sale instead of revising its prices,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reopening-of-liquor-outlets-draws-flak-in-two-districts/article31506800.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bumper yield||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bumper-yield/article31506777.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rush hour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rush-hour/article31506342.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati MLA gets a pat from Venkaiah||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Monday lauded the initiatives taken up by Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy to sensitise the denizens of the temple town on the COVID-19. In a telephonic conversation, the Vice-President inquired about the MLA’s health. Mr. Naidu also urged the MLA to intensify his efforts to educate people on the norms prescribed for the third phase of the lockdown. Mr. Naidu and Mr. Reddy were arrested during the emergency in the seventies and lodged in Mushirabad jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-mla-gets-a-pat-from-venkaiah/article31506784.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC adjourns SEC case to today||The High Court adjourned to May 5 the hearing of the petitions that challenged the validity of the ordinance through which the tenure of the State Election Commissioner (SEC) was reduced to three years. Advocates representing the main petitioner N. Ramesh Kumar who ceased to be the SEC following the promulgation of the ordinance argued that the purpose of the “impugned legislation” was to remove him from the post with “ulterior motives”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-adjourns-sec-case-to-today/article31506790.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Troubled times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/troubled-times/article31506797.ece
05 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Truckers want Telangana to reopen roadside eateries, dhabas||Long distance truckers, especially those from the northern States, who depend upon roadside dhabas for food are clamouring for their reopening in Telangana. The roadside eateries in the State have been shut down in view of the lockdown while they remain open in other States. “Entering Telangana means no food for about 500 km,” complained Rizwan Ahmad, a lorry driver transporting vehicle spare parts from somewhere in the National Capital Region. “Often, we cross over into Telangana in the small hours and rest before eating at the roadside dhaba at Seetagondi in Adilabad district,” he added. The most important north-south link — the NH 44, which is the longest national highway connecting Kashmir with Kanyakumari — passes through Telangana. All the south bound traffic enters the State though the inter-State border of Telangana with Maharashtra on the Penganga river bridge and all the north bound traffic exits Telangana through the same bridge. The road side eateries in Adilabad district can be found only about 35 km inside the border, at Seetagondi in Gudihatnoor mandal. There are some five dhabas there, three close to Gudihatnoor-Utnoor X road, a couple of them each at Ichoda, Neredigonda mandal headquarters and Koratikal in Neredigonda mandal in Adilabad district besides, the two at Burugupalli crossing and one near Nirmal in that district.  Lockdown nightmare Suresh Pal, a long distance driver from Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh recalled the nightmarish experience during the lockdown. “We were stuck at Seetagondi without food for three days following orders for closure of dhabas,” he said. The experience taught him to carry with him a cooking kit consisting of a small kerosene stove, five kg of wheat flour, some lentils and all other ingredients. “With this, the three member crew in my lorry can manage for three days,” he pointed out. Many truckers from Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala carry the cooking kits. But dhabas need to be opened keeping in the mind the majority hailing from other States need dhabas to eat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/truckers-want-telangana-to-reopen-roadside-eateries-dhabas/article31506624.ece
05 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||TSHRC notice to State government on migrants||The Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) on Monday advised the State government to issue necessary instructions to all district collectors for immediate identification and classification of migrant workers and other stranded persons and for transportating them to their native places by arranging required number of Shramik Special trains in coordination with designated nodal officers. It further advised the government to take care of food and other minimum requirements of the stranded persons who are leaving the State on foot or by other means. The TSHRC took suo motu cognisance of the migrant worker issue under Section 12 (a) of Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 read with Regulation 25 of Andhra Pradesh State Human Rights Commission (Procedure) Regulations 2013, based on two reports published in The Hindu on May 1 under titles — Migrant labourers’ long march on NH44 on May Day and Officials noting down details of migrant labour. A notice in this regard was issued to the State Chief Secretary. The Commission also mentioned several complaints it received with regard to hardships being faced by migrant labourers during the lockdown which were transferred to the State government for appropriate action. The complaints mainly pertained to no proper food or shelter for the migrant workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tshrc-notice-to-state-government-on-migrants/article31506627.ece
05 May 2020||DOLLARA (ADILABAD DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Hassle-free crossing at Adilabad||There was no heavy rush of stranded workers or others at the exit and entry points on the inter-State border between Telangana and Maharashtra on the National Highway-44 on Penganga river bridge in Adilabad district as expected on Monday. The proceedings were orderly and all the travellers headed towards Maharashtra had only to wait for about 10 to 15 minutes before the formalities of details being recorded were completed.  Proper recording The outgoing persons were being thermal screened and their details were being noted down meticulously by the joint teams of Medical, Revenue and Police officials and staff. The incoming persons were not only being screened but also being stamped for home quarantine once they reached their respective destinations. About 3,000 persons travelling in private vehicles had crossed over into Maharashtra since the last three days while over 500 had entered Telangana at the border. There, however, is no record of people, mostly migrant workers, who were travelling atop lorries. As no lorry was being stopped at the border check point those carrying migrant workers also went past through the check point without any hitch. Most f the migrant workers had been released from different districts following the ease in travel restrictions and reached Adilabad during the day.They took lorries moving towards central and northern States for their onward journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hassle-free-crossing-at-adilabad/article31506626.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three test positive for COVID in Telangana||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana dropped to single digit again as only three samples tested positive for the virus on Monday. All the three cases are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. Of the patients admitted to Isolation Wards, 40 more were discharged. A total of 1085 cases were reported till May 4. Of them, 471 are active cases, 585 were discharged and 29 people suffering from the disease have died. The State’s Director of public Health G Srinivasa Rao detailed week-wise peak in COVID-19 cases in Telangana. From March 2 -when the first case was confirmed in Telangana- there were two peaks till May 4. The first peak of 303 cases was recorded from March 30 to April 6. It dropped to 153 from April 7 to 13, but peaked again to 366 from April 14 to 20. Thereafter, it continued to drop. Only 76 cases were reported from April 27 to May 4. Though officials stated that the dip in the number of new cases denotes that the lockdown was effective in containing the pandemic, questions remain about the criteria for testing samples. Doctors attending COVID-19 patients and Health department officials said that there will be less cases if less samples are tested. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar had issued directions on April 21 not to test asymptomatic secondary contacts, but to quarantine them at home for 28 days and monitor their condition. State Health Minister Eatala Rajender claimed that their criteria adheres to Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) guidelines. The doctors and health officials who argued against excluding asymptomatic secondary contacts stressed that there was every possibility that the asymptomatic contacts might be carriers of the virus. Delay in testing them could lead to further spread of the virus. Besides, unlike other States, the Health department in Telangana does not regularly share number of samples tested. It is seldom mentioned in daily health bulletin. Earlier, the number of samples tested was displayed on the Telangana’s Department of Health and Family Welfare website. However, the crucial information is excluded from May 1 afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-test-positive-for-covid-in-telangana/article31506592.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Realty project works resume slowly in twin cities||The real estate sector which has slowly resumed work on several of its projects after the lockdown of over a month in the twin cities and elsewhere in the State is confident that majority of the migrant workers engaged by them will not take the ‘Shramik Train’ now allowed by the Central government. The builders and developers have done a fairly good job in taking care of the construction workers from central India and Odisha by providing them rations, food and shelter during the lockdown period with work stalled at all the construction sites. “We expect not more than 10% to 15% of migrant workers to go back to their home States at this juncture when construction activity is resuming. In another four to five days, things will stabilise for construction industry and workers will again start earning wages,” says Ramakrishna Rao, president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), Hyderabad. Over 90% of migrant workers are either staying at the construction sites or at the shelters provided by the builders. ”Even at my construction site, only 1% to 2% of workers want to go back owing to some emergencies in the family,” he said. Along with real estate projects, industries that supply material like bricks, cement etc., ancillary units have to resume and they did in the last two days and now they are stabilising. About 70% to 80% of normalcy and efficiency in operations is expected in four to five days as government officials are proactive in taking necessary measures and address the concerns of real estate sector. One dampener for migrant workers keen to return to their home State for Ramzan festival or to visit their sick relatives is the inevitability of being quarantined for two to three weeks in their home States - Bihar, Jharkhand, UP,Chattisgarh, says Sunil Chandra Reddy, general secretary, Telangana Real Estate Developers Association, Hyderabad (TREDA). Even if 10% to 15% of migrant workers go back, there will be some impact. However the clarifications given by Ministry of Home Affairs to its earlier order -- that those migrant workers who came to Telangana for short stay and got stranded and without long term work be sent first by trains provided the destination State gives clearance and also the Home State has to pay for the travel-- is expected to curtail the numbers. “Many migrant workers in our project sites in spite of getting food, rations, got agitated sitting idle with no wages and staying away from family. It is also herd mentality. But with work now resuming, they will be at ease to stay back,” said Vijay Sai, vice-president, TREDA. Those workers who go back will be quarantined and can’t work for two weeks at least. “We are counselling them to stay back, work for two months and send money to their families. They can return to their homes in the rainy season in July as they normally do,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/realty-project-works-resume-slowly-in-twin-cities/article31506605.ece
05 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Liquor shops may open with restrictions||Tipplers in Telangana may get to hear some good news about reopening of the liquor outlets, with the government contemplating on opening with some restrictions. The decision is likely to be discussed at the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday and this stems from the fact that excise department officials have been asked to prepare a comprehensive note on the number of shops in the Red, Orange and Green zones. Senior officials have asked the district officers to give a detailed report of liquor outlets in their districts, the zones they fall in and also the stock available. A senior official said that even if the government takes a positive decision there is enough stock in the 19 depots in Telangana to meet the demand for the next 15 days for liquor and 20 days for beer. “Since the manufacturing of liquor will also be lifted there won’t be any shortage even after 15 days,” a senior official said. Telangana has 2,211 liquor outlets. The government initially may consider opening in non-containment areas while it will be a strict no in the containment areas. However, there are few shops in the containment areas. Hyderabad district, which is in the Red Zone, has 173 outlets including 79 in Hyderabad and 94 in Secunderabad zones but only 6 shops are there in the containment zones. There are 422 shops in Rangareddy division and this entire area is under Red Zone as well. These areas include Malkajgiri (82 shops) Medchal (99) Saroornagar (114) Shamshabad (81) and Vikarabad (46). However, there are just three shops in containment areas here. But the districts, except Suryapet and Warangal urban, all are either in the Orange zone or Green zone and the government may not face much problem opening shops in these areas. Shop owners seem to have been sounded unofficially to prepare for the opening very soon to ensure social distancing if the shops are open. “Masks will be must for consumers while shop owners have to keep sanitizers. “Bottles have to be sanitised before handing over them to the consumers and even the currency notes may have to be sanitised. However, it all depends on what the Chief Minister decides,” an official explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/liquor-shops-may-open-with-restrictions/article31506594.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Steep hike in cement price, material supply worry realtors||More than the issue of migrant workers wanting to return home, what is more worrying builders and real estate developers is the supply of material components for their projects. “Majority of construction workers staying at our project sites and shelters are working. Even if 10% to 15% leave, we can manage. But it is the prices of certain components like cement that worry us. A bag of cement that used to cost Rs. 225 before lockdown now is priced at Rs. 375 to Rs. 400,” said Sunil Chandra Reddy and Vijay Sai of TREDA. The real estate sector already suffered loss of 20% due to lockdown and it will be difficult to purchase cement at this price, they said. The price of ready mix concrete also will go up with this. The representatives of CREDAI, TREDA represented their concerns to the State government last week that the steep hike in prices of material component could slow down work and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar assured the sector that the issue would be addressed. Sand can be obtained by applying online to the Mines Department, he said. More than 100 industries depend on real estate sector and construction industry including cement, steel, ceramic tiles,paint etc., and their activity would be linked to construction sector and if the latter does well, it will slowly revive the economy, generate employment, said CREDAI Hyderabad president Ramakrishna Rao. The construction industry at national level is associated with National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) promoted by Ministry of Urban Housing to enable a dialogue with the industry. The real estate sector sought concessions for the developers as well as customers in March itself and now after lockdown impact, it became imperative. “For developers, we requested for moratorium for two years on repayment of loans, bringing down GST slabs and interest rates on loans. For customers, GST on registration should be reduced and concession in interest on housing loans has been sought,” said Mr. Vijay Sai. The real estate sector is confident that customers who booked their apartments or planning to buy before lockdown will not go back on their decision. “Hyderabad is basically end-user market with affordable prices compared to other metros. In Chennai, the range is up to Rs. 24,000 per sft. In Hyderabad in the West zone, it is in the range of Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 11,000 per sft and in other areas between Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 6,000 per sft,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steep-hike-in-cement-price-material-supply-worry-realtors/article31506607.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Treat COVID patients but attend to other emergencies too, High Court directs government||Treating COVID-19 patients is, no doubt, a priority for the government, but attending to medical emergencies and pregnant women cannot be undermined. Making this observation, Telangana High Court on Monday instructed the State government to issue a circular ensuring that people facing medical emergencies are taken care of and pregnant women are attended to in all government hospitals. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed the order, having taken up a letter written by lawyer K. Kishore Kumar as PIL petition. The advocate wrote to the CJ expressing concern over the death of a woman, Jenila, and her newborn in Yapadine village of Ieeja mandal in Jogulamba Gadwal district within two days of delivery in a government hospital. Her husband held the government responsible for the two deaths, alleging that she was made to travel for over 200 kms to be admitted in a hospital for delivery. As she developed pains before delivery, the family rushed her to the PHC in Gadwal on April 24. Doctors there advised her family to shift her to Kurnool in AP, stating that she was anaemic. Due to lockdown, she could not be taken there. With the help of district administration, she was taken to Mahbubnagar government hospital in an ambulance. Doctors there wanted her to be admitted to the government maternity hospital in Hyderabad. “Doctors there refused to admit her on the ground that she was coming from a COVID-19 hotspot area,” lawyer Kishore Kumar stated in his letter. She was sent to Gandhi Hospital for coronavirus diagnostic tests. She tested negative and was sent back to maternity hospital where she gave birth to a baby boy. The newborn was taken to Niloufer Hospital after developing complications, where he died. The woman was sent to Osmania General Hospital where she died . The bench said the government should think of making available adequate number of ambulances. The bench directed the government to file a counter affidavit on the matter. It is posted to May 20 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/treat-covid-patients-but-attend-to-other-emergencies-too-high-court-directs-government/article31506617.ece
05 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Government ‘mishandled’ COVID issue, says Congress||The Congress party has represented to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on the ‘failures’ of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government in handling COVID-19 related issues, including under-reporting the deaths, poor assistance to migrant labourers and denial of support to farmers. A three-member delegation comprising Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and TPCC COVID-19 Task Force Committee chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy met the Governor and submitted a six-page memorandum. They also submitted samples of ‘sub-standard’ rice being supplied to poor people. The failure of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was evident and his arrogance is stopping him from heeding the advice being given by other political parties resulting in Telangana suffering, Mr. Uttam Reddy claimed. The delegation reminded that Prime Minister Narender Modi was involving all Opposition leaders in decision making process. Later speaking to reporters, Mr. Uttam Reddy alleged under-testing for COVID-19 suspects and under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths in Telangana. The CM continues to be irrational right from his paracetamol treatment statement and with the low level of testing, he said. He said from April 29 government has stopped giving information on the number of coronavirus tests. The numbers are very low at 551 per million population as against 876 tests in other states. He said the government has issued an official circular that no deceased person would be tested for coronavirus if his family members are doubtful of the cause of death and this itself reflects how the government wants to under-report the figures. The Congress leaders also urged the Governor to advise the government to give Rs. 10 lakh as ex gratia to those who die because of coronavirus because most of the deceased are from poor families and are the sole bread winners. Loss not recorded On the agricultural front Congress leaders charged that the government utterly failed. First the damages due to unseasonal rains and hailstorms were not recorded and those who went to procurement centres with paddy and maize were denied proper weighing. Mr. Reddy also demanded that the government immediately direct rice millers not to take more than 1 kg as wastage for every 40 kg bag. Hamali charges of Rs. 35 per quintal have to be immediately reimbursed by the government as per earlier practice. He said dues of women self-help groups who run the IKP Centres are pending now for the fourth consecutive crop. The TPCC chief reiterated the demand for release of White Paper on State’s financial situation as experts believe Telangana has been pushed into near bankruptcy not by coronavirus but the financial mismanagement, wasteful expenditure and drawing of Rs. 3 lakh crore loans whose repayment has commenced now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/government-mishandled-covid-issue-says-congress/article31506619.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Many industrial units in TS resume operations||Thousands of manufacturing units across Telangana have resumed operations with the State government permitting them with conditions, including one on the number of employees they can engage. A combination of large, medium and small facilities across different industries, the units that have been allowed to reopen are predominantly in industrial estates. “We permitted them from April 30. As per latest information, about 35,000 out of the 56,000 functional industries in the State are working,” Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said. Many more are expected to follow suit with the State Cabinet, which is scheduled to meet on Tuesday, expected to ratify a decision of the Central government relaxing the lockdown norms for industries. “In 2-3 days, I am expecting 90% of the units to reopen,” the senior official said, adding the State government had directed units reopening to adhere strictly to the social distancing norms. Welcoming the move to allow units to reopen, Kirby Building Systems & Structures India CEO and Managing Director and former CII Telangana chairman D.Raju said on its part the industry promised to adhere to the conditions on health protocols, operate with limited strength as well as social distance norms. Resumption of operations at the manufacturing units would help the companies meet salary commitments, fetch revenue for government and trigger the ecosystem dependent on their units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/many-industrial-units-in-ts-resume-operations/article31506593.ece
05 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||40 Shramik trains daily for a week from today||Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that 40 special trains will be run each day from Tuesday onwards for one week to send migrant workers in Telangana to their respective States. The trains will be run from various places in Hyderabad and also from Warangal, Khammam, Ramagundam, Damarachala and other areas to Bihar, Odisha, Jarkhand, West Bengal and other States. The decision was taken by the Chief Minister in a review meeting held at Pragathi Bhavan on the problems being faced by the workers due to lockdown here on Monday. Health Minister Eatala Rajender, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy and others attended the meeting. As many migrant workers were keen to go to their home States, Mr.Chandrasekhar Rao decided that special trains should be run to help the migrant workers. He spoke to the South Central Railway General Manager Gajanan Malya and requested him to run the special trains from Tuesday onwards. Nodal officers  The government appointed senior IAS officer Sandeep Sultania and senior IPS officer Jitender Reddy as nodal officers to oversee the train travel of migrant workers. The workers already registered their names with various police stations to go to their native places. All those who registered their names would be sent by these special trains. The details of the trains would be given in the police stations itself, he said. Chief Minister said that the migrant workers should not be agitated as the Telangana government made arrangements for their train journey. He directed the police officials to coordinate with the workers and explain to them about the arrangements being made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/40-shramik-trains-daily-for-a-week-from-today/article31506612.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Notice on sample collection||Telangana High Court on Monday issued notices in a PIL petition, seeking direction to State government to collect samples for coronavirus diagnostic tests from all persons who died while undergoing treatment in different hospitals of the State. Retired university professor and Telangana Democratic Forum convenor P.L. Vishweshwar Rao filed the PIL plea. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, after hearing contentions of the petitioner’s counsel Ch. Prabhakar, sought to know the guidelines issued by World Health Organisation on the matter. The bench asked the petitioner’s counsel to pass on the guidelines to Advocate General B.S. Prasad. The professor stated that government had, on April 20, issued a circular not to collect samples of those who died after undergoing treatment for various ailments in hospitals across the State. Citing an example, the professor said that a woman from Chennur of Mancherial district had respiratory problems and was shifted to King Koti hospital. While undergoing treatment, she died on April 14. Samples collected from her body subsequently confirmed that she had contracted the virus. Immediately, authorities quarantined all primary contacts of the woman suspecting that they too would have got the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/notice-on-sample-collection/article31506613.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre urged to unearth black money||The National Backward Classes Welfare Association has requested the Centre to make all out efforts to bring out black money in the country so that it could be used for rebuilding the economy. In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, president of association and former legislator R. Krishnaiah suggested that the government could issue Covid bonds with the facility for investment of unaccounted for money with 30% penalty. Mr. Krishnaiah stated that a psychological change is apparent among those holding the unaccounted for money after the coronavirus attack on humanity as they had been found helping the needy people in different ways. In such a situation, an opportunity provided to bring out the unaccounted for money with investment in government bonds after 30% deduction as penalty by the Income Tax Department would encourage such individuals to bring out their black wealth, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-urged-to-unearth-black-money/article31506602.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS Cabinet meeting today||The State Medical and Health officials have told Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao it is better to further tighten and implement lockdown in Hyderabad and its neighbouring Ranga Reddy, Medchal, and Vikarabad districts. The higher percentage of those affected with and dying due to Corona Virus are more in Hyderabad and three other districts, they said in a report submitted to the Chief Minister at a review meeting held here on Monday. Health Minister E. Rajender, Chief Secretary, DGP and Medical and Health department officials attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-cabinet-meeting-today/article31506616.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR help sought to complete projects||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao has requested the officials of the South Central Railway to cooperate with the State government in completion of roads under bridge, roads over bridge, slip roads and link roads taken up by various agencies such as GHMC, HMRL, HMWS&SB and HRDCL. During a meeting with SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya on Monday, the Minister said the government has taken up these works to solve the traffic problems in the city, and requested the SCR to issue clearances as soon as possible to enable completion by monsoon. While suggesting joint inspections of the locations where these works are being taken up, Mr. Rama Rao said an expert committee will be formed to give suggestions for suitable works at Railway crossings . Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, Secretary Sudarshan Reddy, GHMC Commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar, MD, HMWS&SB M. Dana Kishore, MD, HMRL, N.V.S.Reddy attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-help-sought-to-complete-projects/article31506621.ece
05 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Shabbir Ali offers to pay for travel of migrants||Welcoming the appeal of Congress president Sonia Gandhi to Congress leaders to bear the cost of the rail travel of migrant labourers, former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir announced that he would bear the travel cost of all migrant workers in Kamareddy district once the railway finalises special trains. Mr. Shabbir Ali said the decision taken by Sonia Gandhi was revolutionary and it would help lakhs of migrant workers stranded across the country. He said that although the Central government has decided to run special trains, it was charging exorbitantly from the migrant workers who are jobless since March 22. He said BJP government could spent Rs. 151 crore to transport crowd for Namaste Trump programme but it could not spend money for poor migrant workers. The ill-planned lockdown by BJP government forced lakhs of people to walk without food, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shabbir-ali-offers-to-pay-for-travel-of-migrants/article31506620.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Air pollution drops across State during lockdown||At a time when N95 masks, said to be effective in filtering the air pollution, are seen dime a dozen on the streets, pollution in the air has come down drastically across the Telangana, with particular emphasis on the city. Lockdown period has proved beneficial for the breathable air in the city, with considerable reduction in the particulate matter, say data recorded by the Telangana State Pollution Control Board. As per data from the ambient air quality monitors, between March 1 and the last week of April, there has been 13.5 per cent reduction in PM2.5, which has direct relation with the vehicular and industrial pollution. During the same period, there is 30 per cent decrease in PM10, another parameter for air pollution. PM 2.5 refers to the concentration of fine particulate matter with diameter up to 2.5 micrometers, while PM 10 refers to the same with diameters up to 10 micrometers. Before lockdown, the density of the PM2.5 was measured as 37 micrograms per cubic meter, which has come down to 32 micrograms during lock down on a weekly average. The PM10 concentration has dropped to 63 micrograms per cubic metre from the earlier 89 micrograms. “The PM10 concentration usually peaks during winter and summer, reaching up to 180 micrograms per cubic meters,” said D.Prasad, Scientific Officer from the Board. While the upper limit for PM2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic meter, the same for PM10 is 100 micrograms, over and above which they pose imminent danger to public health. There is drop of 31 per cent in the concentration of Oxides of Nitrogen, and 13 per cent in Ammonia, which are released into atmosphere following combustion in vehicle engines or industrial boilers. Ozone in atmosphere, another parameter, has however, gone up by 21 per cent, which Dr.Prasad attributes to increase in temperatures. “Oxides of Nitrogen are also released with the natural thunder activity, which might be converted to Ozone. It is difficult to make exact attributions, as thunderstorm far away too could result in increased parameters here, owing to air drift,” Dr.Prasad said. PM10 concentration in several areas of Telangana too has come down during lockdown period, with the station in KUDA topping the charts with 67 per cent drop. The station at Godavarikhani, hub of coal mining, has recorded more than 51 per cent drop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/air-pollution-drops-across-state-during-lockdown/article31506596.ece
05 May 2020||K Shiva Shanker,TELANGANA||Focus on people crossing over to other States for liquor||The news of liquor shops reopening in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka after over 40 days has spread real fast in Telangana too. This opened the possibility of people from here, desperate to secure alcohol, crossing over to the neighbouring States to quench their ‘thirst’. Anticipating this, the Telangana Prohibition and Excise Department personnel are keeping an eye on people at border check-posts, patrolling on other routes. However, a few officials opined that they might not be able to stop if someone chooses forests, fields or other places across the long-stretching borders to cross over. The districts which share borders with Karnataka are Mahabubnagar, Vikarabad and Sangareddy while Nagarkurnool, Jogulamba-Gadwal are some of the districts which share border with AP. “We will have to be extra alert till the wine shops are opened in our State too. But there is only so much we can do to prevent people from going to other States. What can we do if one crosses through the forests in Vikarabad district into Karnataka? It’s up on people too to avoid contracting the virus,” said a senior Excise official. Soon after relaxation was announced, the department’s officials got on to the task of charting action plan as movement of people could lead to further spread of the virus. Focus is more on places which border red zones in the neighbouring States. Case in point, Jogulamba-Gadwal shares border Kurnool district. “Seven out of 22 shops were open in the neighbouring district. We have our Excise inspectors and constables at check-posts,” said K Vijay Bhaskar, Excise superintendent (Gadwal and Wanaparthy). Similar strategy is adopted by officials in Mahabubnagar, Vikarabad, Sangareddy and other districts One argument by people who are eagerly waiting for alcohol shops to open is “State government will get revenue from liquor sales”. However, wine shop owners feel sales will come down after initial spike as daily wage workers, and people from poor background are out of work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-people-crossing-over-to-other-states-for-liquor/article31506591.ece
05 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Jagtial man tests positive, Karimnagar put on alert||Karimnagar town once again sounded a high alert following a 65-year-old man from Jagtial district testing COVID-19 positive on Sunday as he underwent treatment for cancer in a private hospital here three days back. The private hospital was completely sanitised and announced closure for four days. Besides, the authorities also quarantined 42 medical personnel belonging to the cancer hospital. On the other hand, a close relative of the virus-positive person, who works at the Collectorate, was also quarantined in the government headquarters hospital on Monday as he met him recently in Jagtial district. The police and revenue authorities visited Thakkapalli village of Mallial mandal in Jagtial district on Monday and made a list of persons who moved closely with the person. Jagtial district reported three positive cases including two in Korutla and one in Jagtial town 20 days ago and all the three tested negative after treatment in Gandhi Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagtial-man-tests-positive-karimnagar-put-on-alert/article31506600.ece
05 May 2020||MULUGU DT.,TELANGANA||Sitakka treks through forests with supplies for tribals||The nationwide lockdown following the COVID-19 outbreak has brought misery to many sections of society, including tribals living in clusters spread over the thick forests here in the district. Unaware of the extent of the pandemic, they have been wondering about the restrictions on movement to even secure essentials such as salt, oil and chilli powder. Amid the chaos, their public representative and local MLA, Danasari Anasuya alias Sitakka, has reached out to them with a helping hand. On Sunday, Ms Sitakka and a handful of her followers traversed 16 km of rough terrain in the thick forests of Wazedu mandal with food for the tribal families in Penugolu hamlet, many of whom have migrated from neighbouring Chhattisgarh. Speaking to The Hindu , Ms Sitakka said there are over 70 habitations that cannot be accessed except by foot. “What is sad is that these tribals do not know anything about coronavirus or the lockdown. Their life simply has come to a standstill as they are not allowed to venture out for their daily needs,” she explained. Over the past one month, Ms Sitakka has been visiting one or two such hamlets, carrying rice, oil, pulses, salt, flour and other groceries to last each family a fortnight. She bought the essentials with funds mobilised through her party leaders and well-wishers. There are several small hamlets located deep inside the forests, inhabited by migrant tribals from Chattisgarh. They do not come out of the forest despite offers of land for housing and other welfare measures. They do not know Telugu language either. A few work as agriculture labour for local farmers while many prefer to build a livelihood by hunting and small-scale farming. Ms Sitakka, the 49-year-old former member of CPI (ML) Janashakthi naxalite group got disillusioned with the bullet and chose ballot. She gave up arms in 2004 and joined the TDP. The party’s president N. Chandrababu Naidu encouraged her and gave her a ticket. She won Mulugu MLA seat in 2009. In 2018, again, she won the seat on Congress ticket after formation of separate Telangana state. “Whether she is in power or not, you can find Sitakka moving around in tiny villages and hamlets in Mulugu area all the time,” said Md Shafi, a resident of Jangalapalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sitakka-treks-through-forests-with-supplies-for-tribals/article31506615.ece
05 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||He ensures square meal to many a needy person||Purushotham Ramgopal Somani, a leading businessman and social worker, has so far distributed more than 400 quintals of rice to the poor and needy at the rate of 5 kg rice to each household through municipal corporators in respective divisions and also personally since March 29, one week after the lockdown was imposed to combat COVID-19. The founder-president of Nizamabad Chamber of Commerce and Industry (NCCI) personally visited rice mills to purchase rice for the distribution. He engaged a team of 15 workers for dividing the rice into 5 kg bags at a godown and handed over the same to the corporators, including Mayor Neetu Kiran in her division. “So far I have ensured the distribution of rice to over 8,000 families and the process would continue till the end of the lockdown. There is no limit for the distribution and only BPT and fine rice was given away to the needy. I have not compromised on the quality. Everyone must reach out to the poor at this time of crisis,” he said talking to The Hindu . Mr. Somani mainly covered the slum dwellers and also those who had no ration cards and any source of income during the lockdown time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/he-ensures-square-meal-to-many-a-needy-person/article31506598.ece
05 May 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Work resumes at Telangana Super Thermal Power Project||Construction of Telangana Super Thermal Power Project on the premises of the the NTPC power plant at Ramagundam, which was put on hold following the COVID-19 lockdown, resumed from Monday with migrant workers attending duty in large numbers. It may be recalled that the workers became restive on Sunday, staging a dharna and rasta roko demanding that the government send them back to their native villages in various States following non-availability of work in Telangana. However, the district administration intervened and pacified the workers. Accordingly, Collector Sikta Patnaik, Ramagundam legislator Korukanti Chander, Executive Director NTPC-Ramagundam Raj Kumar and Ramagundam Commissioner of Police V. Satyanarayana held discussions and decided that migrant workers be allowed to resume work at the power plant since Peddapalli district is classified under ‘green zone’. Guidelines followed All guidelines related to construction activities and confidence-building measures were put in place. The workers started entering the plant as per the norms of staggered two shifts, social distancing, thermal screening, medical check-up, use of masks, follow-up of personal hygienic norms and sanitisation of workplace. Medical teams deployed at the power station ensured that each worker was screened and their details collected. Some 4,500 migrant workers are employed at the NTPC Telangana Power Plant project.  Fertilizer plant On the other hand, the Ramagundam Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited (RFCL) has already resumed pending works with around 1,400 migrant workers after the State government exempted the project from the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/work-resumes-at-telangana-super-thermal-power-project/article31506631.ece
05 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||Mother of COVID-positive child contacts virus||After a 10-year-old girl tested positive for COVID-19 in Purigutta Thanda near Waddepalli of Hanamkonda, her mother is now said to have contacted the virus. District Medical and Health Officer K Lalitha Devi said the mother was staying along with the girl as an attendant in the children’s ward of the Gandhi Hospital, Secunderabad since April 21. The hospital authorities conducted tests on attendants of the children and her test showed positive result on Monday. One of their relatives, a 13-year-old boy in Errabelli Thanda of Veler in Warangal Urban district who also tested positive is already undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mother-of-covid-positive-child-contacts-virus/article31506599.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||CCMB, Eyestem tie-up for COVID research||CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) has announced on Monday that it had forged a unique public-private collaborative research effort with Bengaluru-based Eyestem Research Private Ltd in the fight against COVID-19. Under the agreement, CCMB will use Eystem’s human lung epithelial cell culture system provided as part of the Anti-COVID Screening (ACS) platform to understand the molecular and pathological characteristics of the coronavirus so as to establish a rational basis for testing potential drugs in vitro. Vaccine development CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra informed in a press release that culturing the virus outside the human host is a technical challenge that needs to be overcome. “We are hoping that by employing Eyestem’s cell culture system which expresses the key determinants of the viral entry and replication, our research team, led by Dr. Krishnan Harshan will be able to grow the virus predictably and thereby open up the potential for drug screening and vaccine development strategies,” he said. Eyestem CEO Dr. Jogin Desai informed that the ACS platform has been devleloped by Dr. Rajesh Pai and his team and he was hopeful that CCMB will be able to leverage it to advance the research on COVID-19 to help humanity in India and abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-eyestem-tie-up-for-covid-research/article31506589.ece
05 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||12 fresh cases in Gautam Buddha Nagar||Twelve new COVID-19 cases were recorded in Gautam Buddha Nagar on Monday. These include a CISF constable from Greater Noida’s Surajpur, said Sunil Dohre, District Surveillance Officer. The total number of cases in the district now stands at 179. Of these, 77 are active cases. 13 cases in Ghaziabad In Ghaziabad, 13 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 95. Out of these 44 cases are active. Earlier in the day, Deepak Ohri, Chief Medical Officer of Gautam Buddh Nagar, said that the results of a man, who had died at a private hospital on Noida on Sunday, confirmed that he had been infected with the COVID-19 virus. The deceased was a resident of Ghaziabad’s Khoda. The person was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sector 137. His sample was sent to a private lab in Delhi. ”Ghaziabad's medical team has been notified,” Mr. Ohri added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/12-fresh-cases-in-gautam-buddha-nagar/article31506554.ece
05 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram reports 11 new cases, tally now 84||Eleven new cases of COVID-19, the highest in a single day, were reported in Gurugram on Monday, taking the tally to 84. Nine of these cases are linked to Khandsa Mandi. Chief Medical Officer J.S. Poonia said seven of the nine cases in Khandsa Mandi procured vegetables from Azadpur Mandi in Delhi and the rest procured fruits from W.B. and Nashik.The total number of active cases is 35 and the results for 423 samples are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gurugram-reports-11-new-cases-tally-now-84/article31506553.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Liquor shops open, then shut again||Hundreds of people thronged liquor shops across Delhi on Monday as the vends opened after a gap of 40 days, leading to chaos as customers did not adhere to social distancing norms. In north, east and south Delhi, the police had to resort to crowd-controlling measures to manage the crowd. By the afternoon, most of the shops were told to shut as the situation grew out of control. “Liquor shops in Delhi will remain shut till vendors make arrangements such as deployment of marshals and markings on ground to ensure social distancing. All beat staff have been instructed to be vigilant and not allow any shop to operate if the vendor does not follow safety protocols,” said a senior police officer. With only a select number of vends open, those looking to buy alcohol had to first find a shop that was open and then join a serpentine queue. “I have visited four wine shops in the area but they are all closed. I have been walking from one shop to the other only to find shuttered stores. I came early hoping to avoid the rush but it looks like there are none open near my neighbourhood,” said Vivek, a resident of Jangpura. In areas where the vends were open, residents complained about the chaos. In C-Bock Market of Vasant Vihar, long queues outside a liquor shop prompted the Vasant Vihar Welfare Association to alert authorities about the situation. Chaos was also seen outside liquor shops in Malviya Nagar and Vasant Kunj with people queuing up as early as 7 a.m. to buy alcohol. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that the Delhi government did not give any extra relaxation and the liquor vends were opened as per central government guidelines. The Excise Department said that 160 out of 800 liquor shops were permitted to open. The four government corporations that own these vends are supposed to deploy marshals and ensure that no more than five people are allowed inside a vend at any given time, read an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on Sunday. “The onus for opening any shop and fulfilling qualifying criteria under Clause-7 (ii) (d) of the MHA’s Order dated 01.05.2020 shall be on the corporation concerned,” it further added. Ravi Dhawan, Commissioner of the Department of Excise, Entertainment & Luxury Tax, did not respond to multiple phone calls and messages seeking comment. A report prepared by Delhi Police on the situation suggested that shop timings should be extended and there should be sufficient stock of liquor. It, however, added that crowd-management measures need to be taken on priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/liquor-shops-open-then-shut-again/article31506557.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||People throng shopping areas as govt. lifts some restrictions||People spilled out on to the city streets in droves on Monday as restrictions were eased on the first day of the third phase of the nationwide lockdown. Government offices and private offices can now open with reduced strength, and private vehicles are permitted to ply. Several standalone shops in residential areas, apart from those selling essentials, also opened their shutters, and queues were seen outside hardware and electronic stores. Less checking Domestic helps and self-employed workers such as plumbers, electricians and mechanics also got back to work. Though there were police barricades across the city, checking was not as stringent. Sandeep Kapoor, a south Delhi resident, said he and his wife drove to a store to buy essentials around 9.30 a.m., “after days of finding empty streets, it no longer looked like a lockdown... there were plenty of vehicles and people on the road”. A senior bureaucrat, who commuted to their central Delhi office on Monday, however, said he did not notice “much difference” between lockdown 2.0 and now. “The streets are as empty as they were last week,” he said.   Many stores, including confectionery and electronics shops in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden and Kirti Nagar also saw large crowds. K.K. Gupta, 61, who runs an apparel shop in Bali Nagar with his son, said he had to open the shop to cover his rent and earn a living for his family. “The landlord let go of the rent for April but he would not have done it for May. How will I manage without opening the shop?” he said, adding that he is taking all precautions in wake of the pandemic. “Only three people are allowed inside the shop at one time. All must wear masks, and hand sanitiser has been kept to ensure people use it before entering,” he said. Even though guidelines permit cigarette shops to function, a south Delhi shopowner said the police had asked him to shut his kiosk and await “further orders”. In Lajpat Nagar, several cycle rickshaws were seen ferrying people between the main road and the colony. They were, however, quickly stopped by the police as cycle rickshaws are not permitted to ply yet. “I have not earned anything for over a month. When there are customers, why not allow us to work? We have suffered enough already,” said Kishen a cycle-rickshaw driver. Despite many taking advantage of fewer curbs, several people said they would not allow domestic help to resume work immediately as they wanted to “remain cautious”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/people-throng-shopping-areas-as-govt-lifts-some-restrictions/article31506555.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stranded migrants wander city clueless||As the government decided to ease lockdown restrictions, many who have been stranded in the Capital ran from pillar to post to seek permission from authorities to leave for their home States, but were allegedly shown the door. Outside the office of DCP (West) a bunch of people gathered on Monday trying to get a “pass” to return home. Sharmishtha Sana, who hails from Kolkata but has been living in Raghubir Nagar for the last eight years, said she and her family wanted to permanently shift to Kolkata. “On Sunday, the CM said that stranded people can now go back. So first thing in the morning, we went to the SDM office. The guard did not let us inside. Then we went to the local MLA’s office. They sent us to the DCP’s office. The official posted at the gate said that they have no knowledge about the matter,” she said, adding that she would go visit the SDM office again. Another person who wanted to leave Delhi but was unable to find a way was Ajay Bhatia. He belongs to Punjab and stays in Tilak Nagar on rent. Mr. Bhatia was recently terminated by Fareportal, a New York-based global tech travel firm in Gurugram. “I have been stuck here in Delhi and paying rent for the house unnecessarily. I have applied for e-pass online, but it has been rejected four times. An official told me today that I need to apply online only and come back two days later if I don’t get any response,” he said. A bunch of migrant labourers from Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh were spotted roaming clueless about who to approach. Sarvesh Kumar (25) from U.P.’s Lakhimpur Kheri said he had come to Delhi on March 22 to look for work but now wanted to go home. “I have no one here. My mother is old and I need to go back to her. I went to a police post. They told me to go to the DCP’s office. There, they told us to go to the SDM’s office, where they are not even letting us inside,” he said. Mohammed Darul from West Bengal and a few others with him held a form in their hands which they believed they had to submit at the office of either the DCP or the DM. The form had been declared “fake” by Delhi Police on Friday. “We got this form from a photocopy shop for Rs. 5 and were told that we had to submit it to the police station in our area but they are not accepting it,” said Mr. Darul. The Delhi government had on Sunday said that Additional DM and Additional DCP would be the District Nodal Officers for supervising collection of data on persons willing to leave the Capital. All who are willing to make their own arrangements for travel can proceed on the basis of transit pass issued by respective DMs, the order had stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/stranded-migrants-wander-city-clueless/article31506561.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||City sees 349 new cases, no deaths||On Monday, 349 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi, taking the total number of cases to 4,898, the Delhi government said. Of the total cases reported so far, 1,431 people have recovered and there are 3,403 active cases. A total of 64 people have died till date, but no death was reported on Monday. Three more areas were removed from the list of containment zones by the Delhi government on Monday. There were 90 such zones in the city as on Monday evening. An official statement said that 5,48,327 people are living in the containment zones in the city. A total of 64,108 COVID-19 tests have been conducted in Delhi so far. The statement also mentioned that 438  people who have tested positive for the virus are under home isolation at present. Seven more healthcare workers of Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini, including a pharmacist, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, hospital staff said. At least 61 healthcare workers of the Delhi government-run hospital have tested positive for the virus so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-sees-349-new-cases-no-deaths/article31506552.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal chairs Cabinet meet as govt. offices open||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday chaired the first Cabinet meeting after government offices were opened as part of the new lockdown guidelines. Among the major decisions, the Cabinet approved the process of home isolation of mild and asymptomatic COVID-19 positive patients. “A training manual has been designed which will be given to all patients and their caregivers. A team of health workers will call each patient and educate them on best practices for home isolation. This will be followed by a daily call that will track important vitals of the patient,” the government said in a statement. The Delhi government also approved a proposal to extend a one-time financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 to owners of e-rickshaws registered in Delhi. “Permit-holders of paratransit vehicles who were also holding PSV badges have already been covered under the existing scheme,” the statement said. The Delhi Cabinet also approved ration for May to 38 lakh non-PDS card-holders who registered for ration e-coupons online. Each individual will be given 4 kg of wheat and 1 kg of rice. Every family will also receive a COVID-19 relief kit that is being given to PDS card-holders. Meanwhile, an ex-gratia amount of Rs. 1 crore was approved for the kin of Ankit Sharma, an IB staffer who died on February 26 in the north-east Delhi riots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kejriwal-chairs-cabinet-meet-as-govt-offices-open/article31506558.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Test reports to be available in 1-2 days’||The city government assured the Delhi High Court on Monday that from now on reports of COVID-19 tests will be received within 1-2 days from the date the sample is received by the lab concerned. The Delhi government said there are 23 accredited labs that undertake COVID-19 testing in the Capital that have a collective capacity of conducting 3,000-3,500 tests per day. Out of the said 23 accredited labs, 10 are in the public sector and 13 are in the private sector. It clarified that as on April 29, 7,794 reports were pending, out of which 5,944 were pending at the end of National Institute of Biologicals (NIB), Noida. After finding that the reports were not being received within a reasonable time from NIB, Noida, the Delhi government has stopped sending any further samples to the NIB. It further stated that till Sunday night, 3,790 reports were pending with the accredited labs which will be received within a day or two. The Delhi government said it was cognisant of the delay in receiving reports and has dealt with the said situation without losing time. The Delhi government’s response came on a petition filed by advocate Rakesh Malhotra who raised the issue of delay in furnishing reports after conducting tests for COVID-19 on suspected people. Mr. Malhotra contended that due to the delay the contact tracing is also getting delayed and the infection is multiplying rapidly in Delhi. The court also directed the Delhi government to update its website to reflect the correct number of tests that are being conducted in the city,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/test-reports-to-be-available-in-1-2-days/article31506550.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Oppn. parties slam CM for opening liquor shops||The Delhi government’s decision to open liquor shops may lead to a 10% increase in COVID-19 cases in the Capital, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, claimed here on Monday. Criticising the Delhi government’s decision to open liquor shops, Mr. Bidhuri, in a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, requested the Delhi government to reconsider its decision. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar also hit out at the State government for opening liquor outlets in the city to boost its revenue without “bothering about the health of the people”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/oppn-parties-slam-cm-for-opening-liquor-shops/article31506559.ece
05 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Jharkhand launches schemes for job creation||Faced with the possibility of a steep rise in the rate of unemployment in villages following the arrival of large-scale stranded migrant workers from other States, the Jharkhand government on Monday launched three labour intensive programmes to restore the rural economy. These three schemes have been devised in convergence with the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CIME) data, the State is reeling under severe joblessness with unemployment rate pegged at 47.1% — double that of the national average (23.5%). The arrival of an estimated 5 lakh to 6 lakh migrant workers is likely to worsen the situation. In Ranchi, Chief Minister Hemant Soren unveiled three schemes — Birsa Harit Gram Yojana (BHGY), Neelambar Pitambar JAL Sammridhi Yojana (NPJSY) and Veer Sahid Poto Ho Khel Vikas Scheme (VSPHKVS) — to create wage employment for workers in rural areas. The BHGY is envisaged at bringing over two lakh acres of unused government fallow land under the afforestation programme. About five lakh families will be provided 100 fruit-bearing plants. The initial plantation, maintenance, land work and afforestation will be taken up through MNREGA.  Fruit harvest Each family is estimated to receive an annual income of Rs. 50,000 from fruit harvest after three years while the ownership of land will remain with the government As per NPJSY, the government is aiming at creating agro-water storage units by arresting rainwater and runaway groundwater. Nearly 5 lakh acre of cultivable land can be irrigated through the initiative, said the State government. An estimated 10 crore person days will be generated through the scheme in the next 4-5 years. Under VSPHKVS, as many as 5,000 sports grounds will be developed across the State. The government hopes to generate one crore person days through the scheme in the current financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jharkhand-launches-schemes-for-job-creation/article31506544.ece
05 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM urges Shah to arrange special trains for migrant workers||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking his intervention to arrange special trains for the next 10-15 days, beginning May 5, for transporting migrant workers stranded in Punjab to their home States. Capt. Amarinder urged the Home Minister to direct the Ministry of Railways to make suitable arrangements, since the migrant workers stranded in Punjab are “understandably restless to return to their States”. The Chief Minister’s request came as over 6.4 lakh migrant workers registered on the State government’s Web portal. In his letter to Mr. Shah, Capt. Amarinder said his government would indicate its daily requirement of trains in advance to the Railway Ministry for the next 10-15 days to transport all the people who had registered on the portal. At the local level, officials were coordinating with senior railway officials and those in other States to plan the smooth movement of the migrants, he said. The Chief Minister pointed out that a large number of workers come from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other eastern States to seek temporary employment in the industrial and agricultural sector in Punjab. “These people, who were due to leave in March, normally after Holi, could not leave because of the imposition of the lockdown,” he said. Letter to PM Capt. Amarinder also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to issue urgent directives to six premier research institutions in the State to scale up their testing capacity to 2,000 tests daily to assist the Punjab government in its public health response to Covid-19. The State on Monday reported two more deaths related to COVID-19, taking the total tally to 23, besides 132 fresh cases of COVID-19, according to an official statement. The total active cases in the State at present are 1,081 and as many as 128 patients have so far been recovered. In Haryana, one death was reported on May 4, taking the total to six while 75 fresh cases of COVID-19 surfaced, taking the total tally of cumulative cases to 517 in the State, according to a government statement. Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda expressed deep concern over the sudden spurt in cases. He said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar should take the decision to relax the lockdown in the State only after reviewing the current situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-cm-urges-shah-to-arrange-special-trains-for-migrant-workers/article31506543.ece
05 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Digvijaya defaming Sikh pilgrims: SAD-BJP||The Shiromani Akali Dal and the BJP on Monday accused senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh of defaming Sikh pilgrims by attempting to hold them guilty of spreading the virus. At a meeting, the SAD-BJP coordination committee members accused Mr. Singh of stigmatising Sikhs. They also alleged that the Punjab government was mistreating pilgrims repatriated from Gurdwara Hazur Sahib at Nanded in Maharashtra. The meeting was jointly presided over by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and BJP State president Ashwani Sharma. Both the leaders accused Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of failing to provide appropriate leadership at the time of crisis. In a joint statement, the leaders said the manner in which Mr. Singh had compared Sikh pilgrims with a religious congregation in Delhi, it appeared to be a ploy to stigmatise the Sikhs in the same manner as done by the Congress in 1984 by calling them “terrorists” and later in 2012 by terming them “drug addicts”. The leaders demanded that immediate action be taken against Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/digvijaya-defaming-sikh-pilgrims-sad-bjp/article31506549.ece
05 May 2020||Ghaziabad/ Lucknow,||U.P. legislator held for curbs violation||Aman Mani Tripathi, an Independent MLA from Uttar Pradesh, was arrested in the Najibabad area of Bijnor on Monday evening along with six persons for violating lockdown norms, police said. Mr. Tripathi represents the Nautanwa Assembly segment of Maharajganj district. Sanjeev Tyagi, Bijnor Superintendent of Police, told reporters, “He was stopped during routine checking and was found without a travel pass.” Mr. Tyagi said he has been booked. The arrest of the MLA came hours after he was sent back from Uttarakhand for violating the rules of lockdown as he was trying to travel to Badrinath and Kedarnath on the pretext of praying for Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanth’s father, who passed away recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-legislator-held-for-curbs-violation/article31506545.ece
05 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||A ‘new normal’ day in Assam||A semblance of normalcy returned to Assam on Monday with the relaxation of COVID-19 lockdown allowing several commercial activities to resume across the State’s green zones. There are no red zones in Assam with 32 of the 43 who tested positive for COVID-19 having been discharged while one person died. Of the State’s 33 districts, only four are marked orange zones. People ventured out of their homes to buy essential commodities and other items as 33% of shops and commercial establishments were allowed to open by the government from 6 am to 6 pm. The business outlets have been instructed to open on a rotation basis. State-owned and private buses began plying with 50% passengers under the Transport Department’s watch. Government and private offices also began functioning with 50% workforce. Private vehicles and app-based cabs allowed to carry a maximum of two passengers were on the streets too.  Social distancing “The police have been asked to monitor the movement of people to ensure they venture out with mask and maintain social distancing,” Assam Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The liquor shops, which were allowed to open two days ahead of the general relaxation date, did considerable business. The Department of Excise could not provide data but the All Assam IMFL Retailers’ Association said the daily sale in the State was about Rs. 15 crore. Hotels, restaurants, gyms, salons, parks, swimming pools, shopping complexes, theatre halls and weekly markets continued to remain shut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/a-new-normal-day-in-assam/article31506548.ece
05 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. MLA flags food delay at quarantine centre||A BJP MLA in Firozabad has flagged the delay in providing food and water to people kept in quarantine and isolation centres in the district. In a letter to the Firozabad District Magistrate, MLA Manish Asija raised the issue of delay in serving food and water to people, including children, kept at the Agradham quarantine centre in Raja Ka Taal area of Firozabad. On May 2, Mr. Asija said he received desperate messages from those under quarantine at the centre pointing out to him that they were yet to receive lunch even till 2.45 p.m. Worse, the quarantined people did not receive any water in the May heat till that time, apart from the half-litre water rationed to each one in the morning during breakfast, the legislator wrote. Mr. Asija also pointed out that lunch was not served in the isolation ward in the district hospital even till 3.30 p.m. “... this condition of the people most affected by [novel] coronavirus is undoubtedly a cause for major concern,” he wrote in Hindi. The legislator appealed to the DM to probe the episode and take action against those in involved in the “gross negligence”. Firozabad DM Chandra Vijay Singh said the food supplied to the centre was delayed as the contractor responsible for it suffered a death in his family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-mla-flags-food-delay-at-quarantine-centre/article31506546.ece
05 May 2020||Rome,||Europe emerges from virus lockdown||Millions of Europeans emerged with relief from coronavirus confinement on Monday, with hard-hit Italy leading the way out of the world's longest lockdown. At least 3.5 million people are now known to have been infected, but U.S. President Donald Trump offered hope for an end to the pandemic, saying he believed there would be a vaccine by year's end. The search for a cure received a further boost when the European Union hosted a telethon for world leaders aimed at raising €7.5 billion ($8.2 billion) to discover a COVID-19 vaccine. Around 248,000 people have died since the coronavirus emerged in China late last year and swept across the globe, given wings by the network of air routes that in normal times keep the modern world ticking. Lockdowns imposed on half of the planet have derailed economies, and politicians are now grappling with how to get the wheels turning again without sparking a second wave of infections. Italy — second only to the U.S. in its death toll and the first to impose a national lockdown — was gingerly emerging into the spring sunshine on Monday, with construction sites and factories resuming work. Restaurants reopened for takeaway orders, but bars and ice cream parlours will remain shut. The use of public transport is being discouraged and everyone will have to wear masks in indoor public spaces. Italy reported its lowest death toll on Sunday since the first day of the lockdown on March 9 with 174 fatalities, compared with 969 at the peak. In all, 28,884 people have died in Italy. Meanwhile, statistics bureau ISTAT said on Monday that Italy's coronavirus death toll is much higher than reported. In its first report of the epidemic's impact on Italy's mortality rate, covering 86% of the population, ISTAT said that from February 21, when the first COVID-19 deaths occurred, until March 31, nationwide deaths were up 39% compared with the average of the previous five years. Masks mandatory Many other European countries are also relaxing lockdowns, even as they continue to advocate social distancing, masks and more testing to try to track infections. Spain made face masks mandatory on public transport starting Monday, two days after finally allowing people out to exercise freely after a 48-day lockdown. Neighbouring Portugal allowed small shops, hair salons and car dealers to resume business from Monday, but ordered face masks to be worn in stores and on public transport. Slovenia, Poland and Hungary joined Germany in allowing public spaces and businesses to partially reopen. In Germany people queued up at hair salons as they finally reopened. The pressure to reopen business is also being felt across the Atlantic, where the previously booming U.S. economy was supposed to be the centrepiece of Mr. Trump's November re-election bid. With his poll numbers sagging, Mr. Trump has increasingly taken to blaming China for the coronavirus outbreak. China's state broadcaster on Monday attacked U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo for “insane” remarks in which he said the virus originated in a lab in Wuhan, the city where the pandemic first emerged. “Remember, China has a history of infecting the world and running substandard laboratories,” Mr. Pompeo said Sunday. Renewed tensions The renewed tensions between the world's two biggest economies set financial markets on edge on Monday from Asia to New York. Many parts of Asia have, however, begun to inch towards a post-pandemic life, with schools in the Vietnamese capital Hanoi reopening on Monday after two weeks without new infections anywhere in the country. Malaysians headed back to work, while Australia and New Zealand discussed creating a “trans-Tasman bubble” that would allow travel between the two countries. Russia is rapidly becoming Europe's black spot, with officials in Moscow urging residents to stay home in an effort to tamp down the growing daily tally of new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/europe-emerges-from-virus-lockdown/article31506268.ece
05 May 2020||Washington,||Trump relaunches campaign with a promise of vaccine||President Donald Trump relaunched his election campaign on Sunday with a live television event inside the iconic Lincoln Memorial, promising an early coronavirus vaccine and urging Americans to put the pandemic behind them to embrace an “incredible” future. With the two-hour long Fox News “town hall,” Mr. Trump sought to wrap himself in the mantle of America’s arguably greatest President — and to persuade a nation battered by death and mass unemployment to look ahead. “We can't stay closed as a country, we're not going to have a country left,” he said on the show, where two moderators, as well as ordinary citizens via video, put questions to him in front of the monument. “We're going to have an incredible following year,” he said. To a woman who called in expressing fear of financial ruin and eviction, Mr. Trump said her job would come back. “You get a job where you make more money,” he said. Saying Americans should start going back to beaches this summer and recommending that shuttered schools need to reopen in September, Mr. Trump forecast good news on the hunt for a vaccine. “We are very confident that we're going to have a vaccine... by the end of the year,” he said, admitting he was getting ahead of his own advisors with the prediction. “I'll say what I think,” he said. Divisive style He is doing poorly in most polls ahead of the November presidential contest against Democratic challenger Joe Biden, who remains shuttered in his Delaware home. Mr. Trump faces criticism for his divisive style during a time of national calamity. He is also accused by some of botching the early response to the COVID-19 virus. With officials saying the viral spread has begun to taper, Mr. Trump is itching to return to the campaign trail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-relaunches-campaign-with-a-promise-of-vaccine/article31506273.ece
05 May 2020||Beijing,||China province launches anti-racism push after outrage||China’s southern Guangdong province has launched a raft of anti-discrimination policies targeting businesses and venues after a heavy-handed crackdown on the African community sparked international outrage last month. Authorities in the provincial capital Guangzhou had started mass testing its African community shortly after a cluster of COVID-19 cases was found in a neighbourhood with a large migrant population, and a wave of reports about discrimination and xenophobia followed. The new anti-racism rules came after many Africans in Guangzhou said they had been forcibly evicted by police from their accommodation, refused service at shops and restaurants, and were subject to mass coronavirus testing and arbitrary quarantines. Now, businesses and residential compounds “must implement non-discriminatory service... treat all Chinese and foreigners in Guangdong equally, and firmly oppose any racist or discriminatory speech and behaviour,” according to a media report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-province-launches-anti-racism-push-after-outrage/article31506263.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s the calculus behind Donald Trump’s tirade against China?||President Donald Trump and his aides have stepped up attacks on China in recent weeks over the COVID-19 outbreak as the U.S. was struggling to contain the spread of the virus and the economic crisis it triggered. Mr. Trump first called the novel coronavirus a “Chinese virus”. Last month, he suggested theU.S. seek damages from China over the outbreakwhich began in Wuhan. Mr. Trump has already restricted use of Chinese electrical equipment in the U.S. grid system. Some officials in the administration are prodding him to block a government pension fund from investing in Chinese companies. Moreover, Mr. Trump has linked a virology lab in Wuhan to the virus, an allegation which the U.S. intelligence agencies are investigating. Tensions between the two countries are not new. Bilateral ties were not particularly good since Mr. Trump became President. This time, Mr. Trump has taken tensions to new highsby endorsing the unproven lab theoryandthreatening China with punishments, which could have harsh economic consequences at a time when the global economy is in its deepest downturn in decades. Why is Mr. Trump doing this? The new rival Till early this year, the focus of Mr. Trump’s re-election team was on the performance of the economy. The economy was growing, unemployment rate was low and the stock markets were rising. But then the virus hit the U.S. Mr. Trump immediately had two problems in his hands. One, the U.S. is one of the hardest-hit countries by the outbreak. As of Monday, there were over 1.16 million COVID-19 infections in the U.S. and over 67,700 deaths. The Trump administration’s response to the crisis triggered widespread criticism in the U.S., leading to a slide in the President’s approval rating. Two, the economy tanked amid the virus crisis. About 30 million Americans have lost their jobs since mid-March. A Congressional Budget Office report forecasts that unemployment rate would average 14% this year — highest since the end of Second World War — and that the U.S. economy would shrink by 12% in the second quarter. In the first quarter, the economy shrank by 4.8%, the first contraction since 2014 and the deepest since the 2008 recession. Mr. Trump has effectively lost the bet on the economy in an election year. Faced with these challenges, he seems to have zeroed in on his favourite foreign rival to mobilise his support base — China. Run against China Late last month, right-leaning academic and columnist Walter Russell Mead wrote in The Wall Street Journal that Mr. Trump’s best re-election bet was to run against China. “With the economy in shambles and the pandemic ravaging the country, making the election a referendum on China is perhaps Mr. Trump’s only chance to extend his White House tenure past January 2021,” he wrote. China would soon become a political issue in the U.S. with both the Republican Party and President Trump turning Beijing into to an electoral issue. A 57-page memo sent to campaign committees by the National Republican Senatorial Committee advised Republican candidates to address the pandemic by attacking China. It asked GOP leaders to tie Democrats to Beijing and “push for sanctions on China for its role in spreading this pandemic”. Following the GOP memo, President Trump said on April 30 in an interview with Reuters that China “will do anything they can to have me lose this race”. He added that Beijing wanted his Democratic opponent Joe Biden to win the November election. The America First Action political committee that backs Mr. Trump has launched advertisements attacking “Beijing Biden”. They portray Mr. Biden as the representative of the establishment elite that is “soft on China”. China has responded angrily to such attacks. “The H1N1 flu that broke out in the U.S. in 2009 [and] spread to 214 countries and regions, killing nearly 200,000 people; has anyone demanded the U.S. for compensation?” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang asked last month. The official Xinhua news agency released a one-minute-forty-six-second video on April 30 defending China’s handling of the pandemic and accusing the U.S. of ignoring its warnings. With the election season hotting up in the U.S., the China-bashing in DC is expected to increase, which could further complicate the trade and economic ties between the world’s largest and second largest economies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/whats-the-calculus-behind-donald-trumps-tirade-against-china/article31506265.ece
05 May 2020||Berlin,||Former Pope says opponents are attempting to ‘silence’ him||Traditionalist former Pope Benedict XVI accuses opponents of wanting to “silence” him while associating gay marriage with “the Antichrist” and attacking “humanist ideologies” in a new authorised biography published on Monday in Germany. The 93-year-old, whose original name is Joseph Ratzinger, claims in Benedict XVI — A Life that he has fallen victim to a “malignant distortion of reality” in reactions to his interventions in theological debates. “The spectacle of reactions coming from German theology is so misguided and ill-willed that I would prefer not to speak of it,” he said. The former Pope — who dramatically resigned in 2013 — was especially criticised for a 2018 text that was seen as critical of the Jewish faith. “I would rather not analyse the actual reasons why people want to silence my voice,” he said. The German branch of the Catholic Church has for years been led by clergy more disposed to reform than the stringent traditionalism associated with Pope Benedict. In office from 2005-13, the former Pope has frequently been criticised for his attitudes to Islam or to social questions, and is accused of attempting to undermine the modernisation drive of his successor Pope Francis. Pope Benedict attempts to counter such claims in the biography, saying his “personal friendship with Pope Francis has not only endured, but grown”. In February, Pope Benedict was drawn into a Vatican intrigue when his private secretary was removed from Pope Francis' entourage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/former-pope-says-opponents-are-attempting-to-silence-him/article31506271.ece
05 May 2020||WASHINGTON,||In a first, U.S. top court goes live to hear cases||In a break from tradition caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the U.S. Supreme Court on Monday for the first time will hear arguments in a case not in person but by teleconference — a trademark dispute involving the popular hotel reservation website Booking.com. The nine Justices over the next two weeks are set to participate in arguments in 10 cases, using a dial-in format to combat the spread of the pathogen. In another first, the court will provide a live audio feed, making these the first arguments that the public can hear live. Cable TV network C-SPAN said it plans to broadcast that feed in all the cases. Rather than the wide-open questioning exhibited during typical cases in the Justices’ ornate courtroom, the court has tweaked the format for the teleconference arguments so that Justices will take turn asking questions in order of seniority. The first case is due to begin at 10 a.m. ET. The Justices will hear a bid by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to prevent Booking.com, a unit of Norwalk, Connecticut-based Booking Holdings Inc, from trademarking the site’s name, contending that it is too generic to deserve legal protection. The case comes as Booking.com, along with the rest of the travel industry, has been slammed by the pandemic, which has caused tourism and business travel to evaporate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-a-first-us-top-court-goes-live-to-hear-cases/article31506275.ece
05 May 2020||Washington/ISLAMABAD,||U.S. demands justice from Pak. for scribe’s murder||The U.S. has again demanded justice for murdered American journalist Daniel Pearl, days after his family filed an appeal before the Pakistan Supreme Court against a verdict by a court in Sindh province which acquitted the prime accused and British-born top al-Qaeda leader Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh and three others in the case. Pearl, the 38-year-old South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal , was abducted and beheaded while he was in Pakistan investigating a story in 2002 on the alleged links between the country’s powerful spy agency ISI and al-Qaeda. On April 2, a two-judge Sindh High Court bench overturned the death sentence of 46-year-old al-Qaeda leader Sheikh, who was convicted in the abduction and murder of Pearl in 2002. He has been in jail for the past 18 years. The court also acquitted his three aides — Fahad Naseem, Salman Saqib and Sheikh Adil —serving life sentences in the case. The Bench announced the verdict on the appeals filed by the four convicts 18 years ago. “On the eve of World Press Freedom Day, we honour the legacy of journalist Daniel Pearl. We appreciate the Govt. of Pakistan’s 4/22 appeal to reinstate guilty verdicts against Daniel’s murderers, now buttressed by the filing of the Pearl family’s appeal before the SC,” State for South and Central Asian Affairs Alice Wells tweeted on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-demands-justice-from-pak-for-scribes-murder/article31506274.ece
05 May 2020||Tokyo,||Japan extends emergency until May 31||Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Monday extended a state of emergency over the coronavirus until the end of May, warning it was too soon to begin relaxing restrictions. But Mr. Abe said a review of the situation would be conducted in about two weeks, and the measures could be lifted before the end of the month if new infections slow sufficiently. And he implied that there would be no further extension of the emergency as the country “presses towards the exit”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/japan-extends-emergency-until-may-31/article31506269.ece
05 May 2020||Beirut,||HRW: bodies dumped in Syria gorge||Human Rights Watch on Monday called for an investigation into a spectacular gorge in northern Syria that has been used as a dumping site for dead bodies over several years. The 50-metre-deep hole in a desert area of Raqa province was once controlled by the Islamic State group, when it still ruled its “caliphate” straddling swathes of Syria and Iraq. HRW investigated the site since the area was wrested from the jihadists by Kurdish-led forces in late 2017 and found that bodies were dumped in the gorge. “Al-Hota gorge, once a beautiful natural site, has become a place of horror and reckoning,” said Sara Kayyali, Syria researcher at Human Rights Watch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hrw-bodies-dumped-in-syria-gorge/article31506272.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Virus cases surge past 20,000 in Pak.||Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Monday that the nationwide lockdown will be lifted gradually, asserting that Pakistan cannot afford an indefinite closure, hours after 1,083 new infections were diagnosed, taking the total confirmed COVID-19 cases past 20,000. In the last 24 hours, 1,083 new cases were reported, taking the total to 20,186 patients. There were 22 deaths during this period, upping the fatalities to 462. A total of 5,590 patients have recovered in the country, the ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/virus-cases-surge-past-20000-in-pak/article31506276.ece
05 May 2020||Kandahar,||Kandahar, Afghanistan, May 4, 2020 (AFP) -||Five members of Afghan security forces were killed in a bombing targeting their base, officials said on Monday, just days after the U.S. warned the Taliban against violence. The insurgents targeted a base used by the Afghan army.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kandahar-afghanistan-may-4-2020-afp/article31506262.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||MPLADS, its suspension, and why it must go||All Opposition parties have been unanimous in their criticism of the government’s recent move to suspend the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for two years, approved by the Cabinet. The government’s reason is this: to use these funds “to strengthen the government’s efforts in managing the challenges and adverse impact of COVID-19 in the country”. Such political unanimity is not very common but does happen whenever self-interest is involved. Under the scheme, each Member of Parliament “has the choice to suggest to the District Collector for works to the tune of Rs. 5 crores per annum to be taken up in his/her constituency”. It must be said upfront that notwithstanding the fact that unilateral decision-making is inappropriate in a democracy, the decision to suspend MPLADS for two years is a good first step. In fact, the MPLADs scheme should be completely abolished, and for the following reasons. First, the scheme violates one of the cardinal principles, which though not specifically written down in the Constitution, actually permeates the entire Constitution: separation of powers. Simply put, this scheme, in effect, gives an executive function to legislators (read legislature). The argument that MPs only recommend projects, but the final choice and implementation rests with the district authorities is strange; there are hardly any authorities in the district who have the courage or the gumption to defy the wishes of an MP. CAG’s observations Second, implementation of the scheme has always left much to be desired. The details below, which are some of the observations made by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India, in a report make it clear: Expenditure incurred by the executing agencies being less than amount booked. Utilisation of funds between 49 to 90% of the booked amount; Though the scheme envisages that works under the scheme should be limited to asset creation, 549 of the 707 works test-checked (78%) of the works recommended were for improvement of existing assets; Wide variations in quantities executed against the quantities specified in the BOQ (Bills of Quantity) in 137 of the 707 works test-checked. Variations ranged from 16 to 2312%. (“2312%” is the figure actually mentioned in the audit report); Use of lesser quantities of material than specified by contractors resulting in excess payments and sub-standard works; “no accountability for the expenditure in terms of the quality and quantities executed against specifications”; Delays in issuing work orders ranging from 5 to 387 days in 57% of the works against the requirement of issuing the work order within 45 days of the receipt of recommendation by the MP; Extensions of time granted to contractors without following the correct procedure; Register of assets created, as required under the scheme, not maintained, therefore location and existence of assets could not be verified; “The implementation of the scheme was marked by various shortcomings and lapses... These were indicative of the failure of internal control mechanisms in the department in terms of non-maintenance of records”. Gaps in utilisation Third, there are wide variations in the utilisation of the MPLAD amount in various constituencies. A report published in IndiaSpend has some very interesting insights based on data made available to it by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation. Some of these are: “A year after they took office, 298 of 542 members of the 16th Lok Sabha — India’s lower house of parliament — have not spent a rupee from the Rs. 5 crore that is set aside annually for them to develop their constituencies”; 508 MPs (93.55%) did not, or could not, utilise the entire MPLADS amount from May 4, 2014 till December 10, 2018, in 4 years and 7 months. Only 35 MPs of the Lok Sabha utilised the entire amount of MPLADS during this period; Though Rs. 1,757 crore had been released for MPLADs, only Rs. 281 crore had been utilised by all the 543 MPs till May 15, 2015. This means only 16% of the money had been spent in one year by all the MPs put together, because the Lok Sabha was constituted in May 2014; Since the MPLADS began in 1993, Rs. 5,000 crore was lying unspent with various district authorities by May 15, 2015. It is clear from the details above, as well as later experience, that most MPs use money under MPLADS quite haphazardly, and a significant portion of it is left unspent. Fourth, added to the data above is fairly widespread talk of money under MPLADS being used to appease or oblige two sets of people: opinion-makers or opinion-influencers, and favourite contractors. Sometimes these two categories overlap. An often-heard tale is that of the contractor being a relative, close friend, or a confidant of the MP, and the contractor and the MP being financially linked with each other. Finally, we come back to the legality or constitutionality issue which was mentioned earlier. The constitutional validity of MPLADS was challenged in the Supreme Court of India in 1999, followed by petitions in 2000, 2003, 2004, and 2005. The combined judgment for all these petitions was delivered on May 6, 2010, with the scheme being held to be constitutional. With due respect to the top court, it must be said that the Court does not seem to have been able to appreciate the situation in totality. It seems to have placed an unquestioned trust in the efficacy of the scheme of implementation of MPLADS drawn up by the government without an assessment of the situation prevalent in the field, evidence of which is available in audit reports wherein gross irregularities and infirmities in implementation have been pointed out. The possibility that implementation of a lot of schemes bears no relationship to how the schemes were intended to be implemented, seems to have completely escaped the attention of the Court. Common experience does not support this because of large, yawning gaps being found in actual implementation. Cases of misuse Reports of underutilisation and misutilisation of MPLADS funds continue to surface at regular intervals but there seems to have been no serious attempt to do anything about it till now. There are innumerable instances of misuse of these funds; one prominent example is the construction of a fountain in the open space of an unauthorised settlement, or a jhuggi jhopdi colony, which did not have provision of drinking water. The general belief in the settlement was that the contractor who bagged the contract to build the fountain was related to the local Member of Parliament. Therefore, it would be in order to convert the two-year suspension into the complete abolition of this undesirable and unconstitutional scheme. Jagdeep S. Chhokar is a former Professor, Dean and Director In-charge of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mplads-its-suspension-and-why-it-must-go/article31506248.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 and India’s fiscal conundrum||As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to ravage economies across the world, policymakers are desperately seeking effective ways to mitigate its economic effects. The immediate future appears dire for large emerging markets including India, which recently saw its growth forecast for 2020 slashed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to 1.9% from the previously estimated 5.8%. In April, the World Bank estimated that India would grow 1.5% to 2.8% in 2020-2021, the lowest since the start of the 1991 economic reforms. Dim as these projections are, what is of concern is that these are already starting to look overly optimistic considering that India has extended the lockdown. Fiscal stimulus efforts Given the severity of the crisis, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has responded proactively and aggressively to ease liquidity concerns although the credit easing policy does not seem to have been transmitted yet to many firms. It has also granted regulatory forbearance relating to asset classification to support economic activity, though some socialisation of losses might be inevitable over time. In contrast, the Indian government’s fiscal stimulus efforts have paled in comparison to the rest of the world’s initiatives. India’s fiscal stimulus to date, estimated at Rs. 1.7 trillion, is less than 1% of the country’s GDP, which is paltry compared to the magnitude of stimulus injections undertaken by many East Asian countries such as Japan (20%), Malaysia (16.2%) and Singapore (12.2%). With the Indian economy in the ICU, there has understandably been a lot of criticism regarding the gross inadequacy of the government’s fiscal response to date. Several observers have emphasised the need for India to roll out a revival package of at least 5% of the GDP (Rs. 10 trillion) to support the health and economic well-being of the most vulnerable (slum dwellers and migrant workers) as well as micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). Some other lower-income countries have been reluctant to impose nationwide lockdowns as they recognise that this policy works best in countries that are sufficiently well endowed to offer appropriate compensatory resources to the most vulnerable. Relief packages in Asia While the case for an aggressive fiscal stimulus is clear in these exceptional circumstances, the options to finance it do not appear to be straightforward. On the one end, most advanced economies can manage such financing by issuing bonds given their global demand. On the other, over 50 struggling low-income countries with limited resources to tackle the crisis have turned to the IMF for help. The G7 countries have in principle agreed to offer debt relief to low-income countries by suspending their debt service payments. The ones caught in between are mostly the middle-income emerging markets in Asia and elsewhere, like India. To date, the Asian Development Bank and the World Bank have committed to offering relief packages worth $1.5 billion and $1 billion, respectively, to India, while there are reports that the country has sought further multilateral assistance from the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. While certainly helpful, these would be a drop in the bucket as such assistance can at best only be supplementary to the larger underlying stimulus package that India may need to roll out. However, with a government debt of around 72% of GDP, which is comparatively higher than all other emerging markets in the region, India’s fiscal room to opt for a massive stimulus appears much more limited. Any aggressive stimulus spending will not only result in a surge in India’s gross public debt but will also negatively impact its credit ratings, highlighting the country’s fiscal conundrum. Even if the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management constraints are relaxed, given India’s limited demand for domestic bonds, there is a need to seek capital flows to finance its additional stimulus by encouraging foreign investment in government securities. However, it is unclear how much the recently liberalised norms in this area will be of help, given the heightened risk aversion and short-term capital outflows from India and other emerging markets. In fairness to the government though, other large middle-income Asian emerging markets like Indonesia have also lagged in their fiscal response, despite being hard-hit by COVID-19. Some richer countries in the Asian region like Singapore have managed to tap into their deep reserve kitty benefiting from the significant role played by their sovereign wealth funds. While India does not have that luxury, it has been suggested that some of the country’s $476 billion of foreign exchange (FX) reserves be used towards this purpose. However, this is an extremely risky option in light of India’s sizeable current account deficits and heavy dependence on short-term capital inflows. Given the likely pressure on its balance of payments moving forward, utilising FX reserves does not seem to be viable at the moment. A radical financing option would be to monetise the deficits by allowing the RBI to print money to buy the government bonds as long as inflation remains under check, though this might set a dangerous precedent (something the RBI stopped doing in 1997) moving forward. India has worked hard to move away from such money-financed fiscal stimulus polices that led to weak budget constraints and macroeconomic instability. Adequate fiscal space Although it is important to do whatever it takes to moderate the meltdown, offer disaster relief and eventually kick-start the economy, there are valid concerns that unless there is proper governance of any massive fiscal spending, even a very well-intentioned policy may end up doing more harm than good. Even countries like China have been guarded in their fiscal responses so far. In China, this was partly to avoid a rise in its shadow banking activities, which turned out to be one of the perverse side-effects of its massive stimulus post the global financial crisis. Countries with higher initial public debt levels like India need to be particularly concerned as they also happen to possess the least state capacity to make tough decisions to return to a trajectory of fiscal credibility. This crisis has made clear the critical importance for countries to build adequate fiscal space to manage future economic distresses. Given the acute constraints on fiscal policy in India, there is clearly a need to start re-prioritising expenditures away from low-priority, unproductive areas towards greater spending on health and social safety nets for low-income households. Ramkishen S. Rajan is Yong Pung How Professor at Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, National University of Singapore, and Sasidaran Gopalan is Senior Research Fellow at the Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/covid-19-and-indias-fiscal-conundrum/article31506257.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||A grain stockist with a role still relevant||For several years now, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has drawn attention for all the wrong reasons. Set up under the Food Corporations Act 1964, in its first decade, the FCI was at the forefront of India’s quest of self-sufficiency in rice and wheat following the Green Revolution, managing procurement and stocking grain that supported a vast Public Distribution System (PDS). Over time, however, many began to see it as a behemoth that had long outlived its purpose. Its operations were regarded as expensive and inefficient, a perception that has come to be accepted as fact. Even in the 1970s and 1980s, poor storage conditions meant a lot of grain was lost to pests, mainly rats; diversion of grain was widespread, prompting a former chairman to declare that there was a problem with “human rats” as well. By the late 1990s, the FCI was often referred to as the “Food Corruption of India”, not entirely facetiously. Why it is better placed Notwithstanding its dubious reputation, the FCI has consistently maintained the PDS, a lifeline for vulnerable millions across the country. Today, in the middle of the COVID-19 pandemic, it holds the key to warding off a looming crisis of hunger and starvation, especially in regions where lakhs of migrant workers have returned with little in hand by way of money or food. Before the lockdown, many experts had observed that with 77 million tonnes of grains in its godowns and on the eve of a new round of procurement — of a bumper harvest of wheat — the FCI was facing a serious storage problem. This was worrying not just because of a shortage of modern storage facilities but also because the FCI lacked a “pro-active liquidation policy” for excess stocks. Today, this concern has all but disappeared, even if only temporarily, and many have called for opening up the godowns to release food stocks to those affected by the lockdown. As of April 13, 2020, the FCI had already moved 3 million tonnes (post-lockdown), to States, including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Karnataka and those in the Northeast, where demand outstrips within State procurement and/or stocks. The FCI has also enabled purchases by States and non-governmental organisations directly from FCI depots, doing away with e-auctions typically conducted for the Open Market Sale Scheme (OMSS). With rabi procurement under way in many States, it seems that the country will secure ample food supplies to cope with the current crisis. Given the extended lockdown, the FCI is uniquely positioned to move grain across State borders where private sector players continue to face formidable challenges. With passenger rail and road traffic suspended, grain can move quickly without bottlenecks. Yet, there is a widespread sense that the FCI is simply not moving fast enough and could do much more. First, the FCI is overwhelmingly reliant on rail, which has several advantages over road transport. In 2019-2020 (until February) only 24% of the grain moved was by road. The FCI has, however, long recognised that road movement is often better suited for emergencies and for remote areas. Containerised movement too, which is not the dominant way of transporting grain, is more cost-effective and efficient. Now, more than ever, it is imperative to move grain quickly and with the least cost and effort, to areas where the need is greatest. Positioning strategy Second, given that the coming months will see predictable demand of staples from food insecure hotspots where migrant workers have just returned or where work is scarce, one strategy that has been adopted widely in international food aid by the United States, for example, is “pre-positioning” shipments, where grain is stored closer to demand hotspots. The FCI already has a decentralised network of godowns. In the current context, it would be useful for the State government and the FCI to maintain stocks at block headquarters or panchayats in food insecure or remote areas, in small hermetic silos or containers; this would allow State governments to respond rapidly, not to mention the sense of assurance and psychological comfort that it will offer vulnerable communities. This is especially relevant for regions that are chronically underserved by markets or where markets have been severely disrupted. Third, there is a strong case for the central government to look beyond the PDS and the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana and release stocks over and above existing allocations, but at its own expenses rather than by transferring the fiscal burden to States. Along with a prepositioning strategy, this would provide flexibility to local governments to access grains for contextually appropriate interventions at short notice, including feeding programmes, free distribution to vulnerable and marginalised sections, those who are excluded from the PDS, etc.; it also allows freedom to panchayats, for example, to sell grain locally at pre-specified prices until supply is restored. In many States, there is a vibrant network of self-help groups formed under the National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM) which can be tasked with last mile distribution of food aid other than the PDS. Consultative committees presumably exist already in each State to coordinate with the FCI on such arrangements. Fourth, typically, the FCI’s guidelines follow a first in, first out principle (FIFO) that mandates that grain that has been procured earlier needs to be distributed first to ensure that older stocks are liquidated, both across years and even within a particular year. It is time for the FCI to suspend this strategy, if it has not already, that enables movement that costs least time, money and effort. Fifth, today farmers across the country growing for markets are seeking to reach out to consumers directly, many out of sheer despair. In many places, farmer producer organisations (FPOs) have been at forefront of rebuilding these broken supply chains. The FCI along with the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED), is well placed to rope in expertise to manage the logistics to support these efforts. NAFED has already taken the initiative to procure and transport horticultural crops. Several State governments too have put in systems to procure horticultural crops. The FCI should similarly consider expanding its role to support FPOs and farmer groups, to move a wider range of commodities including agricultural inputs such as seeds and fertilizers, packing materials and so on. There are two major concerns that many articulate regarding the FCI’s role. The first is a long-term concern regarding the costs of food subsidy. An analysis of FCI costs spanning 2001-16 suggests, however, that on average about 60% of the costs of acquisition, procurement, distribution and carrying stocks are in fact transfers to farmers. Not all of what is counted as subsidy therefore represents a waste of resources, even if the distributional consequences and inefficiencies leave a lot to be desired. At the same time, the government needs to address the FCI’s mounting debts — an estimated Rs. 2.55 lakh crore in March 2020 in the form of National Small Saving Funds Loan alone — and revisit its current preference for not liquidating these in order to contain the Union government’s fiscal deficit. Some clarity on this aspect would enable the government to be bolder with deploying the FCI in the best possible way. A second concern is that extended food distribution of subsidised grain is akin to dumping and depresses food prices locally, in turn affecting farmers. These are legitimate concerns but perhaps only beyond the looming emergency this summer. When the pandemic is past, questions will once again surface on the relevance of the FCI. Even in 2015, the Shanta Kumar report recommended repurposing the organisation as an “agency for innovations in Food Management System” and advocated shedding its dominant role in the procurement and distribution of grain. There is no doubt that the FCI needs to overhaul its operations and modernise its storage. At the same time, the relevance of an organisation such as the FCI or of public stockholding, common to most Asian countries, has never been more strongly established than now, even as we contemplate its new role in a post-pandemic world. Sudha Narayanan is Associate Professor, Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research, Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-grain-stockist-with-a-role-still-relevant/article31506250.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||A way out of the pandemic||The world is in a deep crisis with no parallels to draw lessons from. India in particular is in a catch-22 situation. The infection curve hasn’t really flattened. So if the lockdown, without an alternative, is prematurely withdrawn, India stares at a potential health crisis. And if the lockdown continues in its current form, it is looking at an economic crisis as well as a food crisis. There are instances globally where food supply chains have broken down already as a result of the prolonged economic shutdown. Can the global economy be kick-started while keeping the health crisis under reasonable control? A possible way out, till the COVID-19 vaccine arrives, is providing personal protective equipment (PPE) to all the workers in sectors which need to be opened up on priority. We take India as a case in point but the argument holds true for any economy. How deep is the crisis? Countries which have flattened the COVID-19 curve have either relied on mass-scale testing to segregate the infected from the uninfected (South Korea) or have had a carefully monitored, micro-managed region-specific quarantine strategy (China). India has adopted a strategy of a national lockdown without extensive testing which is neither here nor there, the result of which is we do not seem to be sure when to lift the lockdown. As far as the food crisis is concerned, the world is staring at the possibility of the supply of essentials running out when the existing stocks of food and other essentials is used up since their production has slowed down or stopped. It is only a matter of time before a full-fledged crisis of food hits India (unless the lockdown is lifted to allow their production). For example, in India, while there is good Rabi yield this year, there are severe labour shortages as workers who specialise in harvesting have been forced to return home. As a result, many farmers, particularly those producing perishable crops, will face difficulties in harvesting, transportation and sale of their produce. One obvious way out is the early arrival of a vaccine/cure but that normally takes about 18 months to become publicly available. Even if it takes only half that time, the economy cannot possibly be under lockdown for that long. One may be tempted to argue that at least the production of essentials can be revived even if the lockdown is maintained elsewhere but that would mean putting these workers in harm’s way. Moreover, this will only aggravate the health crisis as it may result in mass spread of the virus through community transmission. An employment option A mass-scale production of test kits, PPEs, etc. will have two effects, apart from the healthcare dimension, on the economy. One, it will increase direct employment in the test kits and PPE production industries while creating safe employment conditions in the essentials and other priority sectors. Two, since the essentials sector is at the core of this strategy, which has direct backward linkages with the agricultural sector, it will prioritise the ones worst affected by the lockdown currently. All this would require expenditure over and above the current stimulus since these test kits and PPEs would have to be provided gratis for it have any meaningful effect. Public sector units would have to produce it apart from the private sector through subsidies given for their production. It is true this will still not absorb all those who got displaced during the lockdown. For those who cannot be, the state will have to provide for basic subsistence requirements, both as basic income and in kind. The in-kind transfer in the form of free ration will be met by increased production of these commodities facilitated by this policy. One may, however, object to this mass scale production of PPEs as wastage of resources in the long term. But that’s not necessarily the case. Since these equipment are consumables, they will not leave a trace of unused stocks in the long run. Two, this does not require capital to be ‘locked in’ in the long run, which means the readjustment after the crisis will be less involved. In fact, as the workers have themselves proposed in the U.S., this could be done even by the automobile sector with its existing equipment. But if essentials can be revived, why not revive the entire economy in this manner? It can be, but other questions will arise. As a result of a sudden halt in the economic activity, a large part of which caters to the elite, carbon emissions have declined. There is no point wasting resources on these activities in crisis situations such as these. The policy objective must be to protect the people and not necessarily the profits in these industries. Workers in such industries will be protected through the proposed unemployment allowance. In fact, an economy functioning in the way that is proposed here in the medium run may give us time to reflect on how to confront issues of climate change. Rohit Azad teaches at JNU and C. Saratchand at Satyawati College, University of Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-way-out-of-the-pandemic/article31506260.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Rishi, the consummate actor||Writing an obituary is the most excruciating thing. While it attempts to memorialise the life and work of an individual, it leaves a residue of sorrow that forever gnaws at your heart. Rishi Kapoor was a consummate actor. Another word that could best describe him is ‘versatile’. Mera Naam Joker, Rafoo Chakkar , Kabhie Kabhie , Amar Akbar Anthony , Sargam , Karz, Prem Rog , Saagar... the list is endless. He was also referred to as the ‘chocolate boy’ for his impish good looks and the instant heartthrob status that was conferred upon him after the success of Bobby . The importance of pedigree While some will grudge him his pedigree which was Bollywood royalty to say the least, I would like to aver that pedigree alone doesn’t make an actor. It could certainly get you a break or toehold in filmdom. No denying that being Raj Kapoor’s son had its own advantages but by that logic, Rishi’s brothers, Randhir and Rajiv, should have also found mainstream success like he did. Stardom operates in strange ways. Pedigree can make you a star but not an actor. In Bollywood, the star and the actor are seldom synonymous. Rishi was that rare synthesis of both. If you look at his earlier films, they were a series of love stories, romantic comedies, some tragedies — atypical Bollywood genre films. What does an actor have to do in these films? The plot is predictable with some song and dance thrown in, and the end is everyone’s guess. Rishi was not the darling of art house filmmakers or perhaps he never cared about those films which is the route many mainstream actors often take to prove their acting mettle. It is like an unwritten binary – go to art house for recognition of acting talent and do as you please in the usual commercial flare. Rishi Kapoor proved his versatility in the most mainstream of commercial Hindi cinema. However, the actor in him perhaps got a new lease of life in the second phase of his career starting with a film like Luck by Chance where he played an over-the-top Bollywood film producer. That was a significant revelation for many of us who grew up watching his films. He could no longer play the chocolate boy or the quintessential Bollywood hero. Age was not on his side. Rishi began to experiment with roles and that too in the format of mainstream Hindi cinema. Then came Love Aaj Kal , Aurangzeb , Kapoor & Sons , Mulk , Rajma Chawal and I wondered, where was this Rishi Kapoor hiding so far? Does this also indicate that mainstream Hindi film actors at the peak of their careers are risk-averse or prefer to wait their turn till they can no longer play lead roles in films? In retrospect, when Rishi was the leading star of Hindi films, the actors playing roles of his father or uncle had barely anything substantial to do in those films. They weren’t incompetent actors either, but Hindi film scripts barely thought about those characters. This isn’t the case when Rishi had to essay similar roles in his second phase. Think about the grandfather he played in Kapoor & Sons . It is a character written with special attention. Much of the credit goes to his performance for making the character entirely believable but that character wouldn’t exist without the script. Rishi Kapoor also featured in Habib Faisal’s Do Dooni Chaar which is a little gem of a film. He played a middle-class school teacher in Delhi struggling to buy a new car for his family. Not only did he enliven the dilemmas of his character, he made you feel for the daily struggles of a common man in the big metropolis. If Rishi Kapoor were his son Ranbir Kapoor’s age now, would he do films differently than what he did during his heyday? Perhaps that would give us a very different filmography and with it, an actor beyond our imagination. Kunal Ray teaches literary and cultural studies at FLAME University, Pune||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rishi-the-consummate-actor/article31506253.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Off course||The Cauvery is a perennial source of controversies. The latest political row to erupt in Tamil Nadu is around the Centre’s April 24 notification bringing the Cauvery Water Management Authority under the administrative control of the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti, which was created a year ago by combining two Ministries. Several political parties, especially the Opposition, and some farmers’ associations were upset with the notification on the ground that the move has reduced the Authority to a “puppet” of the Centre. They point out that the CWMA was created on the direction of the Supreme Court in February 2018. It is also argued that between June 2018-May 2019, when the Union Ministry of Water Resources was in existence, there was no public notification on the CWMA being designated as an organisation under the Ministry. Such an argument is weak, as the CWMA, a body corporate, has been working all along under the Ministry. Even in the case of its predecessor, the Cauvery River Authority (1998-2013) with the Prime Minister as the Chairman and Chief Ministers of the basin States as Members, the Union Ministry of Water Resources had administrative control. In fact, the CWMA has had only a part-time head, the chairman of the Central Water Commission (CWC), attached to the Ministry. Besides, there are eight inter-State river water boards under the Jal Shakti Ministry. Along with the CWMA, four other bodies, including the Krishna and the Godavari Water Management Boards — which have been in existence since 2014 following the re-organisation of Andhra Pradesh — were designated to be under the Ministry. The formalisation of the CWMA’s status corrects an apparent lapse on the Ministry’s part and addresses administrative issues. Apart from meeting the procedural requirement, the notification does not, in any way, alter the character, functions or powers of the CWMA that form part of a scheme drawn up a few years ago, and which was approved by the Supreme Court. If there is anything the Centre can be blamed for, it is the way the CWMA functions. Even two years after its formation, the Authority does not have a full-fledged chairman. The Centre would do well to act, at least now, in making the CWMA fully operational, when the southwest monsoon is about to set in. Successive governments at the Centre have been wary of acting decisively, other than under the orders of the Supreme Court for fear of alienating voters in one of the States involved. The latest episode should convince political parties that relentless politicisation of each and every matter concerning water resources does not benefit the stakeholders. The parties should realise that electoral gains or losses are not always linked to their stand on any one issue, even if it is the Cauvery, the lifeline of Tamil Nadu’s rice bowl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/off-course/article31506244.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||App for one season||The Centre’s national directive for the mandatory use of its contact tracing app, Aarogya Setu, as part of its COVID-19 combat measures, falls short of established legal standards for the protection of privacy. The first requirement laid down by the Supreme Court in K.S. Puttaswamy , namely, a law authorising the involuntary use of such an app, has not been fulfilled. The government has no power to make the app’s use compulsory without legislative authorisation. There is no legislative guidance for the app’s purpose, functioning, and the nature of the use of the sensitive personal data it collects. Going by the directive issued under the Disaster Management Act, all people residing in ‘containment zones’, all government and public sector staff and all employees, both public and private, who are allowed to work during the lockdown, will have to download the app, which also cautions against not keeping the phone’s location and Bluetooth on. Lawyers and activists have raised concerns not only over privacy; they also fear that assessments made on the basis of information collected may be used to restrict public movement and access. The absence of a sunset clause or a rule limiting the purpose for which the data can be used or spelling out the entities authorised to use them are all valid concerns. Some, like Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, fear it could become a surveillance tool. However, Aarogya Setu seems to be quite popular — downloads have crossed 75 million. And what the government has going for itself is that many countries are implementing mobile app use for contact tracing. More and more governments are introducing applications for automated location services to trace the contacts of those infected. India should abide by best practices elsewhere. The EU has laid down guidelines to the effect that such app use should be voluntary, that it should preserve user privacy and should not be used after it becomes no longer necessary. Israel’s Supreme Court recently struck down emergency powers given to the country’s intelligence agency to trace the phone location of COVID-19 patients without enabling legislation. Australia’s tracking app has sparked privacy concerns, but the government has released a privacy impact assessment. While the intention behind the app’s introduction may be good — as it is a given that the government is keen on doing everything possible to keep a watch on the spread of the virus so that the lockdown, as well as relaxations given to zones based on colour-coding, are effective — it would be well-advised to heed privacy concerns raised by the Opposition, allay fears that it may become a permanent mass surveillance instrument and ensure that there is sufficient anonymising of data and its limited access. It has a duty to resort to methods that cause the least harm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/app-for-one-season/article31506243.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 00:00 IST,||Lall, Toast of Indian Camp||It would not be far wrong to say that Premjit Lall would play a key-role in India’s fortunes in the Davis Cup competition. Tall, lithe and handsome, he was equally elegant in his play. He it was, who gave a psychological advantage by wearing out Ruffels in a five-set marathon in the opening singles. On the final day too, he was at the vanguard to see his country through when he literally outplayed Crealy in the reverse singles which gave India a winning lead over Australia in the Davis Cup East Zone final. He was the toast of the Indian camp this afternoon. Lall the National champion has thus become a national hero overnight. Taking Laver to five sets in the Wimbledon last year was no mean achievement. He proved he had that calibre of tennis needed to achieve success. In his matches here [Bangalore] he was superbly efficient and pleasingly flowing in the way in which he took the ball on the rise, used the reverse angles daringly, volleyed audaciously and served himself powerfully and cleverly out of any difficulty. He was quite fast all round, thus apparently having all the time in the world to cut off intended passes with decisive volleys, particularly off the backhand, picking his shots with a marksman’s accuracy when clouting unreturnable drives off services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lall-toast-of-indian-camp/article31506251.ece
05 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Bears on the rampage as U.S.-China spar||A mix of global and domestic factors pulled down the Indian equity benchmark indices on Monday, snapping a four-day gaining streak as well. Market participants attributed the drop to the overall weak trend in global markets as the U.S. and China engaged in a fresh spat after the former threatened fresh tariffs while alleging that COVID-19 originated in a China lab. On the domestic front, the 14-day extension of the lockdown dampened investor sentiments that was already subdued on account of weak corporate earnings by heavyweights such as Hindustan Unilever, and Reliance Industries The 30-share Sensex lost a whopping 2,002.27 points, or 5.94%, to close at 31,715.35. As many as 28 of the 30 constituents of the benchmark ended deep in the red on Monday. Stocks such as ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and HDFC lost more than 10% each while IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, HUL, Reliance Industries, Tech Mahindra, Infosys and State Bank of India, among others, also declined. In the broader market, more than 1,800 stocks lost ground as against about 550 gainers. The Nifty lost 566.40 points, or 5.74%, to close at 9,293.50. More importantly, the India VIX index, which was trading flat in the last few trading sessions, spiked almost 29% on Monday. Weak global cues “Weak global cues, poor macro data locally, the latest U.S.-China spat and poor corporate earnings led to the fall,” said Deepak Jasani, head, retail research, HDFC Securities. Incidentally, the Nikkei manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for India declined to 27.4 in April from 51.8 in March. This was the sharpest deterioration since data analytics firm IHS Markit began recording the data 15 years ago. Meanwhile, foreign portfolio investors continued to remain sellers of Indian shares at Rs. 1,374 crore on Monday. Domestic institutions also were net sellers at almost Rs. 1,662 crore. Elsewhere in Asia, Hang Seng lost over 4% on Monday while Nikkei was down nearly 3%. The benchmarks of South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines and Singapore all closed in the red.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bears-on-the-rampage-as-us-china-spar/article31506225.ece
05 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Silver Lake invests Rs. 5,656 cr. in Jio||U.S. private equity firm Silver Lake has agreed to invest Rs. 5,655.75 crore in Jio Platforms Ltd., representing a 12.5% premium to the equity valuation of the Facebook investment announced on April 22, 2020. Jio Platforms is a wholly owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries and brings together Jio’s digital apps, digital ecosystems and high-speed connectivity platform under one umbrella. Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd., which provides connectivity platform to more than 388 million subscribers, will continue to be a wholly owned subsidiary of Jio Platforms. Commenting on the deal, Mukesh Ambani, CMD, RIL, said, “Silver Lake is one of the most respected voices in technology and finance. We are excited to leverage insights from their global technology relationships for the Indian digital society’s transformation.” With approximately $40 billion in combined assets under management Silver Lake’s investments include Airbnb, Alibaba, Ant Financial, Alphabet’s Verily and Waymo units, Dell Technologies, Twitter and numerous other global technology firms. Asked for comments, Utkarsh Sinha, MD, Bexley Advisors, a boutique investment bank firm told The Hindu , “The Silver Lake investment comes at a 12.5% premium to the Facebook investment made just weeks ago, signalling that the Facebook investment gave a positive boost to Jio, and that the company is likely to see higher valuations going forward. ‘Exit-focussed investor’ “Silverlake is not a shy investor as it backs strong companies even in adverse environments, like the post-COVID crisis we are confronting now. At the same time, Silverlake is an exit-focused investor, In the Skype transaction, Silverlake netted close to 3 times returns on their initial $1.9 billion investment.” “In the wake of the severe economic disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, globally and especially within India, this partnership with one of the most renowned tech-investors globally, Silver Lake, has special significance,” RIL said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/silver-lake-invests-rs-5656-cr-in-jio/article31506235.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India stands out on Xiaomi’s dial pad||China’s smartphone maker Xiaomi, which does not see much impact of the current ‘anti-China’ sentiment on the company’s India business, expects production in India to return to normal capacity by next month. Xiaomi India MD Manu Jain said Foxconn had already received nod from the Andhra Pradesh Government for the Sri City plant [where Xiaomi phones would be made] and would soon start production. “We hope all of our manufacturing plants will soon get approval... of course, with all kinds of precautions in factories, the ramp up is going to be slow, but we are hoping the factories will be up and running very soon,” Mr. Jain said. Muralikrishnan B, chief operating officer, Xiaomi India, added the component supply chain was “quite smooth” and was not a challenge at all. “The challenge, if any, will only be in terms of manpower where with proper safety and hygiene procedures and social distancing at the assembly line, we should be able to resume production pretty soon.”  To a query on the anti-China sentiment, Mr Jain said, “Yes, I’ve seen it on social media... will it impact our India business? I don’t think so... We are as Indian as any other firm. We have manufacturing plants here. We have our product teams, R&D teams here... all our servers are local servers. We have been able to generate employment for 50,000 people...” On demand, Mr. Jain said the Indian smartphone industry is likely to bounce back in Q3 and Q4 of the current year. Citing analyst estimates, he said smartphone sales are likely to be 135-145 million in the current calendar year against pre-COVID estimates of 160-170 million.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-stands-out-on-xiaomis-dial-pad/article31506237.ece
05 May 2020||Mumbai /New Delhi,||Rs. 18,500 cr. debt to be repaid in three months: MFIs tell RBI||With banks declining to extend a moratorium to non-banking finance companies and micro-finance institutions, micro-lenders have informed the Reserve Bank of India that they have to repay a debt of Rs. 18,500 crore in the next three months. Though the NBFCs have extended loan moratorium to their customers, in the absence of a similar benefit from their lenders, that is commercial banks, they are staring at a potential liquidity crisis. Their woes have been compounded as banks are reluctant to extend loans. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das met NBFCs, including MFIs, and mutual fund industry representatives in two separate meetings on Monday. Micro-lenders’ association Sa-dhan, which attended the meeting, suggested direct lending by the RBI to micro-finance institutions to tide over the liquidity crisis. Sa-dhan also urged that the moratorium be extended until June 30, 2020, as March payments were mostly done by customers. The lender also sought relaxation on asset classification norms for another three months, that is, up to September 30, 2020. A statement from the RBI said that in a meeting with representatives of NBFCs and micro-lenders, issues regarding availability of liquidity from banks and implementation of moratorium were discussed. Post-lockdown strategies for supply of credit were also discussed. In the meeting with representatives of the mutual funds industry, issues like the impact of measures taken by the RBI regarding provision of liquidity and functioning of the bond markets were discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rs-18500-cr-debt-to-be-repaid-in-three-months-mfis-tell-rbi/article31506228.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Hero resumes manufacturing at 3 plants||The country’s largest two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp on Monday said it had reopened three of its manufacturing plants in Haryana and Uttarakhand, with production expected to commence Wednesday onwards. “To begin with, Hero MotoCorp is commencing operations in a graded manner at three of its manufacturing plants – Gurugram and Dharuhera (both in Haryana), Haridwar (Uttarakhand)...,” the company said in a statement. Additionally, operations have also resumed at the Global Parts Center (GPC) at Neemrana in Rajasthan. “We are now ready to hit the ground sprinting as we commence the re-opening of our facilities. The well-being of citizens continues to be our focus and the running of our economic engines is crucial to ensure their health and prosperity,” Pawan Munjal, chairman, Hero MotoCorp said. The two-wheeler maker said only essential staff will come to work at all the other facilities and corporate offices, observing social distancing and all prescribed safety measures. The remaining employees across all locations in India will continue to work from home till further notice. The company’s other manufacturing plants have also obtained the necessary permissions to reopen and these will commence operations after most of the supply chain partners of the company get the permissions to operate. Further, Hero MotoCorp’s R&D facility – the Centre of Innovation and Technology (CIT) – has also received the necessary permission to reopen and will resume functioning soon, it added. “With meticulous planning and enthusiasm, we are set to recommence operations. I am optimistic that business and the economy will begin the trajectory of its gradual recovery from here,” Mr. Munjal said. Some of the guidelines to be followed by Hero MotoCorp’s employees include mandatory self-declaration of good health before joining and daily updates through Aarogya Setu and Hero App wherever applicable, wearing of face-masks, face shield, digital attendance through Hero App, regular sanitisation of personal items and work-stations, maintaining social distancing, no domestic or international travel, no celebratory or business gatherings, no visitors allowed to visit company premises, neither are employees allowed to visit vendor or dealer premises. Additionally, employees above the age of 60, those employees with critical medical conditions and pregnant women, will need to work from home mandatorily. “With the easing of restrictions in several parts of the country, most of the company’s extensive customer touch-points, including dealerships, workshops and the secondary network, are expected to open gradually from today onwards,” the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hero-resumes-manufacturing-at-3-plants/article31506240.ece
05 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Adani Green Energy plans Rs. 10,000 crore capex in FY21||Gautam Adani-led Adani Green Energy Limited (AGEL) has lined up a capital expenditure of Rs. 10,000 crore in the current fiscal to expand its capacities. The company, with an operational capacity of 2,545 mega watts (MW), plans to enhance its capacity to 5,990 MW. Jayant Parimal, CEO, AGEL, said, “We have $510 million from the Total deal. We will raise another Rs. 6,000 crore to Rs. 7,000 crore from the Indian lenders on a project finance basis to fund our capex requirements.” AGEL has added 575 MW of capacity during the last fiscal and plans to add anywhere between 1 gigawatt (GW) to 2 GW of capacity in the current fiscal. “We have already lost over two months in supply disruptions from China due to impact of COVID-19. Now, we need to catch up and complete the committed projects within time, even as the government has agreed to give an extension citing force majeure,” Mr. Parimal said. The company plans to commence construction activity which was mandatorily suspended during the lockdown as per government guidelines. As on March 31, 2020, the company’s gross debt stood at Rs. 13,943 crore (excluding inter-corporate deposits and lease liability) and net debt stood at Rs. 11,470 crore. Earlier this month, AGEL had completed a 50% joint venture agreement with Total of France for Rs. 3,700 crore investment in the form of equity and other instruments from Total for 2,148 MW of operational solar projects of the group. The company reported a profit of Rs. 56 crore in the third quarter, as against a loss of Rs. 94 crore in the same period last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-green-energy-plans-rs-10000-crore-capex-in-fy21/article31506231.ece
05 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Debt recovery tribunal settles 23-year-old case||Amid the COVID-19 lockdown, the Debt Recovery Tribunal I (DRT 1), Incharge of DRT II (DRT 2), Chennai, has decided on a 23-year-old case and tendered the judgment by holding a virtual court via video conferencing, which is one-of-its-kind in the entire South India for a DRT. The virtual court was held on Monday as notified by the Finance Ministry. The case pertains to Tamilnad Mercantile Bank versus Moolchand Finance Ltd. and 63 other defendants over alleged non-payment of dues worth Rs. 12.25 crore at the time of filing the case. The other defendants in the case include Moolchand’s guarantors and the persons to whom the mortgaged properties had been sold and the legal heirs of the deceased guarantor. The case was filed by the bank in 1997 when the DRT was established in Chennai and stood transferred to DRT 2 when it was constituted and remained on file for so many years without a decision. N.V. Badarinath, Presiding Officer, Debts Recovery Tribunal – I directed the defendants to pay Tamilnad Mercantile Bank a sum of about Rs. 11.31 crore along with simple interest at 19% per annum on the said amount from December 1, 1996 till March 31, 1997 and thereafter (from April 1, 1997) with simple interest at 20% per annum till the realisation of the amount while rejecting a counter claim of the borrower company. He also fixed quantum of liability for the various defendants. The virtual court was made possible with software called Vidyo provided by the National Informatics Center (NIC), New Delhi under the guidance of the Department of Financial Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/debt-recovery-tribunal-settles-23-year-old-case/article31506223.ece
05 May 2020||Mumbai,||Rupee snaps 4-day rally on U.S.-China tensions||The rupee ended its four-day rally as weakness in domestic equities spilled over to the currency market, pushing the domestic unit 64 paisa lower against the dollar to close the day at 75.73. The rupee opened weaker at 75.70 compared to the previous close of 75.09. It hit the day’s low of 75.80 before closing at 75.73, down 64 paisa from Thursday’s close. According to dealers, renewed trade tensions between the United States and China weighed on the currency apart from a strengthening dollar. “The greenback surged following safe-haven buying as uncertainty increased after U.S. President Donald Trump threatened to impose new tariffs on China,” said Sugandha Sachdeva, VP-metals, energy and currency research, Religare Broking. The dollar index, that gauges the greenback’s strength against a basket of six currencies, rose 0.27% to 99.35. “Going ahead, sentiments remain weak and fresh concerns that trade tensions could delay an economic recovery are likely to weigh on the local unit.Rupee is likely to gyrate in the range of 75.20 and 76.60 in the near term,” said Ms. Sachdeva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rupee-snaps-4-day-rally-on-us-china-tensions/article31506229.ece
05 May 2020||MUMBAI,||COVID-19 screening for corporates||As businesses gear up to reopen offices and layout procedure for screening of employees for COVID-19 before asking them to join work, Healthians, which provides at-home health tests, has launched HPlus CorpShield for dealing with the issue.  “ HPlus CorpShield tackles the current problem by offering doorstep health screening of employees at Rs. 350 [per employee] and their housemates [to be charged Rs. 350 extra per housemate] before they are called to work,” the company said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-19-screening-for-corporates/article31506226.ece
05 May 2020||Mumbai,||‘Observe safety norms strictly at banks’||The AIBEA has urged bank managements to ensure stricter implementation of safeguards in branches, prescribed under the standard operating procedures, as many staff have tested positive while two employees died of COVID-19 in Mumbai. Earlier, a chief manager of State Bank of India lost his life due to the virus. Recently Uday Kamat, special assistant, IDBI Bank, Malad branch, Mumbai also died due to same reason. “A number of employees from Bank of India, Central Bank of India, Oriental Bank of Commerce, Bank of Maharashtra, Bank of Baroda, etc. are undergoing quarantine,” said C.H.Venkatachalam, general secretary, All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA), in a letter to the convener of the state-level bankers committee of Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/observe-safety-norms-strictly-at-banks/article31506230.ece
05 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Cure.Fit fires 1,000 employees||Cure.Fit, a health, fitness and food start-up jointly floated by former Flipkart and Myntra executives Mukesh Bansal and Ankit Nagori, has laid off at least 1,000 people in India. According to employees, the company ‘forcefully’ sought resignations from hundreds of people on May 1. However, they said the company had agreed to pay salaries for 30 to 45 days. This unprecedented situation has forced us to close operations in small towns in India and the UAE. We have downsized our employee base across markets where we have shut operations and have initiated pay cuts across levels. The founders have taken a 100% pay cut, the management team 50% and the rest of the staff, depending on seniority, have a reduction of 20 to 30%, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/curefit-fires-1000-employees/article31506238.ece
05 May 2020||Chennai,||Life first and cricket later, says Abhinav Mukund||These are challenging times for everyone. For those sportspersons, whose life-line is outdoor activity, the scenario during this lockdown caused by coronavirus pandemic can be suffocating. However, former India opener Abhinav Mukund is at peace with himself. The only persons he has met during the lockdown are his parents and wife. Mentally, he remains focused but the 30-year Tamil Nadu batting mainstay is not desperate for cricket to resume. “When people are dying or in hospitals, when a pandemic has shut down the world, I think it would be selfish on my part to talk about cricket starting again. Before life, cricket’s very small,” he said.  And the socially aware Abhinav has been doing his bit. For instance he was recently on Instagram Live to support the Garden of Peace Educational and Charitable Trust, run by his friend. When floods ravaged Chennai in 2015, Abhinav along with B. Aparajith and Indrajith visited waterlogged areas in a boat to distribute food, clothes and medicines. And recently when he saw people around an Amma Canteen near home, Abhinav got his friend to coordinate with former IPS officer and present MLA R. Nataraj to distribute free food at the outlet. “As cricketers, we have some responsibility,” he said and added, several players, the BCCI, and the TNCA, have been making contributions during the ongoing crisis. Motor skill Abhinav has not batted during the lockdown. “Cricket and batting much like driving is a motor skill. It will all come back.” These days, he is content doing weights at home and running around his apartment complex to stay in shape. And he has consciously cut down on watching television or talking over the phone. Avid reader “I am reading an auto-biography called the ‘Reluctant Billionaire’ on how Dilip Shanghvi became the ‘richest’ self-made Indian billionaire,” he revealed. An avid reader, Abhinav also listens to relaxing music, even as he stays mentally sharp. Strength of mind has been a major factor in this southpaw amassing 10,258 First Class runs at 47.93. And his last Test innings for India, at Galle in 2017, was 81. Sadly, he did not receive an opportunity subsequently. Abhinav, though, comprehends the rhythm of life. And he waits even as he does his bit for the less fortunate around him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/life-first-and-cricket-later-says-abhinav-mukund/article31506441.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Producing champions a team effort’||Champions are produced not by individuals but by a team, feels P.V. Sindhu. The team, according to her, includes parents, coaches, support staff and administrators, with each of them having a role to play. In an online chat with the newly appointed Assistant Directors of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) on Monday, the World champion shared her remarkable journey: from learning the basics with coach Mehboob Ali at the IRISET Stadium to training under the watchful eyes of Dronacharya S.M. Arif at the Fateh and finally joining the Gopi Chand Academy in 2005 on the suggestion of the then coach Tom John and SAAP coach Govardhan Reddy. “I am not saying this [team effort] just because my parents had a sports background (P.V. Ramana and P. Vijaya had represented India in volleyball). Parents are the most important part of an athlete’s success as they understand the psyche of a child better than the others. I spend a lot of time with my father watching matches of myself and other players to analyse and plan my strategy against them,” said the 24-year-old. “Initially, the biggest challenge was travelling around 120km daily (to the Academy and back to her home in Secunderabad). My father taking long leave from Railway service was important as he guided me on the areas of improvement,” she said. Sindhu felt that the relationship between an athlete and a coach was crucial. “There should be a continuity in coaches. Unfortunately, most of the senior coaches have left even before their contracts ended. This should be looked into carefully as it affects the performances of the players”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/producing-champions-a-team-effort-sindhu/article31506393.ece
05 May 2020||Chennai,||Muralidhara’s recipe for success: start them young||During a non-ranking table tennis tournament organised by Sportstar and the Mylapore Club five years ago, a young boy — barely the height of the table — grabbed the audience’s attention. Vishruth Ramakrishnan, just four years old then, was rallying with his coach and hardly missing a step. He had taken to the sport at his playschool, even before he started kindergarten! Last season, Vishruth won nine tournaments at the under-10 level and is a State champion. Vishruth’s development is not a one-off thing but part of a conscious movement to start players young, A. Muralidhara Rao, one of the country’s top coaches, revealed on Monday during a webinar organised by Sports Authority of India and the Table Tennis Federation of India. Muralidhara and A. Srinivasa Rao, known as the Rao brothers in TT circles, have played an influential role in the careers of some of India’s finest players, including S. Raman, Chetan Baboor, A. Amalraj and K. Shamini, over the last 36 years. Their best-known trainee is Srinivasa’s son and the country’s top-ranked player, A. Sharath Kamal. Talking about developing young players from scratch, Muralidhara said, “We wanted to emulate what the Chinese and Koreans were doing by trying to start early. So in 2012, we started training kids from as early as three or four years and had about 40 kids. “We were quite apprehensive of whether this would work but were helped by the fact that we had Meenakshi Ganesh, who was working with a playschool at that time and was a former table tennis player as well, who knew how to handle these kids. Now seven years down the line, we have been able to identify potential talents who have gone on to become State champions in their respective age categories.” Broaden the base Muralidhara also highlighted the importance of conducting tournaments for non-rankers (those not ranked in the State's top eight) to help broaden the base of players by working with schools. “Once a kid wins and brings laurel to the school, it serves as an incentive for others to take the sport up.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/muralidharas-recipe-for-success-start-them-young/article31506443.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen triumphs||Living up to his reputation, World champion Magnus Carlsen produced two flawless displays over four games and defeated Hikaru Nakamura 2.5-1.5 to win the $250,000 Magnus Carlsen Invitational online chess tournament on Sunday. The triumph was worth $70,000 for Carlsen in the richest online event. Nakamura received $45,000 for his performance in the 16-day competition. Carlsen, known to wear down his rivals in long positional battles, reproduced the magic in the opening game. Playing white, Carlsen squeezed out a minor advantage after 67 moves and eventually won in 84. Nakamura drew level following a fine technical victory in the second game. Carlsen again carved out a positional masterpiece in the third game to regain the lead. In the fourth, where Nakamura came close to winning, Carlsen summoned all his defensive skills to force a draw and win the title.  The result (final): Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Hikaru Nakamura (USA) 2.5-1.5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-wins/article31506381.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Razor-sharp Sania stumps Purav||Purav Raja made Sania Mirza go through five strokes, real racquet in hand, during the popular ‘Chai with Raja’ Instagram show. The 33-year-old Sania sportingly obliged and showed, with her razor-sharp responses to a variety of questions, that she could win any contest, with or without a racquet. Sania, who has known Purav since the age of eight, showed a lot of warmth and camaraderie to make it an enjoyable show for the thousands of tennis enthusiasts who had tuned in. Joking that she was honoured to be the first lady on the show, Sania said she might have felt offended that Mahesh Bhupathi was the first guest on the show, but then she saw how ‘’under prepared’’ he was! “You know me too well. So, I am nervous,” said the six-time Grand Slam champion before opening up for a lively chat. Sania pointed out that Jelena Jankovic also had not won a Grand Slam singles title despite being World No. 1, as Purav’s notes had only Dinara Safina’s name. She did get both names. She recalled five players who had trained with her in December and named the IPL captains of the Hyderabad team with ease. She stumped Purav by recalling the names of seven Davis Cup team captains — Leander Paes, S.P. Misra, Vijay Amritraj, Anand Amritraj, Mahesh Bhupathi, Rohit Rajpal and Jaidip Mukerjea. She was candid in saying that a lot of people would get that right. On another note, Sania said Bollywood was close to her heart. She said that many would be able to connect with the inspiring journeys of people who became superstars. Farah her favourite She named Farah Khan as her favourite and added Riteish Deshmukh and Salman Khan to the list. When asked who was more competitive, Paes or Bhupathi, Sania said that both were incredible competitors and it was impossible for her to pick one over the other, as she had won with both. Naming Steffi Graf as her favourite player, Sania said being World No. 1 in doubles was more satisfying than being 27 in singles because “if you are No. 1 in the world in anything, it is special”.  Sania says Bollywood close to her heart She names the IPL captains of the Hyderabad team with ease||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/razor-sharp-sania-stumps-purav/article31506493.ece
05 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Sourav Kothari staying connected with the sport||Even as he regrets not being able to fulfil his Pro Circuit snooker dream, top cueist Sourav Kothari is staying in touch with the sport with some guidance from his parents during the lockdown period. Sourav, a World billiards champion in 2018, is fortunate to have Manoj (also a former World billiards champion) and Neeta (former World ladies billiards championship bronze medallist) as parents. Even though he cannot visit a club for practice, the 35-year-old’s life revolves around the game at his home here. Exercise routine “I have been doing the bending down exercise over the dining table for many years. I do it over the study table when I stay in a hotel. “Even though I am not executing a shot, it is important to stay in touch physically and keep doing the eyeball movement,” Sourav told The Hindu . “If I miss the practice for a longer period, I take 30 to 35 hours to get back on top of my game. Here, I have not practised for 40-45 days! Quite a shock “I used to travel 15-18 days a month. It is quite a shock that I am not competing anymore. I was prepared to give my best and switch to Pro Circuit this year. “I should have been in Sheffield competing in Challenge Tour now, but everything is gone.” Sourav is watching videos to relive his moments of glory and pick up a few points from other champion cueists. Having Manoj, the National chief cue-sports coach, by his side has helped Sourav. “It’s tough as there is no motivation of playing in a tournament. “Sourav is doing the bending down exercise for 30 minutes to one hour and also some stretching. “Watching the videos keeps you connected,” said Manoj, head of coaching of the Asian Confederation of Billiards Sports. Exploring new things Sourav is exploring some new things in life, including growing a beard. “I could never grow a beard as it could get stuck with the cue. Now I enjoy doing it. “ My father has also grown a beard. I am cooking a lot, reading and trying to be a little more organised,” signed off Sourav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sourav-kothari-staying-connected-with-the-sport/article31506522.ece
05 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Coach Chiranjeevi, 75, still young, restless and curious||Boxing coach Emani Chiranjeevi, 75, was restless on his birthday on Monday. Not for want of comfort but for being denied the chance to coach a 15-member group of girls at Narsingi Gurukul School near here because of the lockdown.  “I would have loved to celebrate my birthday with those girls in the age group of 12-15 years. For me, there is no better joy than being in the ring,” said the former Sports Authority of India coach in a chat with The Hindu.  Simple philosophy  “My philosophy is pretty simple. Having missed out on the chance to be a national champion representing Services when I was at my peak because of strange rules, I just love producing champions,” said Chiranjeevi, who has been training boxers for 23 years and is known as one of the best scientific coaches in India.  “I always believe that straight punching is the basis of scientific boxing. So, if one masters that, he or she will be a different boxer,” Chiranjeevi said while outlining his mantra for success.  Some of the big names who have trained under him at some stage include Olympian Vikas Krishan Yadav, woman pugilist Nikhat Zareen, national champions Saad Farooq and Kiran Sagar from the then united Andhra Pradesh.  Chiranjeevi felt that all boxers needed to make constant, critical self-assessment to make the desired improvement.    The fact that even now the services of this very articulate and highly informed boxing coach are required by the SAI and many leading boxers is testament to his willingness to stay in tune with the latest in the sport.    “I always keep reading a lot about the sport for I should be in a position to be of some help to the modern-day boxer,” he insisted.  What was his biggest moment as coach? “Honestly, it is for the boxers to say not for me to claim. “But, I can say with a sense of immense satisfaction that 48 of my trainees got decent Railway jobs over the years and are well settled,” said Chiranjeevi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coach-chiranjeevi-75-still-young-restless-and-curious/article31506581.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Women’s squad raises Rs. 20 lakh||The Indian women’s hockey team’s efforts to crowd-fund support for poor and migrant workers has raised Rs. 20,01,130 through an 18-day online challenge. The effort was launched on April 17 with an initial target of Rs. 15 lakh to feed 1,000 families. The fitness challenge that ended on May 3 involved team members posting a new challenge everyday and tagging 10 people on the social media, who had to accept it and donate Rs. 100 each besides forwarding the challenge to others. It also encouraged people to adopt an active lifestyle. “The response has been overwhelming and I would like to thank everyone who took part in this initiative,” captain Rani Rampal said. “We saw people’s support grow everyday. We would also like to thank Hockey India, coach (Sjoerd) Marijne and entire support staff for backing us in this initiative,” vice-captain Savita Punia added. Several current and former India players — including S.V. Sunil, Dhanraj Pillay, Gagan Ajit Singh, Yuvraj Walmiki — and Haryana Sports Minister Sandeep Singh also contributed to the cause besides State associations and team officials like scientific advisor Wayne Lombard. The rations will be distributed through Delhi-based NGO Uday Foundation.  The effort was launched on April 17 with an initial target of Rs. 15 lakh to feed 1,000 families||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-squad-raises-rs-20-lakh/article31506385.ece
05 May 2020||Coimbatore,||Racing for a cause, virtually||Joining the growing Esports bandwagon, racing stars Aditya Patel and Armaan Ebrahim came together to bring some big names from different walks of life to raise funds for a charity organisation (SEEDS), that provides for frontline healthcare workers. The duo put together four Esport events and, the Ultimate E event, held last weekend, attracted sportsmen, gamers and celebrities such as Narain Karthikeyan, Arjun and Kush Maini (racers), L. Balaji, M. Ashwin (cricketers), Regina Cassandra (actor), Abhijeet Ghatak and Naman Mathur (online gamers). It started with a celebrity PUBG event and was followed by the Indian Super Gran Turismo Series that saw gamers and sim racers on a mix of real-life and fantasy circuits. The Ultimate E All-Stars ‘Race for a Cause’ was a star-studded 26-car field that had the cream of India’s racing stars and a few more from South Africa, Germany and the United Kingdom. Tight battle Racers Muhammed Ibrahim and Kush were locked in a tight battle with the former winning the first two and the latter the last two. Ibrahim eventually won the overall championship. “We have been racing for four weekends now and we catered to both PC and PS4. The participation is picking up fast with every event and we have a decent following as well. Overall, it was lots of fun and we are looking forward to hosting more,” said Armaan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/racing-for-a-cause-virtually/article31506396.ece
05 May 2020||TIRUCHI,||Jennitha makes the best of lockdown||In a way, the COVID-19 lockdown has provided an opportunity for WIM K. Jennitha Anto to practice in a relaxed frame of mind. “Usually, I train for six to seven hours a day. The difference now is that my mind is not pre-occupied with any tournament time-frame,” Jennitha, a six-time winner of the women’s title in the International Physically Disabled Chess Association (IPCA) World Individual Chess Championship, said. Nevertheless, Jennitha believes tournaments bring the best out of players. “This year, I was looking forward to continuing with my winning ways in the IPCA championship, and to give my best in the Chess Olympiad for persons with disabilities and the 44th Chess Olympiad. “Now that these events have been postponed due to the pandemic, improving my overall game is the sole focus,” said Jennitha, who was afflicted with polio at the age of three. The Tiruchi-based player takes online coaching from Grandmasters Sundararajan Kidambi and Elizbar Ubilava. “I also practise with IM Shashikant Kutwal and former State champion M. Kunal. I also play at least two or three games every day with friends through chess portals,” said the winner of multiple medals in the Asian Para Games 2018. Jennitha said that she has been poring over a number of chess books of late. “I had bought the books sometime back. I now find them very helpful. I also spend time reading devotional books and knowing about current affairs,” she said. Jennitha is keen on making the best use of time to sharpen her skills. “I always believe that learning is a continuous process,” she said, adding: “I keep reviewing my earlier games to improvise further and be in a state of readiness for tournaments.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jennitha-makes-the-best-of-lockdown/article31506489.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||China starts favourite, India is underdog||Even as sporting activity remains suspended given the COVID-19 pandemic, chess players continue to make their moves in online prize-money events. The FIDE Chess.com online Nations Cup, the richest online team tournament, begins on Tuesday. Barring World champion Magnus Carlsen, almost all the leading men and women players from four countries, one continent and a ‘Rest of the World’ combination will be on view. India seeded fifth India, seeded five, will be a rank outsider despite fielding its strongest possible combination of Viswanathan Anand, Vidit Gujrathi, P. Harikrishna, B. Adhiban, K. Humpy and D. Harika. Former World champion Vladimir Kramnik as advisor to the Indian camp arouses added interest. The event follows the double round-robin format, with the two leading teams battling for the title in a ‘Superfinal’. China, the rating favourite, with Ding Liren, Wang Hao and Wei Yi, gains from the comeback of Hou Yifan, the world’s strongest woman player. Second seed Europe has Maxime Vachier-Lagrave, Levon Aronian and Anish Giri along with Anna Muzychuk on the fourth board. Garry Kasparov is back in the mix as the captain. Russia relies on the flamboyance of Ian Nepomniachtchi, the speed-chess skills of Vladislav Artemiev and the experience of Sergey Karjakin, with Aleksandra Goryachkina being the top woman. But USA is the proverbial dark horse with Fabiano Caruana, Hikaru Nakamura, Wesley So and Irina Krush forming an intimidating combination. Potent combo The Rest of the World has the potential to slow down any serious title-contender. Teimour Radjabov, 16-year-old sensation Alireza Firouzja, Baseem Amin along with former women’s World champion Mariya Muzychuk can be expected to cause a few upsets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-is-underdog-china-favourite/article31506382.ece
05 May 2020||Sydney,||‘Would be devastating if India can’t tour Australia’||Top Australian batsman Marnus Labuschagne on Monday said he and his team would be “pretty devastated” if India doesn’t make the trip Down Under for a Test and limited-overs series later this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. India’s tour of Australia will begin with a T20 tri-series in October and is scheduled to end with a four-match Test series in December. The speculation on the tour is because of the travel restrictions currently in place and the uncertainty surrounding how long it would take to control the pandemic. Replying to a query on the tour in an online press conference, Labuschagne said, “Well, it would mean that we are not playing cricket which is pretty devastating for myself, the rest of the team and for the country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/would-be-devastating-if-india-cant-tour-australia/article31506491.ece
05 May 2020||PARIS,||Paris, May 3, 2020 (AFP) -||Australian tennis maverick Nick Kyrgios has invited Rafael Nadal to take part in a video chat on Sunday despite their stormy and bitter on-court relationship. “Rafa lets do Instagram live together. I am down with it. Rafael Nadal let’s do it,” wrote the Australian on Instagram.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paris-may-3-2020-afp/article31506389.ece
05 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Villagers in Assam get respite as hanging fence deters jumbos||Elephants in Assam may have finally run into a barrier beyond their ability to bulldoze — a solar-powered hanging electric fence. Camera trap records show the elephants attempting unsuccessfully to enter areas near eight villages, which lie at the edge of a 350 sq km reserve forest that was added to the Manas National Park in 2016, on at least 59 of the 65 occasions that the pachyderms had been sighted since October 14, 2019. The elephants, however, did manage to cross the fence without damaging it on eight occasions, due to a sudden discharge of the batteries powering it around midnight. But the villagers, who have borne the brunt of the elephant-man conflict, aren’t ready as yet to call the latest barrier a success. For that, they would rather wait to see how the fence performs during the monsoon months ahead. The core area of Manas is about 140 km west of Guwahati. “There have been experiments with electric fences earlier to prevent elephants in the jungles from raiding the houses and the farmlands of the villagers leading to large-scale damage and loss of human lives,” said Brojo Kumar Basumatary, a field sociologist of Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) based in Chirang district’s Panbari. “We undertook the hanging fence project in October 2019 and completed it in February this year. We planned it for more than the existing 5 km but could not go ahead because of restrictions associated with the COVID-19 pandemic,” he told The Hindu . The earlier project entailed stringing a solar-powered fence between two ordinary 7 feet tall poles, set 10 metres apart. Elephants, however, would frequently uproot them for gorging on the granaries in the villages. The hanging fence involves sturdier metallic poles with a strong cable strung from the top. Wires arranged 3 feet apart dangle from this cable without touching the ground for letting smaller animals up to 1 foot tall pass. The wires carry an average 9-kilovolt charge, the maximum being 11 kilovolts. “The wires are non-lethal,” said Bhaskar Choudhury, regional coordinator of WTI. “An elephant coming in contact gets a mild shock that works as a deterrent. And because of the hanging design, elephants can neither break the pillar nor slam the wires with tree branches,” he added. Three community-based committees have been entrusted with almost equal stretches of the fence. These are the most strategic of the eight villages dominated by the Bodo, Koch-Rajbongshi, Assamese and Bengali communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/villagers-in-assam-get-respite-as-hanging-fence-deters-jumbos/article31506378.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||New health warnings on tobacco product packs||The Union Health Ministry on Monday notified a new set of images with specified health warnings for all tobacco product packs by making an amendment to the Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products (Packaging and Labelling) Rules, 2008. A Ministry release noted that all tobacco products manufactured or imported or packaged on or after September 1 shall display the first image and those manufactured or imported or packaged on or after September 1, 2021 shall display the second image. “Any person engaged directly or indirectly in the manufacture, production, supply, import or distribution of cigarettes or any tobacco products shall ensure that all tobacco product packages shall have the specified health warnings exactly as prescribed,’’ said the release. Violation of the provision is a punishable offence with imprisonment or fine as prescribed in Section 20 of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/new-health-warnings-on-tobacco-product-packs/article31506379.ece
05 May 2020||May 05 2020 07:27 IST,||Sudoku - May 5, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-5-2020/article31507000.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police probe vulgar posts on social media||Taking suo motu cognisance of social media posts on an Instagram group, on which teenage boys have glorified rape and posted objectionable pictures of women and minor girls, the Delhi Police on Monday launched a probe into the matter, a senior officer said. “We have not received any complaint yet in this regard. But taking suo motu cognisance of the matter, we are registering a case under relevant sections of IPC and IT Act for obscenity,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy. The police have also written to Instagram to share details of the group members, he said, adding an investigation is under way. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) also took cognisance of the matter and issued notices to Instagram and the Delhi Police seeking action reports. DCW notice “It is reported that the group is used for sharing objectionable pictures of minor girls and women many a times. Several other illegal acts and comments have been made on the group. This is a very serious matter wherein an open media platform is being used for illegal activities,” read the notice to the police. The women’s panel has also sought details pertaining to the members of the group. Terming the posts as “shocking,” DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal said that those involved should be arrested and strict against should be taken against them. SFI condemns act Condemning the Instagram activity which has since gone viral, students’ group SFI termed it “misogynistic” and a “glorification of harassment and objectification of women”. The SFI said, “The group members objectified women and circulated morphed pictures.” “Cyber abuse doesn’t happen in isolation, it just portrays the inefficiency of our government in addressing the issues of oppression of women and LGBTQIA+,” said LSR students’ union general secretary Unnimaya.  This is a very serious matter wherein an open media platform is being used for illegal activities DCW notice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-probe-vulgar-posts-on-social-media/article31506523.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Family of arrested Jamia scholar concerned about her health||“As a family, there is only pain and suffering for us,” said the husband of Safoora Zargar, the Jamia Millia Islamia scholar who was arrested nearly a month back in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. Ms. Zargar, who is three months’ pregnant, was charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and is currently in judicial custody at Tihar jail. “If she was at home, she wouldn’t even be allowed to get out of bed,” said her husband, who got a chance to speak to her for five minutes for the first time since she was arrested on April 28. “In terms of health, she is doing fine. She is managing. She is strong,” he said. However, for the family, concerns about conditions in the jail and the threat of the ongoing pandemic are weighing heavy. “It’s worse because we are not even able to communicate with her,” he said, highlighting that they could not send her help and was barely in touch with her lawyer, given the lockdown restrictions. Ms. Zargar was a part of student activism at the university and her husband insisted that “she was not interested in political activism”. Before the anti-CAA protests, she had only ever been involved at a couple of university-level issues where she and others had gone up to the Vice-Chancellor, he said. He added, “At the end of the day, they are just students and the protests that were happening were entirely peaceful.” “All we do is pray for her and hope things change. We believe she has done nothing wrong and we have full faith in the judicial system,” the husband said. Commenting on the reasons for her arrest, he said: “You don’t need to be a scientist to understand why this is being done..but we are hoping the judicial system comes through.” Following an application from her lawyer, jail authorities agreed to ensure medical examination, proper nutrition and that she be allowed to talk to her family at least once a week. Her husband and her lawyer expect to speak with her for another five minutes this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/family-of-arrested-jamia-scholar-concerned-about-her-health/article31506531.ece
05 May 2020||Gurugram,||Gurugram shops see few customers despite relaxation in restrictions||The district administration’s orders allowing the opening of sector markets on Monday here evoked lukewarm response from the shopkeepers and the customers alike. While the barber shops and saloons remained closed, a few garments and electronics shops that opened registered few sales. Mehta and Sons, a branded garments shop, in Sector 31 opened around afternoon but did not register any sale. The shop’s manager Naveen Kumar said they had opened with just four staff members and most of the day was lost in cleaning, dusting and arranging the stuff. “It will take a while before the word spreads and the customers come to the markets. People are little scared. We don’t hope the things to become normal anytime soon,” said Mr. Kumar. He added that the shop would be run with half the strength and the staff would be called for work in rotation. Another shop in the market, Drapes and Decors, also did not see any sales on the first day of its opening after the lockdown. “Even before the lockdown, we were battling slowdown. And now this lockdown has hit even harder. These are really difficult times for the business,” said shop’s manager Ajay Kumar. Prateek Saxena, who runs hair-cut unisex saloon — Be U— in Sector 15 Part-II market, said he had opened the saloon for cleaning and disinfection. He said he needed to apply for passes for two of his hair-stylists staying in Delhi before the resumption of operations. Mr. Saxena said they now need to keep in mind the social distancing norms as well and won’t allow more than three clients inside together. “I have bought a thermal scanner to check the body temperature and ten litres sanitiser,” said Mr. Saxena. However, Ritika, the owner of Belle’s Saloon in Sector 14 market, said she would prefer to wait till May 17 despite the permission, since clients were anyway not expected to turn up. Abhishek, who runs a spa in Sector 31, said four of his spas were in shopping malls and not expected to open anytime soon, so he would open this spa in the sector market in a couple of days. Rajesh of “R R Fabric” in Sector 46 market said he opened around noon and only one customer visited his shop. “It is not the kind of rush that was expected. People are hesitant to come out. We need to wait for a few more days to see how it unfolds,” said Mr. Rajesh. An adjoining electronic goods shops, however, registered some sale. “We have sold two-three items,” said the manager. However, a majority of the residents’ welfare associations did not allow the domestic workers to return to work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gurugram-shops-see-few-customers-despite-relaxation-in-restrictions/article31506526.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Sikh body to give food to home-bound migrants||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Monday said it will provide free packed food to stranded migrant workers, pilgrims and students who will travel to their respective States on the special trains announced by the Centre. It said vegetarian food packets would be given to all home-bound passengers for the entire travel period. DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said:“Volunteers of the DSGMC will distribute these food packets to railway passengers at New Delhi Railway Station, Old Delhi Railway Station, Anand Vihar station and Nizamuddin, apart from others, depending on the demand and routes that the trains take.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sikh-body-to-give-food-to-home-bound-migrants/article31506528.ece
05 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Migrant workers stage protest demanding to be sent home||A large number of construction labourers inside Suncity Township in Sector 54 here on Golf Course Road protested on Monday saying that they could not sustain themselves and demanded that they be sent back homes. The labourers, including women, working at several construction sites inside the 180-acre township, a designated containment zone, took to the roads in the morning inside its premises demanding that they be sent to their hometowns. The labourers said they did not have enough money and food to sustain their families and arrangements be made to send them back. The police were called in and the situation was brought under control without the use of force. Former Suncity RWA president Abhey Poonia said the construction activity inside the township had come to a halt following the lockdown and the labourers did not have enough to sustain themselves. He also alleged the shopkeepers inside the township were selling groceries and essential commodities to the labourers at a higher price forcing them to protest. RWA’s vice-president Prashant Kumar said around 150 forms were filled with the help of the district administration in the evening to facilitate the labourers’ return back. Local resident Sonal Pathak, a social worker, said the workers had little support from the builders and the residents were collecting funds among themselves to supply ration and other food items, such as biscuits, to the workers. SHO (Sector 53) Deepak said labourers wanted to return to their homes, but the police officers spoke to them and brought the situation under control. He said no case was registered in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/migrant-workers-stage-protest-demanding-to-be-sent-home/article31506533.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital nurses call off strike||The nurses at Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital called off their planned strike on Monday after hospital administration assured them of fulfilling their demands. The nurses had asked for better quarantine facilities, separation of COVID-19 patients from others, sanitisation of the hospital among others. A spokesperson for the nurses’ union said authorities said they will provide hotel facilities for nurses and better quarantine facilities — the proposals for which would be sent to the District Magistrate. The union had also complained about discrimination between the quarantining of doctors versus nurses and had called for the need to set up clear, streamlined protocols. However, with regard to certain internal issues, union spokespersons said a committee is looking into the demands but the matter cannot be resolved now as the Medical Director of the hospital is currently in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dr-baba-saheb-ambedkar-hospital-nurses-call-off-strike/article31506530.ece
05 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||JGU admissions||O.P. Jindal Global University on Monday announced that admissions to all undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes, except the five-year law and architecture programme, will be held online. Applicants can take the Jindal Scholastic Aptitude Testfrom May 11, the university said. “Starting May 11, prospective students seeking admission to JGU can take the exam at their own convenience from the safety of their homes to complete the admissions process...,” the university said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jgu-admissions/article31506524.ece
05 May 2020||New Delhi,||Woman found dead inside locked factory||A 23-year-old woman was found murdered inside a factory in Narela on Monday, the police said. The case came to fore when the factory owner informed the police that a labourer — Anil— who used to live in the factory due to lockdown, was missing. “On reaching the spot, the police broke open the factory. On searching the premises, they found a woman lying dead on the ground. She was hit with an iron object on head,” an officer said. The iron object was found next to the body. A manhunt is on for the accused, the police said, adding that a murder case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-found-dead-inside-locked-factory/article31506529.ece
