25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Flight and health curbs cloud airline operations||Amid growing uncertainty on the number of flights allowed by different States at specific airports and the health protocols to be followed by passengers at each of them, the Ministry of Civil Aviation held a meeting on Sunday evening with airlines and airports to finalise routes that could be opened from Monday. “Except Andhra Pradesh which will start on 26/5 & West Bengal on 28/5, domestic flights will recommence across the country from tomorrow,” Civil Aviation Minister Hadeep Puri tweeted after the meeting. Fresh guidelines With all domestic (air/ rail/ inter-State bus) travel to resume from Monday, the Health Ministry has issued new guidelines for inter-State travel and international arrivals, stating that only COVID-asymptomatic domestic passengers/ international arrivals will be permitted with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days. However, the Ministry also instructed States/UTs to develop their own protocol with regard to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment. With several States announcing a delay in opening airports or restricting the number of flights over apprehension of a spike in infections, there was a lack of clarity among airlines about destinations they could connect to as well as the number of flights they could operate. While Mumbai will restart operations from Monday, it will allow only 25 each of arrivals and departures, just a fourth of the flights the Centre said airlines (30% of regular flights) could operate to different airports. The decision to resume flights came just hours after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said he had sought more time from the Civil Aviation Ministry to restart operations. West Bengal's Kolkata and Bagdogra airports have delayed re-opening until May 28 due to cyclone Amphan. The airports will see curtailed operations and allow only 10 arrivals and departures each to begin with. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday they would request the Centre to postpone domestic flights. Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam airports in Andhra Pradesh will reopen only from Tuesday, with only 20% of flights permitted. Hyderabad airport in Telangana will reopen but permit only 15 arrivals and departures. In a late night announcement, Mr. Puri said a maximum of 25 flights per day will land in Chennai, while there was no limit on departures. The State government, which had earlier indicated that it would allow departures rather than arrivals, was yet to announce its “quarantine” measures for in-coming passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flight-and-health-curbs-cloud-airline-operations/article31667126.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID claims four more lives in Telangana||Death of COVID-19 patients in Telangana crossed a grim milestone of 50 on Sunday. Four more people suffering from the infectious disease have died taking the toll to 53. The number of coronavirus positive cases too continued to rise as 41 more samples tested positive for the virus on Sunday. This is the sixth consecutive day that the deaths have been reported. After a lull of five days till May 18, the deaths have been on an upward trajectory from May 19. Among the COVID-19 patients whose death was reported on Sunday includes a 75-year-old man from Jagtial, a 72-year-old woman, a 60-year-old man who suffered from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) too, and a 48-year-old woman who was also having Leukemia. The latter three are from Hyderabad. Though the numbers are alarming, Superintendent of Gandhi Hospital M. Raja Rao said that not everyone with co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and other such diseases die. Around 40% of the total patients have health complications. “It is people with co-morbidities along with organ dysfunction who died. However, there are around 8-10 such cases who have recovered too. Besides, people with co-morbidities who were in intensive care unit (ICU) too have recovered,” Dr. Rao said. Migrant cases rise Of the 41 new cases reported on Sunday — 23 cases are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits and one is from neighbouring Rangareddy district, there are 11 migrants and 6 foreign evacuees. There has been steady increase in the number of migrants who tested positive. It is learnt that most of them have returned from Maharashtra. Till date, at least 130 of them have been detected with COVID-19. Officials said that their contacts are being traced. Till date, a total of 1,854 cases have been reported from Telangana. Out of them, 709 are active cases, 1092 were discharged, and 53 people died. The number of active cases, which dipped to below 400 till May 13, is on the rise. It now stands at 709.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-claims-four-more-lives-in-telangana/article31667409.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chhattisgarh CJ throws a lifeline to stranded students||At a time when thousands of people are stranded across the country due to the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown, Chhattisgarh High Court Chief Justice P.R. Ramachandra Menon has quietly helped scores of medical and nursing students of AIIMS Raipur travel home. Chief Justice Menon’s timely intervention, on the basis of an email received from a Supreme Court lawyer, saw the State government swing into action to provide buses for the students to return to their hometowns in Kerala. Justice Menon, speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, said these students were tomorrow’s frontline workers in case of a future health crisis and they should be able to trust the system to help them in their need of hour. “Let them be able to do their duty to society in the years to come,” he said in a telephonic conversation from Chhattisgarh. The email sent by advocate Haris Beeran on May 17 to Chief Justice Menon said the students were stranded in Raipur since March 20. Mr. Beeran said some of them had contacted him, seeking legal help to get home. He said trains were available from Delhi and Punjab, but none passed through Chhattisgarh. “I generated a file on the basis of this email and passed an administrative order calling forth information from the State government... I wanted to ascertain the facts on whether the students had enough food or whether they had been denied entry into their hostels. I instructed the Registrar General to collect the information through the Advocate General of the State... I wanted to see if there was any need to register a case on the judicial side...” the Chief Justice said. He said the State government reacted promptly by providing buses for the students. “Full credit goes to the Chhattisgarh government.” He said the judiciary simply played its part of taking cognisance of a concerned citizen’s representation. “We [the judiciary] cannot simply direct the government to do anything unless there is a breach on the part of the government,” the CJ drew the line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chhattisgarh-cj-throws-a-lifeline-to-stranded-students/article31667470.ece
25 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Special train to northeast attacked in Bihar||In two incidents in Bihar within a span of 24 hours, a special train from Haryana, carrying some 1,300 people home to the northeastern States, was attacked and 12 passengers on a bus from Madhya Pradesh were abused and threatened. The journey for the returnees from Haryana was incident-free until their train stopped at Danapur in Bihar early on Sunday morning. Trouble started when the passengers, mostly young persons from northeastern States, refused to let several people waiting on the platform into the train. Police inaction “We did not allow the people to board the special train because of the COVID-19 threat. At that they attacked the train and broke the windowpanes with sticks and stones,” reported Renponi Kithan, one of the passengers. Her co-travellers said the police remained mute spectators as the people hurled abuse and threatened to burn the train down. They also alleged that the police beat up some of the returnees on the train instead of disciplining the violent crowd. “This happened after we had spent more than 20 hours on the train without food and water,” said Franto Tohoi, another passenger. He added that the train, which was supposed to be a direct service, was making long halts at several stations. “At this rate, we don’t know when we will reach our destinations.” Subhanan Chandra, the chief spokesperson of Northeast Frontier Railway, said the matter had been raised with officials of the East Central Railway. “It was a minor issue [which] the security personnel handled. The train is on the move and is being escorted by the Railway Protection Force,” he said. CPRO of East Central Railway Rajesh Kumar told the media that there was a minor scuffle between passengers for seat at Danapur railway station. Amid the scuffle, someone had thrown a stone, breaking a window pane of the train. However, the train later left the station with security, he said. In the other incident, members of a group from Nagaland, who were returning home in a bus from Madhya Pradesh, said they were racially abused when they stopped in Bihar for food on Saturday. “Twelve of us had stopped by a roadside eatery when some men came up, hurled abuses and called us coronavirus,” said Mhathung Ezung, who worked at a wildlife lodge at the Pench National Park. He also said members of the group were denied the use of washrooms at a couple of petrol pumps on the way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-train-to-northeast-attacked-in-bihar/article31667345.ece
25 May 2020||SALEM,||Asymptomatic woman allowed to marry in Salem||A young woman, who is an asymptomatic COVID-19 patient, got married here on Sunday. The bride and her relatives, who took part in the wedding, have been isolated. The Salem district administration had allowed the wedding on humanitarian grounds. According to officials, the woman and 11 of her family members from Chennai had travelled to Salem on May 21 for her wedding with a youth from Gengavelli, near Attur. Health officials had collected samples from the woman and other family members at the check-post and she tested positive on Saturday. Based on the test results, officials from the district administration and health department advised her to be in isolation and asked the family to postpone the wedding. But the family requested the officials to allow them to go ahead with the wedding as planned and promised to follow all safety guidelines. Since the patient was asymptomatic, she was isolated at one of the houses here and the District Collector permitted the wedding with a limited number of attendees, officials said. Isolation advised As many as 28 family members took part and post wedding, all members were advised to be in isolation in their homes for the next 28 days. Doctors from the Urban Primary Health Centre, health inspectors, revenue and police officials monitored the conduct of the wedding to ensure all safety guidelines were followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/asymptomatic-woman-allowed-to-marry-in-salem/article31667266.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cases in State cross 2,000 mark||With 130 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, the tally in Karnataka crossed the 2,000 mark. The total number of cases in the State now stands at 2,089. Of Sunday’s 130 cases, a majority was reported from Chickballapur district with 27. Yadgir district had the next highest number of cases with 24. Of the 130 cases, 105 were people who had come from other States. Of this, 100 of them had a travel history to Maharashtra. Two other cases were reported from people who had an international travel history. On Sunday, 46 patients were discharged bringing the total number of people discharged in the State to 654.  Domestic travel Of the total 2,089 cases in Karnataka, the biggest source of infection has been domestic travel, with 1,025 cases having a history of domestic travel. Meanwhile, 790 people contracted the infection after they came in contact with people who tested positive, and 99 people had an international travel history. The Department of Health and Family Welfare has completed over two lakh tests in the State. As of Sunday, 2,06,313 samples were tested and of these, 2,01,978 were reported to be negative. Over the last couple of weeks, Karnataka has ramped up the number of daily tests. According to analysis by the State war room, Karnataka now stands third in the country for tests per a million population. The comparison has been done among States which have a population higher than 10 million. Karnataka has done 3,209 tests per a million population. Delhi stands first with 9,852 tests per million, while Andhra Pradesh has conducted 5,909 tests per million.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-state-cross-2000-mark/article31667169.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Quarantine norms differ across States||Many States are simply following the Union Health Ministry’s guidelines for arriving air passengers, but Karnataka will require travellers boarding from such “high-risk States” as Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine on arrival in Bengaluru. As air travel resumes in the country on Monday, passengers will be tested for COVID-19 from the fifth to seventh day of arrival, a Karnataka official said. If they test negative, they will be asked to follow seven days of home quarantine. But exemptions have been given to pregnant women, children below 10 and others. Asymptomatic passengers arriving from other States will be asked to follow 14 days of home quarantine. In Kerala, flyers will undergo thermal screening once they exit the aircraft. Those found asymptomatic will be subjected to home quarantine for 14 days. Those found symptomatic will be rushed from airports to a COVID-19 care centre or hospital. Gujarat will not require quarantine for asymptomatic passengers. “We are following the government of India’s protocols for domestic travellers departing from or arriving at airports in Gujarat,” Secretary (Civil Aviation) Mamta Verma said. Though Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had urged the Centre to defer in-coming flights, both departure and arrivals will resume from Monday. It is mandatory for all passengers flying into the State to register their details online after booking the ticket and apply for and obtain a T.N. ePASS onhttps://TNepass.tnega.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quarantine-norms-differ-across-states/article31667128.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi adds 30 more deaths to toll||The Capital on Sunday reported 508 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 13,418. Thirty more deaths were also added to the official toll, the highest single-day jump so far, taking the total to 261. Not all of the 30 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, said a heath bulletin issued by the Delhi government. It added that a total of 6,540 patients have recovered while 6,617 are undergoing treatment. The city has 86 containment zones. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has ordered all 117 private hospitals, and nursing homes with a bed capacity of 50 and more, to reserve at least 20% of their beds for COVID-19 patients. Earlier in the day, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said it welcomed a recent decision by the Delhi High Court to not entertain a plea that questioned the accuracy of the death figures published by the city government. The party added that the BJP must now apologise for indulging in “baseless, motivated and malicious campaign”. “After hearing both sides, the High Court said that allegations against the accuracy of the death figures published by the Delhi government is absolutely baseless,” AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said, adding that the Death Audit Committee was a competent authority and the data published by the Delhi government was free from discrimination or fabrication.  MLA recovers AAP MLA Vishesh Ravi, who had tested positive for COVID-19 on May 3, said he has finally tested negative after battling the virus for 22 days. The Karol Bagh MLA said he will now donate plasma to help other patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-adds-30-more-deaths-to-toll/article31667350.ece
25 May 2020||Erode,||NEET coaching from second week of June||Coaching classes for NEET examination will begin from second week of June, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said in Gobichettipalayam on Sunday. The Minister told media persons that 7,300 government school students would be trained for 35 days in nine colleges and coaching would begin from second week of June. He hoped that at least 100 students would clear NEET and get selected for medical courses. Asked whether all the Class 10 students would be declared as passed the exams, the Minister said that any decision would be taken only after paper valuation. He said that decision on reopening of schools would be taken at the appropriate time in consultation with the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/neet-coaching-classes-from-second-week-of-june-minister/article31667256.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||No troops detained by China: Army||The Army on Sunday “categorically denied” reports that Indian patrol teams had been detained by Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, during the current standoff. “There has been no detention of Indian soldiers at the borders. We categorically deny this,” Army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said, a day after reports referred to the alleged detention of Indian soldiers in three separate incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-troops-detained-by-china-army/article31667344.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Police set to bring Zubair to city soon||The 40-year-old Al-Qaeda operative who was deported from the United States on Wednesday is likely to be brought to Hyderabad in a couple of days from Amritsar. It is learnt that the Telangana police are going to accompany Ibrahim Zubair Mohammed’s family while he is being brought to the city from Amritsar where he is in a quarantine centre. Sources in the department said that investigators will question the Al-Qaeda operative for his various activities with the banned organisation in the US, where he was convicted for five years in 2015 for terror financing. “The quarantine rules have been diluted in his case for security,” a senior officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-set-to-bring-zubair-to-city-soon/article31667410.ece
25 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Special train to northeast attacked||In two incidents in Bihar within a span of 24 hours, a special train from Haryana, carrying some 1,300 people home to the northeastern States, was attacked and 12 passengers on a bus from Madhya Pradesh were abused and threatened. The journey for the returnees from Haryana was incident-free until their train stopped at Danapur in Bihar early on Sunday morning. Trouble started when the passengers, mostly young persons from northeastern States, refused to let several people waiting on the platform into the train. “We did not allow the people to board the special train due to the COVID-19 threat. At that they attacked the train and broke the windows with sticks and stones,” said Renponi Kithan, one of the passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-train-to-northeast-attacked/article31667469.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Too close for comfort||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/too-close-for-comfort/article31667113.ece
25 May 2020||V. Raghavendra,||Gas leak: HC orders sealing of plant||The High Court has directed that the LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam should be sealed and no one, including the company directors, be allowed to enter its premises. The court further directed that the surrendered passports of the company directors should not be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gas-leak-hc-orders-sealing-of-plant/article31667565.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 cases: India now in top 10||India on Sunday reported the highest single-day spike so far of 7,097 COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,38,482, according to reports from the State Health Departments. The number of active cases stood at 76,858, while 57,605 people have recovered. The death toll crossed 4,000, with 150 new fatalities. Data from Johns Hopkins University show that the total number of cases in India has surpassed that of Iran (with 1,35,701 confirmed infections). India now has the 10th highest number of confirmed cases worldwide. Maharashtra reported a surge of 3,041 cases — its highest till date — to breach the 50,000-mark. The tally touched 50,231, while 58 more deaths saw the toll surge to 1,635. The number of cases in Gujarat rose to 14,063, with 394 new infections. With 29 new fatalities, the toll rose to 858. Meanwhile, the Union Health Ministry said the recovery rate in the country stood at 41.28%. “The testing capacity has been ramped up in both, and as on date, around 1,50,000 tests can be conducted every day,” said the Ministry release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-india-now-in-top-10/article31667121.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 cases in Chennai cross 10,500||The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 infection in the city rose to 10,576 and the State reported 765 positive cases on Sunday. As on date, 16,277 persons have tested positive and the number of active cases (including those in isolation) stands at 7,839. On Sunday, the State tested 12,275 persons, taking the total number of samples tested to over 4.09 lakh. The number of infected children and the elderly crossed the 1,000-mark. As of Sunday, 1,003 children, aged below 12, tested positive. Sunday’s bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health included a child aged less than a month old. The number of elderly who are infected stood at 1,358. As many as 5,643 persons are undergoing treatment in isolation wards, while 833 persons have been discharged from various hospitals in the State, taking the total number of discharged persons to 8,324. Those tested include three international passengers and 44 passengers who returned from other States. International passengers, who tested positive, include one each from Dubai, the Philippines and London. Among returnees from within the country, 39 from Maharashtra, two from Delhi and one each from Karnataka, West Bengal and Kerala added to the positive tally of positive cases. Till date, a total of 111 persons succumbed to the infection, including eight on Sunday. All of them had several co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease or morbid obesity.    Four patients admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died of the infection and two patients in Stanley lost their lives. Two patients admitted to private hospitals died due to the infection on Sunday. According to the bulletin, 76 passengers who returned from other countries reported positive till date. This includes 36 who tested positive on return and 40 persons who tested negative on arrival, but turned positive during exit screening. Four districts, including Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Namakkal and Tiruppur have no active cases. Of the 40 international returnees, 19 are from West Asia; eight returnees from England; seven from the Philippines and six are from the US. Among those who returned by train from various States, 19 tested positive while 3, 944 tested negative. The results of 1,174 samples are awaited. A total of 5,137 samples were lifted, health officials said. Testing of 648 samples was under way. Of the 4,09,615 samples that were lifted, 18,363 samples are repeat samples.  (*Two deaths were cross notified to other states. One patient died after turning negative for infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-chennai-cross-10500/article31667237.ece
25 May 2020||Hyderabad,||24-May-Nearby-1||The decision of the State government to increase crop area of cotton by 10.55 lakh acres for farmers to be able to access its investment support through Rythu Bandhu in the ensuing season was likely to be implemented with a strict vigil on seed companies and dealers. Apart from keeping a close watch on spurious seed, government was said to focus on checking sale of banned Bollgard 3 cotton seed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/24-may-nearby-1/article31667407.ece
25 May 2020||Bhopal,||Two policemen suspended for thrashing man in M.P.||The Chhindwara police have suspended two policemen for allegedly beating a drunk man with batons, in yet another instance of personnel thrashing people during the lockdown in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-policemen-suspended-for-thrashing-man-in-mp/article31667348.ece
25 May 2020||Srinagar,||Only at-home prayers in J&K on Id-ul-Fitr||Jammu and Kashimir observed subdued and low-key celebrations on the occasion of Id-ul-Fitr on Sunday because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-at-home-prayers-in-jk-on-id-ul-fitr/article31667347.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Rain brings temperature down, floods houses||Heavy rain, accompanied by strong winds, that lashed the city on Sunday afternoon resulted in inundation and tree- fall in many neighbourhoods across the city. Residents of 10th Main, 6th Sector of HSR Layout and Banaswadi, among other areas, saw their homes flooded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-brings-temperature-down-floods-houses/article31667171.ece
25 May 2020||BENGALURU,||Reverse migration puts focus on ARYA scheme||The massive reverse migration of people from urban areas to villages ever since lockdown was imposed due to COVID-19 has put focus on the Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) scheme of the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reverse-migration-puts-focus-on-arya-scheme/article31667172.ece
25 May 2020||Chennai,||MSMEs to start operations today||MSMEs across Tamil Nadu which will start operations on Monday expressed concern over manpower shortage and lack of orders from clients. On Sunday, the State govern- ment gave a green signal to 17 industrial estates to start functioning with 25% staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/msmes-to-start-operations-today/article31667235.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu has 1,143 containment zones||The rising COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu has resulted in the increase in the number of containment zones, according to an extraordinary government gazette issued on Saturday. There are a total of 1,143containment zones in the State, with Chennai topping the list with 635.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-has-1143-containment-zones/article31667236.ece
25 May 2020||Chittoor,||24brief2||The Madanapalle revenue division, which is the largest tomato growing belt in Asia, is slowly witnessing an increase in arrivals of the produce at the agriculture markets during the last one week. On Sunday, the total arrivals at various markets in the division stood about 3,000 tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/24brief2/article31667118.ece
25 May 2020||Vijayawada,||24brief1||The APSRTC is likely to scale up its operations from June 1. Official sources said efforts were aimed at gradually increasing the number of buses in all categories to cater to the needs of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/24brief1/article31667117.ece
25 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||COVID-19 claims eight more lives in Tamil Nadu||Kerala reported one fatality on Sunday as COVID-19 cases continued to rise steadily in the State. The State reported its fifth death when a woman who had returned from Dubai for cancer treatment and had COVID-19 died at Kozhikode. Of 53 new cases, 47 were imported, with 18 people having come from the Gulf and 29 from other States, including Maharashtra. Five persons, including a health worker at Palakkad, were believed to have contracted the disease through contact with known or unknown sources of infection. One person was a native of Tamil Nadu. Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur accounted for 12 cases each, Malappuram and Kasaragod districts had five cases each, Alapuzha, Ernakulam and Palakkad had four cases each, Kollam district had three, Pathanamthitta two and Kozhikode one case. Five persons had recovered. At present, 322 patients were undergoing treatment. So far, 520 recovered and five passed away. After the lockdown norms were relaxed, 93,404 persons had entered the State by air, sea, rail and road. The State put 95,394 persons on quarantine, of whom, 94,662 were on home or institutional quarantine, while 732 were in isolation wards in hospitals. On Sunday, 188 persons were admitted to hospitals.  Many cases from abroad The spread of coronavirus showed no signs of slowing down in Andhra Pradesh with 83 new cases detected in 24 hours. The case tally rose to 2,797. Among new cases detected, 17 were those who returned recently from West Asia. Twelve were from Kuwait, three from Dubai/ Saudi Arabia and two from Qatar, an official bulletin said. In addition, 11 new cases were linked to Koyambedu. Also, 37 patients recovered while no deaths were reported. Meanwhile, the State’s testing capacity went up: 11, 357 samples were tested in 24 hours, for the first time. With 130 new COVID-19 cases in Karnataka on Sunday, the State had 2,089 cases. Also, 105 people who tested positive were from other States, 100 of them from Maharashtra. Two had undertaken international travel. Of 2,089 cases, the highest source of infection was domestic travel with 1,025 cases in this category. Also, 790 contracted the infection through contact and 99 who had an international travel history. Karnataka had done 3,209 tests per million population. Delhi was first with 9,852 tests per million, while Andhra Pradesh had done 5,909 tests per million. The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 infection in Chennai rose to 10,576 and the State reported 765 additional positive cases on Sunday. As on date, 16,277 persons had tested positive and the number of active cases (including those in isolation) was 7,839. On Sunday, the State tested 12,275 persons, taking the total number of samples tested to over 4.09 lakh. The number of infected children and the elderly crossed the 1,000-mark. As of Sunday, 1,003 children, aged below 12, had tested positive. The Directorate of Public Health said a child aged less than a month old was one. The number of infected elderly stood at 1,358.   (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-claims-four-more-lives-in-telangana/article31667084.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||No troops detained by China: Army||The Army on Sunday “categorically denied” reports that Indian patrol teams had been detained by Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, during the current standoff. “There has been no detention of Indian soldiers at the borders. We categorically deny this,” Army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said, a day after reports referred to the alleged detention of Indian soldiers in three separate incidents. The spokesperson said the reports hurt “national interests”. Tensions between India and China along the LAC have been rising for the past month, since People’s Liberation Army troops tried to disrupt road construction in the Ladakh sector; dozens of soldiers have been injured in incidents of jostling and pushing in at least four points of conflict. Officials have said that the skirmishes have been caused by “differing perceptions” of the LAC, which is not fully demarcated. In three statements last week, the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs alleged that Indian troops had carried out “infringement activities”, “trespassing” into Chinese-claimed territory in Sikkim and Ladakh, and even accused India of “attempting to unilaterally change the status of border control”. The Ministry of External Affairs had said that it was the PLA that had “undertaken activity hindering India’s normal patrolling patterns”. In the current standoff, incidents have been reported from three points on the LAC in Ladakh — Pangong Tso (lake), Galwan Nalah and Demchok, and one at Nakula Pass in Sikkim. According to an analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, an independent think tank based in Canberra, satellite images made available on Twitter showed that the Chinese build-up in Ladakh included the Galwan area inside territory patrolled by the Indian Army. The satellite images of May 22 show about 80 tents set by Chinese soldiers along the Galwan river. India too has increased infrastructure, as it completes the construction and refurbishment of the 255 km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi road near the river valley. The Army has mobilised additional troops and equipment and dug into positions close to the Chinese troops, sources told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-troops-detained-by-china-army/article31667089.ece
25 May 2020||Mumbai,||Wrong to lift lockdown abruptly, says Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday that it was neither right to impose a lockdown suddenly nor to withdraw it abruptly. He said the State was restarting activities in phases and people should not violate physical distancing norms and exhibit indiscipline. “We cannot end it abruptly. If we do it like the manner in which it was invoked, it may lead to an increase in the number of [COVID-19] cases. We are bringing activities back on track in phases. We have to take precautions,” he said in his social media address. Mr. Thackeray recalled what he had said at the videoconference of Opposition parties two days ago. “I said the real picture about our country will be clear in a fortnight due to the migration and the likely transmission of the virus due to the people’s movement,” he said. At a time of crisis, no one should resort to politics, he said, referring to the Opposition BJP’s agitation over the increasing number of cases in the State. “You may do it, but we will not as we are vested with a responsibility and, above all, the people of Maharashtra trust us,” he said. “We are planning for the future. We are lifting the lockdown gradually. Industries, shops and offices are being opened slowly. Just like how we gradually went into the lockdown, we will gradually lift restrictions to make sure everyone is safe,” he said. Mr. Thackeray said a Central government’s team had projected that 1.25 lakh-1.5 lakh cases were likely to be detected in the State by May-end. “But, today, we have 33,786 active cases, and another 13,000 have been discharged. This has happened because of the discipline shown by you,” he said. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wrong-to-lift-lockdown-abruptly-says-uddhav/article31667099.ece
25 May 2020||New Delhi,||Centre seeks efficacy of Ayurveda||The Union Health Ministry on Sunday sought results of COVID-19 treatment using Ayurvedic medicines. This was following a visit by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to a dedicated COVID-19 health centre at the Chaudhary Brahm Prakash Ayurved Charak Sansthan (CBPACS), Najafgarh. Huge potential “Ayurveda is a traditional medicinal knowledge source from India and there is huge potential in it. Its inherent strength in holistic healing and wellbeing is being put to good use in treatment of the patients at this centre,” said the Minister. He said this knowledge and experience would surely prove beneficial to people all over the world, especially in combating the battle against COVID-19. ‘No casualty’ According to figures released by the Ministry, till date 201 patients have been admitted to the CBPACS Centre. “Of these, 37 have been cured and 100 patients have been advised home isolation. Nineteen patients have been shifted to speciality hospitals on review of their medical condition. There has been no casualty in this centre,” noted the Health Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-seeks-efficacy-of-ayurveda/article31667102.ece
25 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Special train to northeast attacked||In two incidents in Bihar within a span of 24 hours, a special train from Haryana, carrying some 1,300 people home to the northeastern States, was attacked and 12 passengers on a bus from Madhya Pradesh were abused and threatened. The journey for the returnees from Haryana was incident-free until their train stopped at Danapur in Bihar early on Sunday morning. Trouble started when the passengers, mostly young persons from northeastern States, refused to let several people waiting on the platform into the train. Police inaction “We did not allow the people to board the special train because of the COVID-19 threat. At that they attacked the train and broke the windowpanes with sticks and stones,” reported Renponi Kithan, one of the passengers. Her co-travellers said the police remained mute spectators as the people hurled abuse and threatened to burn the train down. They also alleged that the police beat up some of the returnees on the train instead of disciplining the violent crowd. “This happened after we had spent more than 20 hours on the train without food and water,” said Franto Tohoi, another passenger. He added that the train, which was supposed to be a direct service, was making long halts at several stations. “At this rate, we don’t know when we will reach our destinations.” Subhanan Chandra, the chief spokesperson of Northeast Frontier Railway, said the matter had been raised with officials of the East Central Railway. “It was a minor issue [which] the security personnel handled. The train is on the move and is being escorted by the Railway Protection Force,” he said. CPRO of East Central Railway Rajesh Kumar told the media that there was a minor scuffle between passengers for seat at Danapur railway station. Amid the scuffle, someone had thrown a stone, breaking a window pane of the train. However, the train later left the station with security, he said. In the other incident, members of a group from Nagaland, who were returning home in a bus from Madhya Pradesh, said they were racially abused when they stopped in Bihar for food on Saturday. “Twelve of us had stopped by a roadside eatery when some men came up, hurled abuses and called us coronavirus,” said Mhathung Ezung, who worked at a wildlife lodge at the Pench National Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-train-to-northeast-attacked/article31667105.ece
25 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Helping remove ‘quarantine’ stigma||With stigma associated with COVID-19 creating bad blood among villagers, activists have come up with peace committees for instant dispute resolution, especially relating to quarantining in three districts of Odisha. Such committees set up in 36 gram panchayats covering 190 villages in Balangir, Nuapada and Bargarh districts have not only been in the forefront of making people aware about importance of undergoing quarantine but also have worked for removing stigma attached to the pandemic.  First lockdown It all started with the first lockdown. Activists formed Virtual Community Volunteers Network (VCVN) by operating from remote locations. The only medium of establishing contacts among them was mobile phones. The volunteers collected information of migrants, probable date of return and counselled them on safety and precautions. “During our interactions, we came across a number of issues which threatened to spoil the unity among the villagers. Then, peace committees involving local sarpanchs, ASHA workers and volunteers took shape,” said Prashant Kumar Nayak, who heads Palli Alok Pathagar, a Balangir-based social organisation. Last week, a woman who came from Ludhiana to her village Hirapur in Bargarh district, faced opposition from fellow villagers when she insisted on staying at home instead of undergoing institutional quarantine. In the same block, a teacher posted at Jeypore returned to his village Kechhodadar. Both faced social boycott. The committee brokered peace. While the woman had to accept institutional quarantine, the teacher because of his inter-district movement remained in home quarantine. Similarly, inmates of quarantine centre at Budhpatha in Balangir district were reluctant to take food prepared by woman self-help group, members of which are from Dalit community. The situation turned ugly and the women lodged a police complaint. The peace committee members talked to all stakeholders and found a solution. The woman SHG started preparing food at the centre. Counsel inmates At some places, inmates of quarantine centres locked up rooms from inside not letting newcomers in. “Our volunteers counselled them,” said Saroj Barik, a lead member of VCVN. Now, volunteers are persuading people to adopt social distancing and safety practices during distribution of entitlement and work sites of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/helping-remove-quarantine-stigma/article31667352.ece
25 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||States must seek U.P. nod to hire its workers: Adityanath||If any State wants migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, it would have to first seek the permission of the U.P. government, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Sunday. Mr. Adityanath said that the migrant workers from the State had not been taken care of in some States. “Because of the kind of behaviour and misery [migrant workers had to face] in some States, we are going to take their social security guarantee in our own hands,” Mr. Adityanath said in a web interaction with presspersons. While admitting that the return of migrant workers had led to a surge in COVID-19 cases in U.P., Mr. Adityanath said that since they [labourers] “have more strength to fight COVID-19 and also recover quickly”. He went on to claim that while an ordinary person took 14 to 20 days to recover from the virus, migrant labourers were turning “corona negative” on the sixth or seventh day. A “Migration Commission” would be constituted in Uttar Pradesh to link migrant workers with the State’s economy and provide them employment within the State, the government said. So far, around 23 lakh migrant workers have returned to U.P., said Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-must-seek-up-nod-to-hire-its-workers-adityanath/article31667107.ece
25 May 2020||Shibpur,||Howrah’s botanical garden now a graveyard of 1,000 trees||Inside the walled gates of the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden at Shibpur in Howrah district, the chirping of birds gets distinctly louder. Set up in 1787, the 273-acre garden, located at the other end of the Hooghly, has turned into a graveyard of trees. Massive trees, hundreds in number, with trunks having a girth of several metres, have fallen all over the garden, blocking access to large parts of the campus. “We have lost nearly 1,000 trees, including some notable and rare species,” Kanad Das, scientist, Botanical Survey of India (BSI), and in charge of the Botanic Garden, said. The garden has over 13,000 trees of about 1,100 species. Rare and notable Among the rare trees that have fallen include the only full-grown kalpabriksha ( Adansonia digitata ) tree in the garden, the mad tree ( Pterygota alata var. irregularis ), the para rubber tree ( Hevea brasiliensis ), the Malabar chestnut ( Pachira insignis ), the Chir pine ( Pinus roxburghii ), and several century-old mahogany trees ( Swietenia mahagoni ) in the garden’s famous Mahogany Avenue. Most of these trees were introduced to the garden by British botanists in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Commercial cultivation of mahogany and rubber began in India after the species were first introduced in this garden. The cyclone also did not spare the iron fencing along the Hooghly; the brick wall along Andul Road of the Botanic Garden has suffered significant damage too. Amid all the devastation, the “Great Banyan Tree” on the western edge of garden offered the only silver lining. The tree, which has an enormous canopy, has survived with some damage. The 250-year-old tree, which predates the botanic garden, has a canopy of over 1.5 hectares. It is supported by over 4,000 prop roots. Major attraction Located at the western edge of garden, about 10% of the Great Banyan’s prop roots have been damaged by the cyclone. The authorities managing the Botanic Garden are confident that the destroyed prop roots can either be repaired, or new roots will come up. The tree is one of the garden’s major attractions. The main trunk of the banyan tree had to be removed in 1925, after an infection was caused by a wood-rotting fungi. A.A. Mao, Director, Botanical Survey of India, who visited the garden on Saturday, said that the sort of damage that the Great Banyan Tree has suffered was expected in a cyclone of such intensity. “We are lucky that the tree had a horizontal expansion and wasn’t tall like the other trees of the botanic garden,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/howrahs-botanical-garden-now-a-graveyard-of-1000-trees/article31667110.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chhattisgarh CJ throws a lifeline to stranded students||At a time when thousands of people are stranded across the country due to the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown, Chhattisgarh High Court Chief Justice P.R. Ramachandra Menon has quietly helped scores of medical and nursing students of AIIMS Raipur travel home. Chief Justice Menon’s timely intervention, on the basis of an email received from a Supreme Court lawyer, saw the State government swing into action to provide buses for the students to return to their hometowns in Kerala. Justice Menon, speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, said these students were tomorrow’s frontline workers in case of a future health crisis and they should be able to trust the system to help them in their need of hour. “Let them be able to do their duty to society in the years to come,” he said in a telephonic conversation from Chhattisgarh. The email sent by advocate Haris Beeran on May 17 to Chief Justice Menon said the students were stranded in Raipur since March 20. Mr. Beeran said some of them had contacted him, seeking legal help to get home. He said trains were available from Delhi and Punjab, but none passed through Chhattisgarh. “I generated a file on the basis of this email and passed an administrative order calling forth information from the State government... I wanted to ascertain the facts on whether the students had enough food or whether they had been denied entry into their hostels. I instructed the Registrar General to collect the information through the Advocate General of the State... I wanted to see if there was any need to register a case on the judicial side...” the Chief Justice said. He said the State government reacted promptly by providing buses for the students. “Full credit goes to the Chhattisgarh government.” He said the judiciary simply played its part of taking cognisance of a concerned citizen’s representation. “We [the judiciary] cannot simply direct the government to do anything unless there is a breach on the part of the government,” the CJ drew the line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chhattisgarh-cj-throws-a-lifeline-to-stranded-students/article31667123.ece
25 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sanitised corridor mooted for students from outside Kerala||A sanitised corridor (red channel) should be created for students from outside the State and those in 14-day quarantine (and their guardians) to appear for the pending SSLC, higher secondary, and vocational higher secondary examinations from the location they are quarantined in. The sanitised corridor will have to be maintained in the examination centre and the examination hall too. The corridor is part of an elaborate health advisory issued by the Health and Family Welfare department on the basis of directions of the General Education department and suggestions from a committee of experts for students and other stakeholders involved in the examination process to reduce the COVID-19 transmission risk. The examinations will begin on Tuesday. List of students from other States and in quarantine should be prepared in advance and communicated to schools. The advisory calls on school authorities to prepare a micro plan that includes the number of students from within and outside the State, the number of classrooms, seating arrangements, travel of students, and other details. The micro plan should be vetted by the health authorities. Social distancing, hand hygiene, and triple layer masks are mandatory for students from other States or Lakshadweep and those in quarantine. Those found having mild flu-like symptoms should be seated separately and visit a nearby health centre at the end of the day’s examination. All invigilators should wear triple layer masks and gloves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sanitised-corridor-mooted-for-students-from-outside-kerala/article31667081.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Are Modi, Shah aware of what’s happening in their home State?’||A day after the Gujarat High Court (HC) passed a strong order against the State government over poor medical facilities to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, the Congress on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah “if they are aware of what is happening in their home State or has Gujarat become COVID-19 immune”. On Saturday, the High Court came down heavily on the State government for the high mortality rate in the government-run Civil Hospital of Ahmedbad and noted that it contributed 62% to the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the city. The High Court also slammed the Health Minister and government officials for lack of ventilators and other essential equipment. ‘Worse than dungeon’ “As we said earlier that the Civil Hospital is meant to treat patients. However, it appears that as on date, it is as good as dungeon. Maybe worse than a dungeon. Unfortunately, the poor and helpless patients have no option,” a Bench of Justices B. Pardiwala and Ilesh Vora had observed. Addressing an online press conference, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said “rarely has the judiciary used such harsh terms as the Gujarat High Court did against the State government”. “We would respectfully ask the Prime Minister, the Home Minister, the Government of India, the Chief Minister of Gujarat and the Government of Gujarat: Are they even aware of what is happening in their own home State?” Mr. Singhvi said. “If so, have they ever intervened, chastised or punished the Gujarat government or does the latter have COVID immunity vaccine because they belong to the BJP?” he added. The Congress leader, who is a Rajya Sabha member from West Bengal, also asked why the Gujarat Governor had not sent similar letters like his counterpart from Bengal sent that prompted the Home Ministry to issue advisories to the Bengal government.  “Why has the Gujarat Governor not adopted the same intrusive standards for the Gujarat government as his West Bengal counterpart did,” Mr. Singhvi asked. The Congress spokesperson said if “controllers” of the Central government are ‘unable to provide medical justice to the poor of their home area, what COVID justice can the rest of India’s teeming millions expect from them? “The observations of the Hon’ble Gujarat High Court on the conduct of the State government & present situation in public hospitals are extremely worrisome. It should serve as an eye opener for the government,” senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/are-modi-shah-aware-of-whats-happening-in-their-home-state/article31667091.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.P. filing ‘false cases’ against party leaders, says Congress||The Congress on Sunday alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government is filing “false cases” against its leaders to harass them and hide its failures. “We condemn the arrest of our party U.P. president Ajay Kumar Lallu. All legal assistance is being provided to ensure his early release but the arrest underlines the grim situation in Uttar Pradesh — where a weak government has resorted to anti-democratic tendencies to hide its failures,” senior leader Ahmed Patel said. The government had arrested Mr. Lallu and filed a case against Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s aide Sandeep Singh. “There is no confrontation with the State government and our only intent is to help the migrants,” party leader Rajeev Shukla said at an online press conference. Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Misra slammed BSP leader Mayawati for blaming the party for the migrant crisis. “The Congress has been out of power in the State since 1989 and all the State PSUs and industries have been sold by Mayawati during her four terms as Chief Minister,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-filing-false-cases-against-party-leaders-says-congress/article31667094.ece
25 May 2020||Warangal Urban district,||‘Murders of 9 migrant workers were planned’||The nine migrant workers who were found dead in an abandoned well in Gorrekunta of Warangal Rural district on 21st and 22nd of this month were murdered as part of a planned plot. The police investigation revealed that Sanjay Kumar Yadav, another migrant worker from Bihar, plotted the murder of Maqsood’s son-in-law Khathun. He is said to have had financial disputes with Maqsood. Hence he decided to kill the entire family. Sanjay saw an opportunity when Maqsood was celebrating his grandson’s birthday on May 20 and decided to execute his plan. He went to the party uninvited. He mixed the cool drinks with sleeping pills and after all those present at the party fell unconscious, he along with an auto driver Mohan, a resident of Chintal, threw them into the well one-by-one.  Finer details Further, the duo collected all their mobile phones and threw them on the outskirts of the city. CCTV cameras and call data from the phones of the deceased helped the police identify the killer. Interrogation is still going on regarding the exact way the murder was executed. The police may officially arrest the accused on Monday. Since the time the deaths were uncovered, the police had been questioning all the people close to the deceased Maqsood’s family and recording their statements. Two migrant workers from Bihar — Sanjay Kumar Yadav and Mohan — who were frequently in touch with Maqsood were brought to the crime scene as part of the police investigation on Saturday. Mamnoor ACP G. Shyam Sunder told The Hindu that based on the background check of the family, it was clear they had no conflict with any outsiders. In our investigation too we found out that Maqsood’s family was friendly with all. People in the neighbourhood of their workplace and their co-workers echoed the same opinion, he said.  Drowned to death Six teams worked on the case. The forensic experts who completed the post-mortem of the deceased on Saturday screened the crime scene for more clues. Head of Forensic Department at the MGM Hospital Md Raza Mallik said: “It did appear that the victims swallowed the water and died. Which means they were alive when they were thrown in the well. There are scratches on some of the bodies. All the viscera and sternum bones have been preserved and sent for chemical analysis to labs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/murders-of-9-migrant-workers-were-planned/article31667074.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Flight and health curbs cloud airline operations||Making its stand clear, the Karnataka government announced that in-coming travellers from seven States, including Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu, where COVID-19 cases are high, will have to undergo a week-long institutional quarantine. “Incoming domestic flight passengers from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi & Madhya Pradesh will undergo 7 day institutional Quarantine followed by home quarantine,” Karnataka Director General of Police Praveen Sood tweeted. Health Ministry norms In its guidelines for traveller, the Health Ministry said, “In case, they develop any COVID symptoms, they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the State/national call centre.” Both for domestic and international travel those found symptomatic will be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility. They will be assessed for clinical severity at the health facility and advised as per protocol. Fear of cancellations The new protocols set out by the Ministry and the various State health departments pose not just a logistical nightmare for airlines who will be forced to cancel their flights and accommodate passengers in alternate flights with very little time left to plan, but could also result in passengers yet again finding their money parked in credit shells which they can only redeem against future bookings. “There is some apprehension amongst travellers with the constantly evolving State-specific quarantine protocols. There might be a slight increase in cancellation/reschedule requests from travellers in the coming few days specifically for States that are not allowing air travel to resume starting tomorrow,” said Aloke Bajpai, CEO & Co-founder of ixigo. For international travellers, the Ministry guideline states that they shall give an undertaking that they would undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days including 7 days paid institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by 7 days isolation at home with self-monitoring of health. However in exceptional and compelling reasons — of human distress, pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parent(s) accompanied by children below 10 years, as assessed by the receiving States, home quarantine may be permitted for 14 days with the mandatory use of Aarogya Setu app. The Ministry has added that only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to board or come through land borders. For domestic travel, instructions will be provided along with tickets to the travellers by the agencies concerned, the Ministry said and added that all passengers should download Arogya Setu app. The Ministry added that during boarding and travel, all passengers shall use face covers/mask. Passengers will also follow hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene and maintain environmental hygiene.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flight-and-health-curbs-cloud-airline-operations/article31667077.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka to open SSLC centres in Goa, Kerala||The State government will be opening SSLC examination centres in Goa and Kerala for students who live in the border areas. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has decided to take this decision as they want to make it easier for students and ensure that they don’t put themselves at risk. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that the Goa government has already given them permission to set up centres. “We are awaiting permission from the Kerala government, and will hold a meeting to plan the logistics so that all goes smoothly,” he said. According to department officials, many students from Kasaragod travel to schools in Dakshina Kannada district for classes. Similarly, there are also students in Goa residing in towns on the Goa-Karnataka border and studying in Kannada-medium schools in Goa. “Students in Kasaragod normally come to schools in Dakshina Kannada districts and those in Goa would travel to Karwar to write the examination. But due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we want them to conduct the examination in the same town they are studying in,” a senior official of the department said. This decision will come as a welcome relief to students who were concerned about getting permission to travel due to restrictions and guidelines. “We don’t want the students to be stressed about following standard operating procedures that are laid down for those coming in from other States. They will be worried about preparation for the examination itself,” said an official. The Deputy Directors of Public Instruction from Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts have been asked to collate the exact number of students who reside in the border towns so that arrangements can be made accordingly. The SSLC examination is scheduled to start on June 25 and end on July 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-to-open-sslc-centres-in-goa-kerala/article31667076.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Quarantine norms differ across States||All passengers will be screened on arrival. While those who are asymptomatic will be asked to be in home quarantine for 14 days, those who do have symptoms will be taken to the nearest health facility for testing. The Maharashtra government, which had not amended its Standard Operating Procedure for air travel at the time of filing this report, climbed down from its initial stand of not allowing a single flight in Mumbai and Pune by agreeing to 25 commercial flight arrivals and departures each to the commercial capital of India. The Pune and Nagpur airports, operated by the Airports Authority of India, said one-third of the pre-COVID-19 flights would operate from Monday. GVK-led Mumbai International Airport Ltd. told airlines that the Mumbai airport would not accommodate flights between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. In north India, Delhi, Chandigarh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, too, will follow the Health Ministry’s guidelines. Telangana said it was examining the guidelines, but would continue with its protocols for rail and inter-State bus services. “People arriving at airports will be screened and those without any symptoms will be allowed to go after they fulfil conditions,” a senior official said Andhra Pradesh will test all incoming air passengers. Health Department officials said samples would be taken from all passengers upon their arrival and asymptomatic persons would be advised home quarantine. Symptomatic passengers would have to go through institutional quarantine. All flights to Vijayawada, scheduled for May 25, have been cancelled in the last minute. Flights are likely to resume on Tuesday. Domestic air passengers landing in Goa from May 25 will be given two options: getting tested by paying a fee of Rs. 2,000 or a 14-day home quarantine stamp. Each passenger will be subject to a thermal temperature screening and have to fill up a declaration form, which will also include the address of stay in Goa. In Uttar Pradesh, those passengers who don’t plan to leave the State after arrival will be kept in home quarantine for 14 days, Chief Secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said. The district administration will be authorised to provide them relief from home quarantine, after their medical examination, in case they need to provide services in any office. On the sixth day of arrival, the passenger can get a test conducted, and if the sample is found negative, home quarantine will be suspended, said an order. The Rajasthan government has not issued any separate guidelines for air passengers. In Assam, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said there would be no quarantine for air passengers who fly out to their “desired or destined place” within 24 hours of arrival in Guwahati, provided they notified authorities of their departure upon arrival. He added that those who did not “return as declared” and stay beyond this time frame would be charged under relevant laws for giving false information. Odisha has decided to reduce the quarantine period to 14 days. Earlier, those coming from outside the State were required to undergo 21 days of institutional quarantine and seven days of home quarantine. “The quarantine period for returnees to the State will be limited to 14 days. This will be implemented by local authorities — District Collectors,” said an order issued by the Chief Secretary on Sunday. ( With inputs   from bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quarantine-norms-differ-across-states/article31667078.ece
25 May 2020||KOLLAM,||Husband arrested after woman dies of snakebite||The police on Sunday arrested a man for allegedly murdering his wife and trying to pass it off as accidental snakebite death, and an accomplice who helped him in procuring snakes, here in Kerala. One of the accused, Sooraj, was married to Uthra, 25, for two years. They have a one-year-old son. The woman’s parents alleged foul play after she died of snakebite on May 7 at her parents’ home at Anchal in Kollam district, where she was recuperating from an earlier snakebite. She was first bitten by a snake on March 2 at her husband’s home and was under treatment when another snake took her life. She was first bitten by a viper and then a cobra, and her husband Sooraj was present on both occasions. Following her death, Uthra’s parents filed a case with the District Police Chief (Kollam Rural). They said it was impossible for the snake to enter a closed, air-conditioned room with tiled floor and that Sooraj had planted the snake inside when his first attempt failed. Sooraj had reportedly removed Uthra’s gold from the bank locker on March 2, the day she was first bitten by a snake. Her parents also alleged that Uthra had been facing dowry harassment and that she was murdered for her gold and property. The police said Sooraj had confessed after a long questioning session and admitted that he brought the snake in a bottle and threw it over Uthra while she was asleep. According to the police, Sooraj procured the poisonous snakes from Suresh, a handler, paying Rs. 5,000 for each snake. “Sooraj had been plotting the murder for three months and his web history shows a lot of data related to snakes,” said Hari Sankar, District Police Chief (Kollam Rural).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/husband-arrested-after-woman-dies-of-snakebite/article31667080.ece
25 May 2020||New Delhi,||Jairam flays nod for projects in sensitive areas||The Union Government should immediately put a moratorium on environmental clearances to projects in sensitive and bio-diverse forests, former Union Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh suggested to Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday, which triggered an exchange of mails between the two leaders. “I was most concerned and disturbed, though not entirely surprised, to read this news item today in The Hindu . Under normal circumstances, these clearances should cause great worry; that they have been given during the lockdown period is atrocious. I cannot imagine any worthwhile due-diligence that would have been done by the committees concerned,” he said in a letter. Mr. Ramesh referred to a report about green clearances given to ecologically sensitive zones like the Dibang Valley in Arunachal Pradesh, coal mining proposal in the Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve in Assam, a highway through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary in Goa and a limestone mine in the Gir National Park, among others.  “Noted. I can assure you that not a single decision has been taken without complete due diligence. The minutes of the same speak for that,” said Mr. Javadekar in his reply. “... We all know that since 2014, minutes of such meetings are written beforehand elsewhere,” Mr. Ramesh responded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jairam-flays-nod-for-projects-in-sensitive-areas/article31667093.ece
25 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Two babies born over 2 days on trains to Odisha||A woman migrant worker travelling from Kazipet in Telangana to Balangir in Odisha gave birth to a baby girl in a Shramik Special train on Sunday. This is the second delivery of a baby on a train in the past 48 hours. When the woman, identified as Hema Kanti, went into labour, the Railway Divisional Medical Officer was called into the train at Titlagarh. Forty minutes later, mother and child were shifted to a government hospital at Titalagarh by an ambulance, said East Coast Railway. Both mother and baby girl are fine. On Friday, Kunti Nag, travelling from Secundarabad to Balangir, gave birth to a baby boy. Mother and child were later admitted in a government hospital in Balangir. In another instance, at Jharsuguda, a migrant woman gave birth to a child inside the police vehicle in which she was being rushed to hospital. The woman was travelling to Bihar from Secundarabad by train when she went into labour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-babies-born-over-2-days-on-trains-to-odisha/article31667100.ece
25 May 2020||Chikkamagaluru,||Doctor discharged after testing negative multiple times||The residents of Mudigere taluk on Saturday heaved a sigh of relief after a medical officer (P-1295) was discharged from the COVID-19 care centre after he tested negative in multiple tests conducted to confirm the infection. With this, 1,446 people who were quarantined were also released. The doctor, working at the government primary health centre at Nandipura in Mudigere taluk, tested positive on May 19. He had no history of travelling outside the district since March. After he was found infected, the district administration declared the area around his residence in Mudigere a containment zone and quarantined 485 primary contacts and 961 secondary contacts of the doctor. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautam on Saturday told reporters that the sample collected from the doctor was sent to National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences in Bengaluru and tested positive. Later, swab samples were collected from 28 of his primary contacts, and none of them tested positive. “We treated this as doubtful and again tested his sample on May 20, when it came back negative. Again, after 24 hours, another sample was collected and tested, which also turned out to be negative. In order to confirm it, we sent samples to laboratories in Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru. Both times it came back negative,” he said. The district administration reported this development to the higher authoritiesin the State government. Two samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, where the laboratory test results came back negative. “As a result, the government has declared the first result wrong,” the DC said.  Residents happy The residents of the locality, which had been declared a containment zone, were in a festive mood with the doctor’s discharge. All those who were quarantined were sent home in buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctor-discharged-in-mudigere-after-testing-negative-multiple-times/article31667214.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebration at home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/celebration-at-home/article31667175.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,||A.P. police serve food to migrant T.N. workers||Migrant labourers returning from Mumbai to Villupuram in a Shramik train were in for a pleasant surprise when they found police officials of Andhra Pradesh ready with food packets for them at Guntakal in Andhra Pradesh. The Hunger Collective, Mumbai, in association with Bhoomika Trust had made travel arrangements for more than 1,000 migrant labourers by the special train. The labourers who boarded the train on Saturday midnight were not carrying any food and thought they would have to go hungry the whole journey. But a surprise was in store for them when the train stopped at Guntakal. Anantapur Superintendent of Police Yesu Babu along with a posse of police officials were waiting at the Guntakal station with a sumptuous meal of 300 packets of biriyani, 100 packets of jeera rice, 200 packets of tomato rice, 150 packets of upma, 3,500 packets of biscuits, 1,600 packets of buns and 1,500 bottles of water. Mr. Babu said all these were readied within two hours on getting a call from Chennai City Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan. The Bhoomika Trust informed Mr. Viswanathan about the labourers’ position and he contacted the Guntakal SP requesting him to arrange the food items. Mr. Viswanathan also gave personal assurance that the amount for providing the food would be reimbursed. However, Andhra Pradesh DGP, getting wind of Guntakal SP’s gesture, refused to accept to take the money for the food supplied as a mark of goodwill. Mr. Viswanathan speaking to The Hindu appreciated the efficient work of Mr. Babu for getting such a huge number of food items within a short span of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-police-serve-food-to-migrant-tn-workers/article31667252.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nehal Modi’s profile back on Interpol site||The profile of Nehal Modi, step brother of Punjab National Bank fraud case ‘mastermind’ Nirav Modi who is facing extradition proceedings in the United Kingdom, is back on the Interpol website months after it was removed last year. On the request of the Enforcement Directorate, the Interpol had issued a Red Notice against Nehal in September 2019 and it reflected in the Interpol’s online database. However, the profiles of Nehal and his brother Neeshal, against whom the notice was issued in July 2018, were later not available online. The notice against Neeshal is still not on the website. While the agencies then did not have an explanation for this, officials said the action might have been taken pending hearing of their petitions in the Interpol, contesting the basis on which the notices were issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nehal-modis-profile-back-on-interpol-site/article31667087.ece
25 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. revokes mobile ban in COVID wards||After a Twitter spat, the Uttar Pradesh government has amended its May 22 order prohibiting the use of mobile phones by patients in isolation wards of dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in the State. In his order to various medical colleges, U.P.’s Director General of the Medical Education Department K.K. Gupta had said the use of mobile phones spreads COVID-19 infection. The order said two dedicated mobile phones for use by patients would be kept with the ward in-charge. The ban was questioned by Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, who accused the government of trying to hide the poor state of hospitals and their “mismanagement”. Mr. Yadav pointed out that there was a need for sanitisation and not a ban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-revokes-mobile-ban-in-covid-wards/article31667108.ece
25 May 2020||Bhopal,||Patanjali proposes drug trial in Indore||A day before Baba Ramdev told Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that ayurvedic medicines had given “very good results” on COVID-19 patients, the research wing of his firm Patanjali had given a proposal to a government medical college to conduct clinical trials. On May 19, Anurag Varshney, vice-president, Patanjali Research Institute, Haridwar, made the request to the dean of the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, Indore, the city worst hit by the outbreak. Jyoti Bindal, the dean, has sent the proposal to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/patanjali-proposes-drug-trial-in-indore/article31667111.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||PLA actions at LAC in Ladakh denote shift from past: experts||As the standoff between Indian and Chinese soldiers at several points along the LAC in the “Western” or Ladakh sector and Sikkim continues, at least three facts point to why this standoff is different from past incidents that break out in the summer, say strategic experts. “Face-offs between Indian and Chinese troops do occur from time to time, and in recent years they have been more frequent as both sides have increased patrolling,” said Ashok Kantha, Director of the Institute of Chinese Studies, who served as Ambassador to Beijing from 2014 to 2016. “Even so, the current standoff and recent incursions appear to be different from the past, as Chinese troops have shown more aggression, engaged in physical skirmishes and disregarded agreed protocols,” he said. In fact, the numbers of Chinese soldiers at each point of recent confrontations, including three points in Ladakh or the “Western sector” and at Nakula Pass in Sikkim, have been a factor of some concern. Officials have spoken of soldiers being outnumbered when normal patrols with the strength of a few dozen each on the Indian side have run into Chinese forces that number in hundreds. The second difference from the past is the levels of aggression shown by the Chinese side, which include violence that has left at least 70 Indian soldiers injured, including some who needed to be flown out for treatment (injuries received by the Chinese side have not been reported on). More Chinese boats have been observed patrolling the Pangong Tso (lake) while the PLA has dug in tents and trenches, according to sources. The third point of concern is the number of points, including those in “previously uncontested” areas which have opened up since April. “They have reportedly pushed into a new area, Galwan river valley, where the LAC was not disputed, pitched tents and dug in with reinforcement ... The fact that there have been incursions at multiple locations is worrisome,” Mr. Kantha said. Significantly, China’s Foreign Ministry has also accused India of “attempting to unilaterally change the situation on the ground”. Another point of concern for diplomats has been whether the modified Chinese patterns reflect a tactical push, or beyond that, are driven by its ambitions on a strategic level. In particular, the actions are seen as an attempt to push back Indian troops in Ladakh, where infrastructure has been improved considerably in the last decade. “One cannot discount that [Chinese] actions are guided by concerns regarding the Indian UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh,” said Gautam Bambawale, former Ambassador to Bhutan, Pakistan and China, who also had earlier handled the “East Asia” or China desk. In addition, rising U.S.-China tensions may have placed Beijing in a defensive position, and the PLA’s aggression may mean China is “signalling” that growing Indo-U.S. strategic ties do not diminish the risks India faces along the 3,488-km boundary with China. Most experts also agree that as long as there are military and diplomatic parleys, the situation will remain under control, but a prolonged confrontation will heighten the chances of an escalation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pla-actions-at-lac-in-ladakh-denote-shift-from-past-experts/article31667096.ece
25 May 2020||THIRUVANATHAPURAM,||Thermal Imaging Scannner with detector at TVM Central||A thermal imaging scanner with artificial intelligence (AI) and a door frame detector has been installed at the Thiruvananthapuram railway station to screen passengers and measure their body temperature. The facility will ensure social distancing, temperature screening using AI, alerts for high temperature, mask recognition through a non-contact screening process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thermal-imaging-scannner-with-detector-at-tvm-central/article31667086.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decks cleared for flight services||After nearly two months, Chennai will see first aircraft take off for Madurai early on Monday as the State government has finally agreed to resume flight operations. From handling 500 aircraft movements a day, now the airport will see fewer flights. The number of incoming flights has been limited to 25 a day, with minimum number of flights from Maharashtra and Gujarat owing to the high number of cases. There won't be any restriction on the number of departure movements, officials said. Asymptomatic passengers landing in Tamil Nadu airports will have to be on home quarantine and if they don’t have a residence here, they will be sent for institutional quarantine at designated hotels, the State government said in a release. If they develop symptoms, they should report to the district call centre (1077) or a government hospital and will be isolated and taken for testing. Passengers who enter the State will be stamped with “quarantine” seal with date in an indelible ink, the release said. Those passengers who don’t have the TN e-pass cannot enter the State. So they must book on the portal before landing here. For a few days, an e-pass desk will be arranged at the airport itself. Passengers who arrive can arrange pick up vehicles that can enter with driver plus one person. Prepaid taxis will be present at the airport for incoming passengers and will be disinfected after each use. Officials of Airports Authority of India (AAI) said flight services will begin around 5 a.m. and go on till nearly 11 p.m.. Departing passengers will have to go through temperature checks at the entry point of the terminal. “We had a discussion with the officials of the State government on Sunday morning and spoke about the testing and quarantine procedures for passengers who arrive from various States,” an official said. The terminals were disinfected and AAI held a meeting with airline and CISF staff. For the first few days, there may be confusion over the procedures, sources said. “From placing sanitisers to seating arrangements, we have done everything that a passenger needs. Also, there are AAI staff present in case a passenger needs anything at the terminal,” another official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decks-cleared-for-flight-services/article31667242.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amid rising cases, containment zones exceed 1,100 in State||The rising number of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu has resulted in containment zones exceeding the 1,100-mark, according to an extraordinary government gazette issued on Saturday. As of May 22, there were a total of 1,143 COVID-19 containment zones across the State, with Chennai topping the list with 635 such zones. Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts had 119 and 107 containment zones, respectively. Tiruvannamalai had 54 such zones and Kancheepuram, 35. An official told The Hindu that all other districts had less than 30 containment zones. According to the government notification, only 30 districts had such zones, since containment efforts had been completed in Sivaganga, Erode, Tiruppur, Salem, Tiruvarur, Coimbatore and the Nilgiris. Separate entry/exits In a separate communication to all District Collectors and the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam instructed them to create separate entry points for patients at Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs), since government hospitals were to be treated as COVID-19 hotspots. “Considering the increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the urban pockets of the State, separate entry and exit shall be provided for symptomatic cases at the UPHCs in order to control the spread of COVID-19, and necessary arrangements may be made for the treatment of non-communicable diseases and antenatal activities may be further intensified in the UPHCs for effective containment of COVID-19,” he said. Since all government hospitals, including UPHCs and Urban Community Health Centres, were to be treated as hotspots for the spread of the infection, instructions had already been issued to periodically disinfect the premises and mop the floors in order to control the spread of COVID-19, he said. “Further, instructions have been issued to take steps to disinfect the patients’ waiting area, tables, chairs, examination rooms and other places where patient interaction takes place, and also to clean the toilets regularly,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amid-rising-cases-containment-zones-exceed-1100-in-state/article31667281.ece
25 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK second party to be in power for over 9 years straight||As the AIADMK government stepped into its fifth and final year of office on Saturday, the ruling party became the second in Tamil Nadu to be in power for more than nine years at a stretch. Congress is the other party, whose rule in the State lasted for over 20 years without a break. On May 16, 2011, the AIADMK returned to power and Jayalalithaa was sworn in as Chief Minister for the fourth time. After retaining power in the May 2016 Assembly elections, Jayalalithaa again became Chief Minister for the sixth time on May 23. The present House has one more year of its term left. After the death of Jayalalithaa in December 2016, O. Panneerselvam became Chief Minister for the third time and held the post till February 15, 2017. Since then, Edappadi K. Palaniswami has been at the helm of affairs. Even though the party’s founder M.G. Ramachandran was Chief Minister between June 1977 and December 1987, there was a break in his spell as the State was under President’s rule between February and June 1980. In March-April 1946 Assembly elections, the Congress captured power and its rule lasted till March 1967, when it was dislodged by the DMK. Between 1946 and 1952, the State had three Chief Ministers - T. Prakasam, Omandur P. Ramaswami Reddiar and P.S. Kumaraswami Raja. The first Assembly elections, post-Independence, which took place in February 1952, saw the Congress managing to hold on to power and it had three Chief Ministers in the next 15 years - C Rajagopalachari, popularly called Rajaji, K. Kamaraj and M. Bakthavatsalam The DMK, which succeeded the Congress in March 1967, was in office till January 1976. In the intervening period, the State went to Assembly polls in March 1971. The party had two Chief Ministers – C.N. Annadurai and M. Karunanidhi. Between 1989 and 2011, neither the DMK nor the AIADMK could retain power. This trend was broken by the latter in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-second-party-to-be-in-power-for-over-9-years-at-a-stretch/article31667284.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vande Bharat Express trains may be delayed further||The Integral Coach Factory (ICF) here that was tasked with manufacturing 720 coaches for operating 45 Vande Bharat Express trains across the country in December 2019 is yet to finalise tenders and award work for commencing the ambitious project. The ongoing coronavirus lockdown is expected to further delay the project since railways’ coach-making factories are shut. The Railway Board has confirmed that the 45-day lockdown has caused 12.5% loss of annual production capacity in workshops/production units. Post-lockdown, business would not be as usual, taking safety aspects like physical distancing into account, say ICF officials. The focus would initially be on clearing the huge backlog of periodic overhauling of passenger train coaches. It was unlikely that the factory would be able to achieve even half the target set for making coaches for Vande Bharat trains this fiscal, they said. Train18, India’s first semi-high speed train built by ICF in a record 18-month time in 2018 and flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as Vande Bharat Express between Delhi and Varanasi, is celebrated as the most successful initiative of the Make in India initiative. The success of the project triggered a turf war between the Mechanical and Electrical Engineering departments on the ownership of the train resulting in allegations of compromise on safety, procedural flaws and one company being favoured. This led to a vigilance enquiry and transferring out of top officials of Team Train18. The Railway Board sent the design back to the drawing board for safety clearances even as Train18 ran without any issue.  Project restored A proposal to import the complete train sets from foreign manufacturers evoked stiff resistance from political parties, senior officials and other stake holders who questioned the reasoning behind going global when there was indigenous technology in-house. The Ministry of Railways finally ordered the ICF to manufacture 720 train sets – 45 rakes of Vande Bharat Express trains – in December 2019. “The tenders are yet to be finalised. We have issued a corrigendum in April with some modifications to the tender specifications and the last date for closing tender is now July 10, 2020. The process of opening tender, scrutiny and award of work for procuring propulsion system electrics and rolling out train sets will take at least two or three months after that,” a senior railway official told The Hindu . The factory has been shut since March 25 in view of the lockdown and only 33% of the administration staff were working. Even in the event of the production commencing post lockdown, the pace of work would be slow due to physical distancing and other safety norms, the official said. Revised target The official said that in the revised coach production programme issued on May 1, 2020, the Ministry had set ICF a target of making 240 coaches (15 Vande Bharat rakes) and 3,024 Linke Hofman Busch coaches for Tejas, Garibrath, Deen Dayalu and other express trains. However, the target is subject to revision as the production capabilities in compliance with the COVID-19 safety protocol would be known later this year, he said. In a related development, railway sources said that the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet had approved the appointment of ICF’s Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer Anil Kumar Kathpal as Additional Member of the Railway Board. However, the promotion was denied on the grounds that a vigilance enquiry was pending against him and the matter was sent back to the ACC, the sources added. Attempts were made by The Hindu to get the views of the General Manager, ICF, through the Senior Public Relations Officer, but there was no response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vande-bharat-express-trains-may-be-delayed-further/article31667285.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs fret over lack of orders and workers||MSMEs across Tamil Nadu, set to resume operations today, have expressed concerns about manpower shortage and lack of orders from clients. On Sunday, the State government gave the green signal for 17 industrial estates to start functioning with 25% staff. It further said that employees residing in containment zones were not allowed to come to work, and those aged above 55 should avoid reporting for duty. R. Selvam, secretary of Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said that over 1,500 migrant workers, mainly from Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha and Maharashtra, had left for their home towns. “Staff and skilled workers from down south didn't return to work due to the transportation issue and the fear of contracting COVID-19,” he said. ‘Many have left’ The same was the case in other industrial estates in and around Chennai. When asked about the immediate challenge they were facing, Bakul M. Patel, president, SIDCO Industrial Estate Villivakkam Manufacturers’ Association, said many migrant workers had already left the city. “The rest have requested permission to go home as and when they get trains and buses. We are wondering how to pay salaries this month. We have tougher days ahead,” he said. The MSMEs said that their order books were empty, and even if they open their units, they would have to wait for their clients to come back to them. “When we start operations, we won't have enough hands to help us with production, as 50% of our workers have left. We are not certain about the demand. Orders have declined from auto OEMs, and we don’t know what they have decided to do. And, the stimulus package has not been helpful,” said A.N. Sujeesh, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association. “There are no new orders coming in, and even if we get some, we are short of workers,” said, K.V. Kanakambaram, president, The Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, Guindy. With zero billing during the months of April and May, the MSMEs have indicated that it would be difficult to pay salaries for May and June. They said the Finance Minister's announcements, made 10 days ago, will not be of any immediate help. “Whenever we go to the banks, we are told that they have not received the orders/circulars for provision of funds,” Mr. Kanakambaram said. According to the MSMEs, instead of a moratorium, the government should consider reducing the bank interest rate (repo rate +2% instead of repo+5%). To address the shortage in the workforce, the MSMEs have suggested that job fairs could be arranged in industrial estates so that local residents could get job opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-fret-over-lack-of-orders-and-workers/article31667277.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Theatres need govt. help, says AGS Cinemas CEO||The COVID-19 pandemic might have threatened the existence of the movie exhibition industry, but it has also created new opportunities. With millions stuck in their homes around the world, Over The Top (OTT) platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video are aggressively seeking to purchase premium movies for digital-only release. Are we looking at a scenario where the sun is slowly beginning to set on the movie exhibition industry? Archana Kalpathi, CEO, AGS Cinemas, and creative producer, AGS Entertainment, who has a ringside view of both the worlds, says production of movies is going to be a challenge, not their exhibition. “It (exhibition) is an organised sector. I expect a huge surge at cinemas as people are waiting to come out. We already have trained staff – we just have to reduce the contact points and make it a safe experience,” says Ms. Kalpathi. More shows Despite an expected reduction in theatre capacity, she says the revenue for producers will not be greatly reduced if the State government allows them to screen more shows. “On weekends, we operate at 80% of occupancy, and on weekdays, we operate at probably 25% occupancy. With respect to ‘big’ movies (with stars), there is a challenge. “If the government helps us and allows us to screen early morning shows, we will double the number of shows – instead of four shows, we can run eight shows. Fans will come to theatres anyway for big star films. On weekdays, occupancy will go up,” said Ms. Kalpathi. What does she think about movies releasing directly on OTT platforms? “From the multiplex point of view, we have been paying salaries without pay cuts and rent and there are fixed costs. We need movies to come to theatres as they would bring back the audience. But, from the production side, there is the interest, right? Every day the interest keeps increasing. Theatres can’t support the interest cost of producers if they are asking them to wait. So, they (producers) will have to find ways to survive,” said Ms. Kalpathi. She adds, “We see the 7 films that have managed to get an OTT release – there are 100s of films which have not. This is a unique scenario. The OTT platforms have been able to watch the film and take a call. When things go back to normal, no producer will be willing to show the film. And how will they assess the value of the film? It is based on the film’s theatrical performance. Right now, they (producers) are trying to survive. A producer is never going to get back money without a theatrical release.” The challenge, she says, will be in managing film production. “Now, everyone has to focus on pre-production more. There is so much work that needs to be done, as safety is very crucial. Even if one person is infected, we can’t shoot for three weeks. Production is going to be very, very challenging,” she says. Ms. Kalpathi, however, finds a silver lining in the lockdown as she feels that producers can finally wrest back some form of control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theatres-need-govt-help-says-ags-cinemas-ceo/article31667265.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||LPG cylinders disinfected four times before delivery||Did you know that all cooking gas cylinders are disinfected four times at bottling plants? This commenced after restrictions for COVID-19 were put in place. Oil marketing companies disinfect the liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders when they are loaded onto trucks that carry them to distributors. “We have instructed distributors too to disinfect cylinders before delivery and most of them are following that since our consumers are our priority,” said an industry source who added that they would continue the practice even after the pandemic crisis ends. About 80,000 refilled LPG cylinders are sent out of bottling plants daily that supply to Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts that have around 60 lakh LPG consumers. A city-based distributor said that many of them had purchased spraying equipment and spray the disinfectant before the cylinders were loaded onto smaller vehicles for delivery to customers, he said. Norms not followed However, consumers have been complaining that most delivery boys don't wear masks or gloves and other protective gear. Lakshmi Srinivasan, a home-maker, said that delivery boys could perhaps ensure use of hand sanitisers before entering homes. “Consumers should ensure their own safety by asking the boys to wash their hands after entering their homes,” she said. S. Paul Barnabas, president, Tamil Nadu Consumer Protection Federation, said oil marketing companies should ensure that boys wear protective gear and frequently sanitise their hands. “The cylinders should be disinfected just before delivery to prevent the spread of COVID-19," he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lpg-cylinders-disinfected-four-times-before-delivery/article31667244.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Barbers back in business, but not out of the woods yet||After weeks of lockdown, salons across the State, barring those in Chennai and in containment zones, were allowed to resume operations on Sunday, subject to certain conditions. But the lockdown has already taken a toll on the hairdressing industry, as thousands of barbers have been out of work for more than two months. The closure of salons, a majority of which fall under the unorganised sector, had pushed hairdressers and their families into penury. For those working in the industry in Chennai, there are testing times ahead. M. Rukmangathan, secretary, Tamil Nadu Hairdressers’ Union (Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu), said there were over 20,000 shops in the two districts. But more than 5,000 shops across Chromepet, Pallavaram, Medavakkam, Tambaram, Vandalur and Peerkankarani could not be opened as they fell under the Chennai City Police limits, and the law enforcement authorities concerned had not permitted them to resume operations. The State government had announced financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 to hairdressers, including those who have not registered themselves with the Tamil Nadu Hair Dressers’ Welfare Board. But members of the Tamil Nadu Hairdressers’ Union — one of the oldest hairdressers’ unions, formed in 1954 — said they had not received the aid promised by the Chief Minister. Guna, who runs a salon in Tambaram, said that when the members of the union approached the village officials, the latter claimed that they had not received any circular about the aid. Salon operators in the districts of Tiruchi, Coimbatore and Madurai complained that they had not received the welfare assistance of Rs. 2,000 promised by the State government for members of welfare boards under the unorganised sector. “The announcement on the financial assistance was made in April, but the aid has not been provided even to hairdressers who have registered themselves with the welfare board,” said P. Dharmalingam, secretary, Tiruchi District Barbers’ Association. At least 1,050 shop owners were registered with the welfare board, he added. While hairdressers have been complaining about the non-payment of financial aid, customers say salons have not been following government norms, with many shops running with the air conditioners on. Though the government had asked them to use gloves while working, hairdressers said this was not practical, as doing so would make it difficult to trim hair to perfection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/barbers-back-in-business-but-not-out-of-the-woods-yet/article31667279.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City remains hotspot, experts counsel calm||On Sunday, the number of positive cases in the city climbed past the 10,000-mark with 587 more persons testing positive. The number of active cases stood at 5,653 and 4,844 persons had been discharged. The city had the highest death tally of 78. Four zones in the city had registered over 1,000 positive cases and seven zones together had around 7,000 cases according to the Greater Chennai Corporation. Health officials said the number was bound to increase in the coming days as the Health Department had intensified its testing and contact tracing. The city had not achieved its peak yet. But the curve was expected to flatten, they said. “Positive cases are not a danger to us. What we should be worried about is the vulnerable segment of the population. All the positive persons are not going to be diseased patient. We are concentrating more on death of the vulnerable,” said P. Kuganantham, former Corporation health officer. For the Corporation, the focus is on identifying positive persons and getting them admitted to hospitals. The civic body has deployed health workers to conduct door-to-door survey to check for non-communicable diseases. Residents are being mobilised for testing. Unlike in the past when an entire street was cordoned if a positive case was reported, the Health Department has decided to focus only on the house from where positive cases were noticed. The residents of the house are quarantined and they were put under surveillance. “We are concerned about the vulnerable population. We don’t want them to be affected. Contact tracing, focused testing and checking house to house is important. The virus has proved to be non-virulent unlike in the Western countries,” Dr. Kuganantham said.  Positive cases are not a danger to us. What we should be worried about is the vulnerable segment of the population P. Kuganantham, former Corpn. health officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-remains-hotspot-experts-counsel-calm/article31667247.ece
25 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Meenakshi Hospital designs low cost respirator||Meenakshi Hospital in Thanjavur, which is part of the Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre in Madurai, has designed a cost-effective purifying respirator system that can help protect surgeons and other healthcare professionals in operation theatres from SARS-CoV-2 infection. A statement issued by the hospital said that the equipment named as Tanjore Air Purifying Respirator (TAPR) delivered compressed medical grade compressed air, which is already available in operation theatres, to healthcare professionals through a hood. The unit can be set up at Rs. 3,000 per person, whereas the conventional Power Air Purifying Respirator (PAPR) could cost around Rs. 1.2 lakh per person. Kesavamoorthy Bhoopalan, Senior Consultant - Cardiology, Meenakshi Hospital, who designed the new system, said that the objective of TAPR was to come up with a cost-effective yet improved air purifying system. “The conventional PAPR takes air from the Operation Theatre and cleans it using a filter before sending it to the user. But TAPR uses air that has gone through multiple filters and frequent quality checks. There is no chance of contamination,” he said. Guru Shankar, Chairman, Meenakshi Hospital, said that with experts opining that COVID-19 is here to stay for a long time, the likelihood of a surgeon having to perform an elective surgery for a patient infected with Covid-19 is going to be more. “Today, healthcare professionals use N95 respirators and for a higher level of protection PAPR systems. Though PAPR is safe and reusable, there is a risk of contamination. However, TAPR guarantees 100% protection,” he said. Dr. Kesavamoorthy said that unlike PAPR that required meticulous cleaning after every procedure, TAPR required no cleaning at all. Further, TAPR can work endlessly as it did not need a battery. “PAPR is bulky because it has many components but TAPR with just an air flow regulator and a simple long tube is weightless,” he added. The statement said that the hospital did not want to patent the design.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meenakshi-hospital-designs-low-cost-respirator/article31667521.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown puts lungi weavers’ livelihood in peril||Hundreds of cotton lungi weavers in villages like Guruvarajapet, Panapakkam, Podhatturpet and Ammayarkuppam near Arakkonam have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 lockdown. They don’t have fresh raw material, i.e., dyed thread, to work with, and have been unable to send finished products worth crores of rupees to the market due to a lack of transportation facilities. According to K. Selvam, a master weaver, they are normally busy during this time of the year due to the Ramzan demand. Their products are sold in Chennai, Kolkata, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Assam and even in Sri Lanka. “This time, I am stuck with products worth lakhs of rupees. With no income, weavers are finding it difficult to run their families. Most of them normally get an income of Rs. 20,000 a month, and those who procure products from them and sell the items in bulk get around Rs. 50,000 a month,” he said. K. Prakasam, who has been working as a weaver for 32 years, said he had three children, and his family was just about managing. “We don’t even have enough money for food. Sometimes, our children go hungry, and it pains me to see them asking for more. We are not used to asking around for help, and others don’t have money to spare either,” he said. A cash dole would help them be free of hunger this month, he added. In the light of the lack of work, he said he was worried about his children’s education expenses for the coming month. Powerloom weavers say government assistance in the form of a dole, subsidies or facilitation of the sale of their products would go a long way in supporting their livelihood. Not just weavers, but even those who are engaged in dyeing the threads and making the spindles in Nagari, Rajapalayam and Kancheepuram are out of work and are looking to the government for relief.  We are not used to asking around for help, and others don’t have money to spare either K. PrakasamA weaver||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-puts-lungi-weavers-livelihood-in-peril/article31667276.ece
25 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Case filed against three DMK MLAs||Egmore police registered a case against 96 DMK cadre, including three MLAs. MLAs B.Ranganathan, Ravichandran and S.R.Raja and advocate Girirajan were booked among others for protesting the arrest of DMK Rajya Sabha member R.S.Bharathi on Saturday. They were booked under sections 143 (Punishment for unlawful assembly), 269 ( Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-filed-against-three-dmk-mlas/article31667486.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishers pledge nets to meet daily expenses||Fishers in many villages have resorted to pledging their nets to tide over the present crisis due to the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. With fishing not being allowed for bigger boats and no arrangements made for retail sale if traditional craft go for fishing, they have run out of cash even to meet daily needs of their families. Last resort K. Bharathi of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association said that fishers, who usually fish in groups of 40 or 50 and use long nets, were resorting to this. “They promise the wholesaler all the fish in their next catch and take advance. Almost all the big valai (net) groups are doing this. They get about Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 3 lakh and divide it amongst themselves to buy provisions,” he said. Durai Mahendran of Pulicat said that this was the practice whenever they needed large sums for building a boat or buying a net or even to organise a family function. “That is not done often and is the last resort. This is perhaps the first time they are doing so to buy rice and provisions. This is because they are unable to sell fish that they catch,” he said. Most villages are going for fishing only to bring back fish for their own homes. This is because arrangements had not been made for retail or wholesale sales as promised by the Fisheries Department, said fishermen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishers-pledge-nets-to-meet-daily-expenses/article31667239.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Employees of Hyundai, Nokia test positive||Twenty-one workers of Hyundai Motor India and Nokia plants near Chennai have tested positive for COVID-19. Both the companies had commenced operations earlier this month, after the State government relaxed norms for industries. Now, Nokia has shut operations. “In the first week of our plant operations, three employees showed mild symptoms and were immediately asked to meet the medical team. They subsequently tested positive for COVID-19 and immediate medical attention was provided to them,” Hyundai said in a statement. It commenced operations at its Irungattukoi plant on May 8. All the three employees are recovering fast, and as per the safety protocol, essential information was shared with district health authorities, it added. Hyundai also said measures were being taken for contact tracing, self-isolation and complete sanitation. According to a health department official, test results of 16 more Hyundai employees who possibly came into contact with the infected employees are awaited. Meanwhile, 18 employees from the Nokia Solutions and Networks India facility at Sriperumbudur tested positive, officials said. Another 32 employees who were in possible contact with the infected employees were being tested, they added. “We had been operating at a highly restricted level for the past few weeks and implemented measures to limit the risk of infection within our factory. The measures were put in place in compliance with local regulations and Nokia’s own internal processes. We have now temporarily suspended operations and undertaken further fumigation and sanitisation activities and will continue to monitor the situation closely,” a Nokia spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/employees-of-hyundai-nokia-test-positive/article31667240.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||How is medical waste being disposed of: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday urged the State government to disclose details of how medical waste was disposed of scientifically each day. He urged the State government to put the details on the website of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). In a statement, Mr. Stalin pointed out that Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), RT-PCR kits, gloves, face masks, syringes used by health workers and people during the past 60 days had become medical waste. “The TNPCB has the responsibility to collect the medical waste by following due procedures and to dispose them of,” he contended and claimed that only three of the 11 private firms outsourced with the task were recognised. “The TNPCB has not made public how it is disposing of the medical waste,” he said. The waste was to be treated in incinerators, but they were being dumped in the dumping yard along with the rest of the garbage, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-is-medical-waste-being-disposed-of-asks-stalin/article31667287.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors told to fight ‘false news’ by teaming up with volunteers, NGOs||As “false news” about COVID-19 have repeatedly caused panic among the public, the Tamil Nadu government has instructed District Collectors and the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation to create awareness through information and education campaigns with the help of volunteers and NGOs. “Despite the extensive and effective preparedness/preventive and containment measures taken by the district administration, the number of COVID-19 cases has been increasing every day,” Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said in a communication dated May 23 to all District Collectors and the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation. “Further, the spread of false news about the outbreak of COVID-19, which creates a panic situation among the community, has also become a challenge for the government,” Mr. Shanmugam said. Hence, the district administrations should keep the focus of the campaigns on herd masking, physical distancing and disease spread information based on available IEC (information, education and communication campaign) material in order to create awareness among the public, he added. “In this connection, the information and education campaign may be entrusted to volunteers and NGOs, who are ready to work with the government to fight COVID-19. Further, the volunteers and NGOs may also be advised to counter the false news on the outbreak in order to reduce panic among the community,” Mr. Shanmugam said. Funds sanctioned The Tamil Nadu government had sanctioned Rs. 13.49 crore from the State Disaster Response Fund for various COVID-19-related efforts. While Rs. 10 crore was sanctioned to the Tiruvallur Collector for setting up a vegetable market at Thirumazhisai to control the spread of COVID-19, Rs. 2 crore was sanctioned for purchasing personal protective equipment, sanitation work and covering the cost of lodging and train fare of stranded patients from other States.  The district administrations should keep the focus of the campaigns on herd masking, physical distancing and disease spread information||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-told-to-fight-false-news-by-teaming-up-with-volunteers-ngos/article31667274.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to form legal committees in districts to protect its cadre||The DMK has decided to form a committee of advocates in all districts to protect partymen affected by the “repressive measures” of the AIADMK government and to list its irregularities and corruption. A resolution adopted in the meeting of the district secretaries, MPs and MLAs held through video-conferencing also warned of “massive protests” to safeguard every DMK cadre. Condemning the arrest of the party’s organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the meeting said the party would not be cowed down by such actions. “The DMK will not tolerate the actions of the AIADMK government which seeks to denigrate the Ontrinaivom Vaa programme in order to divert people’s attention from its failure,” the resolution warned. The resolution said the government tried to handcuff the DMK men who dedicated themselves to feeding and helping the people severely affected by the pandemic. Misuse of power “The Chief Minister misuses his power and people are suffering because of the irregularities in the purchase of medical equipment, sanitisers and the AIADMK government’s attempt to swindle the coffers,” the resolution alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-form-legal-committees-in-districts-to-protect-its-cadre/article31667282.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘20 members not enough to shoot a TV serial’||After the State government allowed shooting for small screen television shows, Film Employees Federation of South India (FEFSI) president R.K. Selvamani appealed to it to increase the number of personnel allowed on a set from the present cap of 20 to 60. The FEFSI president said the State government must allow small screen television serial producers to start work with 50% strength. In a statement, Mr. Selvamani said it was not feasible to conduct shooting with just 20 members, when 150-200 members worked on a set usually. “In television serials, there would be at least 10-20 artistes. They will have at least 10 assistants. So, the number of actors and actresses would be 25 persons. However much you reduce, there would be 35-40 workers. The shooting for television serials can be carried out only when 60 people are allowed on set,” he said. Mr. Selvamani further urged the Central government to set aside funds from the Rs. 20 lakh crore stimulus package for the Indian film industry, as its workers did not get any benefits enjoyed by workers in the organised sector. Plea for relief The FEFSI president further urged the Centre and State government to provide further relief to daily wage workers in the film industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-members-not-enough-to-shoot-a-tv-serial/article31667255.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State Development Policy Council comes into existence||Three years after it announced it’s decision to replace the State Planning Commission with another body in 2017, the Tamil Nadu government has recently reconstituted the State Planning Commission as the State Development Policy Council (SDPC). A Government Order in this regard was issued last month. The SDPC would be headed by the Chief Minister like the erstwhile State Planning Commission and would have a Vice-Chairman, a permanent member and 12 part-time members, who are experts in various fields, besides consultants with specific expertise. “The State Planning Commission has been reconstituted as State Development Policy Council. With some of the functions of the erstwhile Planning Commission such as planning, the SDPC would have additional responsibilities such as monitoring and evaluation of various State government schemes,” SDPC Vice-Chairman C. Ponnaiyan told The Hindu . Mr. Ponnaiyan said the permanent member would be appointed within a week and several profiles were being scrutinised for part-time members and consultants. The SDPC would focus on all three parts of the development — agriculture, which is the primary sector, industries, which form the secondary sector and consumer services, which constitute the tertiary sector. The SDPC would continue to function from the fifth floor of Ezhilagam complex in Chepauk here. On March 16, 2017, then Finance Minister D. Jayakumar, while presenting the Budget for 2017-2018 in the Assembly said the State government would replace the State Planning Commission with the State Development Policy Council to advise on policy coherence and formulation of programmes to guide the development of the State. He had referred to the Centre's decision to do away with the distinction between plan and non-plan allocations in Budget formulation from 2017-2018. “We welcome this move, which has been the long-standing demand of the late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, as it would simplify the budgetary process and keep the focus firmly on the functional classification of expenditure,” Mr. Jayakumar said and added that the State government’s decision was “in consonance” with the Centre’s approach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-development-policy-council-comes-into-existence/article31667286.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||11 firefighters back to work||P. Anand and S. Elango, both firefighters with the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services, tested positive for COVID-19 recently. After treatment, the two, along with nine of their colleagues, joined duty on Saturday. They will be back to spraying disinfectants to keep the city safe. Since the lockdown began on March 24, over 7,000 TNFRS personnel have been involved in spraying disinfectants in 30,000 places and over two lakh streets in State. In Chennai alone, the firefighters disinfected 3,300 places including government hospitals. A total of 31 firefighters in the State were infected with the virus and of them, 25 are from Chennai. Eleven have recovered and rejoined duty on Saturday. “My wife Priya, a nurse, is eight months pregnant and she was worried when I tested positive. Now, I am perfectly fine and she encourages me to get back to work as I joined the force three years ago to serve the society. On Sunday, I will spraying disinfectants in the Secretariat,” said Mr. Anand.  Back in action Elango, who has put in 13 years of service in TNFRS, said though his wife was frightened, he was waiting to get back to the streets to spray disinfectants. “Our station personnel feed the homeless every day. I am just waiting to join my colleagues in fighting COVID-19,” he said. The 11 firefighters were given a grand welcome at the TNFRS headquarters at Egmore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-firefighters-recover-report-for-work/article31667253.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patient traced in Tirupattur||A 65-year-old COVID-19 patient, who went missing from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in the city on Friday, was traced at an eatery on the outskirts of Tirupattur late on Saturday. He is now undergoing treatment at the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital. According to health officials in Tirupattur, the patient, who worked as a security staff at a house in Royapuram here, had come to the RGGGH with complaints of chest pain. He was examined and his samples were taken. While the officials said that he escaped from the hospital, the patient reportedly told the officials in Tirupattur that he was asked to go home after being examined and therefore he left the hospital. He said he was not aware that he had tested positive for COVID-19. He stayed in the city for two days and later hitched ride in two lorries to reach his village near Tirupattur. Tirupattur Collector M.P. Sivanarul said that as soon as they got information about the man missing from the RGGGH, the team was put on high alert. The patient hitched ride in two lorries and reached Tirupattur. The officials had asked his family members to alert them if he got in touch with them. The officials were able to trace him after one of his village acquaintances told them about spotting him at an eatery. He has been admitted in the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital at Adukkamparai. He is said to be asymptomatic and stable. The eatery was disinfected and shut. Officials are tracing his contacts in Chennai and the two lorry drivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patient-traced-in-tirupattur/article31667248.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SCARF to hold online course for journalists||Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF), along with a Delhi-based non-governmental organisation Sangath, is organising a 4-week online course on mental health reporting for journalists and journalism students. The free course, currently offered in English, aims to enable skills such as good reporting of mental health issues, strike a balance between being informative and educative while being responsible and sensitive. On completion of the course, participants will receive a course completion certificate. Participants can register athttps://bit.ly/2xERpxy. Applications will be open till May 31 to join the first edition. For information, contact: Dr R Mangala @ 9444027388 /mangala @scarfindia.org; Babita Negi  babita.negi @sangath.in/essencemediacourse @gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scarf-to-hold-online-course-for-journalists/article31667249.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers to wear masks while evaluating answer scripts||Teachers evaluating Plus Two examination answer scripts from May 27 in the State will have to compulsorily wear masks and disinfect their hands before touching the papers. Based on a government order, Director of School Education S. Kannappan has asked all chief educational officers to ensure that the guidelines are strictly adhered to. Every evaluation room will have not more than eight people, including a chief examiner, an officer for scrutiny and six assistant examiners. As part of precautionary measures against COVID-19, physical distancing has to be strictly followed. As many as 43,592 teachers will begin Plus Two paper evaluation on May 27. According to the guidelines, the teachers and staff members involved in the process should be instructed not to attend any unnecessary social gatherings. Teachers whose residences are within containment zones have been exempted from evaluation duty and their school heads have been asked to identify other teachers for the purpose at the earliest. Schools where evaluation will take place should be disinfected twice a day and provision made for handwashing facilities and hand sanitisers. For teachers requiring transport, government or private vehicles will be arranged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-to-wear-masks-while-evaluating-answer-scripts/article31667273.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvalluvar varsity places ads for PG admissions||Tiruvalluvar University has issued an advertisement on its website calling for admission to postgraduate programmes in the institution. The Vellore-based university has called upon students to apply for PG programmes in 10 departments including Tamil, English, Economics, Zoology, Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Biotechnology, Computer Science and Commerce. According to the notification, students can apply with marks obtained in five semester. The last date to submit applications online is June 30. Due to COVID-19 lockdown, the State universities have not conducted the sixth semester exams. The university faculty have pointed out that this is against norms. Every year, the Directorate of College Education (DCE) will release a circular on the date of issue of applications for college admission. This applies to colleges and universities. For admission to undergraduate programmes the notification is issued after Class 12 results are published. Similarly, for PG programmes, the notification is released after the results of undergraduate programmes are released. A DCE official on conditions of anonymity said the university’s notification was in violation of the norm. “In the current situation, we are not sure when we would be able to reopen the colleges. We have no idea how the exams are even going to be held. Everything hinges on the direction from the government. It is not correct to issue a notification at this point of time,” he said. Some former faculty have written to both the DCE and the higher education department. Inquiry sought A former Syndicate member has also written to the District Collector seeking inquiry into how the university had taken steps to reopen affiliated and constituent colleges as well as university departments when seven of the revenue districts in Vellore had been declared red zones by the State health department. Higher Education Secretary Apoorva said, “We will look in to the matter.”  Some former faculty have written to both the DCE and higher education department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvalluvar-varsity-initiates-process-for-pg-admissions/article31667259.ece
25 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLAs booked for unlawful assembly in Chennai||The Egmore police have registered a case against 96 DMK cadre, including three MLAs. B.Ranganathan, Ravichandran and S.R.Raja and advocate Girirajan were booked for protesting the arrest of DMK Rajya Sabha member R.S.Bharathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mlas-booked-for-unlawful-assembly-in-chennai/article31667254.ece
25 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Salons, beauty parlours open across Coimbatore district||Around 4,800 salons and beauty parlours resumed functioning in Coimbatore district on Sunday as part of relaxation granted by the State government across Tamil Nadu, except in Chennai and containment zones. These salons and beauty parlours were remaining closed since March 24, leaving over 5,000 people jobless across the district. Salons and beauty parlours with air conditioning were not allowed to function on Sunday. Earlier, the State government had allowed functioning of salons in rural areas except Greater Chennai Corporation, Municipal Corporations, Municipalities and town panchayats from May 19. Balaji, who runs a salon near Coimbatore Collectorate, said that he was relieved by the decision of the government as income of his and several others in the sector was hit from March 24 . “My team used to do service for 25 to 30 people a day before lockdown. On Sunday, we had good number of customers,” he said. Rush for hair cutting, shaving and trimming in salons was high on Sunday in view of Id-Ul-Fitr. Officials from Coimbatore Corporation and health officers of other local bodies were monitoring whether salons and beauty parlours followed precautions against the spread of COVID-19. According to R. Sasikumar, Ukkadam branch secretary of the Coimbatore District Barbers’ and Salon Association, all the salons were asked to use single use towels worth around Rs. 10 for hair dressing. Other precautions to be followed in salons and beauty parlours were to disinfect used tools, chairs and other objects that come in contact with clients after every customer leaves the place. Salon and beauty parlour operators were also asked to follow advanced booking and allot timings, if possible, to avoid waiting of customers in large numbers. Coimbatore district administration was processing distribution of Government aid of Rs. 2,000 to barbers/beauticians who were affected during lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salons-beauty-parlours-open-across-coimbatore-district/article31667311.ece
25 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Technical glitches delaying issuance of e-passes||With industries reopening across Coimbatore district following relaxations in lockdown, a large number of the units are applying for e-passes to get their workers from other districts back and also to facilitate movement of employees within the State. However, with the applications on the rise, approvals are also getting delayed. Official sources said that till Saturday, nearly 22,000 applications were received, including multiple applications from the same industry, and about 14,000 of them were approved. Nearly 5,000 were rejected for multiple reasons. The officials pointed out that industries were applying online and government staff who were working from home were also involved in the approval process. But there were slight technical glitches too that led to slowdown in the process. While some industries said there were no problems in getting the passes, some pointed out delays or rejection without a specific reason. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the very purpose of taking the e-pass system online and permitting industries to restart is defeated because of the delay in getting the passes. The government should address the issues faced at the field level immediately so that industries and workers are not affected. If an application is pending for more than six hours, the software should be modified to reflect it. Higher officials should monitor the approvals regularly and take appropriate action. There should be different levels of official monitoring to avoid delays or rejection of application without a valid reason, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/technical-glitches-delaying-issuance-of-e-passes/article31667303.ece
25 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Construction activities in Coimbatore hit due to shortage of workers||For the construction sector, which has nearly 70 % of its workforce from other States, the hike in raw material prices and a number of migrant workers returning home have stalled several activities. Chairman of Builders’ Association of India, Coimbatore Chapter, Panneerselvam, said that almost 70 % of the migrant workers, employed in skilled and unskilled jobs, have returned home in the last few days through the special trains. “The building sector here employs nearly 6,000 workers. At least 70 % of them are migrant workers and almost 70 % of these workers have left for their home States,” he said. The remaining workers are reluctant to come to work because they want to return home whenever they are able to take a train. Another builder said they were asking the migrant workers to come for daily wages so that the workers can leave the site if their trains were confirmed. “Only with this assurance have some workers returned to the construction site,” he said. The industry employs a large number of workers from other districts of Tamil Nadu too. They had all gone home when the lockdown was announced. The construction companies are now applying for e-passes to bring back these workers. “We fear that construction costs will go up as the workers available will now ask for higher wages and we have to complete the works taken up,” one of the builders said. “I had more than 300 workers at my project site in February. Many of them left for Holi to their home States and I had about 150 workers. Now, in the last few days, at least 50 % of them have taken the special trains,” a property promoter added. Another challenge that the builders and property promoters are facing is steep hike in raw material prices. While prices of M-Sand and bricks are stable in Coimbatore, cement and steel costs have shot up, adds Mr. Panneerselvam. Cement prices are up by Rs. 100 a bag (50 kg) and steel prices by Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 6,000 a tonne. There is no shortage in availability of these materials. But the prices have been increased. Contractors will be affected by this, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-activities-in-coimbatore-hit-due-to-shortage-of-workers/article31667318.ece
25 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||HT consumers in State to wait for court orders||High Tension (HT) electricity consumers in the State, who had gone to the Court regarding payment of Maximum Demand (MD) charges during the lockdown period, will wait for the orders to decide on their next course of action. Industry sources here said three or four industrial associations had gone to the court on this issue. Further, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation has got an interim order from the Appellate Tribunal For Electricity over a suo moto order of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission on the same issue. The next set of hearings are expected next month. Now, several industries have resumed operations but are able to run only 30 % to 40 % of their capacity. Since most of the industries remained shut from March 25 till recently and used minimum power for essential needs such as lighting, the industries had been asking for collection of MD charges according to actual use. About 20 % of the HT consumers had paid the Maximum Demand charges for the lockdown period. “We are not asking for concession or special benefit. We are only saying we will pay according to the rules, which is a right of the consumers,” said a textile mill owner here. The small and medium-scale HT consumers are the worst hit with the Tangedco asking the industries to pay the full MD charges, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ht-consumers-in-state-to-wait-for-court-orders/article31667319.ece
25 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Five-year-old boy dies after TV falls on him||A five-year-old boy from Kunnathuranpalayam near Annur died after a television fell on him at his house on Saturday. The deceased was identified as J. Kelvin, son of Jerry from Kunnathurpalayam. Police said that an old model television, heavy in size, fell on the boy’s chest from a stand when he tried to switch it on. His parents took him to a hospital at Annur where he was treated as an outpatient and sent back home. However, the boy developed pain again and doctors at the Annur hospital asked the parents to take him to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. However, the boy died enroute to hospital.  Man falls to death A 35-year-old man from K. Vadamadurai died after he fell from a mango tree on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Michael Nirmal, a resident of Mahaliamman temple street near K.Vdamadurai. Police said that the accident took place on Saturday morning when the man climbed the tree in his house compound to pluck mangoes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-year-old-boy-dies-after-tv-falls-on-him/article31667313.ece
25 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Class X exams: DMK petitions CEO||Members of the DMK Youth Wing and Student Wing submitted a petition to Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha recently requesting to conduct the Class X public examinations after the control of the COVID-19 spread across the State. The petition alleged that the State government has not confirmed whether any Class X student had contracted COVID-19 in the State. The government has not responded on how students from containment zones will attend the examination and on how many students have vacated their residences prior to the enforcement of the lockdown, the petition claimed. Students must be provided with ample counselling to mentally prepare them for the examinations. The public examinations must be conducted only after the schools reopen and after the teachers ensure that the students have revised the syllabus well, the petition added. The government must also ensure that teachers and education officials must be provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits across the State, according to the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-x-exams-dmk-petitions-ceo/article31667323.ece
25 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||More special trains for migrant workers||With nearly 37,000 migrant workers leaving Coimbatore district in the last few days by special trains to their home States, another five trains are likely to be operated from here. An official said the highest number of special trains in the State were sent from Coimbatore, which is estimated to have nearly one lakh migrant workers. With 28 trains already operated, five more are expected. Salem Division of Southern Railway operated two Shramik special trains for migrant workers from Coimbatore Junction on Sunday. The trains were bound for Bokaro Steel City, Jharkhand and Madhubani, Bihar, which left at around 6 p.m and 8 p.m respectively. Both trains ferried 1,600 passengers each, railway officials said. On Sunday, a special train from Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala bound for Jiribam, Manipur halted at Coimbatore Junction at around 4.30 a.m. A total of 209 migrant workers from the districts of Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Salem and Namakkal boarded the train at Coimbatore Junction, according to the officials.  Salem Staff Reporter adds  As many as 1,800 workers from Bihar left for their native place by a Sharmik train here on Sunday. According to a release, the passengers were screened before boarding the train and they were offered with ample supplies of food and water to last during the journey. The State government has paid Rs. 15.75 lakh as ticket cost for the migrant passengers, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-special-trains-for-migrant-workers/article31667302.ece
25 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special officer to monitor people entering Coimbatore city||Coimbatore Corporation has designated former city health officer and Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies Faculty P. Aruna as nodal officer to monitor people entering the city. Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath said the Corporation had roped in Dr. Aruna on deputation to keep track of the people entering the city from other districts, particularly those with high COVID-19 cases. The officer would coordinate with other State government agencies like the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency to keep track of the number of people who had applied for e-pass to enter the city, check if they had entered and if so when and the route they had taken. Thereafter, the officer would paste stickers on the doors of those who had entered the city to ensure that they remained quarantined at their houses. The Corporation had asked her to monitor this daily and the civic body was taking stock of the situation at 6 p.m. everyday, Mr. Jatavath said and explained that this was to ensure that the city saw no new COVID-19 cases. Aside from pasting stickers on doors, the Corporation also sought the help of the neighbours of those who had returned from other districts to ensure that they remained under quarantine. This in addition to the Corporation deploying patrol teams and imposing fine on people without masks. In addition to this the Corporation continued to lift samples from people from various areas in the city and the in the last week along it had lifted over 1,400 samples, Corporation sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-officer-to-monitor-people-entering-coimbatore-city/article31667316.ece
25 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery showrooms asked to close||Coimbatore Corporation officials on Sunday asked the managements of three jewellery showrooms on Cross Cut Road in the city to down their shutters. Sources said that during a routine inspection to oversee compliance to COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, officials found three jewellery showrooms on Cross Cut Road open. After the Corporation officials directed the managements to down the shutters, the managers did so, the sources added. The Corporation also deputed officials to ensure physical distancing in fish and vegetable markets in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-showrooms-asked-to-close/article31667312.ece
25 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||NGOs, students want special classes conducted before the exam||With the State government rescheduling the start of Class 10 exams from June 15 to 25, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and students in hilly areas wanted special classes to be conducted before the start of examinations. Relief Students and parents, particularly in remote hamlets in Bargur and Kadambur hills, heaved a sigh of relief after the exams were rescheduled as many are at work place and are yet to return home due to absence of transportation. Many students from Kongadai, Makkampalayam, Gundri, Kadambur, Bargur and remote hamlets in the hill areas were pursuing Class 10 at government schools in the plains and were staying at the government hostels. M. Meena, a student of a school at Pallipalayam in Anthiyur block and a resident of Kongadai, and stays at a hostel near her school says the distance from Kongadai to her school is 65 km. and buses or other modes of transportation are not available for her to reach school and write exams. Hence, she wants the hostel to be reopened during exams. Her father Marasamy said that a few teachers from plains arrive at the Government Tribal Residential High School at Kongadai in the afternoon and leave at 3 p.m. “Hence, I had admitted my daughter at a school which is 65 km. away”, he said and wanted her daughter to be permitted to write the exam at the Kongadai school. Transport S.C. Natraj, Director of Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR), a Sathyamangalam-based NGO, told The Hindu that special classes should be conducted for students so that they can recall their lessons and appear for exams without fear. “Transportation is a perennial issue in hill areas and hostels should be reopened during exams”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngos-students-want-special-classes-conducted-before-the-exam/article31667317.ece
25 May 2020||KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Flower market opens at Thovalai, but merchants upset with dull business||After a two-month lockdown, the flower market at Thovalai in Kanniyakumari district opened on Sunday. Though the farmers were cheerful about the reopening, merchants were upset by non-movement of the produce as their counterparts from Kerala could not come due to restrictions. Local merchants visited and purchased flowers in small quantities. Officials ensured that social distancing was maintained. With Ramzan falling on Monday, prices were likely to go up. Also, weddings were likely to take place during the following week. Above all, the farmers were hopeful that the lockdown would not be extended beyond the monthend, which would lift restrictions on travel and enable people from Kerala to procure the produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-market-opens-at-thovalai-but-merchants-upset-with-dull-business/article31667474.ece
25 May 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Two test positive in Krishnagiri||Two persons who have returned to Krishnagiri from Chennai have tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. The patients are undergoing treatment at the Krishnagiri Government Hospital. Samples collected According to officials, the samples of the patients, an 18-year-old male from Uthankarai and 19-year-old female near Pandharapalli were collected at check posts on Sunday. According to officials, the patients are in stable condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-test-positive-in-krishnagiri/article31667304.ece
25 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Salons open in urban areas||After a gap of several weeks, salons and beauty parlours in the city resumed their operations on Sunday by adopting several safety precautions. The shop owners said that they thoroughly disinfected the shop every one hour, strictly enforced the staff and customers to wear face masks. Customers were also asked to wash their hands before entering their saloon, they added. Customers were checked to see if they have cough, fever or cold and only then allowed inside shops, said L. Vidya, who runs a beauty parlour in Anna Nagar. S. Mohammed Muzammil, the owner of ‘Hair Wavez, a men’s salon in Anna Nagar, said that his staff wore single-use hand gloves, face shield and mask as a safety precaution. “After hearing about barbers testing positive for COVID-19, we are taking all safety precautions. We also cannot afford to delay resumption of operations as we have to pay rent and salary for our staff, who are mostly migrant workers from Delhi,” he said. D. Muralidharan, who runs ‘Hair and Fair’ on West Veli Street, said that his salon has eight chairs, but he allows only four customers at once to ensure personal distancing. “After we attend a customer, we even disinfect the scissors and comb. We have also ordered disposable towels, so that we can use only one towel for each customer,” he said. Mr. Muzammil said that around 40 customers visited his shop on Sunday. “Since, most of them could not get a haircut for the last two months, a steady stream of customers visited our salon throughout the day. But, we had told them to fix an appointment over the phone and ensured that they did not crowd outside the salon,” he said. Echoing his views Mr. Muralidharan also said that 70 customer visited his shop to have a haircut. “But, I could attend only 40 customers and asked the rest to come tomorrow,” he said. On the contrary, only a few female customers walked in at beauty parlours, said Ms. Vidya. “Many were also apprehensive to have a facial or thread their eyebrows as it involves more physical contact,” she said. Tirunelveli Following the restrictions being lifted for salons in urban areas, hairdressers opened shops in Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi districts. After two months of lockdown, the customers thronged the outlets for a haircut. Many were seen maintaining social distance and shops had provided sanitizers. The customers were also seen wearing face masks. In Millerpuram Thoothukudi district, a hair style specialist Pon Mariappan, who is famous in the locality, as he has a small library in his salon, sterilized the scissors and comb before using them on the next customer. He also requested his customers to cooperate in maintaining social distance and not to crowd at the salon. In Palayamkottai, a hairdresser said that after the HIV scare, all salons irrespective of where they were located, changed the blades without taking any risks. Hence, with COVID-19 pandemic, the salons were instructed to use both face masks and hand gloves as a precaution, he added. Antony (32), a local resident here, said that the salons without air conditioners should be permitted to function without restrictions on timings. Residents may prefer to come late in the evening as it was very hot during the afternoon. Hence, salons should be allowed to function till 9 p.m., he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salons-open-in-urban-areas/article31667481.ece
25 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers leave for home with joy and relief||Seven migrant workers from Bihar had come all the way to Aruppukottai seeking jobs with better pay. They had hardly worked for four months when the lockdown was clamped down. The workers survived on meagre food they could lay their hands on since then. With no job and pay for the past 60 days, they badly wanted to return home. It was then that they learnt that a special train to Bihar was leaving from Madurai. The seven walked more than 60 km to reach Madurai junction. “When we reached here, we were told that there was no train and we got stuck on the railway station,” said Nithin Kumar, one of the seven men. A High Court advocate, Raja Prabhakaran, arranged shelter and food for them. “I took up their case with the district administration and made arrangement for their return journey,” said Mr. Prabhakaran. However, when they turned up at the railway station, they were made to stand apart with 25 other migrant workers from different groups. When the officials said that they could not be accommodated, they were crestfallen. Similar is the case with few other migrant workers from different groups. While some had tickets, others could not get hold of one. Every one of them was anxious that he could be the one left behind. But after some dithering and much to their relief, the officials told them to board the train. As the train left Madurai on Sunday, the workers waved at the officials with joy and gratitude. The special Shramik service chugged out carrying not only over 1,600 migrant workers, but their hope of reaching home. Among the passengers were 397 migrant workers from Ambasamudram, Cheranmahadevi, Nanguneri and other towns in Tirunelveli district. They were brought to Madurai in 12 buses arranged for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-leave-for-home-with-joy-and-relief/article31667492.ece
25 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Cries for official assistance on social media go unheeded||It is 61 days since lockdown was clamped across the country and pleas for help continue to swarm prominent social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook. The ‘help wanted’ and ‘urgent’ messages are being posted by a wide cross section of people: children attempting to send goods to aged parents, north Indian migrants stuck in Madurai and natives looking to come back to their hometown in Tamil Nadu. Some of the pleas carrying the hashtag #MaduraiHelp evoked response from volunteer groups, but they met with deafening silence from officials. Interestingly, the Madurai district administration’s twitter handle was last active in August 2019. A resident of Ranchi, Chandan Kumar Rajput, who studies in Madurai, created a profile on twitter in order to reach local officials. When he first began tweeting, he tagged senior leaders from the Central government and officials from Jharkhand to draw attention. “I lost my job and a family member in Ranchi was sick. I was desperately wanting to go back home,” he said. In the end, he went home after establishing contact with another set of workers from Ranchi, who were heading back in buses. “I managed to procure a pass and left in a private bus. A train journey would have been better, but I am home. I have nothing to complain about,” he added. A. Rajan, another resident who posted that his aged parents were in need of urgent water cans, said kind people on the internet reached out to him and extended help. The volunteers continued to check on them till date. “Help poured out on facebook, but I had first tagged the Collector.” Vinoth Durai, a blue cross volunteer from Chennai, said he received authentic information about a puppy litter that was in need of help. “Although I attempted to reach local networks there, nothing helped. On social media, the issue was widely shared. Some people came forward to adopt the puppies. Others to foster. However, the blue cross handle of Madurai did not acknowledge the issue,” he said. Collector T. G. Vinay said they had only recently begun surveying requests on facebook. “We have also been viewing some requests on twitter. Most of it is unfortunately duplication as we get these requests directly to the control room.” He added that they would step up checking twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cries-for-official-assistance-on-social-media-go-unheeded/article31667493.ece
25 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Meat and fish stalls open, but no ‘Sunday crowd’ this time||After several weekends since the lockdown began, meat and fish shops in the city were allowed to function on Sunday. However, shopkeepers said that customer footfall was lower ahead of Ramzan and it did not match up to the usual Sunday crowd either. Since the lockdown started, the district administration had regularly issued orders banning the sale of meat and fish on Sundays to prevent crowding. Following the phased relaxation of norms, customers were seen standing in queues in front of meat shops across the city on Sunday. T. Mohammed Ali, who runs a mutton stall at Nelpettai market, said many customers were not aware of shops being permitted to open, resulting in lower footfall. “Usually, on a day ahead of Eid-Ul-Fitr, the market used to be flooded with people. However, this time the business was not brisk. But, as word spread about the functioning of shops, people gradually started visiting the market,” he said.  S. Muthukrishnan, president of Madurai City Mutton Mutton Retail Merchants Association, said that the shops were instructed to ensure that their customers wore face masks. The shopkeepers were also instructed to draw circles or squares in front of their shops to enforce personal distancing. However, customers were seen flouting the personal distancing norm in front of some shops at Nelpettai market. Ahead of Ramzan celebration, the price of meat had also increased sharply, said S. Naveena, a resident of Nelpettai. “On Sunday, a kilogram of mutton was sold for Rs. 900, and chicken at Rs. 220,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meat-and-fish-stalls-open-but-no-sunday-crowd-this-time/article31667499.ece
25 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A wedding feast like no other||For V. Veerakumar, 28, a volunteer with ‘Maamaduraiyin Annavasal,’ his afternoon routine since May 1 has been distributing food packets to the homeless at Samayanallur, a suburb of Madurai. This Sunday was no different for him, as after tying the nuptial knot to R. Radhika on Sunday, the couple sponsored mutton biryani for 350 abandoned people and distributed packets to the homeless as part of their wedding feast. ‘Maamaduraiyin Annavasal’ is a programme initiated by Su. Venkatesan, the Madurai MP, through which food is cooked for 5,000 homeless and abandoned people during the lockdown. Mr. Veerakumar is one among the 417 volunteers who distribute food packets to the homeless across the district. The couple had a minimalist wedding between 6 a.m. and 7.30 a.m. with their close family members at Mr. Veerakumar’s residence at Samayanallur. “It was a low-key affair with an assembly of 30 people. So we decided to give food to the homeless, who have become my acquaintances in the past few days. From 11. 30 a.m., we started distributing the food packets,” he said. “On receiving the food packets, they showered their blessings on us. What better wedding gift can we receive,” Mr. Veerakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-wedding-feast-like-no-other/article31667497.ece
25 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth found dead, murder case registered||A 24-year-old man, Vicky alias A. Subramanian of Avaniapuram, was found dead with injuries at Vellaikkal on Sunday afternoon. Avaniapuram police have booked a case of murder as the body bore injuries and his mother had filed a statement that he was assaulted by some people two days back. The police said that the deceased had attacked one Mari in Tirupparankundram in 2018. Subramanian, who had been to Mumbai, returned home only some six months back. His mother told the police that two days back, he was assaulted by some people. He had been fearing for his life. The youth who had gone out at 11.30 a.m. did not return home. His body was found near Vellaikkal with grievous injuries and his bike had also suffered damage. The police suspect that it could have been a murder that was made out to look like an accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-found-dead-murder-case-registered/article31667501.ece
25 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Campaign for ‘high risk’ pregnant women||In the wake of recent female infanticide case in Sholavandan, the district administration is set to launch a month-long campaign to reach out to women with two or more girl children who have been identified as ‘high risk’ and provide them counselling. Collector T. G. Vinay told The Hindu that officials from the Health and Family Welfare department, District Child Protection Unit and Village Health Nurses will visit their houses and educate the women about different schemes meant for girl children. “They will also provide counselling to others in the family - mothers, fathers, parents and in-laws,” he said. The Village Health Nurses had been roped in to identify families with high risk of female infanticide, based on monthly income and level of acceptance to having a girl child. They will identify families in need of counselling to ensure that girl children were not neglected. “We are updating a set of pamphlets and brochures on various State government schemes available to help secure the future of girl children. Apart from free schooling, we also have schemes such as ‘Thaalikku Thangam’ and Cradle Baby,” he said.The pregnant women will be given phone numbers of officials to contact in case of trouble. “Let us hope better responsibility towards raising male and female children without bias comes with awareness,” Mr. Vinay said. The campaign will start on June 1. “A tour plan is being formulated. Officials will follow personal distancing norms and ensure that the women get the message across,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-for-high-risk-pregnant-women/article31667488.ece
25 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Power tariff hiked in Puducherry; consumers get a jolt||In yet another jolt for consumers during the pandemic, the Puducherry government has decided to increase power tariff for all sections based on the recommendations of the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC). In the last four years, the government had increased power tariff thrice putting additional burden on household spending. After increasing the power tariff in 2019, the Puducherry Electricity Department increased the power tariff by an average of 3.12% to fill the gap between revenue and expenditure while retaining the regulatory surcharge of 4% for the year 2020-21. The revised tariff, which will come into effect from June, will leave an impact on the monthly bills of over 3 lakh domestic consumers in the Union Territory of Puducherry. The average power tariff is expected to be broadly in the range of 35 paise to 40 paise a unit although it might be slightly higher for some consumer categories. The maximum hit would be to those consuming above 300 units, sources say. The Puducherry Electricity Department caters to 4.9 lakh consumers, of which 3.35 lakh are in the domestic category, 53,224 under commercial category and 6,836 agriculture connections. As per the JERC order, the rate for consumption up to 100 units (domestic service) remains unchanged at Rs. 1.50 a unit. For consumption of 101 to 200 units a month, the tariff has been increased to Rs. 2.55 a unit from Rs. 2.50 and for 201 to 300 units the charge has been increased from Rs. 4.35 a unit to Rs. 4.50 a unit. The rate of consumption above 300 units has been increased from Rs. 5.60 to Rs. 5.90 a unit. The monthly fixed charges has been fixed at Rs. 45 irrespective of units consumed. Commercial category In the commercial category, for consumption of up to 100 units, the tariff has been increased from Rs. 5.50 a unit to Rs. 5.60. For consumption from 101 to 250, the charge has been increased from Rs. 6.50 a unit to Rs. 6.65. For those using above 250 units a month, the tariff has been increased from Rs. 7.20 a unit to Rs. 7.40. The monthly charges have been fixed at Rs. 130. For high tension consumers (for contracted demand of up to 5000 kva), the tariff has gone up from Rs. 5.50 a unit to Rs. 5.65 a unit. The Electricity Department had its reasons for the latest hike. The JERC fixed the tariff based on the net revenue requirement for the financial year. The revenue requirement worked out for the fiscal was around Rs. 1,653.21 crore, including Rs. 1,591.27 crore needed for power purchase. So, the gap between the revenue and expenditure was around Rs. 61.93 crore. AIADMK legislature party leader A. Anbalagan termed the hike in power tariff as the most inhuman decision.It would unleash sufferings on the people when the pandemic was gaining ground fast in the Union Territory, Mr. Anbalagan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-tariff-hiked-in-puducherry/article31667268.ece
25 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. to check arrival of residents from other States||The State government will streamline the arrival of residents from other States and countries in a bid to contain the spurt in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said. In a video message, he said the government had written to the Centre and Tamil Nadu as well as airport authorities to ensure that information was shared with the local administration about persons whose destination was Puducherry. Attributing the recent increase in cases to international passengers and residents from other States returning to the city without informing the administration and not following self-isolation measures, he said every person entering Puducherry would have to undergo a two-week quarantine. “With better coordination, the Health Department will be able to keep a tab on returnees,” he said.  With better coordination, the Health Department will be able to keep a tab on returnees||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-to-check-arrival-of-residents-from-other-states/article31667258.ece
25 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Liquor outlets to reopen on Monday||Retail IMFL outlets and arrack shops will reopen in Puducherry on Monday after a two-month shutdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. At present, only liquor outlets in Puducherry and Karaikal will reopen. The revised tax structure for Mahe and Yanam is being worked out. Addressing the press, Revenue and Excise Minister A. Namassivayam said that the shops would function from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. after following a set of guidelines. Shops need to be disinfected before opening and with sanitisers provided at entry point. Buyers need to wear masks and adhere to physical distancing. Price hike A special excise duty has been imposed on liquor brands to make prices on par with neighbouring States and to prevent influx of tipplers from bordering districts. As a result, the price of 154 out of the 920 brands in Puducherry, which are also available in Tamil Nadu has been hiked to eliminate price difference, while a 25 per cent tax has been slapped on remaining brands. A 20 per cent tax applies on arrack. Shops are required to display the revised price list at the premises. A government notification, issued after approval from the Lt. Governor, said the special tax will be for a period of three months. Monitoring units comprising special teams of excise and police have been set up to ensure compliance with guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-outlets-to-reopen-in-puducherry-karaikal/article31667263.ece
25 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer to step up tele-consultation OP services||Jipmer will expand its tele-consultation OP services across 13 specialties from Tuesday with the opening of more telephone lines. According to a press note, the services can be accessed through a set of numbers for existing and new patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jipmer-to-step-up-tele-consultation-op-services/article31667261.ece
25 May 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. finance firms pressuring SHG women to repay debts, says MLA||Rajapalayam MLA S. Thangapandian has flagged the issue of private finance companies exerting pressure on members of women’s self-help groups (SHGs) to repay their debts, with interest, despite the Reserve Bank of India having provided a three-month moratorium on repayment of loans. Following his complaint, the Virudhunagar district administration has warned banks and microfinance institutions of action if they violate the RBI’s guidelines. Mr. Thangapandian said he had received many complaints from members of SHGs about a private microfinance institution that was asking the women to repay their loans with interest. “I immediately visited the manager of the institution and reiterated the moratorium on repayment of loans,” the MLA said. The women had complained that representatives of the lending institution were knocking on their door, seeking payment of dues. “Some of them complained that the representatives of the financial institution had threatened to lock some of the shops for non-repayment of loans,” Mr. Thangapandian said. “We are not against repayment of loans by those who could afford to do so. We are only against putting undue pressure on those who are jobless,” he added. The MLA met Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan on Saturday and urged the district administration to warn all banks and financial institutions against violating the RBI’s norms. Consequently, the Collector issued a warning to all nationalised and cooperative banks and microfinance institutions. “We have given Rs. 8.5 crore in special loans to SHGs affected by the COVID-19 lockdown,” the Collector said.  We have given Rs. 8.5 crore in special loans to SHGs affected by the COVID-19 lockdownR. KannanVirudhunagar Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pvt-finance-firms-pressuring-shg-women-to-repay-debts-says-mla/article31667272.ece
25 May 2020||salem,TAMIL NADU||Service by appointments in Salem||After over two months, salons and beauty parlours within the Corporation limits opened on Sunday with many hair dressers commenced their business on appointment basis thus discouraging walk-ins.  Kandhasami, a hair stylist near Mannakadu, said, “the salon is being disinfected often and customers are allowed only after hand wash. The equipment is sterilised and disinfected before being used for a customer. Customers are allowed only based on appointments and walk-ins are discouraged. They are advised to use masks. Hair dressers also use masks and gloves while providing the services.” Operators of a premium salon in the city said that services are offered only based on appointments. They said that services like hair wash are not provided and usage of masks is mandatory. They said that they disinfect the space once in two hours, temperatures of staff are checked and gadgets are disinfected and sterilised before every use. M.Munusami, State president of the Tamil Nadu Hair Dressers’ Union, said that though salons have started functioning, there still seems to be a concern among public about availing the services. “There is still some amount of fear in the minds of public. All salons have been advised to be disinfected regularly and barbers have been asked to wear masks and gloves while serving customers. We are thinking of using disposable items for customers here after and this may reflect in costs as well”, he said. A.Vanitha from All India Hair and Beauty Association, who runs a wellness spa, said that only essentials services like hair dying, hair cuts are being provided and services like massaging has been temporarily stopped. She said that they advise only those who are availing services to visit the parlour and their temperatures are checked, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/service-by-appointments-in-salem/article31667307.ece
25 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over Rs. 20 lakh collected as fine from persons not wearing masks||The Salem Corporation has collected Rs. 21.53 lakh as fine from persons who ventured out without masks in the city. The Corporation had mandated the use of masks in public places and had formed special teams to monitor. According to a press release, between April 16 and May 23, the Salem Corporation had collected Rs. 21,53,390 as fine from 22,759 persons. The Corporation has also advised businesses here to ensure salespersons wore masks and gloves and not to sell products to customers coming without masks. The Corporation has warned of stern action against such violators. According to Corporation officials, no positive case was reported within Salem Corporation limits in the last 31 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-rs-20-lakh-collected-as-fine-from-persons-not-wearing-masks/article31667321.ece
25 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Accused dies in prison||A 25-year-old man who was arrested under POCSO Act and remanded in Salem Central Prison died on Sunday. According to prison authorities, K. Ramraj was arrested in a case registered at Shoolagiri in Krishnagiri. During health check up conducted at the prison hospital, he was diagnosed with tuberculosis (TB). He was undergoing treatment for TB and on Sunday, he died following breathlessness. According to officials, autopsy would be conducted on Monday and the body would be handed over to relatives later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/accused-dies-in-prison/article31667322.ece
25 May 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||VAOs abstain from check post duty in Sivaganga district||In protest against the district administration ‘neglecting their just demands’, the members of Tamil Nadu Grama Nirvaga Aluvalargal Sangam here said they would abstain from check post duty with immediate effect. At a high-level meeting held in Devakottai on May 8, the association members had passed a number of resolutions and submitted a memorandum to their higher officials. Speaking to reporters, sangam district president K. Krishnakumar and secretary R. Arulraj said that the VAOs were posted at check posts for seven continuous days. Hence, they were unable to execute their routine work. Several appeals to post them at the check posts on shifts, as was the case with police personnel, had been ignored by the district administration, they said. Though the State government had announced that it would issue sufficient protective gears and sanitisers to the staff on COVID-19 duty, it was not implemented in Karaikudi revenue division. In spite of several representations to the Tahsildar and the Deputy Tahsildar in Karaikudi, their grievance was not redressed, Mr Arulraj said, and added that it was agreed to exempt the VAOs above 55 years from COVID-19 duties, but they were still posted in violation of guidelines. They were also not provided proper shelter and could not take even four hours of rest, they alleged. Instead of just posting the VAOs, the district administration could deploy staff from revenue wing also on COVID-19 duty and at check posts. In that case, there would not be so much strain on the VAOs and village assistants, the sangam office-bearers said. They threatened to intensify the stir if the situation continued unaltered. Many associations across Tamil Nadu would join the stir, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaos-abstain-from-check-post-duty-in-sivaganga-district/article31667479.ece
25 May 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||23 workers from Kerala to be quarantined||Twenty-three workers from Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi, Virudhunagar and Madurai districts, who were employed in different parts of Kerala, reached Ariyankaavu three days ago. But they were unable to proceed further to enter Tamil Nadu due to restrictions. MDMK district secretary T.M. Rajendran represented the plight of the workers to district officials. On information, Collector Arun Sundar Dayalan directed the officials to check and make arrangements to transport the workers safely from Ariyankaavu check-post, officials said. They would be quarantined in isolation centres and screened for COVID-19, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-workers-from-kerala-to-be-quarantined/article31667482.ece
25 May 2020||THENI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||No fresh cases in four districts||Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Dindigul and Sivaganga districts did not report any fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday. A senior health official in Tirunelveli said while the number of containment zones had come down phenomenally in Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts, the only worrying aspect was the arrival of people from other States, who tested positive. The migrants who tested negative too were kept in quarantine, he added. After 19 days, Tirunelveli district reported no fresh case on Sunday. In all districts in south Tamil Nadu, except Sivaganga, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases had crossed the 50 mark. While the tally of Tirunelveli and Madurai districts has crossed the 200 mark, three other districts – Thoothukudi, Dindigul and Theni – have recorded over 100 positive cases. Thirteen new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Virudhunagar district on Sunday. While 10 of them returned from Maharastra, three were from West Bengal. However, only one case was added to the total number of positive cases (98 at present) as the Health department cross notified 12 positive cases from New Delhi to the railway quarantine, Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said. The total number of active cases in the district stands at 54 as 44 patients have been discharged from hospital. According to a doctor at Government Theni Medical College Hospital, four persons who returned to the district, including one from West Bengal and one from Kerala, tested positive. A youth from Bodi, who had returned from Dubai, also tested positive. The fourth case was a person from Gudalur, who had contact with those who returned from Koyambedu, he added.  Madurai  Six fresh positive cases were reported in Madurai, taking the total number of cases in the district to 231. Collector T.G. Vinay said a case was cross notified. All six fresh cases were local cases. One of the patients – a 57-year-old man from Ganapathy Nagar – got his sample tested at a private lab. Five others from Pasumalai, Tirupparankundram, Ellis Nagar, Sellur and Journalists’ Colony too tested positive. The areas were cordoned off into containment zones. Currently, there were 114 active cases in Madurai district, said the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-fresh-cases-in-four-districts/article31667477.ece
25 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Salons, parlours reopen||With salons and beauty parlours opening up in Tiruchi city on Sunday, several hairdressers hiked the rates for their services. “We are unable to afford disposable aprons, sanitisers and disinfectants without charging the customer for it,” they say. Salons were allowed to open in areas other than municipalities on Tuesday, and those in the city started functioning on Sunday. A series of guidelines have been given to the shop owners on maintaining personal hygiene and regular disinfection. Although most have agreed to follow them, they said that the operational costs would be affected. Speaking to The Hindu , P. Dharmalingam, Secretary, Tiruchi District Barbers’ Association, said that they have been asked to disinfect their shop at least five times a day, provide sanitisers and hand wash soaps. Each customer must also be given a cloth apron which would be disposed of after the service is completed, he said. Cloth coverings costing Rs. 30 each have been purchased in bulk by the hairdressers. “We have no choice. All these things cost money and the customer has to bear the brunt,” he said. The Tiruchi District Barbers’ Association fixes the prices for haircuts and had last hiked the prices in 2017, when they decided that they would charge Rs. 180 at air-conditioned shops and Rs. 140 at other shops. The prices are revised every three years and in 2020, if not for the pandemic, the prices would have been hiked to Rs. 200, Mr. Dharmalingam. “We are still charging the customer only Rs. 200, even at this time with all the cost additions,” he said. Of the 30 people who visited a hair salon in Thillai Nagar, 15 were men who had, during the course of the lockdown period, attempted to self-style themselves. “They came asking me to fix their mess-up,” laughed U. Raja, a hairdresser. Many men, especially youth had tried to cut their hair with trimmers, he said. Some men had also asked their wives or sisters to cut their hair and the results were quite bad. Some 100 shops in the city were not allowed to open as they had been sealed by authorities during the lockdown. “These hairdressers had opened their shops because they were unable to afford even one meal a day for their families. The authorities must pardon them and allow them to function,” Mr. Dharmalingam said. Some hairdressers however, had violated norms. Although most wore facemasks and aprons, gloves were rarely worn. “It is difficult to comb the hair and trim correctly with gloves on. These norms are quite unreasonable,” a hairdresser said. The man had air conditioning on too, and said that in the scorching heat, it was not possible to function without it. “The fans are not practical and in a salon, hair would fly everywhere,” he added. Women’s beauty parlours too, saw customers rushing to have their eyebrows trimmed and arms and legs waxed. “For three months I could not have my hair waxed. It had become so itchy and unpresentable. I’m so glad the shops have opened now,” said M. Rani, an IT professional. Some women had also visited the parlours before Eid on Monday. “Even though we cannot visit our relatives, we are happy that we will at least look good in the photographs which we will share on our WhatsApp groups,” two women at a parlour in Woraiyur said.  We have no choice. Disposable aprons, sanitisers and disinfectants cost much and the customer has to bear the brunt P. Dharmalingam Secretary, Tiruchi District Barbers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salons-parlours-reopen/article31667509.ece
25 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown comes in handy for Railways||COVID-19 lockdown helped the Southern Railway complete a major portion of the limited use subway work near Valadi a few kilometres away from Tiruchi along the Tiruchi – Villupuram chord line section. The massive work of inserting 12 huge precast reinforced cement concrete boxes in the subway dug beneath the double line stretch was accomplished in 10 hours recently through planning and perfect coordination among different railway departments at the work site. As prohibitory orders was in place, the Tiruchi railway divisional authorities obtained due approval from the District Collector to execute the major works of inserting the cement concrete boxes one after the other beneath the railway lines. The subway is being constructed in lieu of the level crossing gate 235 near Valadi at a cost of around Rs. 2.5 crore. A senior railway officer involved in the project told The Hindu that the huge work of inserting the precast concrete boxes commenced soon after the crack of dawn and was completed by 4 p.m. covering the up and down broad gauge railway lines. The absence of movement of passenger trains along the chord line stretch due to the current lockdown helped in better planning and faster execution to complete the work in 10 hours, the railway officer said. The officer said the mega work was carried out deploying a couple of 150 tonne cranes, four excavators, equal number of tippers and a couple of water tanks. A couple of tower wagons were used by the railway traction department officials for slewing both railway lines. Labourers engaged for carrying out the mega work were examined using thermal scanners at the project site prior to commencing the works. Masks were provided to all labourers and railway officials during the working hours and hand sanitiser provided every hour to all at the site besides ensuring personal distancing, the officer further said. A team of Railway Protection Force personnel and those from the local police were present at the project site to prevent unauthorised persons from gathering at the work spot. Officials from the railway engineering, traction, signal and telecommunication were also involved in accomplishing the massive work. Having completed the major work of inserting the concrete boxes, the next work of laying approach road on either sides of the subway would be taken up. The approach road on either side was to be laid to a length of 80 metre each. “We have planned to complete the remaining works by July”, the official further said. The subway would be equipped with sensors to activate the electrical system to pump out water if it were to get stagnated in the subway. A backup system was also proposed to be put in place using diesel to pump out stagnant water in case of power failure, the official further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-comes-in-handy-for-railways/article31667517.ece
25 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi airport ready to handle domestic services from today||With the Ministry of Civil Aviation announcing the resumption of domestic flights from May 25, the international airport here is ready to handle the services in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedure specified by the State government. Private airline IndiGo has already announced the operation of flight services in the Tiruchi – Chennai – Tiruchi and Bengaluru- Tiruchi – Bengaluru sectors from Monday. As per the proposed schedule announced by the airline, the first flight to Tiruchi from Chennai will land at 10.45 a.m. and leave at 11.15 a.m. The second service to Tiruchi would be operated in the night. The flight will arrive Tiruchi at 9.20 p.m. and leave at 9.50 p.m. The flight from Bengaluru will land at 8.20 p.m. and depart at 8.55 p.m. The proposed services are to be operated by ATR aircraft which was the case before the lockdown was announced. An airline official here said mask, face shield and hand sanitiser would be given to all passengers taking the flight amid spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The counter at the airport would be opened well ahead and the staff manning them would also be provided with mask and hand sanitiser. To facilitate domestic operation, the Air Traffic Control watch hour at Tiruchi airport has been revised from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. said airport sources. However, Tiruchi airport authorities here said though they were ready to handle domestic flights they were awaiting concurrence from the State government in this regard in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. The State government has announced standard operating procedure for domestic air travel. The Ministry of Civil Aviation has issued detailed set of guidelines for adherence at the airports which includes temperature check of passengers with infra red thermometer and luggages to be disinfected following COVID-19 protocol by airport staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-airport-ready-to-handle-domestic-services-from-today/article31667510.ece
25 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||10 test positive, 11 discharged in central region||Ten persons from districts in the central region tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. Of them, three hailed from Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts, while two tested positive in Tiruvarur, and one person each in Ariyalur and Pudukottai. Meanwhile, 11 patients were discharged from the Karur Medical College Hospital. In Tiruchi the three patients - a 45-year-old female and two males aged 52 and 21, who tested positive are all contacts of people who had returned to Tiruchi from Chennai and had tested positive earlier. A total of 282 people had returned from Chennai and of them, four had tested positive. The total number of positive cases is now 75. There are now nine patients hailing from Tiruchi, five from Perambalur, and one from Theni undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. One patient is undergoing treatment at the Divisional Railway Hospital in Ponmalai. In Thanjavur, two men aged 38 and 53 years and a woman aged 36 years tested positive for COVID-19. They are undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. In Tiruvarur, two patients, a 29-year-old woman and a 39-year-old man tested positive. Both are undergoing treatment at the Government Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital. The sole patient who tested positive in Pudukottai is an eight-year-old girl whose parents tested positive last week. She has been admitted to the Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Headquarters Hospital in Pudukottai town. One patient tested positive for COVID-19 in Ariyalur district. The patient had travelled from Ariyalur to Chennai on May 20. In Chennai, the patient had been residing in Mogappair, where he might have contracted the infection. Including this patient, a total of 356 patients have tested positive for COVID-19 in Ariyalur. Meanwhile, 11 patients, hailing from Karur district who had tested positive after returning to their home towns from Maharashtra had recovered and were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-test-positive-11-discharged-in-central-region/article31667515.ece
25 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||BDU extends online initiative to cover 7,000 research scholars||Bharathidasan University has brought research programmes in the ambit of online technology by deciding to hold all meetings related to Ph.D. in the virtual platform, in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Having set a precedent by launching online initiative early on to utilise digital space effectively for continuity of academic programmes through virtual classes by disseminating best practices of eLearning by the university departemnts, Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar has extended the initiative to research programmes to benefit more than 7,000 scholars. Faculties of Science, Engineering and Technology, Languages, Arts, Management and faculties of other disciplines should get their act together to offer a solution to the research scholars who were in a fix due to the requirement to go through many meetings on a periodic basis during the course of their doctorate programme, Registrar Gopinath Ganapathy said in a press release. About 300 scholars have been awaiting public vice voce examinations since March. Many scholars are yet to complete the Doctoral Committee (DC) meetings which were partial requirements of research programme. These scholars, Research Advisors, Doctoral Committee members and other stake holders are now a relieved lot. The Research Section of BDU will henceforth permit the Research Advisors to convene all the meetings related to PhD - Right from Registration to Results declaration online. Initially, the corresponding Departments convene the Department Research Committee (DRC) for offering admission to all scholars. Then they need to undergo Doctoral Committee (DC) meetings convened by the respective Research Advisors (RA). Prior to submission of thesis the scholars need to submit the synopsis in a forum with a minimum of 30 attendees. Finally, the scholars would defend their theses and research work in a Viva-Voce examination publicly with a minimum of 30 attendees, Prof. Gopinath Ganapathy said. All these meetings are now switched to online platform with immediate effect. Research Supervisors are instructed to use any online virtual meeting tools such as Zoom or Google Meet or Microsoft teams or Cisco Webex any tools of their choice, the Registrar said. As a proof, the Supervisors and the Scholars must record the whole meeting and submit the same in a memory drive for further verification. Usually, the signatures of all attendees would be considered as a proof for the veracity of the meeting. Instead of signatures, the video recording would be considered as a proof with the list of participants as it is one of the features of the online tool itself. However, all other documents have to be submitted to Research Section only in the form of hard copies, the Registrar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bdu-extends-online-initiative-to-cover-7000-research-scholars/article31667519.ece
25 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Migration of workers hits Uyyakondan Riverfront Development Project||The migration of workers to their native States is likely to delay the Uyyakondan Riverfront Development Project. It is one of the important projects being implemented under the Smart City Mission. Initiated in 2019, it is being taken up at an estimate of Rs. 17.56 crore. The project involves creation of three public parks within a two-kilo metre stretch from M.G.R. Statue to Kuzhumayi Amman Temple. The project has been divided into four parts for simultaneous activity. An open air amphitheatre, walkway, fountains, leisure benches, play equipment for children, retaining wall along the Uyyakondan canal, pavement blocks, fencing along the canal to protect it from littering, lighting, landscaping, construction of e-toilet are among the components of the project. The Tiruchi City Corporation had planned to complete the project within 2020. The private firm, which was awarded the project, hired about 30 workers, mostly from Bihar for the construction activities. They were given onsite accommodation. When the work was about to gain momentum, the spread of COVID-19 put a brake on it. The work was suspended since May 26 following the imposition of nationwide lockdown. According to sources, out of 30 workers, 25 workers left for Bihar a week ago. “Most of workers were desperate to see their parents and returned to their natives. I do not have a clear idea of their return,” said A. Rizwan Ali, a migrant worker from Bihar. It would depend upon the resumption of train services from North Indian States to Tamil Nadu. If trains were operated as usual, some of them might return back early. Though the work has resumed about a week ago, it is progressing very slowly. A few local labourers have been roped in to expedite the work. However, sources said that the work might not be completed within the stipulated time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migration-of-workers-hits-uyyakondan-riverfront-development-project/article31667514.ece
25 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.39 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 2,186 cusecs and the discharge was 496 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article31667518.ece
25 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris’ native rose species faces ecological threats||For generations, indigenous communities like the Todas have used the blooming cycle of the Rosa leschenaultii , the only rose shrub species native to the Nilgiris, as a sign that the onset of the monsoon was imminent. Over the last few weeks, the native rose has been seen blooming in parts of the Nilgiris, including parts of the Ketti Valley. Explaining the important role the Rosa leschenaultii performs in a typical Shola forest, Godwin Vasanth Bosco, a restoration ecologist from the Nilgiris said that the rose usually grows along the periphery of a native Shola forest. “The plants date back to millions of years. They grow along the margins of a forest and help to maintain the micro-climate inside the forest,” said Mr. Bosco. He added that the plants were becoming increasingly harder to spot due to the degradation of the habitats in which they are found. Conservationists said that while these unassuming plants play a crucial role in the local ecology, they do not get the same amount of protection that other types of native flora, such as a Shola tree species would receive. They said that native Shola forests in the Nilgiris comprise hundreds of different varieties of plants, trees, creepers and shrubs that work together symbiotically. They added that while the need to protect and conserve Shola tree species was often given precedence, there were hundreds of other species too that comprise native ecology and were coming under increasing threat from multiple factors including the increased rate of spread of invasive flora into the Nilgiris’ upper plateau. Titus John, a Coonoor-based photographer who documented the flowering of the plants in the Ketti Valley, recently said that the few individuals he spotted in the region were growing extremely close to tea estates and human habitations, while most individuals were surrounded by exotic or invasive plant species. “I had heard about this particular kind of rose endemic to the Nilgiris and had wanted to document it. It was quite a surprise to me that this rose, which I heard grew around Shola patches, was quite close to tea estates,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nilgiris-native-rose-species-faces-ecological-threats/article31667315.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ornamental garden set up at landfill site in Coonoor||In a little less than a year, the municipal dumpyard in Ottupattari, an eyesore which once blighted the landscape surrounding Coonoor town, has been completely transformed with a one-acre ornamental garden a testament to the changing fortunes of the site. No longer known as the municipal dumpyard, but as a waste management facility which processes all of the waste generated in Coonoor town, the facility has come to serve as a model as to how an open landfill site can be completely transformed with a proper waste management system in place. Since last year, the Coonoor municipality, alongside the non-governmental organisation, ‘Clean Coonoor’ which helps in the day-to-day running of the facility, around three acres of the facility has been landscaped, with lawns and an ornamental garden. P.J. Vasanthan, trustee of Clean Coonoor, said that the spot where the garden and the lawns now stand were once open landfill, with thousands of tonnes of waste, mostly non-biodegradable, festering for many years, not only creating an eyesore, but also serving as a foraging ground for feral dogs and wildlife, which used to visit the site regularly to feed off the scraps in the dumpyard. “This year, it was difficult to get the plants to grow properly as we had planted them on exposed land with quite intense sunlight. In the coming years, fast-growing trees will take over parts of the garden, ensuring more shade for the flowering plants to grow in,” added Mr. Vasanthan. Clean Coonoor plans to switch over to using only organic methods to grow the plants and trees in the facility in the coming years, and also begin introducing native species of flora once the quality of the soil recovers and improves. Aim Samantha Iyanna, managing trustee of Clean Coonoor, said that the garden would serve to de-stigmatise the waste management facility and how residents think of garbage. “It is our ultimate goal through the garden to change the way people think about waste management and about how people can play a positive role in ensuring that our waste does not make it into ecologically sensitive areas such as forests,” said Ms. Iyanna. The efforts already seem to be paying off, with residents living around the facility now using the lawns and the gardens as a place to congregate and go for walks during the evenings, municipal officials said, adding that the garden was serving as a positive influence for local communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ornamental-garden-set-up-at-landfill-site-in-coonoor/article31667289.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Construction of two flyovers resumes in Salem city||The construction of two important flyovers proposed within the city resumed recently after the lockdown-related restrictions were relaxed. The Projects Wing of the Highways Department resumed construction of flyovers proposed at Mulluvadi level-crossing and near Leigh Bazaar recently to complete the works at the earliest. Both the projects have been long-standing demands of Salem residents to ease the traffic congestion within city limits. Officials said that only minimum labourers, less than 30, have been employed at a work site to continue the works and necessary precautionary measures were taken. All the workers were made to undergo COVID-19 tests at the Salem government hospital before resuming the works and they were allowed into work sites only after confirming that they tested negative. Officials said that all workers are provided with masks, sanitisers and other safety measures advised by the health officials. The Mulluvadi railway level-crossing is one of the major points for traffic congestion in Salem as the gates here are closed multiple times a day. Following continuous demand, a flyover was proposed in the area and works began in 2016. The railway portion of the bridge has been completed. However, due to legal issues and delay in transferring cables of utility services, the construction works got delayed and it was resumed in 2019. Officials said that major structural works are expected to be completed by end of this month. At Leigh Bazaar, officials said that works for the approach road to the flyover and other minor works are being carried out and is expected to be completed by month-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-two-flyovers-resumes-in-salem-city/article31667299.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corpn. begins anti-dengue operations||Ahead of south-west monsoon which is expected in June, the Corporation has begun anti-dengue operations by carrying out fogging and also to prevent larvae breeding at households and commercial establishments recently. A team led by Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, Assistant Commissioner Vijaya, Sanitary Inspector Ismail and others inspected houses in Sangu Nagar in Zone 3 in the city to check for larvae breeding in water storage containers and also educate the people on the need for removing obsolete items from their houses. They asked people to keep the containers closed and also ensure that unwanted items are not stored in the houses where rainwater can stagnate. Officials said that to prevent outbreak of dengue and water-borne diseases, residents should remove obsolete items from their houses, keep the overhead tanks clean and properly closed and handover the waste materials to the conservancy workers. They said that people with fever should immediately approach the nearest government hospital for diagnosis and treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-corpn-begins-anti-dengue-operations/article31667292.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lake development project to be delayed||A few days ago, the Coimbatore Corporation had informed the Smart Cities Mission director Kunal Kumar that it hoped to complete the Quick Win component of the lake development project by June this year. The Corporation gave the update because it had hoped to complete the component by March 31. The earlier deadline was at least a year ago. The component involved developing an one-km stretch of the northern bund of the Ukkadam Big Tank and two parts of the Valangulam – the link connecting Trichy Road to Sungam Bypass Road and the area beneath the flyover. The Corporation had floated tender for the Quick Win component, worth Rs. 89 crore, in April 2018. Strengthening bund The work involved strengthening the bund, landscaping the area, installing pews, play equipment for children, constructing walking/bicycling path, providing floating walkways leading to view points among others. The Corporation had carved this portion from the over-all lake development project under the Smart Cities Mission, termed it Quick Win and floated tender first because it had said that it wanted to showcase to the city’s residents how its vision had translated into action and when it completed how the lakes could to recreation spots in the city. Eight lakes Besides the Quick Win, the Corporation had divided the over-all lake development project into three phases, covering all the eight lakes in the city, and pegged the cost at over Rs. 700 crore. As the Corporation continued to make slow progress even in the Quick Win component, the State Government-imposed COVID-19 lockdown brought work to a complete halt. After the Government eased some of the restrictions including construction, the Corporation resumed work, albeit at a slow pace. As it hoped to gather steam to expedite the implementation to stick to the June 2020 deadline, the return of migrant labourers to their home states had thrown spanner in its plans, said the Corporation sources. The civic body was hopeful that it could resume work with full speed but that was not to be as the workers had left, one after another after they learnt about special trains. As things stand, the Corporation could not but extend its deadline and the civic body could possibly look at September or October as the revised deadline to complete the Quick Win component, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lake-development-project-to-be-delayed/article31667291.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Free electricity scheme for farmers to continue: Minister||Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani has said that free electricity scheme for farmers would continue and would not be stopped at any cost. Mr. Thangamani, talking to presspersons after inaugurating the office of Executive Engineer of Tangedco in Pallipalayam division here said, “false reports are making rounds that meters were fixed for new power connections provided for farmers in Cuddalore. The Chief Minister has also asked for clarification on this. Meters are fixed for tatkal connections alone to know the utilisation.” He said the Chief Minister has now directed not to place meters for tatkal connections as well. Also, farmers who need additional horse power can avail it by paying Rs. 20,000 per hp based on availability of load on transformers present near the farmlands, he added. Mr. Thangamani said that the State government has also raised its concerns about Electricity (Amendment) Bill and the Chief Minister has also written to Prime Minister in this regard. On Namakkal MP A.K.P. Chinraj’s allegations that there has been irregularities in COVID-19 measures in Namakkal, Mr.Thangamani brushed away these allegations and said, “public representatives and government officials have been meeting public and attending to their concerns for the past two months as part of COVID-19 preventive efforts and Namakkal MP was not seen in any of the preventive efforts here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-electricity-scheme-for-farmers-to-continue-minister/article31667297.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||District administration gears up for monsoon||The district administration is gearing up to face the South-West monsoon by engaging field workers to carry out fogging in all the households and also to conduct special medical camps in all the blocks in the district. The district is expected to receive normal rainfall between June and August during which fever outbreak, including dengue, is a major concern for the people. Hence, the district administration has stepped up preventive measures through the local bodies and health department by taking various steps. Collector C. Kathiravan said that 30 sanitary inspectors had received the list of in-patients and out-patients from all the government and private hospitals and primary health centres in the district and a consolidated list had been prepared. The details of patients in each of the 14 blocks, corporation and municipalities would be sent to the concerned offices after which teams comprising village block medical officer and block development officer would conduct medical camps in the villages. He said that 420 field workers in town panchayats and 141 field workers in Sathyamangalam and Gobichettipalayam municipalities were already involved in carrying out fogging in the households. Also, to prevent dengue breeding mosquitoes, abet solution is poured into water storage containers. “If fever is detected in a particular area, ‘nilavembu kashayam’ is given to the people”, he said and added that workers will also involve in removing obsolete items from the households. Mr. Kathiravan requested the public to extend their cooperation by disposing of unwanted and obsolete items in their houses and also cooperate with the workers. “If a person is suffering from fever, he should immediately visit the nearest primary health centre or the government hospital”, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administration-gears-up-for-monsoon/article31667294.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases in Chennai cross 10,500||Four patients admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died of the infection and two patients in Stanley lost their lives. Two patients admitted to private hospitals died due to the infection on Sunday. According to the bulletin, 76 passengers who had returned from other countries have tested positive till date. This includes 36 who tested positive on return and 40 persons who tested negative on arrival, but turned positive during exit screening. Four districts, including Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Namakkal and Tiruppur have no active cases. Of the 40 international returnees, 19 are from West Asia; eight returnees from England; seven from the Philippines and six are from the U.S. Among those who returned by train from various States, 19 tested positive while 3, 944 tested negative. The results of 1,174 samples are awaited. A total of 5,137 samples were lifted, health officials said. Testing of 648 samples was under way. Of the 4,09,615 samples that were lifted, 18,363 samples are repeat samples.    (*Two deaths were cross notified to other states. One patient died after turning negative for infection)    76 passengers who had returned from other countries have tested positive till date||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-in-chennai-cross-10500/article31667271.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fire breaks out at pressure cooker manufacturing unit||A major fire broke out at a pressure cooker manufacturing unit near Three Roads here on Sunday. According to the police, the fire was reported at Raj Ratan Enterprises, a pressure cooker manufacturing unit operating near Three Roads. Workers from nearby businesses noticed fire from the building and informed the police and the fire services. Police and fire-fighters rushed to the spot and launched efforts to douse the fire. N. Vijayakumar, District Fire Officer said, “a team of 35 fire-fighters and four fire engines were utilised in the operation for dousing the fire. One of the walls of the building had to be broken to create ventilation.” The fire could have occurred due to short circuit. The operators had stacked several sheets of cardboard for packaging and that could have fuelled the fire, he added. According to officials, it took over two hours to douse the fire. Case registered Palapatti police have registered a case and are investigating. According to police, the loss incurred is yet to be assessed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-breaks-out-at-pressure-cooker-manufacturing-unit/article31667296.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Burglars strike at house near Udumalpet, decamp with Rs. 16 lakh||Three persons broke into a house near Udumalpet and decamped with Rs. 16 lakh and a sport utility vehicle (SUV) in the early hours of Sunday. The police said that the theft took place at the house of V. Palanisamy (75), a resident of Dhali Road near Elaiyamuthur Pirivu near Udumalpet, around 2.30 a.m. on Sunday. According to the police, Mr. Palanisamy has been running a fertilizer store Senthilmurugan Agro Service at Udumalpet. The burglars struck at the house when Mr. Palanisamy and his wife were sleeping in two separate bedrooms on the ground floor while his son, daughter-in-law and three grandchildren were asleep in bedrooms on first floor. Three unknown persons wearing mask broke open the main door and entered Mr. Palanisamy's bedroom. They cut the wrist of his right hand with a sickle and tied him up. They forcibly took the key of a shelf from Mr. Palanisamy and stole the cash. The accused also took digital video recorder of the surveillance camera system at the house before leaving the place in his SUV. The police have formed special teams to trace the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglars-strike-at-house-near-udumalpet-decamp-with-rs-16-lakh/article31667300.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special teams begin probe into attack on couples||Special teams of the city police were continuing hunt for a four-member-gang, who barged into a lodge near Saravanampatty and took away valuables of two couples after assaulting them on Saturday. Investigations by the police found that the two couples came to the lodge late on Friday. They had booked the rooms through an online booking platform. The couples went out from the lodge on Saturday afternoon and returned around 6 p.m. At the same time, four men who wore masks came to the lodge and damaged surveillance cameras. They went to the rooms of the couple and took their valuables after assaulting them. They also injured two men who stayed in an adjacent room, who came out on hearing the noise, with knives. The four men left the lodge after assaulting four of its staff, said the police. The police suspect that those who came to the lodge or its staff could be linked to the four-member gang. The police said that surveillance camera visuals were not available as the gang took away digital camera recorder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-teams-begin-probe-into-attack-on-couples/article31667301.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seasonal variety||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seasonal-variety/article31667484.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shopping hub construction begins||With construction activities permitted during the lockdown, Erode Corporation has began works to construct a shopping hub, near Kalaimadu Silai, at a cost of Rs. 14.94 crore. To generate income for the Corporation, it had proposed to construct a shopping hub at the Old Commissioners Office premises under the Smart City Mission at a total build-up area of 7,1999 sq.m. Work order was issued to the successful bidder and foundation stone was laid on March 10 and the work was scheduled to be completed in 18 months. However, even before the work to demolish buildings on the premises could begin, lockdown was announced and no activities were done. Recently, the State Government had permitted resumption of construction activities and the contractor began the demolition work on the land measuring 2,821 sq.m. The shopping hub would have a ground floor and three floors with adequate space for two-wheeler and four-wheeler parking. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that works that were delayed by over two months had resumed last week. Currently, debris was being removed. He said that the civic body would be implementing the Underground Sewerage Scheme at Thindal and Villarasampatti areas at a cost of Rs. 36.98 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shopping-hub-construction-begins/article31667295.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sweeping machine flagged off in Erode||A sweeping machine costing Rs. 62 lakh that will clean the arterial roads and streets in residential areas in the Corporation limits was inducted into service here on Thursday. Minister for School Education, Youth Welfare and Sports Development K.A. Sengottaiyan flagged off the vehicle in the presence of Collector C. Kathiravan, MLAs, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan and other officials at the Collectorate. Corporation engineers said the machine is mounted on a truck and would go around the roads in the corporation limits removing mud, dust and other waste accumulated on roadsides and on the road. “In one hour, the vehicle could sweep 4 to 6 km”, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sweeping-machine-flagged-off-in-erode/article31667293.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||As on May 24   Coimbatore district  No. of persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No fresh case on Sunday) No. of persons recovered: 145 No. of persons died: 1 No. of active cases: 0  Tiruppur district  House quarantined: 1,656 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on May 24) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article31667309.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Residents of Palaiyam, a tiny hamlet in a remote location on Pachamalai hills, struggle due to the poor condition of a 2 km stretch of road. The width of the road maintained by Vannadu Panchayat in Thuraiyur Union has shrunk due to overgrowth of plants on both sides. Re-laying of the road would be of immense help for residents who depend on two-wheeler riders for transport. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti    Opaqueness in the government directive on resumption of auto services has caused problems for the public as the fare for transporting one person has been doubled to Rs. 80 for a single passenger. The ‘one passenger norm’ did not imply doubling of charges. The danger for the public now is that the auto drivers, with political backing, will retain the hike even after two persons are permitted. Whereas in Kerala, the auto operators strictly stick to meter charges. There is a need for the district authorities to rein in the auto operators. T. M. Ranganathan Srirangam    Now that saloons have opened in the city, care must be taken to ensure that the hairdressers follow safety precautions scrupulously. Face masks must be worn by both customers and hairdressers unfailingly and social distancing norms must be followed. The materials used must also be sanitised thoroughly. M. Raja Tiruchi    The employees of Tamil Nadu Electricity Board deserve special appreciation for ensuring power supply without break during the lockdown period. If not for continuous power supply, the people would not have been kept pre-occupied with productive work. Vasudevan Thillainagar    Of late, the press release on power shutdown issued by TANGEDCO is getting published on the day of maintenance of the sub-stations, much to the discomfort of the residents. The announcement ought to be made a day or two in advance so that people will be prepared. C.S. Ananthakrishnan Srirangam    Encroachment of space between two rows of shops in the fish market at Thennur has caused difficulty in adherence to social distancing norms. The floor space must be strictly kept free for customers to move about. Else, the fish market has to be shifted to the new spacious building constructed for the purpose along the Kulumani Road. Kanagaraj Arthur Ramalinganagar South Extension    Discarded masks pose danger as it could facilitate spread of COVID-19 virus with a higher infection rate. It is disheartening to see used masks strewn at markets, thoroughfares and other places. The realisation that masks are meant to prevent the spread of the virus seems to be elusive. The onus is on the general public to pay heed to advisories on safe disposal issued by the authorities M. Sainithii Cantonment    It is perplexing that there a lull in disinfection of public places and this is noticeable after relaxation of the lockdown. Ideally, the disinfection work has to be accelerated to prevent spread of the virus. The good work initiated with enthusiasm has to be sustained. S. Raghavan Cantonment    Concrete slabs placed over the storm water drain at Bharathidasan Salai Road close to the office of City Corporation are in conditions of high damage. The slabs placed in a row serve as pedestrian path as well as the road always buzzes with vehicular traffic. Damages to the storm water drainages are noticeable in other places, including Salai Road. The conditions of the storm water drainages warrant renovation. Thirumeni.J Cantonment    The COVID-19 lockdown has brought to the fore the problems being faced by migrant workers and their sufferings caused by insufficient wages and denial of social security benefits. The workers and their families are not entitled to subsidised rations and healthcare provided under government schemes. Keeping in view of the immense contribution of migrant workers to the building of the nation, the labour laws have to be amended appropriately. Unless the plight of the migrant workers is addressed in right earnest, the Prime Minister's vision to bring India back on track will remain only a pipedream. R. Pichumani Thippirajapuram    Conduct of SSLC public exams seems to pose a huge challenge to the government. The authorities should ensure social distancing, and take steps for effective disinfection of the exam halls in view of congregation of a large number of students. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article31667507.ece
25 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Police trace woman who fled quarantine centre||Belagavi district police have traced a woman who allegedly fled an institutional quarantine centre, and also her husband. A team of police officers traced the couple hiding in a sugarcane field in Bellad Bagewadi village. They have been sent to an institutional quarantine centre now. Police began a frantic hunt for the woman who is said to have escaped from a quarantine centre in Gokak on Saturday night. The 30-year-old woman had returned from Mumbai to her native place of Panjyanatti. Her husband, who had been released on parole in a criminal case, had come to see her on Saturday evening and stayed outside the gate of the Devraj Urs hostel, in which the quarantine centre was located. Officers suspected that he had taken her away. A case has been registered. She had returned to Panjyanatti on May 15 and had been kept in quarantine after villagers opposed her entry to the village, officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-trace-woman-who-fled-quarantine-centre/article31667389.ece
25 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Probe ordered into death of youth||Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbargi has ordered an inquiry into the death of a youth who collapsed after being beaten up by the police in Kaulgudd village near Kagwad on Saturday. Jagadish Tegginavar (26) died in the hospital in Athani. He was brought to the hospital when he collapsed near his house, a few hours after he was beaten up by the police, allegedly for not closing down his shop during lockdown. The young man had married earlier this month. The local police had provided him security following some opposition from his family over his love marriage. A post-mortem report is awaited, a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-ordered-into-death-of-youth/article31667386.ece
25 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Lockdown total in Belagavi||Police officers enforced a complete lockdown across Belagavi district on Sunday, as per the State government COVID-19 management rules. There were no buses or autorickshaws. Very few private vehicles were seen on the roads. All government and private offices, except police stations, remained closed. A few personnel were seen working in the Deputy Commissioner’s office and the Police Commissioner’s office. All shops and establishments were closed. Only pharmacies, some milk booths and grocery stores were open. The police directed vehicles away from the main roads and asked commuters to take alternative routes. There was heavy police presence at important junctions and near the Rani Channamma Circle. Similar lockdowns were enforced in all the taluks of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-total-in-belagavi/article31667387.ece
25 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Policeman on motorcycle hits tahsildar’s car||A police constable on a motorcycle hit a car of the local Tahsildar at Manjari village near Chikkodi on Sunday. The constable, Shivanand Patil, who was injured, is being treated at a government hospital in Chikkodi. He was returning home when he hit the car. Tahsildar Pramila Deshpande and her husband, who was driving, suffered minor injuries. “It is likely that he was under the influence of alcohol when the accident happened. But we will wait for a medical report,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/policeman-on-motorcycle-hits-tahsildars-car/article31667388.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Workers grapple with wage reduction and retrenchment||With factories restarting work in the past fortnight, differences over payment of wages, increments and other benefits have started cropping up across the State, and industry-related strikes have been reported. While in some cases, where unions are present, wages have been settled as part of earlier agreements despite industries attempting to reduce them, in factories where unions are not present, workers have been left to fend for themselves with very little institutional support available. So far, it is learnt that the Labour Department has received about 900 complaints pertaining to wages and retrenchment, and the same has been brought before the joint task force of industries and union representatives set up to look into these issues. At present, the focus of officials in the Labour Department is on coordinating transport for migrant workers returning home. To initiate any action, the department has to notify the March 29 notification of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs not to reduce wages or indulge in retrenchment during the lockdown period, union sources said. However, the Labour Department’s efforts to set up a helpline on non-payment of wages and retrenchment was stymied under industry pressure. An earlier order on compulsory payment of wages was also withdrawn. Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry president C.R. Janardhan said the wages of those in the MSME sector earning less than Rs. 15,000 a month have been paid, and others were taking wage cuts in slabs. Trade union sources acknowledged that MSMEs were in a precarious financial situation that might require government support, but were perplexed with some medium- and large-scale industries with deeper pockets resorting to wage cuts.  Pay cuts A nearly five-decade-old precision engineering technology company in Bengaluru that supplies parts to leading aircraft makers in the world has proposed a 15-25% pay cut, citing a lack of demand. It has also proposed cuts in attendance bonus and incentives, among other things. A pharmaceutical company that operated during the lockdown has paid just about 33% of wages to workers in the lockdown period. “The problem is that where collective bargaining exists, industries are trying to bargain even on the agreed wage settlement. In industries where there is no collective bargaining, workers are in distress. Incidentally, in Karnataka just about 30% of the factories are unionised,” said M. Sathyanand, secretary, All-India Trade Union Congress, Bengaluru. Furthermore, he said that to tide over the wage crisis in the MSME sector, the Union government should include wage subsidy as part of its package of Rs. 20 lakh crore. Meanwhile, attempts to reach Labour Commissioner Shantharam over the mechanism for workers to seek redressal failed, while Labour Minister A. Shivaram Hebbar said the government would come up with plans to protect labourers this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workers-grapple-with-wage-reduction-and-retrenchment/article31667218.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Being the first contact, resident doctors face high risk||When an 82-year-old patient was wheeled into the Chigateri District Hospital in Davangere in a critical condition on a hot afternoon earlier this month, his first point of contact was a postgraduate resident doctor on duty at the ICU. The 27-year-old final year anesthesiology student, who was on duty that day, intubated the patient who had gone into respiratory distress and started treating him. The patient was a suspected COVID-19 case and was admitted in the suspect zone of the ICU. Though the patient later tested negative, there is no denying the risk factor in such cases. Close contact Resident doctors such as the anesthesiology student are often the first point of contact in many such cases. “We are under risk while intubating as the patient can fight against the insertion by gagging or other reflexes. Initially, we were doing it only wearing masks but now we have been provided face shields,” the doctor told The Hindu . “I was posted in the ICU that has both suspected and positive zones. I am now under quarantine after a week’s duty,” said the doctor. A resident doctor from Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute who finished his COVID-19 ward duty at the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre has a wound on his nose at the point where the N95 mask sticks. “As resident doctors we are used to working in long shifts spanning 36 to 48 hours normally. But, it is suffocating to wear the personal protection equipment (PPE) continuously for six hours. This gets stretched to seven hours if we include the time spent on donning and doffing and bathing after duty. By the time we finish our shift, we are drenched in sweat. As we cannot drink water or use the washroom during our shift, most of us are experiencing dehydration, hypoxia due to decreased supply of oxygen, headache, dizziness, and fatigue due to carbon dioxide retention as well as skin rashes,” said the doctor. Resident doctors are the backbone of most medical institutions, more so during the pandemic. The Health Department has received several complaints that specialists and other senior faculties are not attending to COVID-19 patients and pass on instructions to resident doctors. Following this, the department recently issued a circular asking the medical superintendents and district surgeons to prepare a roster and ensure that specialists attend to COVID-19 patients in wards. These frontline workers are also worried over the Health Department’s recent guidelines that has done away with the 14-day institutional quarantine for healthcare workers who have worn complete PPE without any breach while treating COVID-19 patients. Quarantine worries “We are working in COVID-19 wards risking our lives. A nurse in Victoria Hospital recently tested positive despite wearing complete protection. With most infected patients being asymptomatic, there are chances we may remain asymptomatic despite being exposed to the virus. Now we are sent to quarantine only if we show symptoms. Since we now go home directly after COVID-19 duty, there is a possibility of spreading the infection to others,” said another doctor. Healthcare workers, who now feel this rule may discourage doctors from taking up COVID-19 ward duties, had appealed to the department to withdraw the circular. However, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education), said that the circular was based on the World Health Organization and government of India guidelines. He argued that a similar system was being followed in other States as well, and would be essential if the case load increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/being-the-first-contact-resident-doctors-face-high-risk/article31667192.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Real estate agents offer virtual tours to prospective buyers||The COVID-19 pandemic has not just caused a significant change in project deadlines and designing, but also in the way real estate sales are conducted. With the lockdown and stringent social distancing norms in place despite relaxations in rules, real estate agents — the link between builders and buyers — have had to take the aid of technology to do their jobs. Ummesh, secretary, Bengaluru South Realtors Association and south head of Bangalore Realtors Association India, said virtual tours have been helping agents, buyers, and builders. Buyers are expected to make a token advance once the deal is finalised on the assurance of a full refund in case they are not satisfied after a physical visit. “Though the response during the period has been low, builders have been offering good bargains and there have been some transactions [conversion to sales]. It all depends on pricing and liking and need of the respective buyer,” he said. How it works is that a real estate agent gets in touch with the sales team of property. A virtual meeting is established first and then virtual video tour is organised. “Now there is no option. Builders are scared of becoming NPAs and want to make sales. In the future, virtual tours may become optional. It is too huge an investment for most people to rely only on virtual tours,” Mr. Ummesh added. Rahul Phondge, CBO – Residential Services at a property consultants company, said even as lockdown is gradually being lifted to aid economic recovery, both property sellers and buyers will remain wary of doing things the old way.“Real estate broking firms across the globe now rely heavily on technology to continue doing business to the backdrop of a major pandemic with no clear end in sight. Real estate is fundamentally a people business based on relationship building, but as the proliferation of social media channels proves, there is more than one way for interactions to take place,” he said. A customer’s ability to view properties from the comfort and safetyof his/her home has been a major breakthrough. For this, some real estate brokers have begun using drones to provide unique perspectives of both residential and commercial properties, he added. But not everyone agrees on the practicality of virtual tours. Anthony Raj, owner of a real estate and property management in the city, said many housing societies and apartment complexes were not letting outsiders in. “We use pre-recorded photos and videos,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/real-estate-agents-offer-virtual-tours-to-prospective-buyers/article31667178.ece
25 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Reverse migration puts Centre’s ARYA scheme in the limelight||The massive reverse migration of people from urban areas to villages ever since lockdown was imposed due to COVID-19 has put focus on the Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) scheme of the Centre with several experts suggesting that time is now ideal to go for full-fledged implementation of the ambitious scheme. ARYA scheme is presently being implemented in 100 districts in the country on an experimental basis. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) took up this initiative several years ago following report by a committee of experts that looked into ways and means of wooing rural youth to agriculture and allied sectors by ensuring a dignified life for them in villages. Such a scheme had been taken up particularly in the wake of a majority of rural youth shunning agriculture and migrating to cities in search of menial jobs. The main intention of the scheme was to turn agriculture and allied sectors into attractive and profit-making proposition for the rural youth. Of course, the benefits of the scheme are not confined to rural youth alone as the country’s food and nutritional security would be taken care of if vibrancy of farming sector is ensured by attracting youth and pressure on urban areas is reduced by checking migration. Karnataka had played a crucial part in drafting this report as agricultural extension expert and the then Vice-Chancellor of University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru (UAS-B) K. Narayana Gowda headed the committee that prepared the report. Agricultural scientist S. Ayyappan, who was instrumental in constituting the committee to prepare the ARYA report as the then Director-General of ICAR, says time is now ideal for full-fledged implementation of the scheme. Pointing out that those who have migrated to villages may be left with no other choice, but to return to urban areas in search of jobs if they do not find gainful employment in villages in the next one or two months, he says immediate attention should be given to provide them the options of remunerative incomes in villages through the implementation of ARYA report. He seeks to make it clear that rural sector has immense potential for creating employment opportunities if proper infrastructure is created and training is provided to impart skills. “Rural employment is not just about mainstream farm activity. For example, farm sector needs plenty of mechanics who can repair pumpsets and various agricultural machineries. If agriculture gains vibrancy, then there will be demand for such jobs in rural areas,” he points out. Also, the agricultural season is just about to begin now and hence it is the right time to engage those who have returned to villages in farm operations so that they would get income, he feels. Echoing similar views, Dr. Gowda, the architect of the ARYA report, says that the ARYA scheme provides for imparting skill training to identified youth in various farm operations besides the facility to handhold them through various organisations in the beginning of their operations. The basic idea is to turn rural youth into agri entrepreneurs. “The committee which was formed in 2011, submitted its report in 2013 and the initial implementation of the scheme was taken up in 2015-16 in 25 districts. Presently, it is being implemented in 100 districts with a target of training 10,000 rural youth over three years in various aspects,” he says. The scheme is being implemented through Krishi Vigyan Kendras, which will in turn involve several scientific institutions as technology partners. The main intention is to instil confidence in youth that agriculture is still not only a profitable venture, but a respectable profession, he says. In this regard, his report had recommended measures to make farming an intellectually stimulating and economically rewarding activity. It had also recommended building social reputation of innovative farm youth through awards. As part of such an initiative, Dr. Gowda had even commenced a system of honouring innovative farm youth from every taluk during the annual Krishi Mela of the UAS-B. These awards have helped in not only providing social recognition to young and innovative farmers, but are also inspiring other educated youth to take to farming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reverse-migration-puts-centres-arya-scheme-in-the-limelight/article31667227.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rain brings temperature down, floods houses; trees fall in many areas||Heavy rain, accompanied by strong winds, that lashed the city on Sunday afternoon resulted in inundation and tree- fall in many neighbourhoods across the city. Residents of 10th Main, 6th Sector of HSR Layout and Banaswadi, among other areas, saw their homes flooded. “This happens every time it rains. Our houses are flooded with rainwater mixed with sewage. This is because sewage lines and drains are blocked. Repeated complaints to both Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) have not yielded any result,” said Shivanand Bhat, a resident of HSR Layout. Sewage entered many homes and flooded the roads in Garuthman Park, Basavanagudi. “We have to sanitise our homes. We fear that this is going to result in spread of water-borne diseases,” a resident said. The city, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), received widespread rainfall ranging from 5 mm to 40 mm. This also brought down the high daytime temperature by at least four to five degrees Celsius. According to KSNDMC director G.S. Srinivas Reddy, the rain was accompanied by winds of 30-40 km/hour. Jayanagar, Banashankari, and surrounding areas received the maximum rainfall on Sunday afternoon, he said. The BBMP control rooms received many complaints about tree-fall from Graphite India Road, Bescom Road at Chokkasandra,HAL Airport Road, Agrahara Dasarahalli, Mathikere, and other places. A tree branch fell on a BBMP office at Azadnagar and another on a house on 3rd Main Road, Srikanteshwaranagar, Marappanapalya ward. The control room of the Department of Fire and Emergency Services received complaints of inundation from Dalmia Circle, J.P. Nagar 4th Phase, and Seshadripuram. Pre-monsoon showers C.S. Patil from the Meteorological Department told The Hindu that the heavy rain, coupled with high-speed winds, was characteristic of pre-monsoon showers. The high temperature over the past few days and humidity had resulted in cumulonimbus clouds developing vertically, causing down draft. This has resulted in high wind speed. That apart, the trough over Telangana, Rayalaseema, and Tamil Nadu also had a part in the heavy rain. Dr. Reddy said more rain could be expected after May 27 if the cyclonic circulation on the Arabian Sea strengthened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-brings-temperature-down-floods-houses-trees-fall-in-many-areas/article31667181.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Food deliveries to continue, but hoteliers seek clarity from CM||Hoteliers and restaurateurs, who have been making a case for opening to diners, plan to meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa this week to seek clarity on the road ahead. Many proprietors and hoteliers say they cannot afford to wait till the end of the month. When lockdown restrictions were eased, hotel owners’ associations had threatened to shut down delivery services after they were excluded from the list of businesses and services that could operate. They agreed to continue providing takeaway and delivery after the Chief Minister intervened and sought more time. P.C. Rao, president, Bangalore Hotel Association, said that they could not meet the Chief Minister on Friday and their next course of actions will depend on what is discussed in the next meeting. “The government has assured that the matter will be sorted out by Tuesday or Wednesday. They have apparently written to the Union government and are awaiting a response. Hence, we will wait and watch,” Mr. Rao said, adding that they were confident that the government would take the right step. Chandrashekar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Pradesh Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (KPHRA), said that maintaining social distancing and taking other precautionary measures in hotels and restaurants was much easier than maintaining the same in public transport facilities. “Both are essential services. We may be forced to stop parcel services, as there is no profit in it,” he said. Hotel associations are facilitating hotels and restaurants to take up a certified online training programme on preventive measures to be followed at hotels and restaurants as per Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) directions. “We are completely ready to open hotels and restaurants with all the precautionary measures in place. We are just waiting for the government to give a nod,” said a hotelier. Pubs reeling under massive financial crisis The overall economic slump coinciding with lockdown-related restrictions has hit pubs hard in the city. “The uncertainty is rubbing salt on our wounds. We are just hoping and waiting for the silver lining. We are only doing less than five percent of business,” said the owner of a popular pub in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-deliveries-to-continue-but-hoteliers-seek-clarity-from-cm/article31667206.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru’s share is 13% of the total COVID-19 cases as of now||Thirteen percent of the total 2,089 COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka are from Bengaluru. The city’s share in the total reported cases in the State has fallen since the imposition of the lockdown on March 24. While initially, COVID-19 cases were reported only in Bengaluru, now, cases have been reported in all districts of the State barring Chamarajnagar. The civic administration attributes this to contribution of the Residents’ Welfare Associations in monitoring the situation, quick action on the part of agencies, the sealing of containment zones and predictive modelling. According to data provided by the BBMP COVID-19 war room bulletin, on March 24 (when the first lockdown began), 62% of the total 51 cases reported in the State were from BBMP areas. As of Sunday, the percentage of cases from Bengaluru dropped noticeably. B.H. Anil Kumar, BBMP Commissioner, said that initially there was a spike in the number of cases as several cases were reported from three clusters in the city - Padarayanapura, Hogasandra and Shivajinagar. “We ensured that the spread of the infection was limited to the containment zones. We also carefully monitored the movement of people in these areas and made sure they do not venture out their homes. In addition, we conducted door-to-door surveys and tested random samples in containment areas,” he said. He also commended RWAs for their diligence in ensuring that residents followed rules. “They are the eyes and ears of the civic body. They alerted us if anyone who was supposed to be in home quarantine violated the rules,” Mr. Kumar added. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, Special Officer, BBMP COVID-19 War Room, said BBMP has been consistently working on planning, preparedness, coordination and implementation to keep the numbers low. “Data analysis with a scientific approach, predictive modelling in collaboration with multiple stakeholders has definitely helped us,” she said. Remaining vigilant However, agencies are not letting their guard down. With relaxation in the lockdown and economic activities resuming in Lockdown 4.0, Mr. Kumar says that there could be an increase in the number of cases as people from other States return to Bengaluru. “While we should not worry about the number of positive cases going up, we should strive to ensure that the fatality rate is zero or near zero,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengalurus-share-is-13-of-the-total-covid-19-cases-as-of-now/article31667203.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||As KIA opens, reducing physical contact is the new mantra||Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) is set to resume domestic operations today after two months. In an attempt to curb the spread of the coronavirus, BIAL announced that measures have been taken to ensure that the pre-entry process till a passenger boards remains contact-less. A passenger must wear a face mask and carry an e-printed boarding pass. At the departure gate, they will undergo thermal scanning and must show the Aarogya Setu app’s ‘you are safe’ message. CISF personnel will verify the boarding pass and government-issued photo ID using an electronic device or through a magnified glass screen. Once inside the terminal, passengers have to scan the boarding pass at a contactless self-service kiosk and collect the baggage tag before proceeding to the airline counter to drop-off luggage. They will also have the option of using the assisted baggage drop counter to print and tag their baggage. “Under the new contactless process, body scanning will be done using Door Frame Metal Detectors (DFMD). Stamping of boarding passes has been suspended, as directed by the DGCA. Hand sanitisers will be available before and after security check,” states the release. At the boarding gate, the airline staff will hand passengers a kit containing a face mask, face shield, and sanitiser. After another round of temperature screening, they will be allowed to board. BMTC will not resume regular bus services from the city to the KIA. An official said, “As per the government decision we can't run AC buses. The BMTC has been providing non-AC buses to ferry air passengers to quarantine facilities from the Airport, and we will continue with that,” said an official. Drivers screened A press release said that drivers will be screened before arriving at the airport pick up zones and taxis will be sanitised. In case drivers are detected with fever they will be de-rostered. The release states the passengers without mask will not be allowed to board the taxi. Only two passengers will be allowed per taxi.  First flight The first flight (Indigo) will take off from KIA at 5.05 a.m. to Mumbai. KIA is scheduled to receive its first flight from Chennai at 7.35 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/as-kia-opens-reducing-physical-contact-is-the-new-mantra/article31667196.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Some workers get wages thanks to international pressure||If institutional support to workers has been mostly missing for the State’s workforce, a section of garment workers received wages thanks to pressure from U.S. and E.U.-based international agencies on apparel brands that have outsourced production to garment factories in India. Organisations such as United Students Against Sweat Shops and the Workers Rights Consortium have brought intense pressure on leading global brands to ensure that workers are paid in factories in Bengaluru, said the Garments and Textile Workers’ Union (GATWU), which has worked on similar lines in the past to improve working conditions. In the COVID-19 conditions, not only are factories forced to pay wages, international agencies have ensured that leading apparel brands do no cancel their orders, which in turn could harm the factories finances’ to pay wages. “By our estimates, about 40% of the over four lakh garment workforce has received wages for the lockdown period. In some companies, wages have been paid only to those who came to work after May 4. Without public transport, it is impossible for rural women to reach their factories,” said GATWU secretary K.R. Jayaram said. “Wherever possible, pressure has been brought through the International League of Brand Responsibility to ensure that workers get their dues. In fact, orders that were cancelled by at least eight leading brands to garment factories in India were withdrawn after intense pressure.” Anxious times With three factories in Bengaluru having closed already in the past month, workers in the garment sector are going through anxious times. While the current work is related to previous orders, fresh orders for the city’s garment sector, whose peak season starts from July, are still to come in. “So far, there is not much retrenchment. Many of the non-Kannadiga workers have left the city. If fresh orders do not come, the worst may start happening after mid-June. Factories without orders may close, leaving thousands without jobs,” Mr. Jayaram said.  By our estimates, about 40% of the over four lakh garment workforce has received wages for the lockdown period. In some companies, wages have been paid only to those who came to work after May 4, K.R. Jayaram, secretary, Garments and Textile Workers’ Union||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-workers-get-wages-thanks-to-international-pressure/article31667219.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Increased enquiries from landlords||While the real estate sector, like others, is reeling under the impact of the pandemic, real estate brokers said they have been getting an increasing number of calls from house owners seeking tenants for vacated houses. Prakash, the owner of a real estate brokerage business at Dasarahalli, said he had received around 30 to 40 calls about vacant houses. “These have mainly been of single bedroom houses. Tenants, especially those who are from smaller towns around Bengaluru, have apparently gone back home and want to return only after the situation settles down. These are mostly people with non-permanent jobs,” he said. He also said many deals — sales and rentals — have been on hold as clients who want their spouses and others to see the property before finalising it have been unable to bring them. ‘Demand to drop’ Anthony Raj, owner of a real estate and property management at Cooke Town, said demand for properties is expected to go down in the developing areas and Outer Ring Road segment and for the luxury segment, given the anxiety surrounding job security and pay cuts. Some renters have been caught off-guard as landlords are returning from abroad and want them to vacate. “The house we moved into a year ago belongs to a couple who are in Europe. Because of the COVID-19 situation and these uncertain times, they’ve been asked to return to India. They told us we will have time till July,” said Sharon (name changed). She and her family are now on the hunt for a new apartment to rent. “We can’t refuse their request to vacate. We’ve been running helter-skelter for a place now. It’s a weird situation. We moved into a furnished house after selling our old stuff. Now we have to start afresh. We’re going through brokers, personal assistance, community groups, etc.,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increased-enquiries-from-landlords/article31667176.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Many women garment workers oppose increased work hours’||A survey of women garment workers in south Karnataka has not only revealed how most of them received no assistance from either their employers or the State government, but also their unwillingness to work extra hours. The State government recently allowed the workday to be extended from eight to 10 hours. The survey jointly conducted by Garments Mahila Karmikara Munnade and Alternative Law Forum (ALF), interviewed 82 women in the garment industry and found that a majority of them — 65% — declined to work extra hours. “Given that an overwhelming segment of the workforce in garment industries are women, extending the workday or workweek will likely result in thousands of women dropping out of the workforce or being asked to leave for not being able to work extended hours. The Karnataka government’s notification betrays a complete lack of empathy and concern for women workers and their right to livelihood,” ALF said in a statement on the survey. The survey also revealed the pathetic living condition of garment workers during the lockdown. While 63% of the interviewees reported not being paid any salary for April, 17% said they got only half their wages. What is worse, 96% said they received no assistance from their employers. Nearly half of the women interviewed (45%) said they had to borrow money to tide over the lockdown. The survey recommends that the government set up helplines to resolve issues of garment workers, withdraw the notification on extending work hours and also provide free transport services to garment factories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-women-garment-workers-oppose-increased-work-hours/article31667187.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Businessman robbed||A businessman was allegedly robbed by a pedestrian whom he had offered to drop to his destination on his motorcycle. This incident took place at Mahadevpura on Saturday around 7 p.m. Rohith Thapa, 30, hailing from Darjeeling, runs a momo shop at Sahakar Nagar. He was on his way to his friend’s house when a pedestrian sought to hitch a ride on the bike near K.R. Puram Railway Station. The man appealed to Thapa, and said that owing to the lockdown he was not able to find any transport. Thapa offered to drop him. After they rode a certain distance, the pillion rider got down but asked for Thapa’s mobile phone to call his friend who, he said, would come and pick him up. He obliged, but minutes later four youths turned up at the spot. They brandished knives, forcefully took him to a deserted under-construction building, stabbed him in the arm, and robbed him of Rs. 7,000 in cash, mobile phone, and two gold rings. In his complaint, Thapa has alleged that when he requested them to return the money, as he needed it to run the shop, they abused him. The Mahadevapura Police have registered a case and are on the hunt for the hitchhiker and his friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/businessman-robbed/article31667185.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Air travellers exempted from curfew restrictions||As domestic air travel resumes from today, the State government has exempted air travellers and airlines’ employees from curfew restrictions that will be in place between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. daily. An order issued on Sunday by Chief Secretary T. M. Vijaybhaskar said that domestic air travel of passengers has been deleted from the list of prohibited activities with effect from Monday. In the light of commencement of domestic civil flight operations, Sunday’s order said “unhindered/ unrestricted movement of air passengers with valid air tickets, and airline staff/ crew members with valid IDs issued by their company/organisation, to and from airport is permitted even during curfew period on all days and in addition from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Sundays as per the prevailing guidelines and SOPs.” The order said that the operations of the airports and air travel of passengers will be as per the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation, and Standard Operating Procedures/guidelines issued from time to time by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Karnataka. The order also said that the lockdown guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs and consequently new guidelines issued by the State government, will be in force till May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/air-travellers-exempted-from-curfew-restrictions/article31667193.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Twitter war between Congress and BJP over relief||A day after the Centre announced relief to cyclone-ravaged West Bengal, the Opposition Congress and ruling BJP here indulged in a war of words on Twitter over the relief that Karnataka got over six years of BJP rule at the Centre. “There is no account of PM Care Fund spent & expenditure. Why our State hasn’t received any aid so far. First answer these questions & explain to people, what Centre has done for Karnataka. Do you & your 25 MPs have any answers?” the Karnataka Congress tweeted. It said: “Is PM unquestionable? Is he above law ? Centre has betrayed the people of Karnataka since last 6 years. You shamelessly misuse law to file FIR on those questioning you!! We will fight out but you have lost out morally as you have no answers,” drawing a sharp response from the BJP. “If you check a dictionary, you will understand difference between questioning and accusing. Are you saying that MOTHER Sonia Gandhi, prime accused in National Herald corruption case can falsely accuse PM Modi & still not be questioned,” the BJP said in its response. It said: “For ten years, Sonia Gandhi plundered India by installing a Puppet PM & running the nation’s most corrupt government. But, according to Congress workers, MOTHER Sonia Gandhi must not be questioned. Is she above the law? Or is she the law?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/twitter-war-between-congress-and-bjp-over-relief/article31667224.ece
25 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Social problems may arise if returnees are not engaged in gainful employment’||As a large number of people from various classes in urban areas have returned to villages due to lockdown, experts warn of a social problem if measures are not taken to ensure some income for them by creating employment opportunities. “No doubt that the time is opportune to woo them into farm or allied sectors by imparting skills. But if no such measures are taken, then there is a strong possibility of some of such returnees taking to anti-social activities after they exhaust their resources,” says former UAS-B Vice-Chancellor K. Narayana Gowda. He feels that time should not be lost in engaging them in gainful employment, while maintaining that “agriculture can provide employment to all of them depending upon their qualification and skill sets.” Pointing out that presently the country is witnessing post-harvest losses of crops to the extent of Rs. 1 lakh crore a year, he says this is an indication of employment potential that the agri processing sector can offer for the youth. Former Indian Council of Agricultural Research Director-General S. Ayyappan says it hardly takes a week’s training in imparting skills to help anyone to take to different aspects of agriculture. But if you delay this process, then the trouble may start, he warns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/social-problems-may-arise-if-returnees-are-not-engaged-in-gainful-employment/article31667223.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman gives birth on train||There was celebration on a Delhi-bound passenger train after a woman on board gave birth to a baby girlen route. A lady doctor who was a passenger in the train helped deliver the baby before the train pulled into Delhi station. Both mother and baby are healthy, said SWR officials. Divisional Railway Manager Ashok Kumar Verma told The Hindu that the woman boarded the train fromBengaluru with her husband on Friday evening. “Railway staff and a doctor who was travelling in the train helped the woman deliver the baby at around 5.30 a.m.,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-gives-birth-on-train/article31667182.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||AIDSO to observe ‘Demands Day’||All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) will be observing ‘Demands Day’ on Tuesdaywhere a memorandum of their demands, including fee waiver in government and aided institutions, will be submitted to the Education Minister and to the vice-chancellors of all universities in the State. Other demands of the organisation include cancellation of exam fees, providing free bus pass to all students, increasing scholarship amount, and increasing hostels and related facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aidso-to-observe-demands-day/article31667179.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shramik trains run as usual||The 36-hour curfew did not impact operations of Shramik Special trains and Rajdhani services in the city. On Sunday morning, a passenger train from Delhi with 400 people arrived at Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna City Railway Station. They were taken to institutional quarantine after screening. Ten Shramik trains were operated on Sunday from the city. SWR also operated trains from Mysuru to Purnia and Hosur to Bhagalpur in Bihar.The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation ran 400 buses to ferry migrant workers from various camps to KSR city railway station, Cantonment and Chikkabanavara railway stations. At around 1.25 a.m. on Sunday, a train was also operated to Khordha in Odisha. “The train service was arranged at a short notice by the State government,” said an official. A scheduled passenger train from Bengaluru to Delhi also left from the city at 8.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shramik-trains-run-as-usual/article31667186.ece
25 May 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Curfew ‘almost complete’: Police Commissioner||The 36-hour curfew on Sunday was for the most part successful in Bengaluru and Mysuru as vehicles remained off the road and most commercial establishments had downed shutters. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao said the curfew was “almost complete and successful”, as it had passed off without any untoward incident. Restrictions will ease at 7 a.m. on Monday. The Bengaluru police had barricaded most of the arterial roads to prevent movement of private vehicles, except for essential services. The heavy rain in the afternoon, too, ensured that people remained indoors. Though there was some traffic in the morning, enforcement of the curfew soon brought it under control, said senior police officials. The curfew hit people who had come to the city as buses, autorickshaws and taxis were not operating. Several people were seen walking long distances with luggage to their residences in the city. Sources said that concerned over the spike in the number of COVID-19 cases since the lockdown was eased, the government was keenly studying the impact of the Sunday lockdown on the numbers. Tension at border Tension prevailed at the Karnataka–Tamil Nadu border, when the police barricaded even village roads that many people were using to bypass the Attibele check-post. The police had to resort to light caning during an altercation on one of the village roads. Tamil Nadu has been declared a high-risk State and people are not allowed to enter the State from there, except in exceptional cases where those entering have to undergo institutional quarantine. All markets remained closed on Sunday. With Id being celebrated on Monday in the city, this hit festival shopping. Community leaders and the government have called for offering prayers at home on Monday too. In Mysuru, patients were permitted to visit hospitals. A couple of weddings were reported at temples, but the attendance was controlled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curfew-almost-complete-police-commissioner/article31667189.ece
25 May 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Man found dead in hospital||A person with influenza-like illness, whose throat swab was taken for a COVID-19 test, was found dead in the toilet of the isolation ward at the district hospital in Chikkamagaluru. He had tested negative for COVID-19, but was undergoing treatment for haemorrhoids. According to a press release issued by the district hospital, the 53-year-old man’s throat swab sample was taken on May 19 in Koppa. He was shifted to the COVID-19 hospital in Chikkamagaluru. As he was suffering from haemorrhoids, he was admitted to the isolation ward at the district hospital. The staff noticed him on his bed around 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. However, he did not turn up for the regular check-up at 9 a.m. He was later found dead in the toilet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-found-dead-in-hospital/article31667209.ece
25 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Clampdown successful as life comes to a standstill in Dharwad||Life came to a standstill in Dharwad city as the 36-hour clampdown announced by the State government was implemented successfully on Sunday. The district administration imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Cr.PC from 7 p.m. on Saturday to 7 a.m. on Monday. The police made elaborate arrangements to implement the prohibitory orders and made a public announcement on Saturday evening appealing to the people not to venture out of their houses on Sunday. And, people complied with the orders and stayed indoors making it relatively easier for the authorities to impose the clampdown without any hitches. Life was returning to normality after the lockdown orders were relaxed in the middle of this month. But, on Sunday, major areas, including Subhas Road, Jubilee Circle, College Road, Tol Naka, vegetable market, wore a deserted look. Although pharmacies, milk booths and petrol bunks were excluded from the lockdown, the customer turnout was limited. In Hubballi also the clampdown was total. None of the commercial establishments carried out business. The public too cooperated with the authorities in imposing the prohibitory orders successfully. The main areas, including Rani Chennamma Circle, Old Bus Stand, Central Bus Terminus and Koppikar Road, wore a deserted look. In several places, the police set up barricades and maintained strict vigil on the movement of vehicles. The turnout at essential services shops too was few. Lockdown was successfully implemented in other parts of the district also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clampdown-successful-as-life-comes-to-a-standstill-in-dharwad/article31667396.ece
25 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||14 patients test positive||As many as 14 people, including a police constable, tested positive for COVID-19 taking the total number of cases to 99 in Hassan district on Sunday. Two localities in Hassan have been declared containment zones after two residents tested positive. Of the 14 new cases, six were reported in Hassan taluk and eight in Channarayapatna taluk. The police constable of KSRP had been to Bengaluru recently on duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/14-patients-test-positive/article31667403.ece
25 May 2020||Hassan/Mandya,KARNATAKA||To Mumbai with job dreams and back||Hundreds of migrants in distress moving back to their homes in south Karnataka has thrown up a pattern often not visible — that three taluks in the neighbouring districts of Hassan and Mandya have a large number of people choosing Mumbai, rather than cities closer to home such as Mysuru and Bengaluru, to find work. This has been thetrend for over 60 years. The COVID-19 pandemic has underlined the special connection the people of K.R. Pet and Nagamangala taluks in Mandya and Channarayapatna taluk in Hassan have with the commercial capital of the country. In the past 20 days, hundreds of people have travelled back to their native places there. In fact, all the COVID-19 cases reported in Hassan and most of the cases reported in Mandya have a travel history to Maharashtra. Why Mumbai? It is not clear when and why people started to move to Mumbai from these parts, which have some common features. While all three are drought-prone taluks, they also have had a long history of being exposed to travellers from across India. Melkote, a pilgrimage centre for the Srivaishnava sect in Pandavapura taluk of Mandya, and Shravanabelagola, a Jain pilgrimage centre in Channarayapatna taluk, have been visited by devotees from different places over the centuries. “There were two trains a week from Arsikere to Mumbai about 40 years ago. By then, Mumbai was attracting people from different corners of the country. With no income from the agriculture field, a few took the train to Mumbai. They took up small jobs initially and earned well. This inspired many others to follow suit,” said S.N. Ashok Kumar, a journalist and resident of Shravanabelagola. Those days there were no other cities in Karnataka to match Mumbai in terms of job opportunities. The big city offered anonymity and opportunities. The migrants started working as waiters, helpers at hotels and bakeries, attendants at lodges, dabbawallas , rickshaw pullers, insurance agents, medical representatives, and more. “If a boy goes missing for some reason, the general perception among the people around here is that he must have gone to Mumbai,” said Mr. Kumar. One can find several hundreds of people from the two districts in Mumbai, Sangli, Satara, Nashik, Andheri, Santacruz and other places. Till the lockdown was imposed, at least three private buses moved between this area and Mumbai every day. For better or worse Some of those who migrated to Mumbai started off with meagre incomes, started their own business later, and even built houses in Mumbai. A woman, who has been quarantined after she returned to Channarayapatna, told The Hindu that her father-in-law had moved to Mumbai 40 years ago. He started working at a bakery and eventually started his own snack-making unit. Now his children look after the business. “We have a house in Mumbai and many people work at our unit.” Many have brought back money and invested it on land and built houses. “Mumbai is a colourful city. It does not disappoint anyone who goes there seeking a job,” said Ramesh, a hotelier in Mumbai. On the other hand, there are also hundreds staying in slums without proper accommodation. Many run roadside eateries. “We spend most of our time outside and go home only to sleep. We were the worst-hit during the lockdown,with no alternative source of income, and started to leave either by walking or by pooling money to get a transport facility,” said a returnee quarantined in Hassan. The story of these areas having a special connection with Mumbai also has a dark side. Among the HIV-infected people in Hassan, the most are from Channarayapatna taluk. Health workers feel that the Mumbai connection could be among the factors contributing to this worrying fact. On voters’ list However, a majority of these migrants have retained their names on the voters’ list at their native place. They do not miss the elections. In fact, K.C. Narayana Gowda, MLA for K.R. Pet, who is the Minister for Horticulture and Sericulture and is in charge of Mandya district, has business establishments in Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/to-mumbai-with-job-dreams-and-back/article31667208.ece
25 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi registers six new COVID-19 positive cases||As many as six new cases of COVID-19 were reported from Kalaburagi on Sunday, taking the total number of infected persons in the district to 141 which included seven deaths and 62 people discharged from the designated hospitals after recovery. As per a media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare and Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi B. Sharat, all the new cases had had a history of travelling to COVID-19-affected States — five to Maharashtra and one to Andhra Pradesh. A 32-year-old man from Allapur village in Yadrami taluk (P-1,965), a 20-year-old man from Sumbada village (P-1,966), a 48-year-old man from Kudamud Tanda near Ambalaga village in Kamalapur taluk (P-1,967), a 50-year-old woman from Kuchavaram village in Chincholi taluk (P-1,968) and a 45-year-old man from Langar Hanumanth Nagar off Taj Sultanpur Ring Road in Kalaburagi city (P-2,000) were the ones who returned from Maharashtra recently and tested positive for the deadly disease. A 30-year-old man from New Ghat Layout Extension in Kalaburagi city (P-2,001) returned from Andhra Pradesh and tested positive for COVID-19. All the newly-infected persons were kept in State-run quarantine centres ever since they returned and shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital after they tested positive for the disease. With the new cases, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 73.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-registers-six-new-covid-19-positive-cases/article31667391.ece
25 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi deserted||As part of the 36-hour-long curfew, Kalaburagi city wore a deserted look on Sunday as all commercial establishments, barring those selling essential commodities, remained shut to check the spread of coronavirus. All major facilities, including the railway station, bus stand and markets, remained closed. The major streets in the district wore a deserted look as people preferred to stay indoors. As a precautionary measure, elaborate security arrangements were made in the city. The police also seized vehicles for violating the curfew orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-deserted/article31667390.ece
25 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Four policemen from Udupi, Dakshina Kannada test positive for COVID-19||Three policemen from Udupi and one (P-2,023) from Dakshina Kannada were among the 24 from the twin districts who tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. While 23 were from Udupi, one was from Dakshina Kannada. An Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police from Ajekar Police Station in Karkala taluk and a police constable each from Karkala Rural and Brahmavar police stations, respectively, were among those who tested positive for the disease in Udupi district. According to a State health bulletin, the three policemen, P-2,040, P-2,041, P-2,051, had worked in containment areas. In a video message, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that the policemen were under treatment at the TMA Pai Hospital, the designated COVID-19 hospital of the district. The primary and secondary contacts of the three were being quarantined, he said. As per standard operating procedure, the police stations, Ajekar, Karkala and Brahmavar, would be sanitised and closed for 48 hours. The Karkala Town Police Station and Office of the Circle Inspector of Police, Karkala, which were functioning in the same building that houses the Rural Police Station, would also remain closed during the period, he said. Among others who tested positive for the disease in Udupi include a woman from Karkala (P-2,056), who was in her ninth month of pregnancy and was expecting to be delivered of a baby in the next few days. A 44-year-old woman (P-2,058), who recently returned from Dubai, has also tested positive. As many as 16 persons who returned from Maharashtra and one who returned from Telangana have tested positive, Mr. Jagadeesha stated. In Dakshina Kannada A 42-year-old police head constable from Vitla Police Station in Dakshina Kannada district has tested positive for the disease. He was a secondary contact of a 30-year-old man (P-1,233) who returned from Raigad in Maharashtra. The evening bulletin said that the constable was in the station when P-1,233 was brought there following the closure of the designated quarantine centre. P-1,233 tested positive on May 15. The police station was sanitised by the Vitla Town Panchayat and it would remain closed down for 48 hours, the bulletin added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-policemen-from-udupi-dakshina-kannada-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31667400.ece
25 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three trees likely to face the axe||Citizens of Mangaluru fear that three huge banyan trees offering plenty of shade to several buildings on Rosario Road in Mangaluru may be cut down to pave way for the four-lane concrete road being built under the Smart City Project. Mangalore Smart City Ltd. (MSCL) is taking up the four-lane concrete road between Hamilton Circle and Rosario Junction, a distance of about 600 m. The banyan trees are standing near the Police Community Hall, Pandeshwar Head Post Office and Old Port Employees Apartment. A senior freelancer said that he was surprised to see the concrete road being constructed avoiding the three trees. Not many people are using the road at present in view of the construction work; but he saw them on the way back from Pandeshwar Post Office. Though the trees appear to have been spared for now, there is no guarantee that they would remain there for ever, he felt. Rosario Church Road further connects Hoige Bazaar and Bolara and was being used by fish transporting vehicles from Old Bunder Fishing Harbour to neighbouring Kasargod via Mahakalipadpu Railway Level Crossing. Kiran Shetty, a resident of Hoige Bazaar, wondered the need for four-laning a 600-m road till Rosario Junction and said that vehicular movement has been sparse on the stretch. He said that the trees have been offering shade to many buildings along the stretch, including the Police Community Hall, a few schools and the post office in the locality. Denying that the trees would be cut down, MSCL Managing Director Mohammed Nazeer told The Hindu that the road was being made four-lane as per the Mangaluru City Corporation Master Plan. “It is for the city corporation to take a decision [on felling the trees],” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-trees-likely-to-face-the-axe/article31667398.ece
25 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Back in villages, youth from coastal belt show interest in farming||Back in their villages due to lockdown, some youngsters from the coastal belt who deserted farming in search of greener pastures in cities are now showing interest in returning to the roots. Progressive and award-winning farmer Prabhakara Mayya of Nada village, Belthnagady taluk, Dakshina Kannada, was in Belthangady recently to guide some youths on integrated farming. “Like-minded youth had invited me,” he told The Hindu and added that at least 20 youths from different parts of Dakshina Kannada have consulted him after lockdown on taking up integrated farming. “I still continue to get calls.” The youths are mainly those who were earning a meagre income in cities such as Bengaluru. They had small land holdings in their native places, yet discontinued family farming and went in search of jobs to earn more. But the impact of COVID-19 has made them to rethink on returning to cities, he said. “Area under paddy in Nada village will go up by at least 50 acres in this coming kharif,” he said adding that judging by the inquisitiveness of those who have returned, an additional 500 acres are likely to come under paddy alone in Dakshina Kannada this year. Ravish Hegde, general manager, Totagars’ Cooperative Sale Society, Sirsi, said that the society has been getting calls from some city-returned youths seeking employment in the society’s various units in Uttara Kannada. “These youths are ready to work in the society for low salary,” he said adding that the society got at least 10 enquires for job since mid-April. H. Kempe Gowda, Joint Director, Department of Agriculture, Udupi, said that the demand for paddy seeds in Udupi district is increasing. The department sold 900 quintals of seeds by the first week of May. In addition, it is expecting demand for an additional 1,500 quintals of seeds for this kharif. It had sold 2,200 quintals of seeds in Udupi in last kharif. “Usually the department was selling the first batch of seeds by mid-May. But this year, it has been sold in advance giving scope for speculation,” he said. The increase in demand could be due to two factors. Either more persons have come forward for paddy cultivation or those who could not take up its cultivation due to flood and heavy rains last year have now placed the demand for seeds. A new group could have also taken to farming. It would take some more days to get clarity on the latter, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/back-in-villages-youth-from-coastal-belt-show-interest-in-farming/article31667229.ece
25 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Dual-advantage scheme gaining traction||Can the State Forest Department’s long-running forestry scheme help farmers supplement their income to tide over economic distress? The experience seems to be encouraging and for farmers with small to medium size land holdings, the Krushi Aranya Protsaha Yojane (KAPY) holds promise of a sizeable income spread over three years. Introduced in 2011-12, the scheme has twin benefits — supplementing farmers’ income and shoring up green cover as it entails upon the farmer to protect the saplings for three years to receive the cash incentive. In Mysuru territorial division alone, more than 4 lakh seedlings have been distributed to farmers in the last three years and 1,110 beneficiaries have received Rs. 1.05 crore over three years. K.C. Prashanthkumar, DCF, Mysuru territorial division, told The Hindu that this year, nearly 1 million saplings are ready for distribution and farmers have started placing orders as this is the ideal season to plant them. There has been good pre-monsoon rain across the State and early summer showers which have increased moisture content in the soil and the freshly planted saplings will not require much water. With the southwest monsoon just a few weeks away, the time is ideal for planting. As per the programme, the incentive is restricted to 400 seedlings per hectare, which means a farmer can earn Rs. 40,000 per hectare over three years in case the saplings are planted on the farm land. Even if a portion of the landholding is set aside for tree plantation, then there is scope to shore up income through protecting the seeds and saplings, said Mr. Prashanthkumar. Once the saplings are planted, the Forest Department staff verify the status and release Rs. 30 per surviving seedling during the first two years and Rs. 40 in the third year. The incentive is substantial when farmers plant more seedlings. “Apart from incentive, the farmers derive additional revenue for the timber value of mature trees after a few years,” said Mr. Prashanthkumar. Fruits, seeds, fodder, and firewood are additional benefits. Given the cash incentive, the survival rates are high and this helps increase the green cover of the region. The department has more than 30 species of saplings but hebbevu, teak, mahogany, sandal, and honge are in high demand. In a bid to shore up the city’s green cover, the department will take up plantation of saplings across the city. The plan is to cover 70 km of road length with 300 saplings per km. This is in addition to planting saplings in vacant lands of government offices and educational institutions. The urban forest scheme will be expanded to include unmaintained parks and open spaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dual-advantage-scheme-gaining-traction/article31667222.ece
25 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Flights from Mysuru to begin today||Flights from Mysuru to Bengaluru and Belagavi will commence from Monday signalling the gradual resumption of domestic air services that were suspended from March 25 due to the COVID-19 lockdown. As per the schedule released by the Airports Authority of India at Mysuru, Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, and M/s TruJet Airlines will operate the services. Flight No. 91898 will depart from Bengaluru at 4.30 p.m. to arrive at Mysuru at 5.30 p.m. In the return direction, flight no. 91897 will depart from Mysuru at 6.15 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 7.15 p.m on all days except Tuesdays when it has a different time slot. On Tuesdays, flight 919898 will depart from Bengaluru at 3.30 p.m. to reach Mysuru at 4 p.m. and flight 919897 will depart from Mysuru at 9.45 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 10.45 p.m. TrueJet flight 2T-543 will depart from Belagavi at 3 p.m. to reach Mysuru at 4.20 p.m. and in the return direction flight 2T-544 will depart from Belagavi at 4.55 p.m. to reach Belagavi at 6.15 p.m. Mysuru Airport Director R. Manjunath said the airport is fully geared up to handle traffic and the protocol stipulated by the government in the wake of the pandemic will be followed. All passengers have to check in two hours before the departure of the flights, said Mr. Manjunath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flights-from-mysuru-to-begin-today/article31667195.ece
25 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Lockdown total||Lockdown was observed in total in Shivamogga district on Sunday to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Barring outlets selling ration, vegetables, milk and medicine, other shops and commercial establishments remained closed. Public transport vehicles, including buses and autorickshaws, remained off the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-total/article31667402.ece
25 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Rs. 5 lakh fine collected from those not wearing face masks in Vijayapura||After announcing relaxation in lockdown norms, the State government made it mandatory for people to wear masks whenever they ventured out. To make sure that they wear mask, the government decided to impose fine on those who violated the order. This violation has proved heavy for people as the district administration has collected a fine of over Rs. 5 lakh in the city. After lockdown norms were eased, people started their businesses and other routine activities. People who were so long confined to their houses began rushing to the markets for selling and purchasing. But, many failed to follow the order that they should wear masks compulsory and this attracted fine. “The government has fixed Rs. 200 fine for those found to be violating the order. Though adequate awareness has been created among the people, yet many failed to take it seriously; thus, we had no choice but to collect fine from them,” said City Corporation Commissioner Harsha Shetty. He said that 28 teams with three officials each were constituted to ensure the implementation of the order. “The officials are keeping an eye on those coming out of their houses to go to markets without wearing masks. They are being fined,” he said. Mr. Shetty said that during monitoring, many people gave different excuses such as they forgot to bring their masks, that they left their masks in their motorcycles, that they were carrying them in their pockets and forget to wear them. “All these excuses do not matter as the order says that people should wear masks when they venture out,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-5-lakh-fine-collected-from-those-not-wearing-face-masks-in-vijayapura/article31667393.ece
25 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||24 fresh cases in Yadgir||Yadgir district, which was in the green zone area a few days ago, has turned to be a coronavirus hotspot with increasing number of new cases on Saturday and Sunday taking the total number of infected persons to 111. All 111 persons who tested positive had returned from various parts of Maharasthra, including Mumbai, Pune and Solapur. On Sunday, 24 fresh cases were reported. The details are as follows: P-1,972, a four-year-old girl and P-1976, a 27-year-old female, both from Deevalagudda village, P-1974, an eight-year-old boy and P-1,975, a 25-year-old female, both from Gogi village, P-1,973, a 17-year-old female, P-2,077, an 18-year-old male, P-2,078, a 31-year-old male, P-2,079, a 3-year-old girl, P-2,010, a 22-year-old male, all from Allipur Tanda, P-2,070, a 22-year-old female and P-2,081, a 9-year-old girl, both from Arkera (B) Tanda, P-2,072, a 21-year-old female, P-2,073, a 21-year-old female, P-2,074, a 70-year-old female, P-2,089, a 25-year-old male, all from Kurkunda village, P-2,075, a 37-year-old female, P-2076, a 21-year-old female, both from Kannyekollur village, P-2,082, a 26-year-old male, P-2,083, a 61-year-old female, P-2,084, a one-year-old girl, all from Hallisagar village, P-2,085, a 31-year-old male, P-2,086, a 21-year-old male, both from Bachavar Tanda, P-2,080, a 14-year-old male from Gaddesuguar and P-2,071, a 25-year-old female from Naikal village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/24-fresh-cases-in-yadgir/article31667394.ece
25 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||More quarantine centres||In view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, Yadgir Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has passed order to acquire private government-aided schools, colleges, hostels, kalyan matapas and shami mahals to be converted into quarantine centres for inter-State returnees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-quarantine-centres/article31667220.ece
25 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Rs. 50 crore for Ambigara Chowdayya Nigama||The State government has released Rs. 50 crore to Nijasharana Ambigara Chowdayya Abhivruddi Nigama to enable the growth of the community, nigama chairman Baburao Chinchansur has said. Mr. Chinchansur directed the officials to call for applications from eligible candidates from Koli, Kabbaliga, Mogaveera and other sub-castes to benefit from the grant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-50-crore-for-ambigara-chowdayya-nigama/article31667383.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Shutdown across State||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shutdown-across-state/article31667201.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COP||Over the past week, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy(in picture)attracted much criticism after he verbally abused a woman representing a farmers’ organisation who raised the issue of encroachment of a lake in Kolar. A video that went viral showed the Minister flying off the handle as the woman persistently questioned him on the state of the lake. Apart from farmers’ groups and Opposition leaders, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa himself said his Cabinet colleague’s behaviour was “unbecoming of a Minister”. The Minister finally rendered a half-hearted apology, saying that he was sorry if he hurt any sentiments. This is the second instance of Mr. Madhuswamy displaying anger in public against those who dared question him. Last year, the Kuruba community was up in arms after his altercation with the Kanaka Peetha pontiff Eshwaranandapuri Swami during a peace meeting. The controversy arose over the naming of a circle in Huliyar in Tumakuru district after saint Kanakadasa. Back then, even though the Chief Minister apologised to the community for the Minister’s behaviour, Mr. Madhuswamy himself was unrepentant.   People’s representatives have been distributing food kits, sanitisers, masks and other material to people hit by the lockdown. While some are doing this work without seeking publicity, others make sure cameras follow them every time they step out to distribute aid. In Hassan, supporters of MLA Preetham J. Gowda provided sanitiser bottles with metal stands to hold them(in picture)to government offices and a few other places in the city. All these stands carried a poster of the MLA. In fact, the MLA’s portrait is so huge that one can miss the tiny sanitiser bottle placed close to it. Leaders of the Janata Dal (S) have alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party supporters were engaging in publicity stunts even during the COVID-19 crisis.   State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel(in picture), in a video clip posted on a WhatsApp group in Mangaluru on May 21, was all praise for a police officer in Sagar, Shivamogga district, for filing an FIR case against Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. The case was related to a tweet on the use of the PM CARES fund to take up COVID-19 relief works. Claiming that Ms. Gandhi had made “baseless allegations” against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa not to withdraw the case. Interestingly, a Congress delegation that met Mr. Yediyurappa claimed that the Chief Minister was amenable to the idea of taking action against the police officer who had booked the case. In a counter to Mr. Kateel, Congress leader and former Minister B. Ramanath Rai argued that “at least 100 FIRs” could be filed against Mr. Kateel as he is known for making provocative speeches. In 2017, again in a widely circulated video clip, Mr. Kateel had taken a police officer attached to the Mangaluru East station to task for the delay in the release of BJP activists during the ‘Mangaluru chalo’ bike rally.   G.T. Sathish Raviprasad Kamila||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article31667213.ece
25 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdraw decision to sell TTD lands, demands Oppn.||The CPI, the CPI(M), and the BJP on Sunday criticised the decision of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to go ahead with the auction of 50 of its landed properties in Tamil Nadu and Rishikesh, and appealed to the State government to withdraw its decision immediately. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna, in a letter to TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Sunday, demanded that he dropped the proposal to auction Lord Balaji’s lands immediately. ‘Why the hurry?’ Mr. Ramakrishna said, at a time when the entire world was fighting against COVID-19, the TTD was trying to sell the properties hurriedly, and wanted to know what was the necessity. These lands had been donated by the devotees for religious purposes and to ensure service to the Lord, and the State government had no right to sell them hurriedly, he opined. “You and your government are hell-bent on selling ‘Andhra Pradesh’, and what urgency do you have to sell such properties,” Mr. Ramakrishna questioned the TTD Chairman. CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu, demanding immediate halt to the sale process, said that in the year 1987 an Act was made for the TTD to protect the assets of Lord Venkateswara and, from the income on those assets, serve the devotees and pilgrims coming to the Lord’s abode. “The government’s argument that it cannot protect properties located at far-off places, and hence the decision to sell them, does not go well with the Hindu devotees,,” said Mr. Madhu. “This will deal a big blow to the sentiments of devotees and their trust in the TTD as a protector of the Lord’s properties and donations made by them,” he opined. Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan vice-chairman and BJP State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy demanded that the YSRCP government explain if Lord Venkateswara, with such a huge reserve of funds and properties, needed Rs. 23.92 crore. ‘Soft targets’ “The TTD and the State government are only a protector of money and properties donated by the devotees and do not have the right to sell them. The properties of Hindu Gods have become soft targets for the government, while they do not dare to do the same with properties belonging to other faiths,” alleged the BJP leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdraw-decision-to-sell-ttd-lands-demands-oppn/article31667544.ece
25 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village, ward secretariats make a mark in Anantapur||The efficiency with which the desired services are delivered to the people – both in terms of handling a large number of service requests and delivering them within the promised time frame – at the ward and village secretariats has turned the district into a role model for the entire State. The 1,216 secretariats in the district have been very useful during the COVID-19 lockdown period. Delivery of services has become so smooth – whether it is disbursing pension at the doorstep of the beneficiaries or issuing caste certificates, or registering farmers’ request for subsidised groundnut seed – thanks to the dedication and commitment of the secretariat staff and volunteers, says district Collector Gandham Chandrudu. Out of 5,97,718 service requests received across the State from January 26 (when the system was launched) to May 21, about 2,11,995 are from Anantapur district alone, followed by 42,517 from Srikakulam and 40,759 from Kadapa. “It is not just about receiving service requests. Acting upon them within 15 days (Service Level Agreement) and disposing of them quickly holds the key. The district stands in the first place with 88.45% requests (within SLA) disposed of and only 7,078 requests (beyond SLA) pending,” Mr. Chandrudu explains. Pat for staff Giving the entire credit for it to the village / ward secretariat staff for quickly adapting themselves to the service conditions within five months, the Collector says that as per the data released by the government, Anantapur tops in the State with regard to the disposal of requests within SLA. Vizianagaram district, with 31,447 requests, stood second (88.27%), followed by Kadapa (78%) and Srikakulam (76%). People can now connect with their ward volunteer and know about their village / ward secretariat upon entering their Aadhaar number in the following link: https://gramawardsachivalayam.ap.gov.in/GSWS/#!/knowYourVolunteer .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-ward-secretariats-make-a-mark-in-anantapur/article31667542.ece
25 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctors strike a note of caution as public give go-by to precautions||Members of the Indian Medical Association(IMA) of Chittoor district chapter and A.P. Government Doctors’ Association on Sunday said that there was need for a stricter facemask norm and awareness among people to combat COVID-19. The chapter president, P. Ravi Raju, deplored that with relaxations in the lockdown, people had thrown the precautions to wind, and warned that one must continue wearing a mask for at least one year to protect self and others from the virus. “A face mask prevents the spread of the virus by 90%. A majority of the cases at the isolation centres in the district are found to be asymptomatic. Unknowingly, infected persons may pass it on to others, endangering the lives of many,” Dr. Ravi Raju said. At a meeting with the ASHA workers and paramedical staff at the Primary Health Center at Narayanavanam, Dr. Ravi Raju instructed them to educate people about the facemask norm as a preventive measure. He said the COVID task force should rope in medical staff of the Social Preventive Medicine(SPM) department of the various medical colleges in the State for containment measures. Masks distributed Meanwhile, Dr. Ravi Raju gave away masks to those who were seen travelling on Puttur-Chennai National Highway without masks, at Narayanavanam junction, near Puttur on Sunday. Members of IMA distributed masks to about 1,000 people at various junctions on the highway in Satyavedu Assembly constituency, which registered close to 50 COVID-19 cases with Koyambedu links in the last two weeks. It was observed that a large number of people from the rural areas of the adjoining mandals of Pichatur, Nagalapuram, Nindra, Nagari and Satyavedu were not wearing face masks while travelling in share-autos and two-wheelers. “Usually, men use handkerchiefs and towels as masks, while women use their saree edges to cover their faces. This practice is risky and offers one less protection from infections,” the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-strike-a-note-of-caution-as-public-give-go-by-to-precautions/article31667135.ece
25 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Durgi stone art gasps for survival||Hot winds are blowing across Durgi, a village famous for its stone art. Carved and chiselled from soft white limestone, the sculptures are without a parallel. The statue of Gautam Buddha found on the lawns of most government buildings is from this village. The dusty village is about 150 km from Guntur. The art is on the verge of extinction with just about 25-30 families still practising it. Even the Geographical Indication tag seemed to be of little help to the stone art sculptors. Dwindling patronage and lack of support from successive State governments means that the older generation does not want to pass the skills to the next one. Double whammy Now, the lockdown means that the sculptors will be without work for some more time. “We urge the State government to support us by providing monetary support. As our numbers are small, the burden on the government will be negligible,” said Gurijepalli Pavan, a B.Pharm graduate from Obulesunipalle who continues his father’s work. “The previous governments did nothing to support us and we look forward to support from this government,” said Peddoju Bhavani, a sculptor from Durgi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/durgi-stone-art-gasps-for-survival/article31667527.ece
25 May 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown relaxation brings relief to tomato growers in Chittoor||The Madanapalle revenue division, which happens to be the largest tomato growing belt in Asia, is slowly witnessing hike in the arrivals of the produce at the agriculture markets during the last one week. On Sunday, the total arrivals of the stocks at Madanapalle, Palamaner, Punganur and Kalikiri markets stood about 3,000 tonnes. According to information, the first quality of the tomatoes is sold at Rs. 8 a kg, while the second quality remained at Rs. 6.50 a kg. The marketing officials observed that the current pricing was very decent, during the lockdown period. Though the marriages and other auspicious functions are either postponed or performed as low-key affairs, the exports to Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana and northern States have slowly picked up. In Tamil Nadu, the tomato exports to the Koyambedu market was stopped last month with the spread of coronavirus across the inter-State border. However, the stocks are sent to others parts of Chennai from the markets in the Chittoor district. It was observed that tomato exports from Madanapalle to Mumbai and New Delhi had touched the lowest level due to heavy presence of red zones there. Assistant Director (Marketing) P. Gopi told The Hindu that the prospects of tomato growers, which remained hit during the ongoing lockdown period, gradually turned brighter with several measures of relaxation in transport and public movement. “Though the hotel and event management industries are at present affected by the lockdown, the arrival of tomato stocks to various markets in the district, particularly Madanapalle, has picked up. Despite being Sunday, we received close to 3,000 tonnes today,” the official said. Referring to the reports of huge losses being suffered by the tomato growers, the marketing official said that it was only the third quality of the product that would fetch low price to the growers. He said that a majority of the farmers of Madanapalle division had now started reaping marginal to decent profits through first and second varieties. “Coming to the third variety, it generally sells at the lowest price. In cases where such category of stocks remains unharvested, that would be left to cattle or left out,” he said. The official said that the marketing personnel from the government side would always stand by the tomato growers and intervene at the marketing yards to bring decent price for their produce. “When it comes to private markets which deal with moderate stocks, the farmers sometimes face the risk of getting exploited,” Mr. Gopi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-relaxation-brings-relief-to-tomato-growers/article31667459.ece
25 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health Minister to finalise sites for two medical colleges tomorrow||East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has said that site for setting up of two government medical colleges would be finalised following the inspection by Health Minister A. Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) on Tuesday. The Central government has recently granted two medical colleges proposed to be set up in Amalapuram and Rajamahendravaram in the district. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Muralidhar has said; “The land has been identified for the proposed colleges in the district. In the case of Rajamahendravaram medical college, a site has been proposed on the central prison campus. The site, to be inspected by the Health Minister on Tuesday, is yet to be finalised.” ‘400 test negative’ “As many as 400 persons, identified as primary and secondary contacts of a 53-year-old man who died of COVID-19 at Gollala Mamidada on Wednesday, have been tested negative on Sunday. No positive case has been reported in the village on Sunday.”  Six containment zones The total number of cases is 95 and the district authorities have declared six containment zones, preventing the spread of the coronavirus in the strategic areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-minister-to-finalise-sites-for-two-medical-colleges-tomorrow/article31667559.ece
25 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||568 high-risk pregnant women put under 108 care in East Godavari||As many as 568 high-risk pregnant women have been identified and attached to the 108 service, in order to ensure them timely medical attention in East Godavari district. The women with history of abortion, anemia and other health problems fall in ‘high-risk’ pregnancy category. The district Medical and Health authorities have completed a survey on the health of 4,532 pregnant women under the Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan (PMSMA). District Medical and Health Officer B. Satya Susheela told The Hindu that the details of the high-risk pregnant women have been given to the nearest 108 service staff for swift response for medical needs. They would be admitted to a hospital a few days ahead of their expected delivery date. At least 20 gynaecologists examined pregnant women during the survey. “Measures have been taken to provide timely transportation for the high-risk pregnant women, whose expected delivery date is before June-end, to avoid any inconvenience during the lockdown period,” said Ms. Susheela.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/568-high-risk-pregnant-women-put-under-108-care-in-east-godavari/article31667554.ece
25 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Massive COVID-19 testing drive from today||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Sunday directed the authorities of the Government General Hospital at Kakinada to get ready for a massive COVID-19 testing drive from Monday. Mr. Muralidhar inspected the testing facilities and took stock of the required infrastructure at the government hospital. Door-to-door survey “A door-to-door survey will be conducted by health officials and Village Secretariat staff from Monday. The teams will refer suspected persons for testing. We urge people to undergo tests voluntarily,” said Mr. Muralidhar. A team of health officials would be deployed at the hospital to offer counselling to people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/massive-covid-19-testing-drive-from-today/article31667569.ece
25 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||800 migrant workers from Mumbai arrive at Kurnool||About 800 migrant labourers from Mumbai arrived at Kurnool railway station on Sunday afternoon in a special Shramik train arranged by the Centre on a request from Kurnool MP Sanjeev Kumar. With luggage on their heads, they queued up after alighting from the train as the health officials in hazmat suits conducted thermal screening for them. As they were coming from Maharashtra, the worst-hit State, these workers were taken in special RTC buses to the institutional quarantine centres set up by the administration in Kurnool and Adoni. The TIDCO housing colonies came in handy for the administration to house these migrants as the majority of the people observing quarantine were discharged and only few primary and secondary contacts of the recent positive persons and those from Koyambedu were put up there. District Collector G. Veerapandian said that tests would be done for all the migrants and they would be allowed to go home only after 14 days of quarantine as per the protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/800-migrant-workers-from-mumbai-arrive-at-kurnool/article31667137.ece
25 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||No let-up in cases in Nellore district as five more test positive||There was no let-up in COVID-19 cases in SPSR Nellore district as five more persons with travel history to the Koyambedu vegetable and fruit market in Chennai tested positive in the last 24 hours taking the count to 222 in the district, health officials said. All the new cases were attributed to the traders getting into contact with their counterparts in Chennai’s market, that has become the hotbed of infections. While Sullurpeta registered one more patient on Sunday pushing the number of active cases in the town to 76, Kottamitta in Nellore city accounted for three fresh cases and Sangam one. Alarmed over the steady increase in new cases, health officials decided to undertake a door-to-door survey in the district from May 27 to identify each and every person with symptoms of the disease and subject them to testing. Police strictly enforced the lockdown orders in, among other places, Sullurpeta, Nellore and Sangam. District Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu, along with Sullurpeta MLA K.Sanjeevaiah, oversaw the containment action plan in Sullurpeta. The authorities made arrangement for distribution of milk, vegetables and other essential commodities at the doorstep of people and focussed on identifying vulnerable sections of people including senior citizens and children. All entry and exit points to the town were closed. People living close to Sullurpeta were asked to keep away from the town. The number of patients under treatment at the Government General Hospital and private Narayana Hospital here went up to 111. As many as 107 persons were cured of the disease, while four persons had succumbed to it so far. As many as 271 persons were quarantined. The district administration asked the people to avoid social gathering during Ramzan celebrations on Monday. New case in Prakasam In the neighbouring district of Prakasam, a 20-year-old man from C.S.Puram on his return from Pune in Maharashtra contracted the disease, COVID-19 Prakasam nodal officer John Richardson said. The number of active cases went up to six.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-let-up-in-cases-in-nellore-district-as-five-more-test-positive/article31667133.ece
25 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leaders oppose hike in electricity charges||Wearing masks, leaders of the Telugu Desam Party(TDP) led by former Mayor Abdul Azeez went on a hunger strike here on Sunday in protest against hike in electricity charges. Former TDP Minister Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy demanded withholding of the power tariff system introduced for the new fiscal and collection of the bills received by each consumer during the months up to May 2020. It was unfortunate that the YSR Congress Party Government imposed, on an average, a financial burden of Rs. 1,500 on each consumer, he said. In SPSR Nellore district alone, Rs. 120 crore burden had been imposed at a time when many were confined to their homes without jobs during the lockdown period, Mr. Reddy said. Dalit beneficiaries consuming less than 200 units of power hitherto, were denied the benefit due to inflated bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-oppose-hike-in-electricity-charges/article31667139.ece
25 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Handloom industry reels under lockdown||The lockdown-hit handloom weavers in Chirala have urged the State government to lend a helping hand to them to tide over the worst-ever crisis faced by the sector in years. The house-cum-sheds of the weavers have sunk into silence since the lockdown 1.0 was imposed to combat coronavirus. The weavers used to get maximum orders since Sankranti (harvest festival) in January and the sales peak coinciding with Ugadi (Telugu new year). With the country-wide lockdown in force, there are no takers for the colourful sarees and other products produced by them now. People who used to make beelines to the weavers house-cum-worksheds to make purchases for marriages and other social occasions have also put off their visits. All India Handloom Rights Forum State secretary B. Jwala Narasimham said weavers were in dire straits as over 81,000 looms, including over 7,000 in Prakasam district, were idling now. Appeal to government The State government should purchase the unsold stocks with the weavers and ensure supply of inputs like yarn and dyes for the starving weavers immediately for them to survive during the most difficult times, he said. The list prepared by village volunteers under Nethanna Nestham should be the basis for providing assistance to the weavers as a majority of the handloom cooperative societies were steeped in corruption, Mr. Narasimham said. He also demanded an investigation into the functioning of the cooperative societies to unearth the irregularities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/handloom-industry-reels-under-lockdown/article31667130.ece
25 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP instigating Dalits in Vizag doctor case, alleges Minister||Education Minister A. Suresh on Sunday denied the TDP charge that he had been asked by the ruling YSRCP to mange and mollify anaesthetist K. Sudhakar, who was allegedly roughed up by the police in Visakhapatnam. Addressing the media at Markapur, Dr. Suresh, a Dalit leader from Prakasam district, challenged the TDP to prove the charge. “I have not contacted either Dr. Sudhakar or his mother. I am ready for anything if the charge is proved,” he said. It was the TDP and its chief N. Chandrababu Naidu who were adept at “managing” things, he added. Dr. Sudhakar had created nuisance in public and abused persons holding high office, including the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister, Dr. Suresh alleged. He accused TDP leader Varla Ramaiah, who had given a ‘Visakhapatnam Chalo call’, to know the line of medical treatment provided to Dr. Sudhakar, instead of instigating Dalits with “ulterior political motives.” It may be noted that Dr. Sudhakar has been suspended after he alleged that the government was not providing enough PPE kits and N-95 masks to doctors treating COVID-19 patients. Subsequently, a video, purportedly showing a police constable in Visakhapatnam roughing him up, went viral. The High Court later ordered a CBI probe into the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-instigating-dalits-in-vizag-doctor-case-alleges-minister/article31667546.ece
25 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD board chief defends decision to sell properties||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) decision to dispose of non-remunerative properties has kicked up a row with the entire Opposition taking objection to it. Seeking to clear the air, TTD trust board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Sunday said the decision to sell 50 immovable properties in remote locations through public auction was well within the board’s purview. He appealed to the devotees not to get carried away by reports that “triggered confusion and hurt the sentiments of pilgrims.” “The practice of selling immovable and non-maintainable properties has been in vogue since 1974, as 129 such properties were disposed of between 1974 and 2014,” he said. It was at the board meeting on July 28, 2015, headed by the then Chairman Chadalawada Krishnamurthy that resolution No.84 was passed to form a sub-committee to study the prospects of auctioning such properties. ‘Govt. has no role’ The meeting on January 30, 2016, gave the nod to the sub-committee’s proposal to dispose of 50 such properties ranging between one cent and ten cents, tucked away from the mainland and thus difficult to monitor and maintain. “This board only continued the process. The State government has nothing to do with the decision,” Mr. Subba Reddy said. Responding on behalf of the State, Government Whip and TTD board member Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy wondered how the TDP and the BJP, which were part of the erstwhile board’s decision, could now oppose it. Mr. Reddy also brushed aside rumours that the amount received through the auction would be taken away by the State government, pointing out that it would go only to the TTD’s exchequer. “This government will not do anything that would undermine the importance of Sri Venkateswara,” he said. Meanwhile, addressing the media in Guntur, BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana said that his party would stage protests on May 26 against the move to sell properties of temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-board-chief-defends-decision-to-sell-properties/article31667071.ece
25 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patent for ‘SMITHA’ makes SPMVV proud||The award of a patent for SMITHA has brought laurels to Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV), as its Electronics and Communications Engineering (ECE) professor P. Venkatakrishna has played a key role in its research. SMITHA stands for Scalable Modular Interconnect for Three-dimensional High-Performance Application, which is a new 3D topology for network on chip-based systems. Prof. Venkatakrishna, along with academics Sanju V. of REVA University (Bengaluru) and Niranjan Chiplunkar, principal of NMAMIT (Nitte, Karnataka), had filed for the patent in 2014, which was granted this year for a period of 20 years. The research focussed on enabling green computing technologies that support various next-generation platforms and applications by using devices with high performance computing capabilities which require smaller chip die area and consume low power. “Research outcome in fabrication technology is reducing the feature size of silicon processes which enables more logic to be implanted on silicon. This was well complemented with improvement in packaging technology which led to vertical stacking of logic to the form of three-dimensional structures,” Prof. Venkatakrishna told The Hindu . According to the research team, this work will enhance the performance of next generation computing and communication systems ranging from consumer electronics to industrial applications. SPMVV Vice-Chancellor Jamuna Duvvuru appreciated Prof. Venkatakrishna for his achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patent-for-smitha-makes-spmvv-proud/article31667558.ece
25 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD trying to please political bosses, alleges Telugu Desam||The entire political spectrum has lashed out at the State government and the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) for the latter’s move to sell away “non-remunerative” properties. TUDA former Chairman and TDP senior leader G. Narasimha Yadav, at a media conference, flayed the State for excessively interfering in the TTD affairs. Accusing the TTD board of “bending over backwards” to please the political bosses, he told the members not to incur the wrath of Lord Venkateswara through such decisions. TDP leader R.C. Munikrishna staged a dharna at Alipiri by carrying placards appealing to the Lord to safeguard His properties himself. Objecting to the move, Congress State general secretary D. Rambhupal Reddy said the TTD should, instead, hand over the Lord’s properties to the devout, who would go the extra mile to safeguard them. Selling the landed properties in other States, which were donated with a noble intention, would only amount to hurting the sentiments of the donors, he fumed. Since the TTD had local committees in every State, the board should leave the maintenance of such properties to the local devotees, who would be more than willing to do the same, Mr. Reddy observed. Jana Sena Party district leader and Tirupati constituency in-charge K. Kiran Rayal said the TTD should stop any move that could hurt the feelings of the devout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-trying-to-please-political-bosses-alleges-telugu-desam/article31667547.ece
25 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outsourced employees at TTD petition MLA||TTD employees working under outsourcing mode called on MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy and submitted a representation to him, seeking his intervention in the APCOS issue. It may be recalled that the government had decided to bring the TTD outsourced staff under the ambit of Andhra Pradesh Corporation for Outsourcing Services (APCOS), thus creating furore in the employee sections. Union leaders recalled that the outsourced employees were eking out a living with meagre salaries and sought implementation of time-scale system for them. The leaders objected to the decision to bring their staff under APCOS, for which Mr. Karunakar Reddy offered to bring their plight to the notice of the state government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/outsourced-employees-at-ttd-petition-mla/article31667140.ece
25 May 2020||V. Raghavendra,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court orders sealing of LG Polymers plant||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has directed that the LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam be sealed and no one, including company directors, be allowed to enter its premises. However, the court permitted the committees formed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the Central and State governments to probe the incident, to make a note of their visits in registers maintained at the factory gate. The compliance report is to be filed by May 26 and cases listed for May 28. Company assets Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice K. Lalitha Kumari also ordered that the company assets, both movable and immovable, should not be shifted without their consent. The court further directed that the surrendered passports of the company directors should not be released and they (the company directors) be not allowed to leave the country without its permission. It (the court) sought to know whether the company applied for permission to restart during the lockdown and directed the government to file an action-taken report if the operations were resumed without necessary clearances. The court asked what is the LG Polymers’ net worth as per the Companies Act (not book value) and with whose permission the styrene monomer was transported to South Korea when a magisterial inquiry and various inspections were under way. Lack of clearance Besides, the court called for an explanation to the lack of a valid environmental clearance from the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, existence of hospitals, educational institutions, railway stations, airport and etc. in the vulnerable zone that extended up to a radius of 6.3 km, non-functioning of siren/alarm system and failure to inform the people about the risk involved in the storage of styrene and to give them training in evacuation procedures as per the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seal-lg-polymers-plant-says-hc/article31667070.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC may scale up operations from June 1||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is most likely to scale up its operations from June 1. Official sources said efforts were aimed at gradually increasing the number of buses in all categories to cater to the needs of the people who had been thronging the Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS) in the city ever since the public transport carrier resumed operations on May 21. “We may not make a statement at this point, but we are most likely to resume full-scale services from June 1,” said an official source. Precautions Amidst several precautions, the corporation, after a gap of 58 days, allowed 17% of its buses out of the depots as part of partial relaxation of the COVID-19 guidelines. The precautions include liberal use of sanitisers by the passengers before and after boarding a bus, spacing out seats in the bus, removing curtains from AC buses where the temperature is maintained between 24° and 25° Celsius. The corporation plans to install sanitiser machines at the main points across the bus station, a protocol for which has been developed by Hari Prasad, an electrical engineer. The initial plan was to ply only luxury buses in the first phase, but the officials digressed after realising that people of all sections needed public transport facility. Utilising the lockdown period to put in place a technology-driven ticket-dispensing system that may help them operate their fleet of buses in a full-fledged way keeping the virus at bay, the officials are trying to avoid a possible situation where the conductors could become ‘super spreaders’ of the virus. “A decision to this effect has been taken based on the case studies of the transport system being followed by China in Beijing and Shanghai cities to contain coronavirus,” Madireddy Pratap, Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the corporation, had announced at a recent press conference. The intention is to achieve at least 90% “ticketless travel” in the days to come, where passengers will not have to buy a physical ticket. Reducing the number of seats in the buses is among the several alterations made by the corporation. In Palle Velugu buses, which cater to the needs of people in rural sector, of the total 56 seats, people are allowed to occupy only 35 of them to maintain social distancing. In Express services, the number of seats has been reduced from 50 to 30, in Ultra Deluxe from 40 to 29 and in Super Deluxe, from 36 seats to 26. Online booking Adopting a user-friendly approach, the authorities have also revamped the online booking system, wherein login is not mandatory now and one can book the ticket even as a guest user. Also, more options have been made available for choosing the services (by bus type, sort by departure time and fare).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aprtc-may-scale-up-operations-from-june-1/article31667461.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mercury stays above 42° C in many areas in Rayalaseema||People in many places of the State continued to experience heatwave condition even as the temperatures came down slightly on Sunday compared to the past couple of days. Many places recorded below normal maximum temperatures. According to the India Meteorological Department, similar weather is likely to prevail for another five days. Also, light to moderate rain and thundershowers are likely to occur at isolated places over both Rayalaseema and Coastal Andhra regions. The IMD also warned of heatwave conditions that are likely to prevail at isolated pockets of the State up to May 28. On Sunday, the Rayalaseema region continued to record the highest maximum temperatures. Kurnool recorded a maximum temperature of 42.4° Celsius followed by Anantapur (42.5), Kadapa (42.4) and Tirupati (42). Jangamaheswarapuram in Guntur recorded 42.4° Celsius while Bapatla of the same district recorded 35.1° Celsius. Vijayawada recorded a maximum temperature of 41° C while Kakinada recorded 37.4° C. Dornala hottest Meanwhile, according to the AP State Development Planning Society, the State’s highest maximum temperature of 45.2° Celsius was recorded in Dornala mandal of Prakasam district. Caution to public The State Disaster Management Authority also stated that similar temperatures are most likely in various districts up to May 28. SDMA Commissioner K. Kanna Babu, in a release, advised people not to venture out between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. as a precaution to avoid heatstroke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mercury-stays-above-42-c-in-many-areas-in-rayalaseema/article31667529.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP alleges illegal occupation of land in CRDA area||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) general secretary Varla Ramaiah has demanded that the APCRDA Commissioner take action against the people who allegedly illegally occupied land in the CRDA region. Mr. Ramaiah, in his letter on Sunday, said that around 15 cents of poramboke land in survey number 327 at Saibu Gunta of SC Colony in Mandadam village, Tulluru mandal had been illegally occupied overnight. There were strong reasons to believe that an MP from the ruling YSR Congress Party and his supporters were involved in this illegal occupation of land, he alleged. “They have transported soil from other CRDA-marked plots and have filled this land with the help of tractors and JCBs overnight. While it is shocking to see the illegal occupation of land in broad daylight, what is more appalling is that the local police remained mute spectators to the entire process,” he alleged. “Interestingly, A.P. Secretariat is only about one km from this land. If such audacious acts are not checked, the culprits at this rate may soon occupy A.P. Secretariat too. Therefore, I request you to take appropriate action against the perpetrators and safeguard the properties of the government within the CRDA region,” he said. Land pooling Amaravati was envisaged as the capital city of residuary Andhra Pradesh with world-class facilities and infrastructure. In order to ensure that Amaravati was designed and constructed as per the dreams of the people of the State, the then Government of Andhra Pradesh had established the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA), the senior TDP leader said. Through the CRDA, the government was able to give special attention towards the building of a new-age capital city. In this backdrop, the CRDA had acquired land through land pooling scheme by making the people of Amaravati region as stakeholders, Mr. Ramaiah recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-alleges-illegal-occupation-of-land-in-crda-area/article31667530.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Royal Bengal tiger found dead in Nallamala forest||A male Royal Bengal tiger was found dead in the forest under Kolakaluru beat in Prakasam district on Saturday. No injuries were found on the carcass. Forest staff saw the tiger, aged about 15 years, roaming around in the forest under Yerragondlapalem range a week ago. Viscera samples have been collected and sent to a lab for analysis. The remains of a wild boar were found in the tiger’s digestive system indicating that the tiger was healthy and fit for hunting, said Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) D. Nalini Mohan. “No parts were missing and the carcass is intact. We suspect that the tiger died due to ageing and was not killed by poachers. However, instructions have been given to the forest officials to find the exact cause of death and follow the procedure,” the official said. “The tiger’s carcass was found near Chenchugudem village in the Nallamala forests. The average life span of a tiger in the wild is 15 years. The animal died a few hours before the staff posted at the base camp noticed it,” Mr. Nalini Mohan, who visited the spot, told The Hindu .  Deer hunted In a separate incident, a spotted deer was reportedly killed by some miscreants under the Mylavaram range in Krishna district. Injuries were found on the carcass, said Mylavaram Forest Range Officer G. Usharani. Two accused, M. Venkateswarlu and M. Gopikrishna, of Gampalagudem mandal were arrested for allegedly killing the deer. They were produced before the Tiruvuru magistrate who remanded them in judicial custody. “We seized the carcass and weapons from the suspects. A case under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and the AP Forest Act has been registered,” the FRO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/royal-bengal-tiger-found-dead-in-nallamalla-forest-with-photo/article31667075.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||83 new cases push tally to 2,797 in State||The spread of coronavirus is showing no sign of slowdown in the State with the government machinery detecting 83 new cases during the past 24 hours. The COVID-19 tally has gone up to 2,797. Among the new cases detected, 17 are of those who came back to the State recently from Gulf countries under the Vande Bharat Mission by air. Twelve of them were from Kuwait, three from Dubai of Saudi Arabia and two from Qatar, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. In addition to this, 11 of the new cases were linked to Tamil Nadu’s Koyambedu hotspot. On the bright side, 37 patients have recovered while no deaths were reported. Currently, 900 active patients are undergoing treatment and at least 1,841 have been discharged from hospitals. The recovery rate was 66% and the mortality rate was 2%. For the cases of people coming from abroad and other States and testing positive for COVID-19 upon arrival, no containment strategy would be implemented as the persons are tested immediately after entering and quarantined or isolated as per the protocol, according to officials.  A new milestone Meanwhile, the State’s testing capacity has gone up once again as 11, 357 samples were tested in a span of 24 hours, for the first time. With this, the number of samples tested in the State crossed the 3-lakh-mark, the highest in the country. So far, 3, 04,326 tests have been conducted and only 0.97% of the people tested turned out to be positive. The tests per million poplation was close to 6, 000. At present, the State has 12 RT-PCR laboratories and about 43 TrueNat laboratories and two more RT-PCR laboratories are going to come up soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/83-new-cases-push-tally-to-2797-in-state/article31667114.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Right attitude is key, says visually-challenged IAS officer||“My goal has been to become an IAS officer and serve the poor. Any disability should not be a hindrance to achieving success and I proved it,” says visually-challenged Katta Simhachalam, who secured the 457th rank in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exams. A native of Gudipalli village in Malkipuram mandal of East Godavari district, Mr. Simhachalam has been selected for the IAS and completed his training in Mussoorie. He is among the 12 IAS officer trainees allotted the Andhra Pradesh cadre. The trainee IAS officers met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang and other officers. “I did schooling at the Blind School, Narsapuram in West Godavari district, college in Malkipuram, B.Ed. in Andhra University, Visakhapatnam and joined as Assistant Director General in Indian Foreign Trade, New Delhi, and later as Assistant Commissioner, Income Tax, at Hyderabad,” the young IAS officer told The Hindu on Sunday. Four attempts “I attempted UPSC thrice, but I got other services. In the fourth attempt, I got IAS, which I wanted. I studied in normal Telugu medium school and colleges and succeeded in life with the help of my family,” he said. “My parents Katta Vali and Venkata Narsayamma stay at Gudipalli village and are into agriculture. I request society not to discriminate against disabled persons but to encourage them to grow to greater heights,” said Mr. Simhachalam, the youngest among three brothers and a sister. ‘Use technology’ The IAS trainee said his success should be an example for others. “I advise the civil services aspirants to use technology and think with the right attitude,” Mr. Simhachalam, who is suffering from congenital blindness, said. “I am very happy that I met the Chief Minister and other top officers. I will discharge my duties with dedication and do justice to the needy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/right-attitude-is-key-says-visually-challenged-ias-officer/article31667534.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women’s panel to probe ‘sexual harassment’ at govt. home||The Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma has said that the government has taken the alleged ‘sexual harassment’ in the government-run Swadhar Home at Bommuru in Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district very seriously and is taking steps to prevent recurrence of such incidents. “Sexual assault on four inmates of the home is very unfortunate. The victims and the other inmates were shifted to another home. Instructions have been given to give proper counselling and medical aid to them,” Ms. Padma told The Hindu on Sunday. Instructions have been given to the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) officials to visit the shelter homes during the lockdown period, interact with the inmates, extend necessary counselling and ensure the safety of the women referred to the homes across the State, she said. “The WD&CW Visakhapatnam Regional Joint Director (RJD), Padma, has been directed to submit a report on the incident. The officer will inquire for how long the victims had been harassed, the staff involved and the negligence of employees, if any,” Commission Director R. Suez said. Women’s Commission member Rajya Lakshmi also visited the home and enquired about the incident. “The National Women’s Commission has asked about the functioning of Swadhar Homes across the State recently, and we submitted a report. Based on the present incident, we will prepare an action plan to step up security at all homes,” said Commission Secretary Nirmala. Action taken Police registered cases against the watchman of the home Reddy Babu and matron Aruna Kumari and arrested them. WD&CW District Home official Ramanasri had been suspended on charges of negligence, the Chairperson said. WD&CW Director Krithika Shukla, who visited the home, interacted with the victims and staff. She handed over Rs. 1 lakh compensation to the victims (Rs. 25,000 each).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/womens-panel-to-probe-sexual-harassment-at-govt-home/article31667540.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Observe social distancing during Id: Wakf Board||In the wake of the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Andhra Pradesh State Waqf Board advised all the managements of Waqf institutions/masjids, NGOs and Muslim community in general to restrict the congregation in mosques and dargahs. The board said that only the imam, mouzzin and three other staff committee members (not exceeding five members) would be allowed to perform the five-time prayers, Juma/Friday prayers and the Taraweeh prayers of Ramadan. It also advised the musallies (worshippers) and the Muslims in general to offer their prayers at home. The managements/muthawallies of all masjids, dargahs and Idgahs have been told to ensure that all religious places and places of worship are closed for the public and religious congregations are strictly prohibited. ‘Pray at home’ Ulemas/muftian and the religious heads have also advised the Muslim community to offer Ramzan Id prayers (Namaze-e-Id-ul-Fitr) on Monday (May 25) in their respective homes. Caution They have also advised social distancing by avoiding meeting relatives, Id milap programmes, hand-shaking (musafa) and hugging each other to prevent the spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/observe-social-distancing-during-id-wakf-board/article31667531.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seed corporation gets Rs. 200 crore NABARD aid||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development has extended a loan of Rs. 200 crore to A.P. State Seed Development Corporation. NABARD Chief General Manager S. Selvaraj said the amount, besides meeting the working capital requirement, would cater to the corporation’s seasonal operations during kharif 2020. The APSSDC, as nodal agency for supply of quality subsidised seed, looks into production of 12 lakh quintals of seed to meet the demand in State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seed-corporation-gets-rs-200-crore-nabard-aid/article31667457.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State lacks fiscal discipline: BJP leader||The YSRCP leaders are making audacious remarks against the High Court as it has faulted several decisions of the government, which is trying to achieve its objectives through the backdoor instead of respecting the judgments, BJP Vijayawada parliamentary constituency convener K. Dileep has said. ‘Disdain for courts’ In a press release, Mr. Dileep said the government challenged the HC verdicts in the Supreme Court in various cases but to no avail as the apex court found no merit in its arguments. The HC verdict against painting government buildings with colours akin to that of YSRCP flag and handing over the case pertaining to the suspended doctor, K. Sudhakar Rao, to the CBI vindicated the BJP’s stand that the government would commit acts of impropriety while the YSRCP leaders question the integrity of courts. Mr. Dileep said the government lacked fiscal discipline, going by the manner in which it was making huge borrowings and misusing the funds being given by the Central government, which stooped to the level of selling its properties and usurping lands belonging to Hindu temples, including that of the famed Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-lacks-fiscal-discipline-bjp-leader/article31667550.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 lakh LED streetlights for villages||The State government is planning to install an additional four lakh LED streetlights in 2,303 Gram Panchayats (GPs) which have not been covered under the street-lighting programme so far. The Commissioner of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development (PR&RD), M. Girija Shankar, requested the government to take up the installation of the streetlights in uncovered habitations and panchayats, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-lakh-led-streetlights-for-villages/article31667532.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor greets Muslims||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan conveyed Ramzan greetings to the Muslim brethren on the occasion of Id-Ul-Fitr. In a message, Mr. Harichandan said the teachings of the holy Quran shaped the lives of people over the ages. “Let us redeem our pledge to respect the dignity of human beings, the sanctity of life and the solemnity of all faiths on the eve of Ramzan,” he said. “I convey my warm greetings and good wishes to all the Muslim brethren, who celebrate the festival on Monday,” the Governor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-greets-muslims/article31667535.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cigarettes worth Rs. 3 cr. seized||Officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in association with SGST personnel seized a huge quantity of foreign cigarettes imported illegally. The stocks were being transported from New Delhi, the DRI officials said. DRI Vijayawada unit officials intercepted a truck heading to a transport company office at P. Nainavaram village in Krishna district on Saturday and seized 29,99,600 cigarette packets of ‘Paris’ brand of Myanmar origin packed in 300 boxes. “As the cigarettes were not legally imported and do not possess any health warning as per the requirements, stocks worth about Rs. 3 crore have been confiscated. said a press release. The vehicle was seized, the driver taken into custody and cases were registered. Another consignment In another joint operation, the State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) and the DRI officials intercepted a lorry and seized cigarettes of local brands being transported without valid documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cigarettes-worth-rs-3-cr-seized/article31667539.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu for Amaravati today||TDP national president N. Chadrababu Naidu will reach Amaravati by road on Monday following an apparent change in schedule in the last minute. Mr. Naidu was supposed to fly to Visakhapatnam directly from Hyderabad on Monday. It is not clear whether he would go to Visakhapatnam by road from Vijayawada. He may fly on Tuesday as air operators are expected to resume services. In case he cannot make it on Tuesday, he will visit Visakhapatnam after the Mahanadu, party sources say. It may be recalled that Mr. Naidu sought DGP’s permission to visit Visakhapatnam to interact with the gas leak victims on Monday. He has been in Hyderabad since the imposition of lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-for-amaravati-today/article31667120.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP disputes YSRCP claims on people’s satisfaction||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council and senior TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Sunday took a dig at the ruling YSRCP leaders’ claims that people were 100% satisfied with the Jaganmohan Reddy government’s rule in the last one year. In a statement, Mr. Ramakrishnudu sought to know whether the ruling party deserved that rating for subjecting all sections of society to “unprecedented misery, atrocities, financial crisis and non-stop harassment.” The YSRCP had no moral right to call it a “year of welfare” as the Chief Minister failed to implement any of his election promises, and had reduced Navaratnalu to a “bundle of nine lies and deceits.” ‘Lawlessness’ Stating that lawlessness and distress increased in the State, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said nobody would be cent percent satisfied with the fact that the government had obtained loans of Rs. 80,000 crore in its first year in office without showing commensurate development or welfare activity. “Liquor is flowing into Andhra Pradesh from the neighbouring States unchecked. Construction workers have committed suicide. Artificial sand scarcity created by the government is to be blamed for it. Many scams have been unearthed,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-disputes-ysrcp-claims-on-peoples-satisfaction/article31667548.ece
25 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decision to give Vahana Mitra aid in advance hailed||Leaders of the Transport Department Employees’ Association have welcomed the government decision to pay the financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 under the YSR Vahana Mithra scheme to the self-employed owners of auto-rickshaws, taxis and maxi cabs five months in advance in view of their financial woes due to the lockdown. Addressing a press meet, association’s zonal president M. Raju Babu said, under this scheme launched in October last, 2,36,344 beneficiaries were given the assistance. He said, amidst the lockdown, the auto and taxi drivers were battling joblessness and financial crisis. The decision at this stage would be of great help to them, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/earlyvahana-mitra-aid-welcomed/article31667462.ece
25 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IT entrepreneurs seek incentives to bounce back in Visakhapatnam||IT entrepreneurs in the city have decided to up the ante for a slew of incentives to help them overcome the losses suffered due to the COVID-19 pandemic. With lockdown ruining their cash flow and the severe jolt suffered by the multinationals based in the US and Europe putting a question mark over outsourcing orders, the IT units hope that both the Centre and State would come to their rescue. Visakhapatnam is often termed as the IT capital of Andhra Pradesh, with an annual turnover of Rs. 2,000 crore. It is home to big units such as HSBC, Wipro, Tech Mahindra, Conduent, WNS, Fluentgrid, Patra India, IBM and Concentrix. The entrepreneurs, while seeking incentives to bounce back, albeit slowly, also want that those eligible should be given sops under the MSME segment. Pending amount “The State government has also earlier committed to release pending incentives worth Rs. 40 crore. This being towards incentive for employment and starting operations as per schedule, should be released immediately. In addition, the Rs. 904.89-crore worth incentives being given to the MSMEs should also be extended to the IT units eligible under the category,” Rushikonda IT Park Association vice-president O. Naresh Kumar said. Consequent upon its decision, the State government issued GO RT. No. 104 dated May 19, 2020, by the Industries and Commerce Department to release Rs. 904.89 crore promised to the MSMEs sometime ago. Mr. Naresh Kumar said the procedure for getting incentives under the order such as applying through the portal for getting wavier of fixed/demand charges for power for three months should be relaxed. Another entrepreneur said the MSME entrepreneurs should be given soft loans to expand their activities so as to increase job opportunities for the locals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/it-entrepreneurs-seek-incentives-to-bounce-back-in-visakhapatnam/article31667556.ece
25 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three cases reported in district||Four new COVID-19 positive cases have been reported from Visakhapatnam district in the last 48 hours, including three on Sunday. With the new cases, the total number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 89, while the active cases remains at 26.  As many as 63 persons have been discharged from hospital after undergoing treatment and one person from Chengalraopeta area died. According to officials of the Health Department, a close contact of the doctor who contracted the infection a few days ago tested positive on Saturday (May 23). Quarantine On Sunday, three persons, who were earlier put under quarantine facilities at Boyapalem, Paradesipalem and Dabagardens area, were tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-cases-reported-in-district/article31667574.ece
25 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB cracks whip on ID liquor units||The recently formed Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has cracked a whip on the manufacturing and sale of illicitly distilled (ID) liquor, smuggling of alcohol and illegal sand mining in the district. In the last one week, SEB teams under the supervision of ASP Rahul Dev Singh has conducted raids in various parts of the district and registered 53 cases pertaining to manufacturing and supply of ID liquor. The teams arrested 60 persons and seized 584 litres of ID liquor, apart from destroying nearly 8,850 litres of fermented jaggery wash. “Many cases have been registered in the parts of Chodavaram, Narsipatnam and V. Madugula, while others are from the Agency areas,” said an official. In the urban limits, the SEB teams has registered 81 cases and arrested 81 people on charges of selling liquor without valid permission. About 122 litres of liquor has been seized. Illegal sand mining Meanwhile, the SEB teams have arrested two persons for their alleged involvement in illegal sand mining operations. The teams have seized 58 tonnes of sand which was being transported illegally. The SEB Visakhapatnam Urban unit under the guidance of ASP V. Ajitha has been conducting raids in various places and seized 41 tonnes of sand which was allegedly being transported illegally from various areas in the city police limits. The teams have also arrested 13 persons and seized 12 lorries and two tractors. The cases have been handed over to police station limits concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-cracks-whip-on-id-liquor-units/article31667571.ece
25 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic makes many institutions go digital||The COVID-19 pandemic has led to increased acceptance of digital technologies in Visakhapatnam, the main industrial hub of the State. Almost 90% of the IT and IT-Enabled Services (ITES) have opted for work from home (WFH) for their employees by incorporating new processes and changing the reporting structure. “Over 20,000 employees working in 156 IT and ITES firms have gone for WFH,” Software Technology Parks of India Joint Director M.P. Dubey told The Hindu . Another positive development is the growing acceptance of online module of teaching by the educational institutions during the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. “Even some of the schools and tutorials are teaching via the video link,” he pointed out. He said that about 15 IT companies developed citizen-centric apps to mitigate the sufferings induced by the COVID-19. Giving a fillip to the ‘Digital India’ campaign, many consumers are using digital wallets and gateways for various payments. Leveraging technologies has become the order of the day. “We are supplementing the government’s efforts to contain the situation by integrating everything,” said G. Muralikrishna, managing director of Fluentgrid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-makes-many-institutions-go-digital/article31667561.ece
25 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP questions Naidu’s intent to visit Vizag||YSRCP spokesperson and Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath on Sunday found fault with Leader of Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu’s decision to visit Visakhapatnam on May 25 to express sympathies to the family members of those killed in the LG Polymers styrene vapour leak incident. “The accident had happened on May 7. I wonder why the TDP president wants to visit the city now. His earlier attempt to visit Visakhapatnam was also a cheap tactics and lacked commitment, as he had sought permission of the Ministry of Home Affairs instead of approaching the police of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Amarnath told reporters here. Lockdown guidelines He said, as per the conditions imposed by the Ministry of Home Affairs for enforcement of Lockdown 4.0, children below 10 years and those above 60 should refrain from travelling. “Mr. Naidu is aged 70-plus. The Telangana police had permitted him to leave because they wanted to get rid of him. Now, the A.P. Police will apply its discretion on whether to allow him to travel to the affected RR Venkatapuram and other villages or not,” he stated. Mr. Amarnath said instead of undertaking the strenuous visit to Visakhapatnam, Mr. Naidu should hold a meeting with the survivors via video link. “Mr. Naidu’s main intention is to politicise the accident, knowing very well that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, immediately after the incident, visited Visakhapatnam, met the victims at KGH and announced Rs. 1 crore compensation to the kin of each deceased person and liberal compensation to all those hospitalised and about 20,000 persons in the affected villages,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-questions-naidus-intent-to-visit-vizag/article31667551.ece
25 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||183 shops raided, 50 cases booked||As many as 25 teams comprising the officials of vigilance, weights and measurements, and other enforcement agencies conducted raids on 183 shops in the district on Sunday. The enforcement teams registered 50 cases against the shopkeepers on charge of selling essential commodities at prices more than the prescribed rate by the authorities and indulging in other irregularities. According to officials, the teams have inspected about 8,429 shops and registered cases against 2,375 persons on charge of indulging in various irregularities since the lockdown was imposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/183-shops-raided-50-cases-booked/article31667575.ece
25 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thermal screening must for customers at Balaji Market||Thermal screening has been made compulsory for the people visiting the Sri Balaji Textiles Market in Vizianagaram, apart from several other measures such as wearing of masks to ensure the safety of customers and traders. The thermal scanning equipment would record the body temperature of people visiting the market and those with temperature higher than the prescribed limit would not be allowed to do shopping. The traders and the other staff of the market have been trained in using the thermal scanners, market president Praveen Kumar Anchalia has said. “We are taking all care to check the spread of coronavirus. These safety precautions would make the customers feel safe to come to the market,” he said. Despite all these measures in place, business remains dull in Balaji Market and other shopping areas on GT Road, Vulli Veedhi and other places. Many shop owners are not allowing customers for trial of garments, according to sources. “People do not come for shopping for ready-made garments in the absence of trial room facility. The customers are not buying garments as they are not sure whether those will be a perfect fit for them,” said a owner of a garment shop on G.T. Road. Memorandum submitted Meanwhile, garment traders in Srikakulam have urged the district administration to allow them to open shops after the lockdown curbs were relaxed in the neighbouring Vizianagaram district. Srikakulam Textile Shop Owners’ Association has submitted a memorandum to Collector J. Nivas in this regard, with a promise that all traders would abide by the COVID-19 protocols. However, the district administration appears to be reluctant to accord the permission as many garments shops are located in congested areas where maintaining social distance would be a problem. The district officials have also hinted that relaxations might be given only after May 31 when the fourth phase of the lockdown would come to an end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thermal-screening-must-for-customers-at-srikakulam-market/article31667141.ece
25 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Firm failed to check temperature in old tank: NGT member||National Green Tribunal (NGT) member Ch.V. Ramachandramurthy urged industries to follow safety norms in letter and spirit to prevent accidents and save precious lives of workers and people living around those factories. He said that companies can gather phone numbers of all the people living in the vicinity and send messages immediately whenever there was an accident and situation was out of control. Mr. Ramachandramurthy, who is one of the members of the NGT’s fact-finding committee in LG Polymers gas leak incident, visited Sri Gurudeva Charitable Trust at Kothavalasa in Vizianagaram district on Sunday. He congratulated the Trust founder Raparthi Jagadish Babu for providing shelter and food for gas leak victims for three days. Speaking to The Hindu here, he said that LG Polymers India failed to check temperature in the old tank where styrene was stored. “The company staff used to check the temperature only in the bottom but failed to check at the highest point where temperature had gone to 150° Celsius within no time on the day of accident. There should be a mechanism to check temperature regularly at all levels of the tank since heat should not go up beyond 20° Celsius. The facility is there for new tank but such mechanism was ignored in case of the old tank. That too led to the accident,” said Mr. Ramachandramurthy. He said that the NGT team headed by Justice B. Seshasayana Reddy had already inspected the LG Polymers unit at Venkatapuram of Visakhapatnam district and found many lapses which had led to major gas leak incident on May 7. ‘More suggestions’ “The NGT had already directed the company to deposit Rs. 50 crore as compensation. It would come up with more suggestions and recommendations which would benefit other industries with regard to safety norms,” he added. Mr. Ramachandra Murthy, who is former Principal of Andhra University Engineering College, asked college professors and students to study the gas leak incident thoroughly and understand importance of safety precautions in the industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngt-member-firm-failed-to-check-old-tank-temperature/article31667463.ece
25 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three Lamp tower will be ready in a month: MLA||MLA Kolagatala Veerabhadra Swamy on Sunday assured that the iconic Three Lamps tower that was demolished would be reconstructed within a month with modern design. Speaking to media here, he alleged that the Opposition parties were trying to highlight the demolition issue ‘although it was not a heritage structure’. “Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju did not respond when the historic Moti Mahal was razed down. Now, he is highlighting the Three Lamp tower issue to get political mileage,” the MLA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-lamp-tower-will-be-ready-in-a-month-mla/article31667576.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allegations of Discom fleecing consumers not true: CMD||With the resentment brewing among a large section of power consumers over the high bills in the last two months, the Eastern Power Distribution Company of Andhra Pradesh Limited (APEPDCL) has said that the complaints are misleading. The electricity revenue offices of the distribution company were flooded with complaints of ‘excessive bills’. The Discom, which has jurisdiction over Viskahapatnam, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and twin Godavari districts, is saying that there has been no increase in the tariff . ‘Additional burden’ While admitting that the consumption had gone up during the lockdown as many people are working from home, CITU State president Ch. Narsinga Rao said that the middle class people were moved to the 500 plus unit slab, forcing them to pay more. “Considering the pandemic-induced misery, the authorities should issue the bills based on the average consumption in February. “There is resentment all over. The authorities should not tax the consumers with hefty bills when they are reeling under the problems owing to the pandemic,” said N. Ramachandra Rao, honorary president of HPCL Visakh Refinery Contract Workers’ Union. Meanwhile, APEPDCL Chairman and Managing Director Nagalakshmi Selvarajan has denied the allegations that the Discom is fleecing the consumers. “Meter readings could not be done in April due to the pandemic. This month, meter readings were taken for two months—April and May. The readings were taken in May for 60 days of usage for the months of March, April and May. But when it comes spot billing system, the total for two-month usage is not counted as a single bill. Monthly consumption was calculated by dividing the total consumption by two,” she clarified. Pro rata policy She further said that slabs were divided as per the pro rata policy. Since the April bill was not issued, the consumers will have to pay the same bill as a temporary bill for April. According to the CMD, the amount of the provisional bill for April was excluded from the bill calculated in three parts. The remaining amount was now paid as May and April. “It is completely untrue to say that billing was done in higher slab based on two-month consumption,” she said. Bill calculations can also be found on the Customer Service Number on the website. This can be confirmed by submitting the bill to the offices of the nearest distribution companies or to the authorities concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allegations-of-discom-fleecing-consumers-false/article31667142.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take them back||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-them-back/article31667538.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Precious liquid||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/precious-liquid/article31667553.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Huge demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/huge-demand/article31667563.ece
25 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Cotton area to go up in old Adilabad||The area under cotton cultivation in former composite Adilabad district will go up from the normal 3.5 lakh hectares to 4 lakh hectares in the ensuing vanakalam or kharif cultivation as per the proposals made under controlled agriculture scheme of the State government. The areas under other crops already conform with the areas given under the proposals which envisage cultivating in a total of 5.7 lakh hectares. Forest Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy, who chaired a meeting of concerned officials and public representatives, said that the government has in place marketing support for farmers. New godowns will be constructed with a capacity of sorting 5,000 tonnes of food grain in mandals which were formed during the reorganisation of districts. The Minister also suggested that farmer go in for crops which are in demand in the yasangi or rabi season. MLA Jogu Ramanna (Adilabad), Rathod Bapu Rao (Boath), Athram Sakku (Asfabad), Collector A. Sridevasena and others attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cotton-area-to-go-up-in-old-adilabad/article31667449.ece
25 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Two robbed||Two employees of a tractor showroom in Adilabad were robbed of Rs. 5 lakh by 10 unidentified persons, about 2 km inside Kinwat taluq of Maharashtra from the Ghanpur inter-State check post, on Sunday. The victims had gone to the villages on some work on a two-wheeler when the offenders accosted them and seized the bag containing the cash. Police were alerted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-robbed/article31667431.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||As cases spike, alert sounded for vulnerable age groups||A partial relaxation of lockdown rules since May 16 has given way to unrestricted movement and crowded streets once again with people starting to go to offices and other places apart from venturing out to meet family and friends. As more people move out of their homes, return or plan to return to their homes from other States by rail or air, a spike in COVID-19 cases is inevitable. Epidemiologists as well as Health department officials have urged people to follow precautions to avoid contracting or spreading the infectious disease. While the elderly and the children have been asked to stay indoors, youngsters have been advised to check their movement to prevent spreading the virus to the vulnerable age groups. Stating that there has been an increase in the COVID-19 positive cases in the past few days, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao issued guidelines for strict compliance. He said that people with morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac illness, chronic kidney diseases, chronic pulmonary disease and other chronic illnesses should stay indoors and avoid any form of travel. Professor and head of Lifecourse Epidemiology at Indian Institute of Public Health, Giridhara R. Babu suggests postponing any large gatherings for at least the next three months. “While the young may not be affected adversely, they can become vectors for the elderly and other vulnerable sections of the population. One has to be responsible. Our adventure to socialise can inadvertently kill others,” he says. Dr Srinivasa Rao also suggests that people aged above 60 years and children below 10 years are vulnerable and that they should avoid going outdoors. He advises people to report to the nearest government healthcare facility and seek services without delay if they have flu or influenza symptoms such as cough, sore throat, running nose, fever, difficulty in breathing, body pain and headache. Suggesting syndromic surveillance — surveillance of a group of symptoms of a disease —and testing to be strengthened at every level, Mr. Giridhara Babu said that loss of smell, loss of taste, headache, chills and myalgia (muscle pain) should also be considered as symptoms of COVID-19. “Research so far shows that loss of smell or loss of taste are the first symptoms of COVID-19,” he said. District Medical and Health Offices and others working at various levels in government health network were directed to monitor Influenza-like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and fever cases, including patients. Officials from the Health department said that Accredited Social Health Activists and Auxiliary Nursing Midwives have been monitoring the illnesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/as-cases-spike-alert-sounded-for-vulnerable-age-groups/article31667413.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Keeping ‘TRAC’ of farming with remote sensing||As part of the regulated farming system to be followed from the coming crop season in Telangana, details of crops cultivated would be enumerated completely with the help of remote sensing applications. This was stated by Minister for Agriculture S. Naranjan Reddy here on Sunday, following his meeting with Additional Director General of Telangana State Remote Sensing Applications Centre (TRAC) G. Sreenivasa Reddy. Stating that agriculture in Telangana would be brought on to “TRAC” from the Vaanakalam season, the minister noted that the remote sensing applications would enable the officials to list exact cultivation details of every crop since it had the ability to identify the extent of cultivation survey number-wise and crop-wise based on colours of crops. Further, the minister stated that by linking the remote sensing applications with crop cutting experiments, estimation of crop yield and production could also be known with 95% reliability. The exercise to link agriculture in Telangana with TRAC had already been set in motion as part of implementation of the comprehensive agriculture policy. According to officials of the Agriculture Department, the ADG of TRAC explained to the minister that remote sensing applications have the capability to identify the soil types and the technology would also help in recommending the fertilizer application to improve the soil fertility by linking the soil health card issuance system with the TRAC. The technology would further help the officials to recommend the type and quantity of fertilizer to be applied for improving the soil fertility based on the soil types and season and it could be done for the entire 1.6 crore acres cultivable landholding by over 56 lakh farmers in the State. The minister stated that the soil health details collected by the agriculture department every season would be linked with the remote sensing applications of TRAC. He also stated that a report would be submitted soon to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on linking the remote sensing application with the agricultural operations in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/keeping-trac-of-farming-with-remote-sensing/article31667443.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Making waves during the lockdown||On a sunny Sunday in March when the All India Radio’s Rainbow FM executives were relaxing after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme, a call on the landline number from a desperate guest worker seeking help from lockdown starvation moved the staff. Immediate intervention through the higher ups with the collaboration of the police department ensured that the needy guest workers were provided with required assistance in no time. For the past 60 days, the radio jockeys of Rainbow FM 101-9 Telugu have endeared themselves to listeners working for almost 18 hours during the crisis. Daily news bulletins As the public broadcaster, Rainbow FM departed from its regular programmes to relay news bulletin every day. “The pandemic had changed our functioning. We had to rejig our services, and ensure total health protocol like social distancing, wearing masks, gloves and using sanitisers. The attempt was to provide informative programmes that created awareness on COVID-19,” says Kameswari, Programme Executive of Rainbow FM, Hyderabad. “During this pandemic, Rainbow FM ensured that important messages from the government is dissipated properly to the target audience in a simple and straight manner,” Ms Kameswari pointed out. The Rainbow FM team gives all credit to their Deputy Director General (Programmes) Sailaja Suman for the innovative concept introduced from time to time. Ms. Sailaja Suman told The Hindu that the programmes during the lockdown period were made more interactive and innovative. Crucial messages Utmost care was taken by the broadcaster to air messages from top dignitaries and it also roped in experts from the medical and health sector and saw to it that motivation bytes from popular personalities also found a place in their programmes. “Participation of the layman on call to articulate his/her views gave a sense of responsibility to the individual,” Ms Kameswari noted. Ms. Kameswari said Rainbow Telugu’s show, including the popular SINGIDI, aired live from 12 noon to 3 p.m. every day from Adilabad, Kothagudem, Nizamabad and Warangal FM stations were a hit. “We not only received calls from Telangana but neighbouring Andhra Pradesh too, and surprising a couple more even from abroad,” she remarked. Social media Lockdown also gave an opportunity to AIR to revive people’s interest in plays. In tune with Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati’s observation, it was decided to bring some of the best works into the public domain. AIR’s interview treasures and iconic plays of Hyderabad station of All India Radio were posted on YouTube. AIR Hyderabad’s programmes are centralised on its official YouTube channel, ‘AIRHyderabad’ where they are categorised into 10 different sections. There is good traction for @AirHyderabad on Twitter, and its Facebook page Akashavani Hyderabad gets good views.  During this pandemic, Rainbow FM ensured that important messages from government is dissipated properly to the target audience in a simple manner. Kameswari, Programme Executive of Rainbow FM, Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/making-waves-during-the-lockdown/article31667417.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||196 migrant labour special trains operated: SCR||The South Central Railway (SCR) has till now run 196 Shramik Special trains transporting over 2.40 lakh migrant workers to their destinations with the last one lakh passengers transported in the past week. While 128 services were run from Telangana to transport 1.56 lakh passengers, 53 trains ran from Andhra Pradesh to carry over 66,000 passengers and 15 trains from Maharashtra with around 20,000 passengers. In fact, a record 43 Shramik Special trains were run within a span of 12 hours from various railway stations between 4 p.m. on Saturday and the early hours of Sunday. Forty (40) of these Shramik Special trains were run from Secunderabad, Hyderabad, Kacheguda, Ghatkesar, Lingampally, Mahabubnagar and Kazipet stations. Ten trains moved towards Bihar, six to Jharkhand, eight to Uttar Pradesh, 12 to Odisha and four to other states. Three other Shramik Special trains commenced journey with migrant workers from Nambur, and Kadapa stations in A.P. and Aurangabad station in Maharashtra with around 40,000 workers availing the facility. Extensive arrangements were made at the railway stations from where the migrant special trains originated, said General Manager Gajanan Mallya, who has been personally monitoring the operations in close co-ordination with the principal head of departments at the headquarters and Divisional Railway Managers (DRMs). While state government authorities handled the registration, identification and booking of passenger trains, Railways has drawn a comprehensive plan to ensure that the train operations are efficiently deployed to provide a hassle-free travel to passengers with precision scheduling and sanitisation of railway stations and trains. Food, water etc. were provided to passengers in coordination with state governments. Norms associated with social distancing, wearing of masks etc., were adhered to by the Railway personnel, he said. The highest number of trains from May 1, when the inaugural migrant train started, were to Bihar with 59 carrying 79,530 passengers followed by 48 trains towards Uttar Pradesh with 57,417 passengers and 24 trains towards Jharkhand with 26,782 passengers. One train each moved towards Jammu and Kashmir, Manipur and Tripura, carrying 3,000 passengers altogther, said chief PRO Ch. Rakesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/196-migrant-labour-special-trains-operated-scr/article31667424.ece
25 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress leaders visit ‘encroached’ OU lands||Congress leaders led by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka visited the land site of Osmania University near the DD colony that has been in controversy with students and the varsity staff accusing private people of occupying it illegally. The Congress delegation also had former MPs V. Hanumantha Rao and Ponnam Prabhakar and former MLAs A. Sampath Kumar and Challa Vamshichand Reddy, apart from student leaders Manavata Roy and Chanagani Dayakar. Mr. Hanumantha Rao picked up an argument with the police, charging them with supporting those who had occupied the land. Later, speaking to reporters, Mr. Uttam Reddy warned of serious consequences if even an inch of land belonging to Osmania University was encroached upon by anyone. He demanded that the State government stop the illegal construction activities by private persons on lands belonging to Osmania University and also demanded a high-level probe into the encroachments and stern action against those involved in the act. Reminding one of the sacrifices made by the OU students and teachers in the formation of Telangana state, he said it was unfortunate that instead of strengthening the Osmania University further, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had adopted an approach that was causing huge damage. He alleged that KCR had a special grudge against the Osmania University as he had been denied the opportunity to speak on the occasion of centenary celebrations. He said the Congress would make a representation to the Governor on the issue soon as she was the Chancellor of the varsity and the custodian of its properties. Mr. Vikramarka saw a conspiracy in “letting” the encroachments go on by the government while opening the private universities. Poor and socially backward students came to the Osmanica University for higher studies and there was a conspiracy to deny them that opportunity, he alleged. Mr. Hanumanth Rao alleged that the BJP was silent on the issue as a retired judge close to its leaders was involved in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-leaders-visit-encroached-ou-lands/article31667430.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS adopts Union Ministry’s guidelines for travellers||The State Health department will implement guidelines for international and domestic travellers issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday. Domestic passengers who are to reach the State by flights, trains, or by road will be allowed to go to home if they do not have any symptoms of COVID-19, provided that they self-monitor their health. Call for assistance However, if they later develop any symptoms or health complications, they have to dial helpline numbers 104 or 108. Those with symptoms will be quarantined and tests will be conducted after their swab samples are collected. Health Minister Eatala Rajender’s office on Sunday stated that domestic travellers need not undergo mandatory quarantine period of 14 days unless they are symptomatic. Mr Rajender held a tele-conference with senior officials in the Health department to discuss the Ministry’s guidelines. It states that only asymptomatic passengers (international or domestic air travellers) will be allowed to travel. The same will apply to passengers travelling by trains or buses. Undertaking  In case of international travellers, they have to submit an undertaking that they would undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days — seven days institutional quarantine, followed by seven days of isolation at home with self-monitoring. However, in case of distress, pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parent(s) accompanied by children below 10 years, as assessed by the receiving States, home quarantine may be permitted for 14 days. Similar exception is being extended to international travellers in Telangana for the past two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-adopts-union-ministrys-guidelines-for-travellers/article31667415.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Id celebration to be a low-key affair||With Ramzan concluding on Sunday, Id-ul-Fitr this year is likely to be a largely quiet affair, given the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown. On Sunday, Id eve, as the second siren blared from speakers affixed atop minarets of mosques after 7 pm, indicating the end of the holy month of Ramzan, there was no shopping frenzy as had been witnessed in the previous years. And despite the relaxations in the lockdown, shops remained closed on account of the night curfew, and hardly any one ventured out. “Even during the day, several shops were closed. Towards the afternoon, there was a bit of activity in areas such as Nampally and Mallepally, but people mostly bought fruits, and milk for sheerkhurma . But the rush as seen on any other night before Id was missing. Not many bought new clothes,” said Ahmed Farooqui, a team leader in an ITeS company. Proprietors of clothing stores too said business this year was next to ‘negligible’ as were the crowds. Jameel Khan (name changed), who runs a chain of ethnic wear showrooms in the city, said, “In the last five days, our stores were packed with little room to move. The sale would be between Rs. 5 lakh and Rs. 8 lakh on a normal festival day. Now, it is barely Rs. 25,000. The odd-even rule has hit us.” Others pointed out that the ‘No Eid Shopping’ movement too had played a part in people not doing much shopping. “This found a lot of takers. The idea was not to buy clothes and give the same amount which you would have spent to those in need,” said Syed Faheem, a dentist. Many are prepared to offer Id prayers at home, as directed by the Muslim clergy and the State government. According to Mufti Omar Abedeen Qasmi Madani, an Islamic scholar, those who wish to pray in their homes can do so with a congregation of four persons, including an imam who can be one of the male family members. Meanwhile, the Islamic seminary, Jamia Nizamia, issued a statement, asking Muslims to offer prayers of gratitude or Chaasht prayers at home. Chaasht prayers, it stated, could be offered between 7 am and 11.30 am.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/id-celebration-to-be-a-low-key-affair/article31667439.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State awaiting guidelines of PMMSY||The Fisheries Department is eagerly awaiting the formulation of guidelines for the Prime Minister’s Matsya Sampada Yojana, an integrated fisheries development scheme announced by the Central government recently. The ambitious scheme with an estimated investment of Rs. 20,050 crore consists of the Central and State governments’ share as well as beneficiary contribution. Accordingly, the scheme envisaged augmenting fish productivity at sustained average annual growth of nine per cent to achieve the target of production of over 20 million metric tonne within five years. Senior officials of Fisheries department said the scheme was aimed at creating critical infrastructure including modernising and strengthening of value chain that would generate at least employment potential of 15 lakh direct jobs. The Telangana government, which was mainly relying on inland fishing, had initiated several programmes in the past three years. The government had been constantly releasing fishlings and shrimp (fresh water scampi) into close to 16,000 water bodies including major reservoirs. This is in addition to Rs. 750 crore spent on providing vending units, nets, life jackets and setting up model fish markets. As a result of the efforts, the fish and shrimp yield which was less than 1.6 lakh metric tonne prior to 2016-17 has almost doubled in the past three years and crossed three lakh metric tonne mark by the end of the previous financial year. With the announcement of the new scheme by the Centre, the department said it was geared up for absorbing any project funding that would come from the Matsya Sampada Yojana and proposals would be submitted to the Centre accordingly to avail the subsidy that would form part of the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-awaiting-guidelines-of-pmmsy/article31667445.ece
25 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Six, including parents, arrested for trying to sell infant||A couple who tried to sell their infant to a childless couple through agents were arrested by the Jeedimetla police on Sunday morning. They had struck a deal for Rs. 22,000. In a join operation, the police and District Child Protection Unit rescued the two-month-old baby-boy at Devendernagar of Gajularamamaram in Jeedimetla. The couple, Saritha and Madan Singh, had migrated to Hyderabad from Mahabubabad district a few years ago and were working on daily wage. “Madan is addicted to alcohol and decided to sell their new-born for Rs.22,000 to a issueless couple through agents. The couple also signed a bond,” Jeedimetla police said. The four agents, who were arrested, were identified as Sheshu, Aravind, Yadamma and Mahesh. “We reached and rescued the infant. Later, the infant, along with six-year-old brother, was shifted to Shishu Vihar at Ameerpert.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/six-including-parents-arrested-for-trying-to-sell-infant/article31667425.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State transports 50,000 workers in single day||The State government successfully arranged for transport of over 50,000 migrant labour to different destinations in a single day on Sunday. This follows the hassle-free transport of over one lakh people in the past few days. The government has so far ensured transport of 1.58 lakh migrant labour through 124 Shramik Special trains and as many as 40 trains were operated from different stations across the State on Sunday alone. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar thanked the police department and other departments for their cooperation in the exercise. The government, he said, had incurred an expenditure of Rs. 13.15 crore in transporting migrant workers to their destinations and the government could successfully send back all the migrant workers, except those from West Bengal. Arrangements had been made to transport workers from the State through 10 trains and the date of their transport would be decided after studying the situation there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-transports-50000-workers-in-single-day/article31667428.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP alleges large scale graft in irrigation deals||Telangana BJP accused the TRS government of resorting to “colossal” corrupt practices in irrigation projects in the last six years and claimed it reached its peak by floating tenders to the tune of Rs. 24,096 crore during the lockdown. In a memorandum submitted to Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan on Saturday, State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, city president N. Ramchander Rao and other leaders urged her to order an inquiry so the “guilty can be punished”. They specifically listed the latest tenders of Rs. 19,862 crore for Kaleshwaram project and Rs. 4,234 crore for Sitarama lift irrigation. Tracing the projects’ construction from the time TRS had come to power, the party charged that in the name of redesigning existing projects, the government had escalated the cost to about Rs. 2.5 lakh crore with costs of various components highly escalated and works handed over to “favoured firms”. For most projects, no global tenders were called and no cost benefit ratio or techno-economic options for these were worked out as per laid out norms. The expertise of public sector units like BHEL and others were not taken for various components like motors, gates and pumps in these projects whereas the PSUs were given works at 1/10th of the cost and did a wonderful job in the previous works. Listing out other ‘scandals’ in irrigation projects redesign, the BJP accused the TRS government of pushing TS into a debt trap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-alleges-large-scale-graft-in-irrigation-deals/article31667444.ece
25 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Municipal worker killed in road accident||A sweeper with the Kompally municipality died and two others suffered injuries after he was hit by an unidentified vehicle while he was doing his job at Kompally on Sunday morning. R. Siddiramulu (52) worked as an outsourced employee. Around 6.30 a.m. when he was sweeping the road near Kompally bus stop, an unidentified vehicle driven in a “rash and negligent manner” hit the victim and two of his colleagues, Sulochana and Laxmi. Siddiramulu suffered fracture on the ribs and bleeding injuries on the head. They were rushed to Balaji Hospital where he died while undergoing treatment, Pet Basheerabad police said. The two injured were said to be out of danger. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/municipal-worker-killed-in-road-accident/article31667426.ece
25 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tamilisai, KCR greet people||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao greeted people on the eve of Id-ul-Fitr. Dr. Soundararajan said: “On the solemn occasion of the culmination of holy month of Ramadan as Id-ul-Fitr, I extend my warm greetings and good wishes to all Muslim brothers and sisters. The teachings of Holy Quran have shaped the lives of the society over the ages. “Ramzan is a reminder to us of the purpose of life as ordained by God that only through rigorous self-discipline is it possible to realise the eternal life, she said. “On this holy Id-ul-Fitr day, let us redeem our pledge to respect the dignity of human being, the sanctity of life and essence of religious preachings. Let this auspicious occasion help us to face and come out of the critical situation of Covid-19,” the Governor noted. The Chief Minister expressed the hope that Ramzan would usher in happiness among people. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tamilisai-kcr-greet-people/article31667422.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No buses from airport||As airlines are scheduled to resume operations at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport from Monday, an official of the TSRTC clarified that there would be no bus services from the airport. “The operations to and from the airport are still considered city operations. So far, we have no instructions to resume operations from the airport.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-buses-from-airport/article31667441.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Brief: Traffic||A home guard with traffic branch, who was allegedly harassing a woman doctor, was placed under suspension by Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Sunday. The woman, who reportedly interns at a hospital in the city, recently lodged a complaint with Central Crime Station stating that a police officer was constantly sending her messages on WhatsApp and sexually harassing her. Based on her complaint, a case was registered and home guard Venkatesh was suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brief-traffic/article31667427.ece
25 May 2020||KAMAREDDY,TELANGANA||Honour for Congress IT cell chief||Congress State IT cell chairman and party Zaheerabad Lok Sabha constituency in-charge Madan Mohan has been presented “Certificate of Appreciation” by the Human Rights Council of India for his services in combating spread of COVID-19 and also to the poor and needy during the lockdown. He had undertaken spraying of disinfecticide-Hypochloride solution on a big scale to control the spread of the virus and distributed essential commodities to a large number of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/honour-for-congress-it-cell-chief/article31667434.ece
25 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||KLIP has cut dependence on monsoon: Eatala||The Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP) has allowed the people of integrated Karimnagar district start their agricultural activities without waiting for the monsoon, said Health Minister Eatala Rajender. “Gone are the days when farmers of SRSP and LMD command areas waited only for water to be released through canals to take up cultivation. Now, all the minor irrigation tanks are filled to the brim with KLIP water to let farmers start agricultural activities without waiting for the rains,” he said, and added that there was no shortage of water for irrigation and drinking water needs in the district. Mr. Rajender along with Minister for Social Welfare Koppula Eshwar and Minister for BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar, Peddapalli MP Venkatesh Netha, elected representatives of Karimnagar, Jagtial and Peddapalli and district officials participated at a review meeting on kharif (Vanakalam) action plan at the Collectorate on Sunday. He called upon farmers to go for a fine variety of paddy instead of the regular variety for better profits. Stating that the district has emerged as the rice bowl of Telangana and also the seed bowl of the country, he said that the majority of farmers cultivate paddy in the district due to availability of water. He urged them to take up other crops like cotton, red gram, green gram and soya bean. He also informed farmers to take up turmeric and cultivate maize as only inter-crop for better yields. He said that the agriculture scientists would conduct soil tests and ask them to take up cultivation of different varieties of crops. Minister for Social Welfare Koppula Eshwar said that the completion of KLIP had ensured that each and every village secured the Godavari water. He said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had allocated Rs. 100 crore to ensure that water reached all the minor irrigation tanks that did not get water through KLIP. Minister for BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar instructed farmers to take up cultivation at least two months in advance to avoid losses following unseasonal rains and hailstorms. He said that they were importing the fine variety of paddy to be consumed in the State due to farmers cultivating only the normal variety, which was being consumed by other states. MLCs T. Jeevan Reddy, T. Bhanu Prasad Rao and N. Laxman Rao, legislators D. Sridhar Babu, Sunke Ravishankar, Rasamayi Balakishan, M. Sanjay Kumar, D. Manohar Reddy, V. Satish Babu, Korukanti Chander, ZP chairpersons and collectors of the three districts and officials were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/klip-has-cut-dependence-on-monsoon-eatala/article31667466.ece
25 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Distancing norms ignored at meeting||The mandatory physical distancing norm went for a toss at a review meeting conducted by three ministers to discuss about the kharif (vanakalam) action plan in Karimnagar town on Sunday. Health Minister Eatala Rajender, Social Welfare Minister Koppula Eshwar and Minister for BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar convened a meeting with the elected representatives of Karimnagar, Jagtial and Peddapalli to talk about the kharif action plan at the Collectorate conference hall. With elected representatives and officials of the three districts along with their gunmen and other assistants, the conference hall was packed to capacity, flouting the physical distancing norm. Hordes of media personnel further congested the venue. The conference hall has sufficient room to accommodate officials of only one district with at least one metre between two chairs. But, with the arrival of officials from all the three districts such as MPs, MLCs and MLAs, and ZP chairpersons, it was jam-packed. Gunmen of all elected representatives also remained inside the hall. The district officials could have used the spacious Collectorate auditorium, which was renovated recently by the NTPC officials, as part of its corporate social responsibility with all kinds of amenities. The Karimnagar district officials earlier, spoke in favour of conducting all future meetings only at the Collectorate auditorium to maintain social distancing norms to check the spread of the deadly virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/distancing-norms-ignored-at-meeting/article31667468.ece
25 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Lockdown helps expedite Smart City work in Karimnagar||With the restoration of some normalcy in the town, the district authorities have resumed laying of CC roads in various parts of Karimnagar as part of the Smart City project work. The works were taken up in the first week of April and gained pace with the deployment of huge machinery, but with fewer labourers. Taking advantage of the lockdown and curfew, the executing agencies intensified the road works and completed almost 70% of the project and are giving final touches such as laying special cycle track and footpaths. As there was no traffic on any of the busy roads following the lockdown and curfew, authorities were able to complete 70% of the works. The Smart City CC road works were taken up at Ambedkar Stadium, Collectorate road, Women’s College road, Kisannagar, Malkapur road, Ramachandrapur Colony, Housing Board Colony and other areas. Besides, beautification of Ambedkar stadium was also taken up. Mayor Y. Shekhar Rao said a total of Rs. 240 crore worth Smart City works were progressing at various stages and almost nearing completion and added that all the Smart City roads would be having special cycle track and beautified with footpaths. All the roads would also have special two-side lighting arrangements. The civic authorities would not allow encroachments on the footpaths or dig any part of the CC roads in future for any purpose. Only pedestrians would be allowed to use footpaths, the Mayor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-helps-expedite-smart-city-work-in-karimnagar/article31667464.ece
25 May 2020||KOTCHHAGUTTAPALLY (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||80-year-old village submerged||It is water all around. The houses that witnessed heavy activity till recently have slowly become submerged. First the basement, then steps to the house. Windows, walls and roof. The Godavari water submerged all these houses and other buildings in the village. The water reached the roof level of some houses. On the other side of the village, the water flowed into the fields. Kotchhaguttapally village, of Chinnakodur mandal, is the first village in Siddipet district to be completely submerged by Godavari water from Annapurna reservoir that came up on the borders of Sircilla and Siddipet districts. The Annapurna reservoir was constructed with a capacity of 3.5 tmcft. While Anthagiri was submerged in Sircilla district, Kotchhaguttapally was submerged here. This village had a population of about 300 with about 104 houses. More than 95% villagers are dependent on farming and allied activities. They used to cultivate vegetables and send them to the markets at Gangapur (6 km away), Siddipet (20 km), Sircilla (30 km) and Karimnagar (50 km). This is under Allipur revenue village and about 400 acres of agriculture land in the village was submerged. There used to be a primary school and an anganwadi centre in the village. About a few years ago, the primary school had about 50 students and the last figure in the school was single digit as gradually everyone had vacated the village. “Ours is the first village in Siddipet district, with more than eight decades of history, submerged by Godavari water under Annapurna reservoir, which is part of the Kaleshwaram project. I was born and brought up in this village. I worked as private teacher and now stopped working. I had lost three acres to the project and received Rs. 6 lakh per acre. We bid goodbye to our village on the night of April 19, 2020. Our village was buried on the bed of Godavari,” Kommagalla Ramanji, one of the villagers, told The Hindu . "After shifting us to Lingareddypally Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony, no one is hearing us. Promises made by officials are yet to be fulfilled. We do not know what to do now,”said E. Malla Reddy, another villager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/80-year-old-village-submerged/article31667436.ece
25 May 2020||N. Rahul,TELANGANA||Increase in cotton crop area to come with strict vigil||The State government’s decision to increase crop area of cotton by 10.55 lakh acres for farmers to be able to access its investment support money through Rytu Bandhu in the ensuing agricultural season was likely to be implemented with a strict vigil on seed companies and dealers. Apart from keeping a close watch on spurious seed, the government was said to be focussed on checking the sale of banned Bollgard 3 cotton seed which found its way to fields in the State a few years ago as an unbranded variety and promise of higher yield. A strict enforcement of provisions of Environment Protection Act, 1986, which laid down rigorous imprisonment up to seven years for seed dealers was on cards, sources said. Against a cotton area of 54.45 lakh acres last year, the government has decided now to increase the acreage to 65 lakh acres. This was likely to spur seed companies and dealers to sell Bollgard 3 by dubious means as it appeared no different from its earlier version -- BG 2 -- which was permitted. The BG 3 was an innovation in Bt cotton as it took care of weed problem at much lower cost compared to physical labour required for weeding. But, it required spraying of glyphosate, a highly hazardous herbicide to human health and biodiversity, to manage plant growth and ripen fruit. Steps will be taken to curb indiscriminate use of glyphosate, sources added. The sale of BG 3 has grown over the years not only because of its merits but the vulnerability of BG 2 to pink bollworm pest attack. Taking this as an opportunity, the seed companies and dealers resorted to sale of BG 3 by online platforms and secret means. The cotton area had steadily increased from 42.32 lakh acres in the first year of State formation (2014-15) to 54.45 lakh acres last year. At the same time, the minimum support price of the crop also went up during the period from Rs. 4,050 a quintal to Rs. 5,450 in 2018-19 and by another Rs. 100 last year. Also, the yields increased significantly due to good rains. This raised hopes in farmers and, now, with government linking up Rytu Bandhu to 65 lakh acres of cropped area the demand for seed will go up substantially. It was estimated that 1.30 crore seed packets were required with a cushion of another 10 lakh packets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/increase-in-cotton-crop-area-to-come-with-strict-vigil/article31667448.ece
25 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||How amenable will farmers be to the new cropping policy?||It remains to be seen as to how farmers would react if the government decides to implement its new cropping policy forcefully as it lays emphasis on undertaking Irrigated Dry crops in larger acreage in the place of paddy even when there is adequate quantity of water in Sriramsagar and also in small and medium reservoirs and tanks. Under its compulsive cropping policy, the government is suggesting to grow soya bean, cotton and red gram in monsoon in the district which is basically known as a rice bowl and commercial crops such as turmeric and maize. Authorities already started the campaign asking farmers not to raise maize and if they want to plant it only as an inter crop to turmeric. Farmers are also afraid of raising sanna rakam variety of paddy which is a long duration crop and highly prone to pests. Moreover, the variety has no MSP and the government would not procure it whereas the doddu rakam has MSP and is procured by the government. Earlier, the government encouraged doddu rakam as it used to be supplied to the poor through Public Distribution System. “Farmers would have no objection to transplant sanna rakam if the government assures to procure it giving bonus. In the total paddy production doddu variety constitutes 90 per cent and farmers are very much used to it,” said a farmer Vidyasagar Reddy. Meanwhile, as there is adequate quantity of water in Sriramsagar Project farmers as usual every year are tilting towards undertaking cultivation of paddy in the current kharif under its ayacut and they are likely to insist on the early release of water for raising seedlings and transplantation irrespective of the government’s latest policy on crop pattern. Given the water position in SRSP, the government may not oppose the demand unlike in 2018 when it deployed hundreds of policemen in Balkonda and Armoor to disperse the farmers agitating for water release for raising seedlings and transplantation. As on today the reservoir contains 29.722 tmcft as against 6.042 tmcft this day last year. Paddy of both varieties is raised in over 3.5 lakh acres in the district and this year it would be cultivated even in more acres. Sannam rakalu is planted in 1 lakh acres and the ‘doddu’ is in the rest.  In the total paddy production doddu (coarse) variety constitutes 90 % and farmers are very much used to it. Vidyasagar Reddy,Farmer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/how-amenable-will-farmers-be-to-the-new-cropping-policy/article31667451.ece
25 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Minister tells farmers to grow crops that have demand||Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy has called upon farmers to follow the cultivation of crops that have demand in market and would bring profit, as suggested by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. He said in his Balkonda constituency, in the last kharif, farmers cultivated crop in over 60,000 acres and this season too they were expected to raise it almost in the same acreage. However, they should raise sanna rakam in 30,000 acres and doddu rakam in the remaining 30,000 acres, he said. Addressing a gathering of chairpersons of Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies, representatives of rythu samitis, elected representatives of local bodies and authorities at his native village Velpur, on Sunday, he asked them to wean away farmers form sowing maize in monsoon. In the remaining 5,000 acres cotton, red gram and vegetable could be grown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-tells-farmers-to-grow-crops-that-have-demand/article31667450.ece
25 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Kavitha’s gesture to bereaved NRI||With the initiative of former MP K. Kavitha, a non-resident Indian in Dubai, Potarajula Srinivas, who lost his wife and daughter in a road accident on May 15 could reach home in Laxettipet of Karimnagar district directly from airport despite quarantine guidelines on Sunday. After visiting home, he returned to quarantine. He saw the funeral of his wife and daughter in skype. Meanwhile, Kirankumar Peecharla, member of ETCA, brought the problem to the notice of Ms. Kavitha through twitter. She called upon the Chief Secretary and the DGP to allow Srinivas to visit the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kavithas-gesture-to-bereaved-nri/article31667432.ece
25 May 2020||P. Sridhar,TELANGANA||Tik Tok video reunites 60-year-old with family||A Tik Tok video shot in Punjab showing a philanthropic activity amid the coronavirus lockdown helped reunite a hearing and speech-impaired man with his family members. The 60-year-old man had gone untraceable from a small village in Burgampadu mandal here in the district over two years ago. The man identified as R. Venkateshwarlu of Pinapaka Pattinagar village had left home in search of work in April 2018. Since then he remained untraceable as the relentless efforts by his family members to find him proved futile. A missing case was subsequently lodged in the local police station the same year, sources said. Venkateshwarlu suddenly surfaced in a Tik Tok video reportedly shot in Ludhiana while receiving food from some donors on the roadside a couple of days ago. Nagendar, a youth from Pinapaka Pattinagar, identified the deaf-mute man in a Tik Tok video while watching it on his smartphone four days ago. He immediately alerted Peddi Raju, elder son of Venkateshwarlu, who approached Burgampadu police for help. Following quick response of the district police authorities, who had issued a transit pass, Peddi Raju along with his friend left for Ludhiana in Punjab in a hired vehicle on Friday, sources added. To return today Peddi Raju met his father Venkateshwarlu in Punjab on Sunday, said Burgampadu sub-inspector of police Radhakrishna. “They are expected to reach their native village by Monday evening,” he said, adding that the chance sighting of the missing man in a video helped in reuniting him with his family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tik-tok-video-reunites-60-year-old-with-family/article31667421.ece
25 May 2020||S. Harpal Singh,TELANGANA||Momentous exodus presents contrasting picture in charity||In what was a momentous event of a two-month-long migrant worker exodus from southern States, charity presented itself in a contrasting picture. While the civil society took part in a big way in providing succour to woe begone workers on to the NH44 passing through former united Adilabad district, the politicians were missing as they had restricted themselves to help the poor people in towns and villages who constituted their electorate. There were exceptions like Bharatiya Janata Party State executive committee member C. Suhasini Reddy who came onto the highway and served food to the hungry and tired migrant labourers for about a week at the beginning of this month. From the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi it was Kagaznagar MLA Koneru Konappa, Mancherial MLA N. Diwakar Rao and MLC Puranam Satish who participated in feeding the labour for a brief while on the Mancherial-Chandrapur NH. Two roads, the NH 44 and the Mancherial-Chandrapur national highway, which pass through old Adilabad, are the main links connecting the south with central and north India. An estimated minimum of 3 lakh migrant workers have crossed into Maharashtra so far either on foot or on top of lorries through these roads. “Our conscience suffered a jolt on seeing groups of tired and famished workers, including women and small children walking on the NH 44, towards the end of March. They had walked all the 300 km from Hyderabad and had to go a further 400 km to reach their home in Madhya Pradesh,” recalled Bheemsari sarpanch Mayur Chandra, who was among the tens of civil society organisations and teams from Adilabad to organise food camps by the side of NH44 on Adilabad bypass which falls in Nirmal Assembly constituency represented by Forest Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy, Boath Assembly constituency represented by Rathod Bapu Rao, Adilabad Assembly constituency represented by Jogu Ramanna and the Parliamentary constituency represented by Soyam Bapu Rao of BJP. The villagers of Pipparwada, from where the border with Maharashtra is about 3 km, served food and water to the migrants until the second week of May while the team from Soma Enterprises Limited, the highway concessionaire continued to provide food till the exodus ended. “No leader has come to the highway even to check how the ‘partners in development’, as Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao termed them, are faring. They, however, were found seizing photo opportunities while donating essential commodities among the local needy, evidently because the latter comprised electorate,” a sarpanch observed as he criticised leaders for their apathy towards a human crisis. “In fact, some leaders from a national party even wanted essential commodities being distributed by civil society groups to be routed through them. Apparently, the leaders wanted all the praise for themselves without spending a penny,” a critic of the local leaders added.  No leader has come to the highway even to check how the ‘partners in development’ are faring. They, however, were found seizing photo opportunities while donating essential commodities among the local needy. A sarpanch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/momentous-exodus-presents-contrasting-picture-in-charity/article31667420.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||IPS officers hoping for lifting of ‘lockdown’ in transfers||The long due transfer of IPS officers in the State has become a riddle wrapped in mystery, especially for those who got promoted but continue to remain in their previous posts. Working at the same place for more than two years had made the job monotonous. The cops, especially young ones are hoping that their plea for transfer would reach the top brass. Grapevine is that the top brass is disinclined to give it a thought though three Superintendents of Police held additional charge of their neighbouring districts during COVID-19 crisis while several in reserve continue to eye strategi-cally important posts. And many continue to remain in the same position for close to four years.     A thought that crossed the minds of every electronic goods shop owner was whether they will get customers post-lockdown, given the bad shape of economy. To their surprise, when the showrooms opened last week after two months it was a windfall for them as people whose handsets were damaged turned up in large numbers. Curiously, another set of customers were buyers of tablets. With all indications that at least the initial days of the new academic year for schools was likely to be online education, parents are thronging electronic shops to purchase tablets for their children. Where the showrooms disposed of 10 to 15 tablets a month, they are already selling two or three of them everyday Most of the tablets in demand are common variety in the range of Rs. 3,000 per piece while the costly ones are not preferred by middle-class customers.     On May 22, Armoor legislator A. Jeevan Reddy posted a picture on one of the social media platforms reminding Nizamabad MP Dharampuri Arvind of his poll promise on a bond paper that he would quit his post if he failed to achieve turmeric board in Nizamabad and minimum support price for turmeric and red jowar. Tagging the MP to his post, Mr. Reddy said on the occasion of Mr. Arvind’s completion of one year in office after election: “Hope you remember about the bond paper.” In response, several of the MP’s followers and critics of the ruling TRS trolled Mr. Jeevan Reddy for hours reminding the several unkept promises made by the ‘key’ leaders of TRS and sought to know as to how many times the latter had beheaded themselves as promised on the failure to keep the poll promises. Abhinay Deshpande, N. Rahul and B. Chandrashekhar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ips-officers-hoping-for-lifting-of-lockdown-in-transfers/article31667446.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||The struggle for a dignified funeral||Outside the CNG cremation chamber at Nigambodh Ghat, Dinesh Singh stood in the sun wearing a blue protective gear, waiting for his turn to perform the last rites of his father, Abhay Singh, 65, a retired municipal officer who was “suspected” to have died of COVID-19. Singh’s body had been lying in an ambulance for over two hours. His turn will come after four-five hours, Mr. Dinesh was told. The wait did not antagonise Mr. Dinesh too much. He had already been through worse in the last 10 days. Five of those days were spent making the rounds of Lok Nayak Hospital to claim the body of his father. The hospital was not ready to hand over Singh’s body to his son as the former’s COVID-19 test report hadn’t arrived. Finally, on the morning of May 20, Mr. Dinesh signed a document which said “suspected case of COVID-19” and took the possession of the body from the hospital mortuary. “His body has begun to putrefy and boils had started appearing. He had retired as an inspector-rank officer from MCD. How could they treat him like this after death?” asked the son. Mr. Dinesh said his family’s ordeal started on the night of May 9 when his father complained of fever. He called for an ambulance at 11 p.m. but it arrived at his residence seven hours later. Singh was taken to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital where they admitted him in the emergency ward. “A few hours later they told me that they were shifting my father to the Lok Nayak Hospital because he had symptoms of COVID-19. We were apprehensive about the facilities at Lok Nayak but the hospital did not listen to us and sent my father there around 10 a.m.,” he said. On reaching Lok Nayak Hospital, Mr. Dinesh was allegedly informed that there were no beds available and Singh was left unattended on a stretcher in the corridor. “I begged them to attend to my father but they kept sending me from one department to another. My father was hungry and thirsty, I brought him a packet of biscuits. Around 4 p.m., they finally decided to admit him,” said Mr. Dinesh.  No communication Being taken to the ward was the last time Mr. Dinesh saw or heard of his father. “I was told I won’t be allowed to visit my father. I asked the staff how would I be able to contact him because he does not know how to operate a phone, neither is he in a condition to make a call. They took my number and told me they will inform me if required but I never got any call,” he said. Mr. Dinesh claimed that his sisters continued to call the hospital on the landline number for the next four days but never got any information about their father. “The first time my sister called, she was, in fact, told that there was no patient by that name,” he said. On May 15, Mr. Dinesh received a call from the police around 4 p.m. asking for a photograph of his father. “I was shocked. The policemen told me that my father had passed away and asked me to come to the police post,” the son said. “We don’t know when he died, though the hospital said May 15. They did not even inform me about his death, the police did.” For the next five days, Singh’s body lay in the mortuary and the hospital staff kept telling Mr. Dinesh that his father’s COVID-19 test report was awaited as the sample had been sent to Moradabad for testing.       The missing report    “The body started to decompose. Every day, I visited the mortuary and asked the staff if the report had come and if I could take his body,” said Mr. Kumar, adding that the hospital staff were “not at all cooperative”. On May 19, an official at the mortuary told Mr. Dinesh in confidence that there was no point waiting and they could hand over the body with a document stating Singh was “ suspected of COVID-19”. “We took the document and the body at 7.30 a.m. on May 20 and brought it to Nigambodh Ghat,” he said. The family’s troubles, however, did not end there. At the cremation ground, they were informed that only two CNG machines were working. “We had come here at 8 a.m. Four hours have passed and now they are saying that only one machine is working and we will have to wait for four more hours,” said Mr. Dinesh. Singh’s family members were not the only ones waiting for his cremation. The ambulance driver, employed with the municipal corporation, said that every day he had to wait till the body he ferried was taken for cremation. “ Bhookhe-pyaase baithe hain subah se (I have not had anything to eat of drink since morning)” he said. A visibly frustrated Mr. Dinesh said, “They claim the government is prepared to deal with COVID-19. They’re clearly not.” A senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation official informed that there are six cremation machines at the Nigambodh Ghat grounds. While three have been undergoing maintenance work, the other three are functional. On complaints of delays in cremating bodies, he said that families have been asked to inform authorities in advance before bringing the body. “They come whenever they like. We can’t stop cremating a body which is already in the machine,” the official said. Lok Nayak Hospital’s medical director Suresh Kumar said, “There is not much delay in releasing bodies from the hospital. There were some issues at the Nigambodh Ghat and we have told the MCD Commissioner about it. They are increasing the capacity at the crematorium.” The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to a query on the delay. Mr. Dinesh said his family had not been asked to quarantine themselves and they had not undergone any COVID-19 test. The COVID test result of Singh remains a mystery.  Same story, same pain A similar ordeal was faced by the family of Purushottam Kumar, 51, a resident of Jahangirpuri who passed away at BSA Hospital. His report, too, stated that he was “suspected of COVID-19”. Kumar’s relative Pradeep Goyal, who had been waiting at the Nigambodh Ghat since 9 a.m., finally cremated the body at 4.30 p.m. Mr. Goyal said Kumar had passed away on May 16 but they received the body on May 20. “On May 16, we took him to BSA Hospital after he complained of breathing difficulty. Initially, no doctor attended to him and when they finally came, he had already passed away. They shifted his body to the mortuary,” Mr. Goyal said, adding that the hospital staff acted carelessly and noted wrong information about Kumar. When the family tried to correct it, they allegedly told them that it will be corrected later. They were informed that they can collect the body once the COVID-19 report is received. Mr. Goyal alleged that on the night of May 19, Kumar’s family received a call from the hospital stating that he was COVID-19-positive and that they can cremate the body in the morning. The document given to the family by the mortuary staff stated that Kumar was “COVID-19 suspected”. “When I questioned them about it, they asked me to leave,” Mr. Goyal said. The hospital staff allegedly also told Mr. Goyal to ask Kumar’s family to get their COVID-19 test done by themselves. “Purushottam’s wife is also showing symptoms; she has fever, cold and cough, but no one has come to even put a COVID sign outside their house. No tests have been conducted so far,” he said.  Burial grounds Burying bodies of COVID suspects or patients is proving to be as difficult as cremating them. Lal Mohammed, a resident of Bhajanpura and a COVID-19-positive patient, passed away in the early hours of May 20 at Max Hospital, Saket. Though the family members did not have to wait for the body to be released from the hospital, they ran from pillar to post to find a graveyard to bury Mohammed. He was finally laid to rest on May 21, nearly 36 hours after his demise. His son Mohammed Sameel said that the hospital staff told them to go to the burial site at Bahadurshah Zafar Marg but the people there said the graveyard cannot accept bodies from Max Hospital in Saket. “The hospital staff then asked us to go to Rohini and while we were on the way, we learnt that the graveyard there has no space left. Next, we were told to go to Dwarka and there too the staff denied burial citing space issues. We got the same response from the graveyard at Shastri Park. In Ghazipur, a staffer told us over the phone that he had locked the graveyard and wasn’t available now,” Mr. Sameel said. Finally, they made another request to the staff at the Bahadurshah Zafar Marg graveyard and they agreed to bury the body.  Designated sites There are four burial sites under North and South Delhi Municipal Corporations designated for COVID-19 bodies. These include, two burial grounds at Mangolpuri, one each at Bahadurshah Zafar Marg and Madanpur Khadar. At the Bahadurshah Zafar Marg graveyard, formally called Jadid Qabristan Ahle Islam, third-generation grave digger Mohammed Shamim shared his own set of limitations. He said that a usual grave is about three feet deep, but for COVID-19 bodies they have to dig 10-feet-deep graves and for that they need to hire an excavation tractor commonly known as JCB. “The government is not giving us the money for it. If we don’t ask the family, we will have to pay from our own pocket, which we do sometimes when the families are not able to,” he said. Mr. Shamim said they had buried over 180 COVID-19 bodies – suspected and positive both – and sometimes, in suspected cases, only one or two health department officials come for the burial. “When that happens, we lend our hand after wearing a PPE kit,” he said. Mr. Shamim said they bury four-five bodies in a day and the hospitals inform the families of the deceased about the burial site. “They inform us and we give them a time slot. We call them only after everything here is ready,” he said.  (With inputs from Nikhil M Babu and Sidharth Ravi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-struggle-for-a-dignified-funeral/article31667366.ece
25 May 2020||New Delhi,||Panel to look into safety aspect of breathalyser test||The Delhi High Court has formed an expert committee to look into the safety aspects of breathalyser test and bio-metric verification amid concern expressed by loco running staff of the Railways and staff working at the airports of possible exposure to COVID-19. The court said the expert committee comprising of Secretary, Railways; Secretary, Civil Aviation and Secretary, Health will also suggest alternate measures that can be resorted to the breathalyser test. The High Court asked the committee to also examine the stand of the Railways that the breathalyser test would be conducted in a manner that it would not be a potential risk to the loco running staff. On March 27, the high court had directed the Railways will not subject the Loco Running Staff to either the breathalyser test or the bio-metric verification, during signing on/off duties. The direction was further continued in a subsequent order on April 17. The Railways later sought modification of the orders of the High Court passed on March 27 and April 17 to the extent that the Railways be given liberty to conduct breathalyser test and bio-metric verification. A similar direction was also issued by the High Court for the airlines industry on April 23, to suspend the breathalyser test in respect of the pilots. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation was, however, permitted by the court to conduct “any other test which is not invasive in nature and does not increase the chance of spreading COVID-19”. The High Court’s order came on a petition by All India Loco Running Staff Association opposing the conduct of the breathalyser test during the COVID-19 outbreak. the court noted that a similar concern was also raised by the AAI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/panel-to-look-into-safety-aspect-of-breathalyser-test/article31667364.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Remove barricades during no-checking hours: CP||After the government eased restrictions in the fourth phase of the lockdown and the city witnessed massive traffic jams on several stretches, the Delhi police ordered the removal of barricades from roads during no-checking hours, said a police officer on Sunday. The issue of traffic congestion was raised by motorists on social media platforms. Many motorists complained of traffic congestion at ITO, Yamuna Bridge, U.P. and Haryana borders. Delhi Commissioner of Police, S.N. Shrivistava, directed that the police pickets should not cause artificial congestion. He also emphasised that checking should be done during lean hours. During no-checking hours, barricades should be completely off the roads. Police presence may remain even if there is no checking. He directed to take a re-look into the placement of pickets and checking timings. Mr. Shrivastava reviewed the health status of policemen infected with the virus. He said that the Joint CPs should share the list of panel of doctors with all concerned so that the services of these doctors may be utilised for briefing and counselling of police staff. He directed to explore the possibility of conducting re-examination and outdoor tests with social distancing for trainee constables so that their training can be completed and their services can be utilised. He also reviewed the preventive measures being taken by the PCR unit for their staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/remove-barricades-during-no-checking-hours-cp/article31667370.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNUSU, JNUTA condemn detentions, arrests||The JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) and the JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) on Sunday condemned the detention and arrest of Pinjra Tod activists and university students Natasha and Devangana by Delhi Police. “It is clear that Delhi Police is using the lockdown instituted to prevent the spread of COVID-19 as a shield against dissent,” the JNUSU said. Pinjra Tod appealed to the students’ community and others to remain vigilant and strong in their struggles. The JNUTA said that there was a stark mismatch between the pattern of the arrests by Delhi Police and that of the violence as recorded by several independent fact-finding teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnusu-jnuta-condemn-detentions-arrests/article31667367.ece
25 May 2020||New Delhi,||DU launches e-platform for learning||Delhi University has launched ‘Virtual Learning Environment’, an online platform with learning resources for various subjects for students and teachers, the university’s website notified on Saturday. With 1,500 e-lessons, 29,000 e-quizzes, 20 e-labs and 50 e-lectures, the initiative is meant to “provide a taste of the range of opportunities that will be available to students and teachers on a daily basis”, it states.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-launches-e-platform-for-learning/article31667371.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SIT probing riots prepares draft chargesheets||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Delhi police investigating the Delhi riots cases has prepared draft chargesheets in many cases, including that of IB staffer Ankit Sharma’s murder, said a senior police officer on Sunday The riots took place between February 23 and 26 in north-east Delhi. The officer said that a total of 751 cases were filed during the riots and 60 cases, including ones where a loss of life was reported, were transferred to the SIT. The probe was monitored by MHA on weekly basis. “The SIT has completed investigation in most of the cases and preparation of chargesheet is in the final stage. It would be filed in the last week of May or in the first week of June. The draft is being checked by a senior officer,” said the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sit-probing-riots-prepares-draft-chargesheets/article31667368.ece
25 May 2020||Ahmedabad,||Waive migrants’ one-way ticket fare: Gujarat HC||The Gujarat High Court has directed that either the railway authorities waive one-way train ticket charges of migrant workers or the State government bear the cost as an alternative arrangement. It said the government’s response to a public interest litigation — seeking the court’s direction for free transportation of migrant workers stranded due to the lockdown — reflects that travel charges levied by the railway authorities are borne by a few host States, NGOs, employers, voluntary associations, and “this is not done”. “We direct the railway authorities to waive one-way charges of these migrant labourers or in the alternative, for the State government to bear such charges,” a Division Bench of Justices J.B. Pardiwala and I.J. Vora said on Friday. ‘Only 7,512 eligible’ The court’s order came after the Vijay Rupani government said in a written reply that of the 22.5 lakh migrant workers in Gujarat, only 7,512 were registered under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act and were eligible for a travel allowance. “Most of the migrant workers have come on their own and provisions for payment of travel and displacement allowanceswere not applicable to them,” it said. The court, in its order, said, “The State government shall ensure that migrant workers do not have to face further difficulties for the purpose of travelling to their native places. The work in this regard shall continue in the right direction.” The State government told the court that the Railways had been collecting transportation charges from workers even though travel arrangements were being made at the district level by NGOs and civil society organisations. “No migrant worker has been denied travel to his hometown on account of non-payment of travel charges,” it claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/waive-migrants-one-way-ticket-fare-gujarat-hc/article31667359.ece
25 May 2020||Bhopal,||2 policemen suspended for thrashing man in M.P.||The Chhindwara police have suspended two policemen for landing batons on a reportedly drunk man, in yet another instance of personnel thrashing people during the lockdown in Madhya Pradesh. In a video that went viral on the social media, a policeman is seen landing blows on a man, who collapses to the ground, where he suffers another set of blows and a kick before being taken inside a police van. Stating the suspension, Chhindwara Deputy Inspector General of Police Mithilesh Shukla said, “We are inquiring into the incident. The officers had received the complaint the man misbehaved with people of the area.” However, he said officers should instead have taken him to a hospital, if he was drunk, for a medical examination, and registered a case if warranted. “Why the beating?” On April 20, a farmer died while undergoing treatment in Jabalpur, four days after he was allegedly beaten up by the police for violating lockdown orders as he was returning after feeding cattle. Whereas, On March 23, a diabetic lawyer on his way to hospital was beaten up by the police, which later claimed the incident occurred as they mistook him for a Muslim. “I am quite clear in such matters. This kind of behaviour has no place in the police. Such incidents can’t be defended,” Director General of Police Vivek Johri told The Hindu . “If they commit mistakes, action will be taken.”  ‘Aberrations’ Denying that the incidents of police brutalities were occurring in a series, Mr. Johri said, “These are aberrations. But, there is no question of trying to shield them. We will continue acting in such cases, set an example. But I don’t see a trend. The trend is that everyone has done their duty standing in the sun in the past two and a half months.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2-policemen-suspended-for-thrashing-man-in-mp/article31667375.ece
25 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha worried over entry of trains without prior information||The Odisha government on Sunday urged people to inform authorities about arrival of returnees as it expected a large number of ‘unannounced’ returns of Odias to the State. “Due to lockdowns, people stuck outside were returning to the State in pre-approved transport system such as train and flight. They were being sent to their village in controlled manner after checking at border check-posts, train stations and airport. The government used to obtain advance information about people. Subsequently, quarantine facilities were being provided,” said Pradeep Kumar Jena, Special Relief Commissioner, here.  Regulation changed But, the Central government effected changes in standard regulation of people’s return from outside by running regular special trains. The Centre also proposed to throw air travel open from Monday and resume general train service in coming weeks. “There is huge possibility of people entering Odisha without prior information. From now on, we may face problem in providing systematic and controlled quarantine. So people are requested to inform the government anyone returning home without information,” he urged. Mr. Jena elaborated further, “earlier, Shramik Special trains were being sent to our State after obtaining our consent. The Indian Railway used to give detail information about people travelling by special trains. Subsequently, we used to make elaborate plan for taking people from train to quarantine centres. Now, the system is done away with. Now, special trains can travel to Odisha without prior consent of receiving State.” “It is observed that a large number of trains are coming to State unannounced. It will not be easy to provide them quarantine facility,” he said. On Saturday night, 12 Shramik Special train started journey from Telangana to Odisha. The Telangana Government has not intimated about the running of trains to Odisha. As per Indian Railway, about 20,000 people would arrive in Odisha. It caught the State government unaware.  ‘No reimbursement’ Train fare of those returning State without prior information may not be reimbursed, he warned. “Although there has been increase in number of COVID-19 positive cases, it is not a matter of concern. The situation is under control. It is possible because we have been efficiently able to quarantine people returning from outside,” said Mr. Jena adding that no community spread has taken place in the State.  Earlier, Shramik Special trains were being sent to our State after obtaining our consent. Railways used to give detail information about people travelling by the special trains. Now, the system is done away with. Pradeep Kumar JenaSpecial Relief Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-worried-over-entry-of-trains-without-prior-information/article31667376.ece
25 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘No migrant should be forced to walk home’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed the Deputy Commissioners and the District Police Chiefs to ensure that no migrant is forced to walk home to any other State in the country, or to remain hungry while in Punjab. “Any migrant found walking on the road should be transported by bus by the police to the nearest place from where he can board a train or bus to his native State,” said the Chief Minister. He appealed to migrants not to try to undertake arduous journey by foot to their native place as the State government is making all necessary arrangements for their travel by trains or buses. The Chief Minister said that more than 10 lakh people have registered on the State portal for outbound movement from Punjab. The State government has undertaken a validation exercise of all registered persons by making individual phone calls to re-ascertain whether or not they are keen to return to their native States. “This is being done in view of the fact that in the past 3-4 days around two-thirds of the industrial units in the State have commenced operations after easing of restrictions, following which the number of persons keen to travel out of Punjab has reduced considerably,” he said. The Chief Minister said that the 300th special Shramik train departed from Patiala for Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. “By Sunday night, 311 Special Shramik trains carrying more than 3.90 lakh passengers would have been sent from different districts of Punjab to various States of India, including States of southern India and the North-East,” he said.  15 new cases Meanwhile, fifteen fresh COVID-19 cases surfaced on Sunday in Punjab taking the tally to 2,060. One death was also reported, according to an official statement. The Health department said the major chunk of new cases, seven and four, were reported from Pathankot and Hoshiarpur districts respectively. The active cases are 122 and 1,898 patients have so far recovered, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-migrant-should-be-forced-to-walk-home/article31667374.ece
25 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Foreigners’ Tribunal member removed||The Assam government has removed a Foreigners’ Tribunal (FT) member who had donated to the State COVID-19 fund with a rider that his contribution should not be spent on Tablighi Jamaat attendees who tested positive after returning to the State. A May 22 notification signed by N. Goswami, undersecretary in the Political (B) Department said Kamalesh Kumar Gupta “stands released” as member of the FT in western Assam’s Baksa from May 23 “as his conduct has been found to be unbecoming of a responsible FT member”. The notification also said Bimal Sarma, the member of an FT in adjoining Nalbari district has been allowed to hold additional charge of the Baksa FT. B is the section of the Political Department that deals with 100 quasi-judicial FTs, which determine the citizenship status of people the Assam Police’s Border wing marks as non-citizens. Another category of people the FTs deal with are people marked doubtful or D-voters by the Election Commission. Retired judges and bureaucrats with experience of discharging judicial duties as well as lawyers with at least seven years of experience are eligible to become FT members. Letter to Minister Mr. Gupta had on April 7 written to Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma listing a total donation of Rs. 62,999 for the Assam Arogya Nidhi. He also named 12 other FT members and staff of the Baska FT he headed as the contributors. The letter, which Mr. Gupta said was withdrawn on April 11, had this accompanying request: “Our only prayer is that the help may not be extended to the members of violators of Tablighi Jamaat, jehadi and jahil”. The other FT members, who were issued show-cause notices, said they were in the dark about the letter and that Mr. Gupta did not inform them about it. Minority organisations in the State criticised the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/foreigners-tribunal-member-removed/article31667372.ece
25 May 2020||Mumbai,||History-sheeter with Maoist links held||The Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) has arrested a history-sheeter with a long record of armed robbery, who was allegedly involved in financing Maoist activities in Nepal. The accused, who has at least 30 cases to his name, would allegedly commit crimes in Maharashtra and send the proceeds of the crimes to Maoists in Nepal. Nepal’s Maoist issue Nepal, over the last one year, has witnessed an escalation in Maoist activities, including an attack on the office of a private telecom operator in February 2019 and string of bomb blasts in Kathmandu in May last year, the credit for which was claimed by the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist), led by Netra Bikram Chand. There have also been repeated indications of the Inter-Services Intelligence, Pakistan’s premier intelligence agency, joining hands with Maoists in Nepal to channel counterfeit currency and other contraband into India, which was substantiated by a 2010 Wikileaks release. According to ATS officers, the accused, Dalvir Singh Rawat (38), was arrested from near Mastakhar petrol pump in Andheri on Saturday based on a tip-off received by police inspector Daya Nayak, in-charge of the ATS’s Juhu unit. A native of Nepal with no fixed address in Mumbai, Mr. Rawat is also known as Pappu Nepali in the criminal underworld and is said to change locations often to evade arrest. “A search of Mr. Rawat’s person revealed that he was carrying a country-made pistol and three live cartridges. He was arrested and preliminary investigations against him revealed definite links with Maoists in Nepal. We also found out that he has at least 30 cases of robbery and dacoity registered against him in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane,” a senior ATS officer said. Wanted in Vijaywada The officer said Mr. Rawat was wanted for an armed robbery in Vijaywada, Andhra Pradesh in 2017, in which him and his accomplices had robbed a gold jewellery workshop and decamped with 16 kg of gold. “Mr. Rawat would often arrange for Maoists from Nepal to come to India and commit offences in various cities so that they could take the proceeds back home. He is part of a larger racket that finances the Maoist activities in Nepal, with several others involved, and we are probing this angle further,” the officer said. Based on the weapon and the ammunition seized from him, the ATS believes that Mr. Rawat had come to Mumbai with the intention of committing another robbery. The source of the arsenal is also being traced, while he is being interrogated further about his activities. The Andhra Pradesh police have been informed about his arrest, and will be seeking his custody after the ATS has finished interrogating him, sources said.  Mr. Rawat would often arrange for Maoists from Nepal to come to India and commit offences in various cities Senior ATS Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/history-sheeter-with-maoist-links-held/article31667355.ece
25 May 2020||Mumbai,||Amidst COVID-19 chaos, Twitter comes to the rescue of several patients||Faced with an uncaring system that leaves them to fend for themselves, Mumbaikars have found help on Twitter for near and dear who have tested positive for COVID-19. Residents have reached out to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) or State Minister Aaditya Thackeray, who then directs officers to help patients. Patients who have tested positive find hospital beds and ambulances hard to come by. Worse, they have to wait for days before the BMC helps them isolate themselves and their families or even sanitises their premises. The result: neighbours live in mortal fear of contracting the disease. Social media, in such cases, has eased their stress to an extent. Saved by the tweets On May 20, @Balkris23944570 tweeted, “One patient of age 60 years Mrs Vimla Devi Vishwakarma in Kandivali area has COVID-19 but no BMC office is responding as they are telling beds are not available. Please help as she is my friend’s mother.” BMC’s official Twitter handle @mybmc reached out to him two days later. Another user, @AmTheShade tweeted on May 18, “My friend’s father was found COVID-19 positive yesterday, got no help from BMC MahaGov. They somehow managed to get him hospitalised, but his family still has no clue what to do. They are not quarantined or tested; nor is the society sealed, there were three other COVID-19-positive cases in the same building and@CMOMaharashtraor@mybmcdon’t care.” Another user, @aatmanirbhar5 tweeted on Thursday, giving address of a building in Parel, “Yesterday, we found one COVID-19 case on the first floor but this floor hasn’t still been sealed by the BMC. Please take action as soon as possible.” In several such cases, Mr. Thackeray has directed health committee chairman Ameya Ghole to intervene. Asked why people have to take to Twitter to seek help, Mr. Thackeray said it was a case of fear. “Most of them are contacted (by the BMC) already, but many panic, which is natural. We have people at our centres feeling breathless and when we check, the oxygen saturation level is 99%. Also, if there’s a genuine case that needs help, we all have to do our bit. Finally, the system is the people it works with; (we do) whatever we can to help all.” ‘Approach ward office’ Several Mumbaikars who have developed aggravated COVID-19 symptoms have been unable to find hospital beds and ambulances, leading to fatalities. Other non-critical people, who get themselves tested in private laboratories based on prescriptions from private medical practitioners, are stumped by their positive results. They have no clue as to where they should go, and when they call a hospital in their vicinity, are told there are no beds available. The BMC admits the gap in treatment, but has its own reasons for it. Ironically, it cites its bureaucratic loop in defence: private laboratories send reports to patients as well as the BMC’s Epidemiology Cell, which then compiles those reports and sends them on to local offices, leading to a delay. “Yes, this is happening?” asked Manish Walunj, assistant municipal commissioner, L ward. “When people get tested from private labs, the lab sends the report to the patient and to BMC’s Epidemiology Cell. The cell then compiles the reports and sends them to us every day, which is why it takes some time.” Ashwini Bhide, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of COVID control room and contact tracing, said, “I guess this happens because labs communicate the result directly to patient before uploading on ICMR websites or informing to BMC EPID cell. Sometimes there are fake complaints exaggerated to get SM traction. But we are trying our best to close these gaps by constantly engaging with labs. This happens a few times but it creates an information gap. Otherwise there is no reason this should happen.” Swapnaja Kshirsagar, assistant municipal commissioner of F South ward (Parel), said the patient could approach the ward office directly and get help. “We just need to see a copy and we will do what is necessary. Since most of these patients are asymptomatic, they can stay in home quarantine, if they are willing. We sanitise the premises and provide all medical help,” she said. Daksha Shah, joint executive health officer, and Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, were not available for comment. Politicians, however, say systems need to be tightened. Leader of the Opposition in the BMC, Ravi Raja said, the corporation has now started sealing only floors, not entire buildings with patients. “But how is it going to work? In my ward, there were two positive cases on one floor of a building. The BMC did not test the neighbours as they did not have symptoms. Within 10 days, cases increased from two to 19.” ‘Civic body working hard' Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kirit Somaiya cut BMC officials some slack. “Civic officials are working hard, but it is the IAS officers who have made a mess of the system,” he said. “Private hospitals were allowed to close down after some of their staffers tested positive, which led to a tremendous strain on public infrastructure. Mumbai will hit 75,000 cases in June, and the city is not prepared to handle the load.” And for those who are not on Twitter, it may be doubly difficult to find help.  Most of them are contacted (by the BMC) already, but many panic Aaditya Thackeray Cabinet Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amidst-covid-19-chaos-twitter-comes-to-the-rescue-of-several-patients/article31667354.ece
25 May 2020||Mumbai,||Block AIMIM supporter’s hate speech video: HC||The Bombay High Court in a recent order has directed all social media platforms to block a hate speech video made by Abu Faisal, a supporter of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), which could could cause discord between Hindus and Muslims using the novel coronavirus as a garb. A Division Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and Abhay Ahuja was hearing a criminal petition field by one Imran Khan, through advocate Vivek Shukla. Mr. Khan wanted the the court to direct authorities to delete the video, and also permanently block Mr. Faisal from social media platforms such as YouTube, Google and Facebook. According to Mr. Khan, the video shows Mr. Faisal making claims about the media being used to target Muslims and defame Islam under the garb of COVID-19. He said the video was uploaded on the accused’s social media accounts and claimed the police had not taken action despite a complaint. The petition states that the video alleges that a vicious campaign led by the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) is under way to control the Muslim population in the country. Mr. Khan has also alleged that Mr. Faisal is seen provoking and encouraging Muslims to assault doctors of other religions. No one appeared on behalf of the State and social media platforms for the hearing. The Bench then noted, “Prima facie, the petition indicates that there are serious allegations made by Mr. Khan against Mr. Faisal about inflammatory speech for creating hatred between Hindu and Muslim community, and against the police for inaction.” The court then directed all the authorities to look into the allegations, view the said video on YouTube, Google and Facebook and file an affidavit in reply within one week. The court also directed the State to undertake an investigation against Mr. Faisal to see if the police find any substance in the allegations made by Mr. Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/block-aimim-supporters-hate-speech-video-hc/article31667357.ece
25 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Jiomart goes live to take on Amazon, Flipkart||Reliance Industries (RIL) has taken its e-commerce platform JioMart live in an attempt to take on rivals Amazon and Flipkart. Pilots were carried out in Navi Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan. Jiomart, an online-offline model that combines the strengths of Reliance Jio and Reliance Retail, has started offering products at a minimum 5% discount to the maximum retail price on select products. “Farm produce will directly be sourced from farmers that have collaborated with the brand,” said the JioMart website. JioMart has started offering more than 50,000 products in the fruits and vegetables, dairy and bakery, staples, snacks and branded foods, beverages, personal care, home care and baby care categories, according to its website. Customers can get free home delivery on no minimum-order value, with a no-questions-asked-return policy. The website asks customers for their PIN code to inform them whether they are delivering in the area. During RIL’s annual general meeting some time back, chairman Mukesh Ambani had hinted at the company’s foray into ‘new commerce’ which, he said, was a $700-billion opportunity.  Facebook and WhatsApp had signed a commercial agreement with Reliance Jio over JioMart so that the online venture’s customers can place order through the social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jiomart-goes-live-to-take-on-amazon-flipkart/article31667356.ece
25 May 2020||Mumbai,||3,300 return home to J&K from Maharashtra||Around 3,300 Jammu and Kashmir residents, including 1,200 students, who were stranded in Maharashtra have been evacuated on board four Shramik Special trains in the last 10 days. This is the highest number of trains deployed in any single State for the evacuation of Jammu and Kashmir residents, an official said. The process began on May 14, with the first Shramik Special train leaving Nagpur for Udhampur railway station with around 1,000 on board. Another train carrying 1,000 passengers, including 500 students, left Pune for Udhampur on May 19. Another 700 left from Thane railway station on May 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/3300-return-home-to-jk-from-maharashtra/article31667361.ece
25 May 2020||Mumbai,||PM’s humanity has vanished now: Raut||Taking a swipe at the Centre over the plight of migrant labourers, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the humanity shown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi by washing the feet of conservatory workers seems to have vanished now. In his weekly column published in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana , Mr. Raut said, “Prime Minister Modi had washed the feet of four conservatory workers in Varanasi and showed us the humanity. It seems this humanity has vanished in the last three months”. The PM had washed washed the feet of safai karamcharis (sanitation workers) during Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj last February as a mark of respect for their work. Mr. Raut, who is the executive editor of the Saamana t, also sought to draw parallels between “politicisation” of displacement of Kashmiri Pandits and the plight of migrant labourers, who are bearing the brunt of the lockdown. “The issue of Kashmiri Pandits being forced to leave their homes and living as refugees in their own country has been politicised frequently. Today, some six crore migrant workers are forced to live in a similar way,” he said. Mr. Raut also targeted the State BJP leaders over their “frequent” meeting with Governor B.S. Koshyari instead of interacting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pms-humanity-has-vanished-now-raut/article31667360.ece
25 May 2020||Srinagar,||Only at-home prayers in J&K on Id-ul-Fitr||Jammu and Kashimir observed a subdued and low-key celebrations on the occasion of Id-ul-Fitr on Sunday because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown rules in place. All major shrines and mosques, including the Jamia Masjid, the Hazratbal shrine, Eidgah in Srinagar and the Talab Khatikaan Jamia Masjid in Jammu, decided against organising any, otherwise mandatory, mass congregational prayers that sees the culmination of the holy month of fasting, Ramzan, for Muslims. Most people organised at-home prayers where only closed families members joined in. Scores of people posted pictures on the social media of family organising own prayers, because the priests and caretakers of mosques had passed decree to maintain social distancing and avoiding mass prayers on the occasion. “We offered Id prayers at home with my father leading the prayers,” Peerzada Mahboob Ul Haq, a local, said. Kashmir’s grand priest Nasir-ul-Islam had appealed to people living in the red zones and hotspots to organise prayers at home and those living in green zones to perform Id prayers in playgrounds, “while wearing face masks and maintaining proper social distancing”. “May this Id be the harbinger of peace and prosperity for the entire J&K and may Allah bring an end to the Covid pandemic soon,” said Mr. Islam, who sighted the crescent moon on late Saturday evening and declared Id for Sunday.  Deserted look Unlike in the past when streets would be abuzz with children wearing new clothes, the Valley wore a deserted look. “We are organising video meetings with relatives to exchange greetings this time. We may have to give up on Eidee (gift given by elders to children) due to the coronavirus pandemic,” said Nazia Jan, a Class X student from Srinagar’s Gojwara area. Meanwhile, extra deployments and additional checkpoints were set up by the security forces across the Valley on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/only-at-home-prayers-in-jk-on-id-ul-fitr/article31667377.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||‘With limited resources, Rajasthan concerned about economy’s revival’||Rajasthan is concerned about revival of economy post-COVID-19 and has launched policies for investments, industrial sector, solar energy, says Additional Chief Secretary (Industries) Subodh Agarwal in a written interview.  What steps is the government taking to help the industries? The government was quick enough to set up a 24-hour control room to address the issues faced by the industries. A new system of online passes was put in place and clear-cut advisories issued and widely publicised. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has since addressed a series of videoconferences with stakeholders. The State government is very concerned about the revival of the economy post-COVID-19 with its limited resources. We had already launched very attractive policies, such as the industrial policy, Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme, solar energy policy. We are pursuing the proposed investments of international companies in the State. Rajasthan Industrial Development & Investment Corporation (RIICO) and Rajasthan Financial Corporation (RFC) have extended relief to the existing borrowers by deferring their due instalments by two months. The RFC has also decided to give priority to units which are engaged in the manufacturing of COVID-19 related items. The report of the task force on restarting the economy has been received. But everything will be done after lifting of lockdown with the assessment of actual position of economy, losses incurred by different sectors and relief packages to be announced. How many industrial units and oil mills have started functioning again? About 2.5 lakh MSME units have restarted their production and about 750 of the 1,800 oil mills are operating again. There are about 548 large and mega industries in the State, of which 387 are now operational. The Chief Minister is also trying to get some external aid as loan for the revival of MSMEs in the State. How has the lockdown affected oil, cement and textile sectors? Rajasthan is indeed a leading State in these sectors. Almost all the 30 cement plants in the State are now producing at 22% to 25% capacity. The industry is trying to understand the demand side in the wake of the situation created by the pandemic. We expect that all types of industries would start running at full capacity with the support of the State government. Should Rajasthan also suspend labour laws for the next two to three years? Rajasthan is among the pioneer States which have undertaken labour laws reforms. In 2014, the government had introduced amendments in labour laws for the “ease of doing business” and to create more employment opportunities in the industrial sector. Recently, in order to achieve the dual objectives of restoring full supply of essential goods and ensuring the minimal presence of people in manufacturing and distribution facilities, a relaxation has been given in working time from 8 hours to 12 hours a day for the next three months. This is a reasonable initiative to address the labour shortage. Since it has been duly notified by the Labour Department, it will benefit both the industries as well as the employees. Do you intend to interact with the labour unions and ensure that the industrialists pay full wages to the labourers for the period of lockdown? We have received both types of reactions on the issue. The Industries Department has issued a series of advisories to instruct the Collectors, Superintendents of Police and Commissioners of Police to ask the industrialists to pay salaries to their workers for April. It was followed by an order issued by the Chairperson, State Executive Committee, under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which is legally binding on the employers. What steps are you taking for movement of labourers and students? The transportation of labourers to and from Rajasthan is a very well managed system. An online system was developed for registering the information of the people who wanted to migrate from the State and those who wanted to come. As of now, we have about 22 lakh migrants registered in the portal. Of them, 10 lakh want to move to other States and 12 lakh want to come here. Rajasthan has been a forefront State in facilitating the movement of migrants. Around 2.91 lakh migrants have been provided the bus service for intra-State and inter-State movements. The government has also issued advisories for labour migration, making it clear that no one will be allowed to move on foot and immediate transport, food and shelter will be given to the migrants. As a result of effective management, the Central government has also appreciated the State’s arrangements.  The government has made it clear that no one will be allowed to move on foot||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/with-limited-resources-rajasthan-concerned-about-economys-revival/article31667379.ece
25 May 2020||Beijing,||U.S. pushing relations to the brink of a new Cold War: China||The United States is pushing relations with China to “the brink of a new Cold War,” China’s Foreign Minister said on Sunday, rejecting Washington’s “lies” over the coronavirus while saying Beijing was open to an international effort to find its source. Keeping up the worsening war of words with Washington over the pandemic and a Beijing move to tighten control over Hong Kong, Wang Yi said the United States had been infected by a “political virus” compelling figures there to continually attack China. “It has come to our attention that some political forces in the U.S. are taking China-U.S. relations hostage and pushing our two countries to the brink of a new Cold War,” Mr. Wang told reporters during a press conference at China’s week-long annual parliamentary session. Long-standing friction Long-standing friction between the two powers over trade, human rights and a range of other issues have been pushed to new heights since the virus outbreak. Mr. Wang did not identify what “forces” he was referring to, but U.S. President Donald Trump has led world criticism of China’s initial response to the pandemic, which has caused more than 3,40,000 deaths and economic carnage worldwide. Mr. Trump and members of his administration have said China covered up the emergence of the virus late last year and bungled its initial response. Washington’s criticism has been widely seen in the United States as an attempt by Mr. Trump to divert attention from the White House’s own COVID-19 failures. Mr. Wang took an apparent swipe at the U.S. struggles to contain the virus, which has now infected more people in the United States than anywhere else. “I call on the U.S. to stop wasting time and stop wasting precious lives,” Mr. Wang said. He said China was “open” to international scientific cooperation to identify the source of the novel coronavirus, but stressed that any investigation must be “free of political interference”, based on science and led by the World Health Organization. The WHO has called on Beijing to invite the UN body in to investigate the source, but Mr. Wang did not indicate if foreign scientists would be invited to come to China. “Some political figures in the U.S. rush to label the virus and politicise its origins, stigmatising China,” Mr. Wang said, adding that an investigation must “oppose any presumption of guilt”. Most scientists believe the virus jumped from animals to humans after emerging in China, possibly from a market in the central city of Wuhan where exotic animals were sold for meat. Governments including the U.S. and Australia have called in recent weeks for an investigation into the exact origins of the virus. Global response China has proposed instead that the “global response” to COVID-19 should only be assessed when the pandemic is over. WHO members on Tuesday adopted a resolution, tabled by the European Union, at the UN body’s first virtual assembly to review the international handling of the pandemic, but it does not single out China. “Aside from the devastation caused by the novel coronavirus, there is also a political virus spreading through the U.S.,” he said. “This political virus is the use of every opportunity to attack and smear China. Some politicians completely disregard basic facts and have fabricated too many lies targeting China, and plotted too many conspiracies.” The introduction at China’s legislature on Friday of a proposal to impose a security law in Hong Kong to suppress the semi-autonomous city’s pro-democracy movement also has drawn U.S. and world condemnation. But Mr. Wang defended the plan, saying it must be implemented “without the slightest delay”, adding that months of often-violent Hong Kong protests last year against China’s growing influence in the financial hub had “seriously endangered China’s national security”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-pushing-relations-to-the-brink-of-a-new-cold-war-china/article31667060.ece
25 May 2020||Kabul,||Ghani vows to expedite prisoner release||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani vowed Sunday to speed up the release of Taliban prisoners, and said he was ready to hold peace talks with the insurgents after accepting their surprise offer of a ceasefire. The Taliban proposed a three-day truce over the Id al-Fitr holiday that marks the end of the Muslim holy fasting month of Ramzan starting Sunday, which Mr. Ghani swiftly agreed to. “As a responsible government we take one more step forward — I announce that I will expedite the Taliban prisoner releases,” Mr. Ghani said in an address to the nation marking the holiday. A U.S.-Taliban deal signed in February stipulated that the Afghan government would release up to 5,000 Taliban prisoners while the insurgents would free about 1,000 Afghan security force personnel. The prisoner swap is seen as a confidence-building move ahead of long-awaited talks between the government and Taliban. Kabul has so far released about 1,000 Taliban inmates while the insurgents have freed about 300 Afghan security force personnel. Mr. Ghani said a government delegation was “ready to immediately start the peace talks”. Government negotiators would be headed by Abdullah Abdullah, who also hailed the ceasefire offer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ghani-vows-to-expedite-prisoner-release/article31667058.ece
25 May 2020||Beijing,||Wuhan institute denies links to SARS-CoV-2 virus strains||The Chinese virology institute at the centre of U.S. allegations that it may have been the source of the COVID-19 pandemic has three live strains of bat coronavirus on-site, but none match the new global contagion, its director has said. Scientists think COVID-19 originated in bats and could have been transmitted to people via another mammal. But the director of the Wuhan Institute of Virology told state broadcaster CGTN that claims made by U.S. President Donald Trump and others the virus could have leaked from the facility were “pure fabrication”. In the interview filmed on May 13 but broadcast on Saturday night, Wang Yanyi said the centre has “isolated and obtained some coronaviruses from bats”. “Now we have three strains of live viruses... But their highest similarity to SARS-CoV-2 only reaches 79.8 percent,” she said, referring to the coronavirus strain that causes COVID-19. One of their research teams, led by Professor Shi Zhengli, has been researching bat coronaviruses since 2004 and focused on the “source tracing of SARS”, the strain behind another virus outbreak nearly two decades ago. “We know that the whole genome of SARS-CoV-2 is only 80% similar to that of SARS. It’s an obvious difference,” she said. “So, in Professor Shi’s past research, they didn’t pay attention to such viruses which are less similar to the SARS virus.” Chinese scientists have said that the virus first emerged at a market selling live animals in Wuhan, though officials in Beijing more recently cast doubt about its origins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wuhan-institute-denies-links-to-sars-cov-2-virus-strains/article31667062.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Black patients in U.S. hospitalised more often||As the COVID-19 spread across the United States, sweeping through low-income, densely populated communities, black and Hispanic patients died at higher rates than white patients. Crowded living conditions, poorer overall health and limited access to care have been blamed, among other factors. But a new study suggests that the disparity was particularly acute for black patients. Among those seeking medical care for COVID-19, black patients were hospitalised at nearly three times the rate of white and Hispanic patients, according to an analysis of patient records from a large health care system in Northern California. The disparity remained even after researchers took into account differences in age, sex, income and the prevalence of chronic health problems that exacerbate COVID-19, like hypertension and Type 2 diabetes. The finding suggests that black patients may have had limited access to medical care or that they postponed seeking help until later in the course of their illness, when the disease was more advanced. Needing acute care Black patients were also far less likely than white, Hispanic or Asian patients to have been tested for the virus before going to the emergency room for care. Black patients “are coming to us later and sicker, and they’re accessing our care through the emergency department and acute care environment,” said Dr. Stephen Lockhart, the chief medical officer at Sutter Health in Sacramento and one of the authors of the new study. The study, which was peer reviewed, was published in Health Affairs . Delayed care may give the virus more time to spread through households and neighbourhoods, Dr. Lockhart and his colleagues concluded. The delays also suggest that minority patients continue to face barriers despite California’s broad expansion of health insurance under the Affordable Care Act. The new study analysed the electronic health records of 1,052 confirmed COVID-19 patients who sought care between January 1 and April 8 at Sutter Health, a health system serving 3.5 million patients in northern California. More than half of the 61 black patients who tested positive for the coronavirus were admitted to hospitals, compared with about one-quarter or fewer of the Hispanic, white and Asian patients who tested positive. Black patients were also more likely than the others to be so sick that they required treatment in an intensive care unit. Even after the investigators factored out a number of differences between patient groups, black patients were still 2.7 times more likely than others to require hospitalisation when they sought care.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/black-patients-in-us-hospitalised-more-often/article31667068.ece
25 May 2020||Jerusalem,||Netanyahu calls graft charges ‘fabricated’||A combative Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu faced court on Sunday for the start of his long-anticipated corruption trial after lashing out at the “fabricated” charges against him. The veteran leader, who has just forged a new unity government after more than a year of political turmoil, became the country’s first Premier to face criminal charges while in office. Flanked by Ministers from his right-wing Likud party, Netanyahu addressed reporters before entering the Jerusalem District Court to face charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust. “I’m here with a straight back and my head held high,” Mr. Netanyahu said, labelling the charges “fabricated and ludicrous”. The trial is expected to last for months, if not years. During Sunday’s sessio, Mr. Netanyahu spoke only to identify himself, before the court adjourned after one hour. He was not asked to enter a plea, which will occur in a later session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/netanyahu-calls-graft-charges-fabricated/article31667064.ece
25 May 2020||Karachi,||Pak. crash report raises serious questions||A preliminary report on the Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane crash, in which 97 people were killed, has raised serious questions about the pilot’s handling of the aircraft and what prevented the crew in the cockpit from informing the air traffic controllers about the troubles. Pakistani investigators are trying to find out if the crash is attributable to a pilot error or a technical glitch. According to the report, prepared by the country’s Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), the Airbus A-320’s engines had scraped the runway thrice on the pilot’s first attempt to land, causing friction and sparks recorded by the experts. After the third impact, the pilot took the aircraft off into the air again, which officials found very strange as the crew in the cockpit did not inform the Air Traffic Control (ATC) at the Jinnah International Airport of any problem with the landing gear, The News International quoted sources as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-crash-report-raises-serious-questions/article31667066.ece
25 May 2020||New Delhi,||India welcomes Id truce||India on Sunday welcomed the ceasefire agreement reached between the government of Afghanistan and the Taliban on the occasion of Id. “We hope this ceasefire would extend further and become permanent to address the dire humanitarian situation resulting from the coronavirus pandemic and pave the way for durable peace and stability for the people of Afghanistan,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement, welcoming the three-day truce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-welcomes-id-truce/article31667057.ece
25 May 2020||New Delhi,||Envoy rules out delay in Rafale delivery||There will be no delay in the delivery of 36 Rafale fighter jets to India as the time line finalised for the supply will be respected, French Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain has said. France is reeling under the increasing COVID-19 cases, and there were apprehensions that the fighter jet delivery could be delayed due to the pandemic.  ‘Helping the IAF’ However, Mr. Lenain said the original time line would be adhered to. “The contractual delivery schedule ... has been perfectly respected so far, and in fact, a new aircraft was handed over to the IAF at April-end in France, in keeping with the contract,” he said. “We are helping the IAF in arranging for the ferry flight of its first four Rafale jets from France as soon as possible. So there’s no reason to speculate that the schedule will not be maintained,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/envoy-rules-out-delay-in-rafale-delivery/article31667097.ece
06 June 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||The need for a million worksites now||The abominable plight of migrant workers in recent weeks has invaded television screens and stirred the nation’s conscience. Alas, this is just the tip of the wave of hardships that is sweeping through the country. The situation looks increasingly alarming in the light of a series of surveys conducted by Azim Premji University (APU) and other institutions. The APU survey, for instance, found that 74% of the respondents (thousands of poor households scattered over many States) were “consuming less food” today than before the lockdown. Another survey, conducted by Farzana Afridi and her colleagues in low-income neighbourhoods of Delhi, found that 80% of the respondents had not earned any income during the lockdown, 90% reported “financial stress”, and about half were too anxious to sleep at night. Some support from PDS Thankfully, the Public Distribution System (PDS) is preventing the worst. The same surveys show that an overwhelming majority of poor households (86% according to the APU survey) are currently receiving food rations. The doubling of food rations for three months was a good move on the part of the central government — there is every reason to extend it beyond the end of June. The PDS, however, leavesout hundreds of millions of people, including many who live in poverty. Further, even for those who are covered, the PDS is little more than a protection against hunger. It cannot ensure adequate nutrition, let alone a decent standard of living. To cope with the crisis, poor households urgently need a chance to earn cash beyond small mercies. Unconditional cash transfers are not easy to use for this purpose, because there is no simple way of identifying those in need, and covering everyone would amount to spreading the money very thin. Universal basic income is a nice idea, but when you do the maths, anything practical tends to reduce the “basic income” to a pittance. India’s National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) offers an obvious alternative, at least for rural areas: employment on demand at basic wages. Unprecedented demand The demand for NREGA work is stronger than ever. This is not surprising: most people would prefer to do some work and earn a little than to sit idle with empty pockets. This huge demand contrasts with the resilient indifference of rural workers towards NREGA in recent years, due to low wages and erratic payments. Wages are still low, and payments are still far from timely and reliable; what has changed is that for most workers today, there is nothing better on the cards. We had a telling experience of this renewed demand for NREGA work in a number of deprived villages of Latehar district (Jharkhand) in the last few days. In this area, the idea of work on demand is still alien to most rural workers, so few of them take the initiative of applying for NREGA work. But whenever we helped people to prepare work applications, men and women from almost every household in the village flocked to the spot with their job cards to fill the forms. Without assistance, however, most workers would find it difficult to submit work applications. The sad truth is that except in areas where rural workers are relatively empowered, work applications (reflected in “e-muster rolls”) are not generally initiated by the workers themselves. Instead, they are initiated on their behalf by others, who have a stake in activating NREGA works: for instance, landowners who want some work done on their land, middlemen who take cuts at various steps, government officials who are under pressure to meet targets, and village heads who wish to please or serve their constituency. In other words, NREGA works attract the workers, and not the other way around. That, at any rate, is how it tends to work in the poorer States. In the old days (good or bad), workers were allowed to turn up at the worksite and enrol on the spot. That made things easier for them: applying for work was a right, not an obligation. But now, it has become an obligation: no-one can be employed unless his or her name has been entered in advance in the e-muster rolls. Most workers have no idea how to go about this. This is one reason why the scale of NREGA works remains very low in many States in spite of a huge demand for employment. This situation calls for large-scale opening of NREGA works on a proactive basis. Every village needs at least one major worksite, where a good number of people can work at short notice (with adequate distancing precautions). Ideally, workers should be allowed to enrol at the worksite. Further, large-scale employment generation should continue throughout the monsoon, the hardest period of the year for poor people in large parts of rural India. Averting a humanitarian disaster in the next few months calls for a veritable explosion of NREGA work. Much can be done to facilitate this: expanding the list of permissible works, hiring more gram rozgar sevaks (employment assistants), simplifying the implementation process, mobilising para-teachers for work application drives, and so on. And of course, top-down orders to expand the scale of works could work wonders. NREGA is not supposed to be top-down, but it does have a long history of top-down orders, and after all, this is an emergency. Switch to cash payment? It is also worth considering a return to cash payment of NREGA wages, at least as an option for the duration of the crisis. This would not only help to ensure timely and reliable payment of wages, but also spare workers the ordeal of extracting their wages from overcrowded banks or business correspondents. Further, cash payment of wages would act as a tremendous incentive for rural workers to demand NREGA work, whatever it takes. The idea of a return to cash payment of wages is likely to horrify those who trust digital payments to eliminate corruption. But recent experience suggests that this trust is misplaced. The digital payment system has merely changed the modalities of corruption in NREGA: the crooks used to fudge the paper records, now they fudge the electronic records. The latter may or may not be harder to fudge than the former depending on the circumstances. Even if cash payments are a little more vulnerable to leakages, that may be a tolerable price to pay in an emergency, to protect workers from the hazards of NREGA’s byzantine payment system. These include a payment rejection rate of 4%, according to official data, and the tyranny of “Qwicy”, as the Know Your Customer (KYC) process is known in rural Jharkhand. Of course, the possible hazards of a hasty switch to cash payments also need to be considered. The NREGA budget Funds are not an immediate concern since the NREGA budget for 2020-21 has been raised to Rs. 1-lakh crore or so. But more is likely to be required to meet the tremendous demand for NREGA work. It is important to ensure that funds never dry up: this happened every year in the last few years, leading to huge wage arrears. NREGA is supposed to be a demand-driven programme with an open-ended budget; nothing in the Act authorises the government to impose a budget cap. These are some of the issues that arise in activating NREGA for crisis relief. The main thing is to provide work aplenty and pay wages at speed. This is a matter of life and death. Jean Drèze is Visiting Professor at the Department of Economics, Ranchi University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-need-for-a-million-worksites-now/article31667045.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Failing to perform as a constitutional court||As India, along with the rest of the world, grapples with the public health crisis caused by COVID-19, it faces many unique challenges. The most acute problem is faced by migrant labourers: they have no work, no source of income, no access to basic necessities, no quality testing facilities, no protective gear, and no means to reach home. Every day, we hear of migrant labourers walking hundreds of miles, many dying in the process. The saddest is the apathy shown by the institutions meant to look out for their interests. I refer here to the Supreme Court, which has failed to satisfactorily acknowledge that the fundamental rights of migrant labourers have been violated, and ignored these workers when they most needed protection. Undeniably, the state must ensure that adverse consequences of this pandemic are minimised. But any duty performed by the arms of the state, even during emergency, must always be bounded by constitutional propriety, and respect fundamental rights. The judiciary becomes the all-important watchdog in this situation. No relief for workers In this lockdown, enough and more evidence points to fundamental rights of citizens having been grossly violated, and especially those of vulnerable populations like migrant labourers. But instead of taking on petitions questioning the situation, the Supreme Court has remained ensconced in its ivory tower, refusing to admit these petitions or adjourning them. By effectively not granting any relief, the Court is denying citizens of the most fundamental right of access to justice, ensured under the Constitution. In doing so, it has let down millions of migrant workers, and failed to adequately perform as a constitutional court. In one of the strictest lockdowns in modern India, the Centre issued many directives, but designated the States as the implementing authorities. But the issue of migrant labourers is inherently an inter-State issue, and States have had to tackle it both internally as well as inter-se. Who will guarantee safe transport for the return of migrant workers? When in quarantine, who will grant them a sustenance allowance, or look after their health issues, or look after needs besides food? Who will ensure job loss compensation? Who will conduct regular and frequent testing? Only the Supreme Court can enforce accountability of the Centre in these matters. In rejecting or adjourning these petitions, the Court has made several questionable remarks: the condition of migrant labourers is a matter of policy and thus, does not behove judicial interference; or, governments already provide labourers with two square meals a day, so what more can they possibly need (surely, ‘not wages’); or, incidents like the horrific accident where migrant labourers sleeping on railway tracks were killed cannot be avoided because ‘how can such things be stopped’. Equally, lawyers have been castigated for approaching the Court ‘merely’ on the basis of reports. But the Court has rarely insisted on such formality: its epistolary jurisdiction (where petitions were entertained via mere letters) is the stuff of legend, so its reaction here, during an emergency, seems anomalous. Many of the so-called excuses of the Court have been tackled by previous judgments, notably the question of policy and non-judicial interference. There are numerous judgments where it has laid out matters of policy: for instance, the Vishaka guidelines on sexual harassment in the workplace; the right to food; and various environmental protection policies. In these cases, the Court formulated policies and asked the States to implement them. Today, there is an unfortunate presumption discernible in the Court’s response that the government is the best judge of the situation. In believing thus, the Court seems to have forgotten that the Constitution does not fall silent in times of crises. Similarly, nothing prevents the Court from monitoring the situation itself directly, especially regarding the state’s obligations: it could easily direct bureaucrats to collect empirical data on the ground, as it has done before. One is struck immediately by the lack of compassion or judicial sensitivity in handling this situation, and it prompts two observations. First, the Court is not merely rejecting or adjourning these petitions; it is actively dissuading petitioners from approaching the courts for redress because the Court determines that it is the executive’s responsibility. Ordinarily, the Court would have at least nudged petitioners towards the High Courts, but here, even that choice is not available — the Court is practically slamming the door shut. Second, there is the matter of how the Court is treating such public interest litigations. PILs are a specific instrument designed to ensure the protection of the rights of the poor, downtrodden and vulnerable, and “any member of the public” can seek appropriate directions on their behalf. This lies at the heart of the PIL. The concept of a PIL is to be non-adversarial, but the Court is treating these as adversarial matters against the government. PILs, in fact, ought to be a collaborative effort between the court and all the parties, where everyone comes together in seeking a resolution to the problem. Today, we find ourselves with a Supreme Court that has time for a billion-dollar cricket administration, or the grievances of a high-profile journalist, while studiously ignoring the real plight of millions of migrants, who do not have either the money or the profile to compete for precious judicial time with other litigants. Role of High Courts At this stage, I must acknowledge the stellar role being played by some High Courts, even though governments have tried to discourage them on grounds that since the Supreme Court is not interfering, High Courts need not do so either. At least four High Courts (Karnataka, Madras, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat) have started asking questions about migrant rights. This is almost a replay of what happened during Emergency, where High Courts boldly stood up and recognised violations, but were overruled eventually by the Supreme Court. The Madras High Court, for example, has quashed criminal defamation cases against media houses, stating that democracy cannot be throttled this way. Contrast this with the Supreme Court’s reaction to the bizarre claim of the Solicitor-General who argued that the exodus of workers was due to fake news: the Court seemed to have accepted this, and media houses were advised to report more responsibly. In such times, High Courts come across as islands of rationality, courage and compassion. However, in truth, the subject matter of migration is inherently an inter-State issue, not an intra-State one. This is a time when the apex court must intervene and monitor the calamitous situation, instead of taking the government’s word as gospel. Justice Brandeis’ words quoted by Justice H.R. Khanna in ADM Jabalpur ring especially true in these times: “Experience should teach us to be most on our guard to protect liberty when the Government’s purposes are beneficent … [the] greatest danger to liberty lies in insidious encroachment by men of zeal, well-meaning but lacking in due deference for the rule of law.” Ajit Prakash Shah is former Chief Justice, Delhi and Madras High Courts and former Chairperson, Law Commission of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/failing-to-perform-as-a-constitutional-court/article31667052.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Hardly the 1991 moment for agriculture||The announcement of reforms in agricultural marketing by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in May, has been hailed by some as the “1991” moment for agriculture. While it does not mean much on the ground, it has successfully managed to deflect attention from the pittance offered by way of fiscal support to the agricultural sector, as a part of the grand fiscal package announced by the Prime Minister. Even then, the reforms are no more than reiterations of earlier announcements. The three reforms regarding agricultural marketing were the reforms in the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act, the Essential Commodities Act, and on contract farming. All of these have been in discussion for almost two decades, with the APMC Act having already seen substantial reforms in many States. The first comprehensive model act on APMC was proposed during 2003, and since then, similar efforts to push for more reforms have been proposed in 2007, 2013, and as late as 2017 by the present government. APMCs and changes by States The main argument against the APMC Act is that it creates barriers to the entry and exit of traders and makes the sale and purchase of agricultural produce compulsory for farmers as well as traders. Some of the criticism regarding the functioning of the APMC is valid, to which State governments have been responsive; as many as 17 State governments having amended the APMC Act to make it more liberal. In fact, the regulations and the functioning of mandis vary a great deal across States. Kerala does not have an APMC Act and Bihar repealed it in 2006. But several others such as Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha, Gujarat, and Andhra Pradesh deregulated fruits and vegetables trade, allowed private markets, introduced a unified trading licence and have introduced a single-point levy of market fee. Tamil Nadu has already reformed its APMC with no market fee. Several others such as Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana and Rajasthan have undertaken one or more of these reforms. Many States have introduced direct marketing of farm produce, examples being the Uzhavar Sandhai (Tamil Nadu), the Rythu Bazaar (Andhra Pradesh and Telangana), the Raitha Santhe (Karnataka), the Apni Mandi (Punjab) and the Krushak Bazaar – Odisha). Despite these reforms, APMC mandis continue to be vilified for all the ills plaguing marketing infrastructure and the low prices received by the farmers for their produce. The problem with mandis is not the regulation per se and the structure of mandis but the political interference in the functioning of the markets. These are more obvious in case of large mandis specialising in commercial crops and fruits and vegetables, where production is regionally concentrated. But even with these deficiencies, APMC mandis continue to play an important role in providing access to market for farmers. The Bihar example But did the reforms lead to a better outcome for farmers in those States where the reforms were undertaken? The best example is Bihar. The general argument in favour of reforms is that it will allow private investment in marketing infrastructure as well as provide more choices to farmers, leading to better prices received by farmers. In the case of Bihar, while no investment came in building market infrastructure, the loss of revenue due to the repeal of the APMC also led to deterioration of existing infrastructure (of the 54 market yards) in the State. The revenue collected from the APMC earlier was used not only for the modernisation of these market yards but also for the laying of roads and construction of other infrastructure to provide farmers better access to markets. But after the repeal, there have been no takers for these market yards, with no investment in creating private mandis . On the other hand, it has led to proliferation of private unregulated markets which charge a market fee from traders as well as farmers, and without any infrastructure for weighing, sorting, grading and storage. Even in other States where there is deregulation to allow private traders, there is hardly any investment to create market spaces let alone provide other facilities. There is also no evidence that farmers have received better prices in private mandis outside the APMC. While there have been instances of collusion and corruption in the running of the APMC, they continue to provide essential services to farmers. However, the vilification of APMCs has allowed the government to escape the responsibility of creating marketing infrastructure for millions of farmers. As against the recommendation that a regulated market should be available to farmers within a radius of 5 km (a corresponding market area of about 80 sq. km), currently regulated markets cover 457 sq. km. There are more than 7,000 regulated markets and 20,000 rural markets when the need is at least twice these figures. Most of the existing ones require investment in upgradation of infrastructure. Even the argument that the only bottleneck for farmers not receiving remunerative prices is due to the APMC Act is flawed. More than 80% of farmers, most of whom are small and marginal farmers, do not sell their produce in the APMC mandis . For a majority of farmers, prices received are more a function of the demand for agricultural commodities than access to markets. A good example is the case of decline in milk prices, pointed out by the Finance Minister herself. Despite the presence of cooperatives and private dairies, the collapse of milk prices reflects the decline in demand in the economy, not the distortions in private markets. While it may have exacerbated during the national lockdown following the COVID-19 pandemic, the fact that demand was declining even before the lockdown is now well known. Decline in demand For much of the period during the last two years, terms of trade have moved against agriculture, with agricultural commodity price inflation actually being negative for a large part of the last two years. With underlying weakness in demand and obsession with inflation targeting through fiscal and monetary policies, most agricultural commodities have seen a sharp decline in demand and, consequently, prices received by farmers. The argument for choice of markets is only valid as long as there are buyers with purchasing power in the market. No amount of marketing reforms will lead to higher price realisation for farmers if the underlying macroeconomic conditions are unfavourable to agriculture and farmers. Increase fiscal spending Even before the lockdown, the primary task of the government, especially the Finance Ministry should have been to increase fiscal spending to revive demand in the economy. This has become even more necessary after the sharp decline in incomes, job losses and decline in demand following the lockdown and expected contraction in economic activity for the year ahead. With international prices also showing declining trend, the urgency is to protect the farmers from the decline in commodity prices. As against these, the announcement of these reforms without a draft and without proper consultation with States or other stakeholders is nothing but a smokescreen to deflect attention from the core issue of fiscal support by the government to support farmers’ income. If the government is serious in providing remunerative prices to farmers, it needs to increase fiscal spending to create demand in the economy. These, rather than the hollow announcements of reforms, will go a long way in ensuring higher incomes to farmers. Himanshu is Associate Professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/hardly-the-1991-moment-for-agriculture/article31667048.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Fourth estate and the fifth column||Some readers ask how my columns about the larger information ecology and about social media are linked to the journalism of this newspaper. When the government fails to deliver, it invents multiple means to deflect the attention of the citizens from scrutinising its functions. The deflections may vary from waging a full-fledged war to demonising neighbouring countries. Social media is used to manage headlines and amplify misinformation. A few recent complaints regarding this newspaper’s reportage on renewed militancy in Kashmir and border skirmishes with China clearly fall into this category. Puncturing the narrative Before clearing their doubts, let me share a personal story. Two decades ago, I was Bureau Chief of Outlook magazine when it broke the story, “Command Failure”. The report explained that the 1999 war with Pakistan took place as the military and political leadership did not take cognisance of the timely warnings of the man on the ground, Brig Surinder Singh, commander of the Kargil-based 121 Brigade. The report widely differed from the narrative that the then National Democratic Alliance-government wanted the people to believe. The official position was that the nuclear test in Pokhran had changed the regional dynamics and that India was talking to Pakistan from a position of strength. The Kargil intrusion not only punctured that narrative but also exposed the limitations of hypernationalistic rhetoric masquerading as news. I asked Editor Vinod Mehta what gave him the courage to carry a report that questioned the government about a war with a neighbouring country when many media outlets were behaving as force multipliers for the government. He said, and I paraphrase: There are two forms of journalism — fourth estate and the fifth column. Speaking the truth and holding those in power accountable are the core roles of journalism as the fourth estate. To be a megaphone for governmental propaganda and keeping people in the dark is the role of the fifth column. The choice is obvious. A sentence in the news analysis, “Behind new incidents, a changed dynamic along India-China border” (May 20), read: “By December 2022, all 61 strategic roads along the border, spread across Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, will be completed...” Some readers felt that the newspaper was wrong in mentioning J&K. They said the report should have said Ladakh as the State has now been divided into two Union Territories. They failed to recognise that J&K includes not just Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, but also a huge swathe of territory across the Line of Control. The Indian state calls the region “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir”. That region includes the Trans-Karakoram Tract, which India has been consistently claiming as its own. The Hunza-Gilgit region borders Xinjiang Province of the People’s Republic of China to the north, and the Siachen Glacier region to the east. A newspaper has to take a holistic view instead of shoehorning its analysis into the official narrative. Selective use of the term ‘martyr’ Some readers were also troubled with the newspaper’s reluctance to use the term ‘martyr’ when reporting on the killing of CRPF soldiers. A Delhi-based advocate, Piyush Pathak, wrote: “I have been a regular reader of your prestigious newspaper for more than 30 years. A soldier martyred shall be properly addressed as this would give a positive effect to the society.” Another reader, Vimal Kumar, felt that despite a Readers’ Editor column on this topic, “The difference between journalism and propaganda” (March 4, 2019), the term ‘martyr’ had been used in some reports (“Solidarity march held for Pulwama martyrs”, March 11, 2019, and “A tribute to Pulwama martyrs, a plea against hate-mongering”, February 22, 2019). He wondered why there is lack of consistency in the newspaper in using the term ‘martyr’. Mr. Kumar is right. The term has managed to slip through the gate-keeping processes and this is unacceptable. However, to the credit of the desk, Mr. Kumar could not find the term after March 11, 2019. The desire to be the fourth estate trumps external pressure to become the fifth column. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fourth-estate-and-the-fifth-column/article31667054.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||No answers yet for Somalia||As Somalia grapples with the staggering challenge from the COVID-19 pandemic, chances are that the June 8 public hearings at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) on Somalia’s maritime dispute with Kenya will be deferred yet again. The public health emergency also raises a question mark on the general elections scheduled for later this year, especially as the nation seeks to restore universal suffrage after five decades. Maritime dispute Somalia and neighbouring Kenya have locked horns for over a decade on the delimitation of the maritime boundary in the Indian Ocean. At issue is a roughly 1,00,000 sq km area, which, as per seismic surveys, contains huge deposits of oil and gas. Under a 2009 Memorandum of Understanding, each granted the other no objection to presenting separate submissions to the UN Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS) concerning the outer limits of the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles. The parties also committed to finding a settlement in accordance with international law on the basis of the CLCS’s recommendations. But friction intensified following Kenya’s 2011 despatch of troops into Somalia, ostensibly to counter the al-Qaeda affiliate, al-Shabab. Kenya’s backing for the semi-autonomous Jubaland region has also caused consternation in Somalia. Given the diminishing prospects of a mutual compromise on the dispute, Somalia petitioned the ICJ in 2014. Somalia won a symbolic victory of sorts in February 2017. The Hague court in the Netherlands rejected by a majority Kenya’s contention challenging the admissibility of Somalia’s application, as also the court’s jurisdiction in the case, in view of the MoU. The court held that this MoU was in no way breached just because one of the parties decided on an alternative mode of dispute resolution. Moreover, while the agreement was legally binding, there was nothing to suggest that judicial proceedings could take place only after the CLCS issued its own recommendations, said the court. In a diplomatic row last year, Kenya recalled its ambassador and expelled Somalia’s envoy, accusing the Somalian government of illegally auctioning oil blocks in the disputed waters. In parallel, the African Union has intervened to find a settlement out of court via a mediator. As regards the judicial proceedings at The Hague, a decision is expected on the public hearings, postponed twice last year, scheduled to commence next month. Universal suffrage The people of Somalia will, later this year, for the first time since the 1969 general elections, exercise their right to political participation under universal suffrage. The one-person one-vote law, which received President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed’s assent in February, is a milestone in the country’s gradual path to democratic governance after enduring military rule for over two decades and the long transition following the civil war. Notably, there was a 100-fold increase in the number of delegates (14,025) in the 2016 electoral college which chose the 275-member House of the People and the 54 senators-strong upper chamber. There are fewer women legislators in the current parliament than the 30% seats allotted to them. But a steady increase in the number of female representatives witnessed in successive elections is an encouraging sign. Somalia has systematically suppressed a free press that is vital to a vibrant democracy. Eight journalists have been killed and as many have fled the country during Mr. Mohamed’s term as the al-Shabab and the police behave with impunity, says Amnesty International. The Committee to Protect Journalists said in 2016 that as many as 59 media personnel were killed since the 1991 civil war. In the backdrop of such systemic constraints and the current pandemic, the practical difficulties of implementing universal suffrage would be formidable. Authorities and activists can, however, take comfort in the fact that the alternatives would be far less desirable. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-answers-yet-for-somalia/article31667055.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Danger in the air||From a “we are comfortable now, established on ILS 25L” that soon led to a repeated declaration of “Mayday”, the partial transcript of air traffic control conversation that is available offers an insight into the catastrophic end to PK-8303. The Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) flight, from Lahore to Karachi, with 91 passengers and eight crew, was operated using an Airbus A320-214, an aircraft type that is one of aviation’s reliable and modern workhorses. Initially, while visual evidence, as photographs and video footage, offered some clues about what might have overwhelmed the pilots of the nearly 16-year-old jetliner, it is the recovery, later, of the crucial blackboxes that is significant. In the backdrop too is the offer of full technical assistance by the manufacturer, Airbus, and the involvement of western air safety agencies and Pakistan’s inquiry team. These factors will aid investigators in getting a handle on the series of events. May 22, the day of the accident — there are two survivors — also marked the 10th anniversary of another air disaster, the crash of IX-812, an Air India Express flight on the Dubai-Mangaluru sector. Air safety commentators point in a relevant direction. Though authorities in Pakistan and PIA, an established flag carrier, have detailed the plane’s technical, flight and maintenance history, there is a swirl around the operator’s not-so-impressive air safety record. There is also another core and related issue. The COVID-19 pandemic has scorched commercial airline operations and balance sheets, but with airline managers across the world attempting to give wings to their fleets after prolonged grounding, experts highlight a key phrase: ‘no half measures’. The necessity of flying machines being returned to service after a complete maintenance check and, more importantly, aircrew being allowed at the controls only after key proficiency checks in a full flight simulator have to be stressed repeatedly. This is a subject that aviation regulators can ill-afford to overlook, and a challenge too, given that it is airlines with deep pockets or with access to financial lifelines that can bridge such issues. The tragedy in Pakistan has also spotlighted another long-standing safety concern. The crippled jet’s fiery end, while on approach, in a densely populated neighbourhood lining the airport, highlights the danger of buildings and obstacles affecting airline operations and safety. In India, the authorities concerned have often glossed over High Court orders to demolish structures around aerodromes that violate stringent guidelines laid down by the International Civil Aviation Organization. In the interest of aviation safety, airline crew do deserve a comfort margin and, in an extreme event, every chance at pulling off a Sully as the world wished the PIA crew to have done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/danger-in-the-air/article31667039.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||For farms and farmers||The Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana launched by Chhattisgarh last week aims to supplement the income of the State’s 18 lakh rice, maize and sugarcane farmers by Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 13,000 per acre, through direct cash transfers. Besides the Centre’s PM-KISAN scheme that provides Rs. 6,000 to farm families owning less than five acres of land, Telangana, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have similar cash transfer programmes for farmers. For balancing the interests of the consumer and the farmer, India has an extensive Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime which works in combination with the PDS. But the efficiency of neither MSP procurements nor the PDS is uniform across the country. The Centre says it fixes MSPs at 1.5 times the cost of production for farmers, but this calculation is not free of controversy. Last year, several States including Chhattisgarh and BJP-ruled U.P. and Haryana questioned the Centre’s MSP calculations. Though food is a universal necessity, those who produce it languish at the bottom of the economic pyramid. These income support schemes target land owners, and bypass tenants and labourers. In Chhattisgarh, there is preliminary evidence that tenants managed better rates from owners last year after the government gave incentives over and above MSPs to farmers. The State is now designing a cash transfer scheme for landless labourers, according to Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel. But these interventions are only palliative and cannot address the underlying problem, which is the non-remunerative nature of farming. A more market-driven approach has often been proposed as the solution, and the agriculture-related components in the Centre’s response to the economic crisis caused by the pandemic appear to toe that line. However, many previous arguments about the agriculture economy have been rendered questionable by the pandemic. The food supply chain crisis in the U.S. is instructive. Considered supremely efficient, it ended up with wasted produce and unmet demand as the pandemic erupted. India’s agricultural management must take into account such fresh learning from the pandemic, and vulnerabilities arising out of supply chain-dependent food security. The list of pre-existing morbidities in the agriculture sector is also long, including messy land records, unscientific and unsustainable crop patterns, market linkages that make the farmers vulnerable to exploitation by officials and middlemen, inadequate irrigation, adoption of technology, conflict with wildlife, and changing weather and climate patterns. For now, the Centre must announce the MSPs for the current season at the earliest — late announcements have added to the uncertainties for the farmers in recent years. The creation of a buoyant agriculture sector will take much more, and those efforts must be made on a war-footing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-farms-and-farmers/article31667038.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||The Outcaste (From an editorial)||In calling off the South African all-white cricket tour of England, the M.C.C.’s Cricket Council has at last let good sense prevail. But it needed intervention by the Government to bring that about. The Home Secretary, Mr. John Callaghan, made a formal request to the Council to cancel the controversial tour in view of the harm that it boded not only to race relations and the law and order situation at home but to Britain’s relations with the other Commonwealth countries. Fourteen of them had decided to boycott the forthcoming Commonwealth Games as a mark of protest and international cricket itself was faced with the distinct possibility of breaking up into two camps, white and nonwhite. When so much was at stake, why the Cricket Council should have clung to the tour so long is difficult to understand unless it be that it wanted to put the onus for cancellation on the Labour Government or wanted a face-saving way out of the mess it had created. The arguments of the tour-supporters that politics should be kept out of sports, that a militant minority should not be allowed to impose its will on the majority which wanted the tour, that there is more merit in maintaining links than in snapping them and so on, all become nonsensical in relation to South Africa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-outcaste-from-an-editorial/article31667049.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I am an ex-serviceman. I had started an educational society. The society had sold a piece of agriculture land and purchased another piece of agricultural land at some other place. However, since I-T section 240-B was not extended to the society, we had to pay a huge sum as tax on capital gains. On an appeal, it was revised twice. However, we have paid the tax component in full. We have also appealed to the I-T authorities to waive the interest. The appeal is since pending. Is it possible to get any relief under Vivad Se Vishwas amnesty scheme? L. Pandu Ranga Reddy  A.Under the Vivad Se Vishwas Amnesty Scheme, such appeals before the competent authority where there is a dispute on tax, interest and penalty are covered in order to claim relief as per the provisions entailed in the scheme based on which relief is granted by the authorities. On the basis of the query raised by you, two inferences can be made, First, there is an application for the waiver of interest for the tax already discharged, thereby indicating that there is no dispute on the interest payable figure, only waiver of the interest payable is being applied before the competent authority under section 201(1A)(i). This does not amount to an appeal and is only an application before the competent authority for waiver of interest. Such applications are not covered under the Vivad Se Vishwas Amnesty Scheme as per the frequently answered question released by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). Second, since there is a dispute on the calculation of interest levied and the same has been contested on or before January 31, 2020 before a competent appellate authority, you may claim relief under Vivad Se Vishwas Amnesty Scheme even though you are not disputing the tax component as it has been discharged in full.  Q.Is tax payable on dividends on shares and mutual funds from domestic companies for the period April 2019 to March 2020? What is the exempt amount? S. Ramachandran  A.Dividends received by a person in the financial year 2019-2020 is exempt under section 10(34) of the act. However, dividends received from domestic companies by individuals, HUFs, firms (other than registered charitable institutions/trusts, domestic companies) in excess of Rs. 10 lakh in a financial year is charged at 10% under section 115BBDA of the Act (tax is levied only on the excess over Rs. 10 lakh). Dividends will be taxed in the hands of the receiver based on their respective tax slabs/tax rates from the financial year 2020-2021 as per the proposal in the Union Budget passed by Parliament.  (The author is partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article31667035.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article31667037.ece
25 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Ganguly cannot continue as BCCI chief, says Gupta||Sanjeev Gupta, a life member of the Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association, has challenged Sourav Ganguly’s continuation as president of the BCCI. In an email to Ganguly and other officials on Sunday, Gupta said that the BCCI rulebook debars anyone nominated to the International Cricket Council (ICC) Board from functioning as president. Ganguly was included in the ICC Board as BCCI's representative soon after attending the Board meeting on March 28, and has since emerged a contender for the soon-to-be vacant post of ICC chairman. Gupta stated that according to Rule 14(9) of the BCCI constitution, “it is amply clear that as soon as you are nominated to ICC, your post as BCCI president will get vacated automatically forthwith”. Objection dismissed A BCCI official, however, dismissed Gupta’s objection. “The clause should come into effect only if an [BCCI] office-bearer is 'elected' to the ICC. Otherwise the BCCI will be forced to nominate someone other than an office-bearer, which will be ridiculous,” he said.  Interestingly, an appeal made by BCCI in the Supreme Court makes no mention of clause 14(9). The appeal, filed by treasurer Arun Dhumal through Adv. Bina Madhavan on April 21, requests the Court to permit BCCI to “carry out the amendments to Rule Nos. 6.4, 6.5, 7.3, 15(3) & (4), 19(2) and 45 in the Constitution which have been approved in the Annual General Meeting held on 01.12.2019.” The appeal requests the Apex Court to separate tenures of office-bearers of BCCI and State associations before cooling-off comes into effect and also to curtail the powers of the CEO. According to the current rulebook, the CEO has extraordinary powers, which the current dispensation seeks to restrict. Also, the BCCI has appealed for the clause mandating Supreme Court approval for any amendment to the BCCI constitution to be done away with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ganguly-cannot-continue-as-bcci-chief-says-gupta/article31667162.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Carrom could take first strike||Hyderabad is home to two carrom World Cup champions — K. Srinivas (men) and S. Appoorwa (women). Not surprisingly it could be the first city in Telangana which will see a sports body — Carrom Association of Telangana (CAT) — host a tournament in the post-lockdown scenario at the Fateh Maidan Indoor Stadium in the first week of June with no entry for spectators. Reason? “It is pretty simple. The size of the carrom board is 36 inches (three feet), players don’t come into physical contact with each other. They will not touch the board and a player sits at least one foot away from the board with enough space for his elbow to play the strokes,” said B.K. Haranath, founder-president of CAT, which was originally the Hyderabad Carrom Association since 1972, in a chat with The Hindu on Sunday. “Even otherwise, the prescribed definition of the competition boards is such there should be a distance of 10 feet from one light point to the other on the boards, which means the players on the adjacent boards will be at least five feet away from each other,” he says. “And, nearly 16 to 20 boards can be arranged for a tournament with no individual umpires for each board,” he added. “There will be a technical director, chief referee and the assistant chief referees positioned 15-feet away from the first row of boards to monitor the matches,” he said. “This way, in a ranking tournament we can host 80 matches in a day spanning nine hours,” he added. “Audience has never been an issue as except the carrom family there will not be many spectators, so they can be easily controlled,” said Haranath. In fact, CAT is also planning an innovative, online carrom tournament given its popularity cutting across sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carrom-could-take-first-strike/article31667405.ece
25 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Saliva ban an interim measure’||ICC Cricket Committee chairman Anil Kumble says the recommendation to ban saliva for shining the ball is only an interim measure and “things will go back to normal” once the pandemic is brought under control. The Kumble-led panel recommended a ban on saliva to minimise the risk of infection. On Friday, the ICC, in its guidelines for resumption of the game, also suggested a bar on the practice. “...this is only an interim measure. In a few months or a year’s time, I think things will go back to as normal as it can be,” Kumble told Star Sports show ‘Cricket Connected’. The ban on saliva has elicited mixed response from bowlers, who said it would come in the way of generating swing. But most have also acknowledged the health risk that it might pose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saliva-ban-an-interim-measure/article31667152.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stimac rues lack of scoring skills||Much like his predecessors, the Indian football team’s head coach Igor Stimac has realised that no matter how effective the training inputs are, the National team falters when it comes to scoring. In an interview to news channel WION recently, the Croatian, looking back at his stint that began last May, said: “We have proved that we can change many things in a short time. It was not easy to change from a kick-and-chase style to a more possession-based football.” Stimac was not very happy with the returns from the World Cup qualification tournament. “We didn’t take our opportunities. I thought we could surprise Oman, but inexperience cost us. Though India is no longer the team that loses easy games, we are not scoring enough goals.” Stressing the need to reduce the number of foreign recruits in domestic teams, he said, “I feel depressed and tired at repeatedly saying we have to reduce the number of foreign players in Indian domestic football. “If the Government changes the citizenship regulations, we can get seven to eight players of Indian origin who are playing abroad and that would change our results dramatically.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stimac-rues-lack-of-scoring-skills/article31667325.ece
25 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Eden escapes Amphan wrath||The iconic Eden Gardens has escaped the wrath of Cyclone Amphan with only some minor damage. After taking stock of the damage caused to the stadium, which has hosted two World Cup finals (1987 ODI and 2016 T20) and the first pink-ball Test in the country, the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) top brass decided to consult its structural engineer to get a concrete idea about the cyclone’s impact. “We don’t think there is any major damage to the Eden, but we cannot take any chances. We will consult our structural engineer to look into the issues,” CAB president Avishek Dalmiya said. The pitch and outfield were largely unaffected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eden-escapes-amphan-wrath/article31667154.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Aim at bad memories, and shoot’||A 100-second video, titled #dontrushchallenge and featuring some of the best shooters in the country, conveys a crisp message: “Aim at bad memories, and shoot it, coz nothing should stay for long.” It ends with a symbolic tearing of a coronavirus portrait! Apurvi Chandela appears first in the video, reading a book and quickly changing into her shooting gear. Elavenil Valarivan, Anjum Moudgil, Divyansh Singh Panwar, Manu Bhaker, Abhishek Verma, Anish Bhanwala, Arjun Babuta, Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar and Shriyanka Sadangi are the others in the clip, each performing a task.  The transition from one shooter to another has been done with imagination: one throws a glove, the other catches it; one gives a T-shirt and the other wears it... “This team is all about fun, hard work, crazy ideas! Loved working on this challenge and at the end, it is all about being positive and enjoying what you do,” wrote World championship silver medallist Anjum on her Instagram page. It was her idea to do the video with Panwar. “The British, Russian and Iran shooting teams had made videos which were posted by the ISSF. We also decided to make one,” said Apurvi. “We added a few more shooters before Shriyanka, Apurvi and I wrote the script. Everyone was asked to perform their part,” said Anjum, revealing that it took two days to put things together. “Everybody sent their videos before all of them were combined to make the final one,” said Anjum. The beautiful message — shoot the bad memories and start afresh — is apt for the times we live in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aim-at-bad-memories-and-shoot/article31667165.ece
25 May 2020||Chennai,||Washington: ticking the right boxes||An astonishing performance in First Class cricket is fading from public memory as the protagonist’s name is often associated with Twenty20s. In the Duleep Trophy final of 2017 at Lucknow, Washington Sundar, then only 17, scalped 11 batsmen (six and five) and hit 88 and 42 for India Red against India Blue to become the first cricketer with 10-plus wickets and more than 100 runs in the summit clash of this prestigious competition. A performance that underlined Washington’s immense all-round potential. Back in training The Chennai lad, looking at a fresh season with optimism, has resumed training at a local ground, accompanied by his father M. Sundar. However, he is now specifically focusing on batting. “I am confident about my bowling. I feel I have to concentrate on batting to get the best out of myself,” Washington told The Hindu on Saturday. Even as his father does the throw-downs, Washington plays strokes around the wicket. A natural with the willow, Washington was chosen for the India under-19 team as a top-order batsman. His highest Ranji score, 159 against Tripura, came as an opener. “I am essentially an opener, but when I joined the India under-19 team, Rahul Dravid Sir asked me to bat in the middle-order and bowl off-spin a lot more. I adjusted to the role,” he said. Washington then grabbed attention in the IPL with his calm and canny bowling in the PowerPlays and soon did the same for India in T20s. However, since he batted down the order, opportunities to sparkle with the willow were few and far between. In the TNPL, he has conjured up whirlwind efforts, cutting and pulling short-pitched deliveries and punching off his back-foot. Adapting He has also realised the need to adapt. “I know, for India, I could be coming in at No. 6 or 7 in Twenty20s. I enjoy the challenge and the sense of adventure in batting in these slots.” Washington does not want to create self-imposed pressure by setting goals. “I want to follow the process, tick the boxes, the rest will follow.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/washington-ticking-the-right-boxes/article31667231.ece
25 May 2020||New Delhi,||Track and field athletes to start outdoor training||Track and field athletes will return to outdoor training on Monday after two months of being confined to their rooms, but focus will be entirely on their fitness regimens to avoid injury. Athletics Federation of India president Adille Sumariwalla told PTI that all the athletes based at NIS-Patiala, SAI Centre in Bengaluru and Ooty will start “outdoor fitness” training from Monday. On May 17, the government permitted the use of stadia and sports complexes without spectators and under strict guidelines which allowed the athletes to return to outdoor training. Neeraj elated Star javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who has qualified for the now postponed Tokyo Olympics, is elated that outdoor training will start from Monday. “I am feeling happy. At least something is starting even though it will be a slow beginning,” he said from NIS-Patiala, where he has been confined to his room since March 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/track-and-field-athletes-to-start-outdoor-training/article31667147.ece
25 May 2020||Coimbatore,||Badminton world body defends calendar||After BWF’s condensed calendar invited criticism, secretary-general Thomas Lund said that it provided the best framework for the sport’s return under the present circumstances. “The list of 22 is only related to Grade 1 and Grade 2 tournaments. However, it is not expected that each player should play all tournaments,” Lund said . “Some will play more because they may not reach the final rounds, others will not as they play more matches in each tournament.” He stated that talks were on about BWF's strict mandatory player regulations. “We understand that it is not fair to expect athletes to play every tournament. An announcement on this will be made soon.” In the revised schedule, Syed Modi Open (Super 300) and Indonesian Open (Super 1000) clash, both scheduled to run from November 17 to 22. But Lund said they had no other option. “Tournaments at different levels typically appeal to different levels of players. And, in the process of revamping the calendar, it has been necessary to have some Super 100 or 300 tournaments played in the same weeks as higher level tournaments.”  It is not expected that each player will play or should play all tournaments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/badminton-world-body-defends-calendar/article31667149.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nakamura beats Aronian||Hikaru Nakamura bounced back from 1-2 to beat Levon Aronian 3-2 in their first mini-match of the best-of-three quarterfinals in the Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge on Saturday. Aronian won the first regular game and proved equal in the next two. In the fourth, Aronian needed a draw to prevail, but Nakamura fought back to win. In the Armageddon game, Nakamura again proved his superiority. In another clash, Yu Yangyi beat Ding Liren 3-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nakamura-beats-aronian/article31667150.ece
25 May 2020||BERLIN,||Bayern overcomes Eintracht||Bayern Munich beat Eintracht Frankfurt 5-2 on Saturday, surviving a brief second-half comeback scare, to stay four points clear of Borussia Dortmund at the top of the Bundesliga with seven games left to play. The Bavarians thought they had the match wrapped up after efforts from Leon Goretzka, Thomas Mueller and Robert Lewandowski had given them a 3-0 lead in the empty Allianz Arena. Rattled Eintracht defender Martin Hinteregger caught the Bayern defence napping to strike twice in three minutes and inject new life into the encounter. Yet the visitors then quickly gave away two goals — with Alphonso Davies pouncing on a defensive error on the hour and Hinteregger scoring an own goal in the 74th minute.  The results: Schalke 0 lost to Augsburg 3 (Loewen 5, Bazee 76, Cordova 90+1); Mainz 0 lost to Leipzig 5 (Werner 11, 48, 75, Poulsen 23, Sabitzer 36). Saturday: Bayern Munich 5 (Goretzka 17, Mueller 41, Lewandowski 46, Davies 61, Hinteregger 74-og) bt Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Hinteregger 52, 55) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayern-overcomes-eintracht/article31667153.ece
25 May 2020||Brussels,||Clijsters determined to press on with comeback||Kim Clijsters is looking forward to returning to the US Open. “If the US Open can happen, I want to be ready. I would be happy if I had to play on Court 18. I don’t have to be out on Arthur Ashe.”AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clijsters-determined-to-press-on-with-comeback/article31667157.ece
25 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Aravindh is king||GM Aravindh Chithambaram emerged champion in the main category of the PM-Cares Fund Play2Help online series chess tournament, organised by V. Raghav Srivathsav. The final edition will be held on May 31. Call 81870 93036 for details.  Final placings: Main category: 1. Aravindh Chithambaram, 2. Aradhya Garg, 3. Bharath Subramanian, 4. M.G. Gahan and 5. Mitrabha Guha; Best players: Women: Vyshnavi; Below Elo 2000: Aditya Gupta; Below Elo 1600: Nirbhay.   Under-15: Boys: Pragyan Sriram; Girls: Manu Hasini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aravindh-is-king/article31667232.ece
25 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Jyoti to appear for CFI trials||‘Bicycle girl’ Jyoti Kumari, who pedalled around 1,300km with her injured father from New Delhi to Darbhanga, will appear for the Cycling Federation of India (CFI) trials once the lockdown ends. “We will surely send her for the trials after the lockdown is lifted. She was enrolled in Class IX on Saturday. At the moment, we want her to complete her matriculation,” her father Mohan Paswan said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jyoti-to-appear-for-cfi-trials/article31667166.ece
25 May 2020||Mumbai,||Fresh personal details leaks detected on dark web||Even as cybercrime agencies and experts are investigating the leak of millions of Indian job-seekers’ personal details on the dark web, two more similar instances have come to light in the last 12 hours. The fresh leaks include nearly 2,000 Aadhaar cards and details of 18 million Indians, all available for free. The leak of nearly 2.9 crore job-seekers’ details was discovered by Cyble Inc., a U.S.-based cyber intelligence firm, which has been trying to trace the source of the leak and identify the perpetrators. Cyble founder Beenu Arora said the Aadhaar cards were posted on the dark web some time in the last 12 hours. “We are not sure of how this leak happened. There is a known perpetrator who just decided to drop this. In terms of the leak itself, it has approximately 2,000 Aadhaar cards. A large number of files appear to have originated from 2019, and several IDs were scanned from mobile cameras, and often transferred to other parties via WhatsApp. It’s highly likely that more IDs may have been compromised, and the perpetrator decided to share only a small subset. We are still looking into this further,” Mr. Arora told The Hindu . Cyble researchers said the Aadhaar cards and the job seekers’ details were posted by different entities, both with a different level of reputation on the dark net. Second leak “The Aadhaar leak actor also published a second leak whereby they dropped details of 18 lakh residents of Madhya Pradesh for free on May 19. We identified this leak during our investigations into the jobseeker data,” Mr. Arora said. State and Central cybercrime agencies have also initiated their own investigations into the matter, sources confirmed. Meanwhile, Cyble researchers have received an anonymous tip off according to which the jobseekers’ data leak was the result of an unprotected Elasticsearch instance — a tool that collects data from a wide range of locations on the Internet in accordance with the requirements of the person conducting the search, and allowing the user to analyse large troves of data in real time from all over the Internet. “The claim made by the anonymous entity that unprotected Elasticsearch instance was the root cause behind the jobseeker data leak is unverifiable at this stage, as we haven’t been given the technical evidence yet. We are approaching other research communities to gather more facts,” Mr. Arora said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/fresh-personal-details-leaks-detected-on-dark-web/article31667146.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Elements of Ramzan||In an exceptionally hot month of fasting, perhaps it is most appropriate to remember that an alternative meaning of the Arabic word ‘Ramad’, the root of ‘Ramadan’, is ‘scorchedness of the earth due to excessive heat’. Ramadan, or Ramzan, as the month of fasting is more commonly known, was declared in mid-May, and a little unusually, the date of commencement was uniformly observed on the same day by Muslims globally. To Muslims fasting from dawn to dusk in the ninth month of the lunar Islamic calendar, Ramzan is an opportunity not just for voluntary abstention from the appetites that drive their existence but also a reminder of how close nature is to their life. The Muslim population of the world sets its dates according to the Hijri calendar. This starts in the Islamic New Year of AD 622 when the Prophet Muhammad and his followers migrated from Makkah (Mecca) to Yathrib (now known as Madina) and established the first Muslim community or Ummah. The Hijri calendar has 12 months, in a year of 354 or 355 days. With the calendar moving back by 11 days each year compared with the more universally used Gregorian (solar) calendar, the first day of Ramzan tends to change accordingly. Fasting was made compulsory in the second year after the migration. Even though the sun and the moon have always been a part of what we call day and night, a ritual like fasting becomes almost totally focused on the movement of these celestial bodies. The new moon (‘Hilal’ in Arabic) assumes added importance during Ramzan, because it has to be sighted with the naked eye in order for the month to commence and end, roughly a period of 29 to 30 days. NAHLA NAINAR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/elements-of-ramzan/article31667103.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 07:52 IST,||Sudoku - May 25, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-25-2020/article31667774.ece
25 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Domestic flights to resume today||After being suspended for two months, domestic air travel is set to resume with an Indigo airlines flight flying the Delhi-Kolkata sector at 4 30 a.m on May 24. Airport officials, however, did not reveal the number of flights scheduled on the first day of operations after the lockdown. Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said that it has put in place several measures to provide a “safe and healthy environment” to passengers flying out of Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA). Deployment of queue managers, social distance markings, and seating arrangement with social distance norms have been made to avoid crowding, DIAL said. It added that tray disinfection for passenger safety will be maintained and auto dispensing sanitiser machines have been kept for passenger to use after security checks. “The whole process has been designed to ensure highest level of safety without compromising on passenger comfort. Our teams have worked round-the-clock to sanitise the vast terminal to provide hygienic conditions,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO-DIAL in a statement. To distribute passenger load in the departure forecourt, DIAL has allocated designated gates for each airline. All passengers will need to download the Aarogya Setu App on their phones, prior to reaching the airport. “In order to avoid close contact and crowding at the counters, passengers will be encouraged to check-in at home or use self-service facilities such as self-check-in, self-bag tag, scan & fly, etc.,” DIAL said. It added that in the security hold area, passengers will be encouraged to download a dedicated AI-enabled app for contact-less commerce and food ordering. All departure baggage would be disinfected at the Ultraviolet (UV) light disinfection tunnel and all high contact surface will be sanitised every hour, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/domestic-flights-to-resume-today/article31667342.ece
25 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Mass lay-offs likely in automobile sector in the Millennium City||Around 20-30 lakh workers, mostly contractual, could lose jobs in the Gurugram-Manesar-Bawal automobile belt due to slump in demand in the wake of COVID-19-induced lockdown, said Harbhajan Singh, chairman of Ease of Doing Business, CII, Haryana. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Singh, also former director of Honda two-wheelers, said that the Gurugram-Manesar-Bawal automobile belt, which employs around six million workers and is one of the auto-manufacturing hubs in the country, is likely to bear the brunt of the lockdown. Among others, Maruti Suzuki, the largest car manufacturer in the country, as well as Honda and Hero, the leading two-wheeler manufacturers, are based in Gurugram. He said the business size of the automobile sector was feared to shrink by almost 50%, thus impacting jobs. “All Original Equipment Manufacturers’ [OEM] sales number will go down. If the sales go down, the production will go down. With the decline in production, the jobs will be impacted since labour cannot be fruitfully engaged. Job loss can be in the range of 30-50%. Nationally, the sector employs around 14 million people. And if there is an average of four people in a family, the 50% job loss could cause havoc,” said Mr. Singh, also chief of strategy and people care, SGT University. He said that since the industry had legal flexibility in laying off the contractual staff, they will be first to be sacked. Demand driven Everything is ‘demand driven’ and production cannot be 100% even if the industry wanted because of new laws, lack of labour and constrains of supply chain, he said. He also added that most of the companies in this belt were operating at 10-40 % capacity and it might take them 3-6 months for the normal cycle of production to resume. The expenditure on ‘lifestyle’ would go down post lockdown, which would hurt the automobile sector, besides aviation, tourism and real estate, he observed. In an indication of things to come, Bellsonica Auto Component India Pvt. Limited, the first-tier vendor of Maruti, sacked around 300 contractual workers. As many as 119 regular staff were laid-off at Rico Auto Industries Limited’s Dharuhera plant. Ramesh Kundu, general manager (human resources) of Bellsonica said that the company’s production had slumped to 15%, though he hopes it would touch 40% by the first week of July. “We paid the lockdown dues to regular and contractual staff in Gurugram, but it is difficult to engage the staff without production,” said Mr. Kundu. The company has around 1,300 workers. Lodging complaint Rico Auto Workers Union president Raj Kumar said the company had laid-off almost 70% of its regular staff at the plant and they would formally lodge a complaint to the labour department in this regard. The company’s management could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Inqlabi Mazdoor Kendra central committee member Shyambir Shukla said that the lockdown had presented an opportunity for the industrialists to lay-off staff and hire labourers on fixed terms. He said it would increase the exploitation of workers and the State governments were further facilitating it by suspending the labour laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mass-lay-offs-likely-in-automobile-sector-in-the-millennium-city/article31667328.ece
25 May 2020||May 25 2020 00:00 IST,||Festival without festivities||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/festival-without-festivities/article31667340.ece
25 May 2020||New Delhi,||BJP attacks govt. over hospital beds||The BJP on Sunday attacked the Delhi government over the rising number of COVID-19 cases and alleged that the government was lying about the number of tests being carried out and the number of hospital beds available. While the government had earlier stated that even after the number of infected patients reached 30,000, there would be enough beds to treat patients, but COVID-19 patients were already unable to get treatment in the absence of beds, said Delhi BJP in-charge Shyam Jaju. “In the High Court, the lawyer of Delhi government clearly said that there are only 3,150 beds in Delhi’s government and private hospitals to fight the virus,” a statement from the BJP read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-attacks-govt-over-hospital-beds/article31667343.ece
25 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi simmers at 44.4 deg C; IMD issues red alert||Stifling heat gripped the national capital on Sunday with the maximum temperature hovering close to 45 degrees Celsius in most parts of the city. The India Meteorological Department has issued a ‘red alert’, used for a severe heatwave, for parts of Delhi for the next two days. “Heatwave will prevail in many places and severe heatwave in isolated places,” the IMD forecast said. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded a high of 44.4 degrees Celsius, which was five notches above the normal. The minimum temperature was recorded at 28.7 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-simmers-at-444-deg-c-imd-issues-red-alert/article31667329.ece
