01-10-2021||---||Environment, inequalities shape global politics||It is for the first time in global history that science is influencing political change. The science of climate change is now so well established and irrefutable that it has completely silenced the climate change deniers and even multinational corporations which are a major contributor to environmental destruction and climate change are now attempting to reset their business strategies towards sustainability in one form or another. That the science of climate change is making its political impact most clearly in Europe is not surprising as this is the most literate continent of the world.The latest report of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that our planet is facing a climate emergency along with the lived experiences of people all over the world in facing the consequences of climate catastrophe in the form of flash floods, devastating forest fires, droughts and extreme weather are drawing more and more people, especially the younger generation, to the vision of green politics. Coupled with these environmental disasters are the socio-economic inequalities that have surfaced in the advanced capitalist economies due to the pro-rich neo-liberal economic policies that became hegemonic in the 1990s but suffered some jolt after the 2008 global financial crisis. These socio-economic inequalities are discrediting the neo-liberal economic policy paradigm and making socialist and social-democratic politics more meaningful and relevant. That the relatively lower income groups and ethnic minorities suffered more in deaths and sickness during the Covid-19 pandemic has further exposed the unjust implications of free market neo-liberal economic policies.The reversal of neo-liberal policy paradigm came to global limelight with the defeat of Republican Donald Trump in the US presidential election and the victory of Democrat Joe Biden, who was supported by environmental and Left groups led by Bernie Sanders. It is now in Europe and to a considerable extent in Latin America, especially in Peru recently, and in Argentina, Mexico, Bolivia and Venezuela earlier, that the upsurge of Green and Left politics is most visible.This change has now taken place most recently in Germany, the largest and economically the most powerful country in Europe. After the 16-year rule of the right wing Christian Democratic Union (CDU) led by Angela Merkel in coalition with its sister party Christian Social Union (CSU) in the Bavarian region, the recent election results indicate that Germany will now be ruled by a coalition led by the Social Democratic Party (SDP), in alliance with the Green Party, and possibly with the pro-market Free Democrats and the Marxist Left Die Linke. The three most interesting aspects of this election outcome are: one, the Green Party emerged as the third largest party after the SDP and CDU; two, it polled the highest vote ever (14.8%), and third, it attracted the highest vote share of the young voters (below the age of 30). According to the exit poll from Forschungsgruppe Wahlen, the Green Party received the most votes of the young (22%, which is an increase of 11% from the last time in 2017) followed by Free Democrats (20%, increase of 7%), SPD (17%, decrease of 2%), CDU/CSU (11%, decrease of 13%), anti-immigration AfD (Alternative for Germany; 8%, decrease of 3%) and Die Linke (8%, decrease of 3%). The devastating floods in July and the UN climate change report raised the environment issue as a lead issue during the elections. The environment being central to Green Party politics raised the electoral profile and prospects of the party. Encouraged by this trend in the national mood, the Green Party decided for the first time to put up a candidate (Annalena Baerbock) for the election to the post of Chancellor, the highest political office in Germany. In the earlier phase of the election campaign, the opinion polls showed the Green Party as the most likely winner of the race for the office of the Chancellor but subsequently, the traditional and better resourced parties (CDU and SPD) overtook this earlier Green lead. However, this left a mark on the national consciousness that the Green Party may one day be the ruling party. A referendum result in Berlin along with the German national election suggests the further strengthening of wide-ranging radical trends. The referendum on whether the houses of mega landlords owning more than 3,000 units be expropriated to increase the affordable housing stock won a resounding victory.Equally significant, from the viewpoint of European political trends, is the outcome of the September elections in Norway, one of the richest countries in the world with a per capita income higher than that of the USA. In Norway’s election too as in Germany, the climate worries and rising economic inequalities became the leading issues. The environmental issue had special salience in Norway because the country is the largest producer of oil in Western Europe and the future of the oil industry looks shaky as the world is increasingly becoming aware of oil, along with coal and gas, as major contributors to global heating. A loose Red-Green coalition consisting of the Labour Party, Socialist Left, Centre Party (the party of farmers), Red Party (Marxists) and Green Party defeated the right-wing Conservative Party. It is now for the first time after the Second World War that all the Nordic countries — Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Iceland — have left-of-centre governments.In August, Scotland, a neighbour of the Nordic countries, witnessed the Green Party joining the Scottish National Party-led government. Both parties support the movement for the independence of Scotland from the UK but the Green Party joining the government has given a new meaning to the independence movement with an independent Scotland being projected as heading towards a fair and sustainable country different from England which is viewed as dominated by right-wing political formations.The developments we have examined briefly in the West with a brief mention of Latin America, suggest that environmental challenges and economic inequalities are likely to rise in importance in shaping the global political trends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/environment-inequalities-shape-global-politics-318438
01-10-2021||---||Dubai Expo set to bolster India-UAE ties||The next few weeks are going to see a lot of attention devoted to India’s ties with the UAE. At one level, the ongoing IPL matches will keep eyeballs glued to screens bringing the latest action from the cricket grounds in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah. The IPL final in Dubai on October 15 will be followed by the ICC T-20 World Cup, also in the UAE.As travel restrictions gradually ease, be prepared to see the good and the great land up in Dubai for the India-Pakistan game on October 24 and for other key matches. The decision of the hosts Board of Control for Cricket in India to relocate both the second half of the IPL and much of the ICC T-20 World Cup in the UAE reinforce the country’s position as the preferred fallback option for Indian cricket. It also speaks volumes of the UAE’s sports infrastructure and the comfort level of working with partners who readily agreed to take responsibility for organising back-to-back sporting events at a time when the pandemic was still raging.But there’s a lot more than cricket that will occupy our attention. After a year’s delay on account of the Covid-induced lockdowns, Dubai Expo opens to the world today. Billed by its organisers as ‘The Greatest Show on Earth’, the expo will feature the participation of a record 191 countries and enable them to showcase their technological prowess and ambition around three central themes — sustainability, mobility and opportunity.Covering 4,600 sq metres of the area, the four-storeyed India Pavilion is not just one of the largest in the expo but also one of the most high-tech. The kinetic motion of the panels that constitute its façade on two sides allows the flexibility to project a range of themes that unambiguously convey an India on the move. It is also one of the only pavilions that will remain in place once the expo goes into the legacy phase. While the other pavilions will be dismantled and taken away, the India Pavilion will stay as a permanent venue to promote Indian technology, innovation and culture.Over the six-month duration of the expo, the pavilion will provide India the opportunity to showcase its ancient culture; its cutting-edge technology in areas like space; its diversity through the participation of several states and union territories; its ambitious plans in sectors ranging from renewable energy to urban communities, from health and wellness to food, agriculture and livelihoods; and its spirit of enterprise through the participation of many leading business groups.It will host tech start-ups and business leaders, national icons and women entrepreneurs, star speakers and young achievers, and of course, a series of top officials from the union government and the participating states.Each morning will begin with a wellness session featuring yoga and spiritual music and most evenings will feature a cultural performance. Major cultural shows have been planned for the opening of the pavilion, for festivals like Dasehra, Diwali, Lohri, Basant Panchami and Holi and the Republic Day will be celebrated in style.Meanwhile, discussions on an ambitious free trade agreement with the UAE have begun in earnest. For reasons linked with Gulf politics, it will be called the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) and the visit of a multi-disciplinary delegation led by the UAE’s Minister for Foreign Trade from September 22 to 24 provided an opportunity for substantive discussions.The UAE is India’s third largest trading partner after China and the US and bilateral trade has hovered around the $60-billion mark. India’s merchandise exports of around $30 billion annually make it our second largest overseas market.The two sides want to conclude the CEPA talks by December and are aiming to sign the agreement by March 2022 with the ambition of raising merchandise trade to $100 billion and doubling trade in services to $15 billion within five years. This could benefit a range of Indian products, such as precious metals, stones, gems and jewellery, textiles and garments, food items, engineering goods and chemicals and refined petroleum products.The annual ministerial meeting of the High-Level Task Force on Investment is also due to be held in Dubai on October 2. Led by the Minister of Commerce and Industry from India side and the Managing Director of the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) from the UAE, the task force has played an important role in removing procedural and regulatory obstacles and identifying investment opportunities in emerging areas.With assets of over $800 billion, the ADIA is the world’s second largest sovereign fund and a major investor into sectors like renewable energy, highways, ports, logistics and real estate and in the financial markets. It is also an anchor investor in India’s National Infrastructure Investment Fund with an initial investment of $1 billion.The strong economic relationship is complemented by a convergence of interests on hot-button issues like Afghanistan. While the UAE, along with Saudi Arabia, was one of the three countries that recognised the Taliban 1.0 in 1996, the present situation presents a stark contrast. Over the last decade, the UAE has consciously embraced the principle of religious tolerance and made a series of bold moves to reflect its commitment to inter-faith harmony.The land provided by the royal family of Abu Dhabi for a major Hindu temple, the project to build a House of Abraham that will juxtapose a mosque, a church and a synagogue in the same complex, and the establishment of full diplomatic ties with Israel are examples of the change in the UAE.The return of the Taliban in Kabul and the possibility that Afghanistan could again emerge as a haven for terrorist groups and a fountainhead for the most extreme interpretation of Islam is a subject of substantive discussions with a country that has become our most trusted partner in the Middle East.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dubai-expo-set-to-bolster-india-uae-ties-318435
01-10-2021||I did not expect a Christian clergyman of high rank to suffer from Islamophobia. Mar Joseph Kallarangatt||A bishop’s Islamophobia||The trigger for this ridiculous statement, which caused a flutter in Kerala, was the elopement of a Christian girl, presumably from his Diocese of Palai with a local Muslim boy. The couple may have joined the ISIS in Syria, but that has not been established.The Chief Minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, termed the bishop’s statement in a church sermon as ‘unfortunate’. The CM further said statistics did not justify the bishop’s averment that Muslim extremists were using drugs on girls of other religious persuasions in order to convert them. Muslims form 26 per cent of the state’s population but accounted for 34.47 per cent of those arrested for offences under the narcotics Act.Christians, with a percentage of around 18 in the total population, accounted for 15.73 per cent of such arrests. Hindus, who make up half of the state’s population, were involved in 49.8 per cent of drug offences. Statistics further showed that only six of the hundred Malayalees who joined the ISIS were non-Muslims and one of the six joined directly from a gulf country when employed there. The bishop had no real cause for panic. Perhaps, the girl was from a prominent family of his diocese! That could have set him off. But surely one solitary case should not have sounded the alarm bells.I am not surprised that the good bishop reacted in a manner that no bishop in Mumbai would. The culture in Kerala is distinctively more conservative. I took my wife and daughters (they were in school those days) to Kerala in 1975. The Diocese of Palai, if I am not mistaken, includes Idukki, the town that boasts of the biggest circular dam in Asia, if not in the world. We camped for the night at Idukki. It was a Saturday. I enquired from the CRPF Company Commander if there was a Catholic church nearby. One of the jawans turned out to be a co-religionist and offered to guide us to the church. But he did not stop there.Very officiously (and unknown to me) he had gone that very evening and met the priest in charge and informed him that his DIGP would be present next morning for service. My wife and daughters sat next to me in the pew as they always did in Mumbai and in Hyderabad, where I was then posted. Before the service began, the priest came marching down the aisle towards me and I quietly cursed the jawan for drawing attention of the congregation towards me and my family.But the priest was not interested in my rank or in welcoming me to his parish. He was bent on separating what God had put together in holy matrimony. He ordered me to sit with the men on the pew on the opposite side of the aisle. It was then that I noticed that the men all sat in one row and women on the opposite side!It reminded me of Muslim weddings in Mumbai, where men and women were strictly segregated. A correction — my friend Gulam Vahanvathy’s daughter married a Sikh boy. The reception was a relaxed affair with Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and Christians exchanging greetings, irrespective of age and gender, and of course without thought of religious affiliation or caste. And thinking of it, my racing friends, Farroukh and Ikbal, also had their children’s wedding receptions totally desegregated. If they had it otherwise I would have been surprised.Just like the good bishop of Palai, Mar Joseph, will not be able to desegregate men and women in churches under his jurisdiction, my conservative Muslim friends in Mumbai will have to keep them apart at their children’s wedding receptions. But as regards young men and women of different faiths and castes falling in love that is bound to happen in a heterogeneous society. Neither a bishop nor an authoritarian father can stop the ‘desire of the moth for the star, of the night for the morrow’. And it is not drug use that propels their attraction to each other.‘Love jihad’ is a slogan invented for political gain. Since the bishop is not a politician, he should not have used it. Muslim men who marry Hindu or Christian women are not guided by the zest to convert. It is only after ‘love’ chips in that they realise that they are bound by their Islamic practice to insist on the spouse’s conversion if the marriage is to be solemnised in a ‘nikah’ ceremony. Similar was the position of the Catholic church, also an Abrahamic religion like Islam. Fortunately, and wisely, the church has dropped that requirement. In my own family, interfaith marriages have been performed under the Special Marriages Act by the Registrar of Marriages, or through rituals prescribed by both religious dispensations.Islamophobia was latent in our land till the a subtle hate campaign against the ‘other’ was unleashed seven years ago. The depredations of jihadi terrorism led to a tolerant Hindu community becoming less so. The country needs to craft a strategy to counter jihadi extremism but the answer does not lie in Islamophobia that condemns all followers of the religion to a uniformed object of hate!And, in any event, a Christian bishop should have nothing to do with any form of hate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-bishops-islamophobia-318434
