02-10-2021||---||Cong trying to rejig caste, class arithmetic||Imagine the plight of the English-speaking Indian liberal. They’ve spent seven years out of power, and their only hope, Rahul Gandhi, reeks of rank ineptitude. It's not that his heart is not in the right place. He is the only one who stands up for woke issues. And, he also knows how to distinguish his Parmesan from his Pecorino. Yet, he infuriates the liberal by taking the most inexplicable and immature political decisions.What else can explain the Gandhi scion’s inability to keep the Congress party’s star faces within the fold? Why is it that he could not hold back a former confidant Jyotiraditya Scindia, or Jitin Prasada? Why did he let his ego come in the way of realpolitik and force Captain Amarinder Singh out of the party? In the liberal’s mind, Punjab was a sure bet, and the only thing that they were looking forward to, with hopeful agitation, was Uttar Pradesh. Now, even Punjab appears to have been handed over on a platter to either the AAP or the BJP.The Indian liberal’s frustration gets expressed in newspaper columns, social media, and every now and then, through that group of political correspondents, called the G-23. No not correspondents of the journalistic type, but habitual letter writers. Even now, in the wake of the Punjab imbroglio, stalwarts of the G-23 have written letters to Sonia Gandhi asking for an organisational shake-up.But underneath the headline grabbing drama of Sidhu’s public sulking and Kapil Sibal asserting that he is not a courtier, there are tectonic shifts taking place in the Congress. It’s a shift that is not readily visible to the liberal eye, trained to see power in terms of personalities and political parties. What is happening is a fundamental alteration in the class and caste alliances that make the Congress party.Historically, the Indian National Congress has been seen as an amoeba-like coalition that could shift shape and engulf seemingly disparate interests within itself. Often, these interests were opposed to each other, and this opposition showed up as ‘factionalism’. It was the job of the top leadership to manage these factions and ensure that no specific interest breaks out and moves into the opposition.This ability to accommodate various class, caste and regional interests, at times inimical to each other, made the Congress the ‘party of rule’. All other parties defined themselves in response to what the Congress was doing. And it was state power that worked as a cement to hold the Congress together.From the mid-1980s, the rise of private capital complicated this stable political equation. India's mercantile castes had always had a love-hate relationship with the Congress party, and have been partial to political Hindutva. The rise of the mercantile castes over the past 35 years has coincided with the nationwide consolidation of the Sangh’s politics. The Congress party’s surprise return to power in 2004 had less to do with what it represented or Sonia Gandhi's leadership. The party's numbers were boosted by unexpected sweeps by regional leaders.’ Without that aberration, the Congress had already been replaced by the BJP as the ‘party of rule’, which defined the core agenda of the nation’s polity. Today, the BJP led by Narendra Modi, and organised by Amit Shah, represents a winning coalition between capital and the poor. The BJP ensures that India’s mercantile and capitalist groups get a higher share of national income, while the government subsidises the bottom 30 per cent of the population through various schemes, to keep them surviving at a basic subsistence level. This, along with a compliant corporate media, is enough for the party to be the nodal point for nationwide electoral coalitions.The BJP today is the magnet for disparate ruling elites in different parts of India. I have already mentioned India Inc. To that, one can add, big farmers in specific states, private sector professionals, networks of Central and local bureaucrats and judicial officers, and of course, traders, who have largely backed the party, even in its Jan Sangh days. This overwhelming support from the elite makes regional parties prefer to have electoral alliances with the BJP. It is only a very small fragment of the ruling groups — the English-speaking ‘old’ liberal elite — who still back the Congress. The BJP’s brand of ‘cultural nationalism’ has no space for them.Unfortunately for them, the Congress is in no position to win back the other ruling groups to its side. It has to forge a new alliance, of small farmers, the self-employed poor, non-dominant Dalits and Adivasis. It has to make inroads in pockets within the upper castes who might be fellow travellers of the BJP, but might be unhappy with the dominance of mercantile and martial castes. And along with that, the Congress needs young state leaders, who are willing to play second fiddle to powerful regional parties, which the old guard would not accept.None of this can be achieved without a series of dramatic 'purges' in the party. Rahul Gandhi has thrown down the gauntlet by saying that he will not let a prince decide Punjab’s politics, even if that means losing the state in 2022. Charanjit Channi’s elevation might appear as a token gesture to counter the SAD-BSP alliance, but it also means that Rahul is willing to hand over a part of the Jat Sikh vote to the AAP, to make inroads amongst the Punjab’s poor. The decision to induct two young leftists, Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani, into the party’s fold, is another indication of the direction Rahul has decided to take.The G-23 can have no significant role in this new version of the Congress. More importantly, the moves indicate that Rahul is being advised to hunker down for a long, protracted battle. This is not a politics to win elections in the short run, only to lose them within a few years. It is a strategic shift to create new micro-coalitions on the ground, which can one day return the Congress to power as the dominant party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cong-trying-to-rejig-caste-class-arithmetic-318943
02-10-2021||---||Border clusters a tactical challenge for India||The takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban has created a piquant situation for strategy analysts and the creators of foreign policy in India. The behaviour of the Islamist warlords and their underlings has spread an understandable fear among the people of Afghanistan. Recognising and understanding this fear is important for India, not just for the making of foreign policy, but more importantly, for making policies pertaining to every aspect of life within India and in relation to the people of the country.The edit/op-ed pages of this newspaper, where some of the most robust discussions on strategy and foreign policy take place, are full of contrary views. The more nationalist of the lot insist that India can go ahead and set up systems to protect its investments in Afghanistan as also safeguard its borders from incursions by both the Chinese and Pakistan. The pragmatist camp is not so optimistic. Their writings tell us that China and Pakistan, and the Taliban, may not be so easy to manage. China particularly is projected as a great threat to India.Interestingly, the latest threat that China poses is not because of its weapons or its military — those are issues which the Indian military is fully capable of taking care of. The latest threat from China is from the large number of villages which it is reported to have set up along the border.For the uninitiated, it is important to know that the border between India and China is made up of vast swathes of uninhabited land which is mostly uninhabitable. It was this which dominated Nehru’s mind when he informed the MPs in Lok Sabha on April 22, 1959, that the Chinese were occupying land, perhaps Indian territory, in ‘the high mountains where nobody lives’. Nehru also wondered aloud as to why anyone like China would fight over such land. Those words today provide ammunition to Nehru-baiters who insist that Nehru did not take sufficient care of India’s interests in the high Himalayas.Howsoever Indians of today might find fault with Nehru, the fact remains that no Indian has as yet expressed any desire to set up home in those remote Himalayan plateaus. Which is to be expected, given the fact that the civilian dwellers of the high border villages of India lead a life which is extremely difficult and provides no opportunities for growth? Being a manual labourer, or a load-bearer for the Indian Army, isn’t really a job to look forward to unless there is nothing else to do. At a time when the economy of the plains is booming and is willing to absorb all workers it can get, the men prefer to migrate to the plains rather than engage in some non-existent industry in their remote villages. At the first opportunity, the dwellers of these border villages come as close to the plains in search of work as possible and refuse to go back into the hills unless compelled by circumstances. Even the civilian government officers who are posted in these distant villages are given a hardship allowance. Most of them also spend a lot of time and energy trying to get a posting in the lower hills.After showing China in 1967 that India was no military walkover, India did set up villages along the border in the North-east. Military veterans were given land and privileges to populate these villages. They promptly migrated down to the lower valleys to seek out better facilities. China, in the meanwhile, is reported to have succeeded in setting up villages near the North-eastern borders of India.The latest threat to India, though, comes from the large number of villages that China has set up along the western aspect of the border. These villages, even the new ones, are well connected by the Chinese national highways 219 and 314. The threat is that the few Indians who do live along the border might find living in the Chinese villages more attractive than living in the Indian villages which are marked by lack of facilities, difficult living conditions and a rent-seeking officialdom. The threat is that then the population of these new villages would be known as ‘Chinese’ rather than ‘Indian’, thereby providing the Chinese some additional support for their claim on the land which India claims as its own or at least hopes would be allowed to remain no-man’s land. The threat also is that these villagers might become informers for the Chinese.The one important point which does go in favour of India is that the people along the northern borders have shown, repeatedly, that they do not welcome China. Even those who rebel against India prefer to remain with India. Rebelling against the government, even armed rebellion, seems to be acceptable to friendship with China. The Nagas are a case in point. They had the chance in 1962, to accept the proffered Chinese hand of friendship. Few today recall that for seven years, the then Naga groups had run a military rebellion against India, using weapons sourced from the Chinese. Also that in the autumn of 1962, India had effectively abandoned the North-east. But the Naga insurgents refused the Chinese offer. They did not stop their rebellion against India either. But rebellion against India was preferable to being an autonomous part of China. The Nagas were wooed once again by the Chinese as recently as 2000, when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister. On this occasion, the Nagas were even offered developmental assistance by the Chinese who had recently started becoming prosperous. The Nagas refused, once again. In 2017, the Chinese had become even more prosperous and could offer even more goodies. Yet, the Naga groups unambiguously rejected all Chinese allurements that would lead to the creation of an autonomous Naga sector within the People’s Republic of China; they did continue to squabble with the government on the terms and conditions for ceasing their rebellions.A similar story played out in J-K where the local population refused to be enticed by the various offers made by Pakistan since 1951 and continued to oppose all Pakistani incursions into India. If the Indian Army continues to be successful in thwarting Pakistani incursions, much of the credit goes to the villagers who live along the border in very difficult conditions. We need to appreciate this constant support for India by the common people, not just Nagas and Kashmiris, despite the government and its administrative, economic and political elite not making much of an effort to reach out to the people. Prof Raghuvendra Tanwar in his book on Kashmir informs us that for many years after Independence, India did not even have an all-weather motorable road from Jammu to Srinagar. The main road to Srinagar went through Pakistan!The simple point is this: the people of India have stood firmly with the country, despite the government of the country being quite careless in providing them with support. The same cannot be said about the perpetually squabbling elite of India. They are very good at siphoning off all the goodies of the land for themselves. The story of betrayal of India by her elite though is for some other time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/border-clusters-a-tactical-challenge-for-india-318940
02-10-2021||---||Sri Lanka goes organic||It was expected. The uproar over Sri Lanka’s path-breaking decision to go organic is on predictable lines. The same arguments, the same kind of fear psychosis, and the bogey of ideological thinking that will take the world backwards should not come as a surprise anymore. Any possible disruption to the power equilibrium dominated by agribusiness giants is sure to be met by an orchestra playing the usual wrong concerto.Even before the UN Food Systems Summit recognised the need to move towards a healthier, more sustainable and more equitable food systems, Sri Lanka had made a bold resolve a few months earlier to put the concept of agro-ecological transformation into action by banning the imports of chemical fertiliser and pesticides, through a gazette notification on May 6. Coming after the ban on palm oil imports and the directive to growers to uproot the existing plantations in a phased manner, Sri Lanka has shown a remarkable determination to make a transition towards a healthy and sustainable future for farming.Addressing the UN General Assembly in New York on September 22, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa said: ‘Sustainability is the cornerstone of Sri Lanka’s national policy frame work. Because of the impact on soil-fertility, biodiversity, water ways and health, my government completely banned the use of chemical fertilisers, pesticides and weedicides earlier this year,’ adding that the ‘production and adoption of organic fertiliser as well as investments into organic agriculture are being incentivised.’For a country reeling under a huge foreign debt burden, with as much as 80 per cent of the revenue collected going towards debt servicing, and at the same time faced with severe food shortages at home, the Sri Lankan President has so far stood firm against the panic being created in the name of growing food insecurity arising from an anticipated drop in production. This reminds me of a similar kind of pressure built within days after former President Suharto of Indonesia had banned in one go the use of 57 chemical pesticides on paddy under a presidential decree in the late 1980s. This was in response to an unprecedented attack of brown plant hopper pest on paddy, and it was on the advice of the International Rice Research Institute and the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) that the late President Suharto then launched integrated pest management in paddy.An impression is being created as if Sri Lanka’s food crisis is the result of the nation’s shift towards organic farming. Well, that is incorrect, a propaganda drummed up by the chemical industry. In reality, the ban on chemical fertiliser and pesticides came into effect only in early May, and since then there is only one cultivation season, called yala — sown in May and harvested in August, but even before the crop hit the market, fears over declining yields were already rife. It is generally in the second and third year after the chemical use has been stopped that we can see the yields tapering off before it stabilises, and then slowly begins to rise. In any case, the external cost that intensive farming systems leave behind is often taken as a price that society inevitably has to pay. To illustrate, the rice belt in the North is witness to renal failure in a big way among the rural poor, which many believe is linked to excessive use of chemical fertilisers and pesticides, while a number of experts discount any such link.A report in The Independent says that more than 20,000 people have died from chronic kidney disease, and has rendered over 4 lakh sick in the past 20 years. In the case of tea also, the second-largest export commodity, again an unnecessary scare is being created. Already the yields are very low, with FAO estimating that the yields have been continuously on the decline in the past decade, dropping to 350 to 400 kg per acre in large areas, and even to 150 kg per acre in some cases. With nearly 75 per cent of the tea growers being small, soil degradation is among the prominent reasons for the falling yields. The advantage in going completely organic is that in years to come, applying suitable agro-ecological approaches in cultivation practices, Sri Lanka can build on soil health, thereby rejuvenating the tea gardens. It can create a niche in the global market with organic tag being its USP. Considering that the demand for organic food products is rising globally, Sri Lanka is placed in an advantageous position, given its head start, provided of course it takes the right steps to guide the transition.The challenge before Sri Lanka is to redesign its research, development and production approaches. It has to first begin by reorienting the national agricultural research programmes suitably altering the educational curriculum. Research priorities need to shift based on validating and protecting community knowledge and innovations. Especially to address the complexities of climate change, traditional varieties and the richness of available diversity offers immense resilience. Care must be taken to ensure that the transformation process is participatory; forcing it down on farmers will not work in the long run.For those who doubt whether agro-ecology — and it includes organic, natural and biodynamic farming systems etc — can feed the world, and if yes, then how to achieve food system transformation, a 2019 report by the FAO’s High Level Panel of Experts on Food Security and Nutrition, details the pathways. It also quotes a meta-analysis (2017) by Raffaele D’Annaolfo et al which has conclusively brought out the economic gains accruing from agro-ecological farming systems. Accordingly, the yields increased in 61 per cent cases analysed, decreased in 20 per cent, while farm profitability increased in 66 per cent cases.It requires courage to stand up alone. And it happens only when you believe in something. Rajapaksa’s tryst with organic farming may eventually open the door to the future of global farming.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sri-lanka-goes-organic-318938
