03-10-2021||During my professional career and subsequent constitutional posts||Poll expectations & promises||Coming to the point, what do people expect from political parties contesting elections and forming governments? The first and foremost requirement is guaranteed security of life. Today, in most states, we have a rogue criminal justice system which does not answer to the law, but to the local chieftains of the ruling parties. The system from top to bottom has become politicised and will do anything to advance personal interests and the party in power (there are honourable exceptions at all levels).The next thing is the growing economic chasm between the ‘haves’ and ‘have-nots’. It seems unbridgeable given the policies of various governments. On one side are skyscrapers, 28-storey residences, and on the other side the open sky as a roof or tin and cardboard sheds for shelter. How are we going to bridge this gap? Certainly not through doles of rice and dal or bicycles for girls. There has to be a detailed plan to shape the economy to the people’s needs, which would then be meticulously implemented. It has to be an all-inclusive plan to provide employment, guaranteed minimum wages which allow for dignity of labour and life, provisions for education and health, housing, to name just a few of the issues facing us. Unless we bridge this growing inequality, unrest in society is bound to grow. People’s anger, helplessness rise by the day. We are lucky that the lava has not yet broken through. This disparity will not be tolerated for long and it would be wise to read the writing on the wall and anticipate events and look for remedies, before we are overtaken.While we are faced with these challenges, our politicians continue to fall back on the old dictum of ‘divide and rule’. It was used by the British to conquer us and the politicians now use it to rule us. They continue to use and build various fissures in our nation — be it religious, caste, tribal, rural vs urban, farmer vs shopkeeper… anything to garner a vote bank. Religion has been referred to as the ‘opium of the masses’. Our politicians have learnt this lesson well and continue to deploy this weapon. However, this diversion will not do. The people have had enough of religion and superstition, enough of freebies. Religion alone does not fill empty stomachs, it does not provide employment. For a strong country, the basic requirement is a strong, stable economy and an educated, healthy citizenry. External security and internal stability go hand in hand.What the people really want on priority is good governance and that does not require money; good governance requires open-minded, educated, impassioned politicians and administrators driven by a sense of duty and justice. Justice is not available at the ground level because of interference in internal administration of all departments, especially the police. Considerations other than merit and integrity in matters of posting and transfers of officials lead to a dishonest and partisan administration. However, politicians and political parties continue to bribe the voter with doles of rations, cycles, sarees — whatever their creative and mischievous minds can cook up. Will all these stop-gap measures alleviate poverty, lead to healthy, educated, well-employed and well-governed citizens? Certainly not. We are only fooling the people and trying to get them addicted to a temporary euphoria.A select few in the corporate sector are growing at alarming rates while there is a dismantling of the public sector, weakening of medium and small industry, traders and a perceived threat to the farmers. Will these select few corporates fulfil the demands of the people? Will they provide good governance, health and education facilities, etc? Why are thousands of mid-level industrialists opting to go abroad and take up citizenship and set shop there? Why are lakhs of youth on the move from India? Why are students leaving for studies abroad even before graduation? ‘Bharat’ has been reduced to standing in the bread line. Reduced by a continuous and unending line of politicians who ensured that ‘Bharat’ remained illiterate, misinformed and gullible. Gullible to the lies and deceit which allow the politician to get elected based on caste, communal hatred, tribal loyalties and any other fable which our leaders can cook up to ignite that momentary passion to get elected. ‘Bharat’ with its numbers elects governments and not the educated few of modern India. A ‘Bharat’ divided, misinformed and disillusioned. Poverty, they say, is a curse which defeats the very soul of an individual and sadly, it is man-made. It is not a natural phenomenon; its origin is in the greed which the rulers have. An endless greed which seeks to devour all. They sit on high seats and decide the fate of a sea of humanity which put them there in the first place. They issue commandments which would put a ‘Tughlaqi farman’ to shame, right from whom one can marry, what one can eat and drink and what qualifies as sedition.Our political parties are not interested in long-term planning. The election manifesto has been made into a sham document which is presented a few days before the election and which nobody reads. The entire debate of electing an individual, which should be based on this manifesto and its promises of development, education and health, is entirely missing. Debates on relevant issues are replaced by bombastic speeches at mass rallies. Social media has become a mass weapon of disseminating lies, half-truths and propaganda. Sadly, the debate is reduced to the lowest denominator of caste and communal rhetoric, the issuing of freebies and doles. Today, the role of the Election Commission has become even more relevant and they should devise a methodology in which political parties debate on issues on a public format, on TV, for example, so that the people can be clear about their viewpoints. They further need to get far more active in monitoring not only the casting of votes, but the lead up to the elections. Our democracy needs a level playing field and it is the role of the CEC to ensure this (aren’t doles before elections bribes to the electorate and if so, shouldn’t the CEC act on it?).— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/poll-expectations-promises-319453
03-10-2021||IF there is one set of people in the Army who are much revered but are also often kept at an arm’s length||From apprehension to deep admiration||In peacetime, a unit RMO (Regimental Medical Officer) is treating the fittest people in the country, so there are no major medical challenges. That apart, he is a very vital cog in a unit. He is part of all unit activities after seeing off the sick bay; whether it’s the firing, camp, exercise, inspection, fauji melas and all sundry activity.It is in wartime that most commanders would like to have medical officers within easy reach. Given that specialist medical care is some distance away, what the RMO on the spot does is extremely vital for survival. Who can forget that doctor during Operation Vijay who promised the troops going into battle that if they reached him and he touched them, they would survive. And he kept his word. In Northern Glacier, a jawan of my unit developed High Altitude Cerebral Oedema, a medical condition in which the brain swells with fluid due to high altitude. It requires specialist medical care but decreasing altitude makes recovery that much easier. The jawan was at Sonam, 18,000 feet. Weather remained packed and no aerial evacuation was possible. The RMO there suggested we move him to a lower height. A makeshift stretcher-cum-trolley was fabricated out of scrap, the patient fastened onto that, and accompanied by a small party. The RMO pulled the patient down from Sonam to Khanda in three hours through snow and extremely hostile weather. The RMO’s initiative, presence of mind and effort beyond call of duty ensured a life was saved.Fortunately, I wasn’t ever hospitalised in my early career. But God is a great leveller and about seven-eight years ago, I was admitted to R&R Hospital due to general weakness. One thing led to another, and the much loathed ‘C’ verdict was pronounced. Swiftly operated upon, periodic care followed. I saw firsthand the dedication of the medical fraternity, and the gratitude and love they got from the patients. An oncologist I would consult would be so overwhelmed by patients bringing things from home: lassi, mithai, snacks! Everyone treated him as a family member. And he reciprocated. My lifelong apprehension of the AMC fraternity turned into unadulterated admiration.Tail piece: All faujis are required to undergo an Annual Medical Exam (AME). The earlier format was different but in the 1990s, it changed to AME by RMO every year (for four years) and Periodic Medical Exam (PME) in the fifth year. Newly implemented, the rule had some grey areas. An officer of my unit, fond of all good things in life, went on a strict diet plus a heavy exercise schedule to lose those extra kilos before his PME because the MH Commandant was strict and would check the weight herself — even half a kilogram overweight was unacceptable. At each party, the officer would sip nimbupani and eat boiled food, cursing the system. On D Day, I kept waiting for his call that he had been pronounced fit. When he didn’t call, I rang up. In a morose voice, he replied, ‘Sir, don’t ask. As I entered the Commandant’s office, she looked at my papers and said why have you come this year? Your PME is due next year!”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/from-apprehension-to-deep-admiration-319454
03-10-2021||IT is now fashionable among the well-off||Ignore at own peril||I know of a young couple who has rented a huge farmhouse for their spoilt pedigreed dogs because the condo (upgraded name for flats) they have does not allow pets on the premises. When we go to our own hills in Kumaon, large swathes of pristine forested valleys and dales have been cut up into tiny plots (to circumvent local land laws that prevent outsiders from colonising Pahari lands), and hideous flat-roofed ‘cottages’ that are most unsuitable for our monsoon, have come up. Their owners hardly ever spend more than a few weeks a year in these monstrosities. And when they do, they want to replicate the life they have in the plains: so you can hear loud complaints about how fancy grocery items have to be lugged up and how the mutton (from our hardy Pahari goats) is not tender and like the one ‘one gets in Khan Market’).The story is the same in Goa: carloads of young people come from Mumbai or wherever, often in their own private planes (now that foreign travel is tricky), and hold riotous rave parties on the beach where drugs and booze add to the weekend merriment. In both places, these party animals are completely unaware of the sullen resentment of the local folk, whose hard lives have to deal with the escalating prices of food. There is another fallout of this: the tantalising glimpses into such lavish lifestyles release a deep envy among the young children who are hired to clean up the mess by these Huns when they leave. Their anger and frustration at their own difficult lives have terrible social consequences, but let’s not even go there.I could go on and on but what is the point? All my rantings are not going to change these hedonists. Only when they grow old and have lost their own children to the lure of the West, will they realise what damage they have done to their own lives. Before I sound like an old grouch, (or worse, like a jealous onlooker) let me show you another side that I was privy to when I met some old schoolfriends for a gossipy lunch recently. Most of them were titled memsahibs who studied at posh public schools, had little interest in further study after they graduated and were married off into equally privileged families when they were still mentally underdeveloped. The first few years went by in a whirr of parties and roistering and then came the problems that money brings. Some have lost their fortunes to unwise decisions, others have lost their children to drugs and alcohol, while still others are resigned to the fact that the children who went abroad after school to study, married and settled down there. They are unlikely to ever return to occupy all those grand homes the parents had earmarked for each one.Today, so many of my generation have come to the sad realisation that all the wealth and jewellery they have is becoming a burden they can no longer look after. The houses in the hills need constant upkeep and, in any case, going there regularly is now slowly getting impossible, given their stiff knees or dodgy hearts. They were all asking each other whether moving to an assisted-living community may not be a bad idea. To have to deal with unreliable domestic help (their old faithful retainers have passed on), getting generators and water pumps serviced and the fear of being killed as they sleep at night are driving them to consider options they never thought they would ever have to contend with.To all such elderly folk, I want to ask whether they had never been told the story of the “Ant and the Grasshopper” and, later, the episode of the “Enchanted Pool” in the “Mahabharata”. In their wanderings after their exile, the Pandavas find a beautiful pool in the forest one day. Each one goes to quench his thirst but never comes back. Finally, Yudhishthira goes in search of his missing brothers only to find that the pool is guarded by a fearsome Yaksha who allows one to drink from his enchanted pool only if they are able to answer his questions. He turns to Yudhishthira and throws a volley of questions at him, such as: what is higher than the sky? Deeper than the underworld?The final one, after all such questions have been answered successfully, is: What is the greatest wonder? And the answer is: we all know we will die one day, yet everyone believes this won’t happen to him or her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ignore-at-own-peril-319455
03-10-2021||One of the joys of reading many newspapers — I get five every morning — is finding||Why officialdom gets it wrong when dealing with alcohol||Really? I am a little confused. Even a moderate imbiber, especially if he does a little entertaining at home, is bound to keep more than four bottles at any time. Does that mean he has to maintain a “bar” at home and therefore needs to apply for a “bar licence”? Also, nobody wants to have to constantly go to a liquor shop. He will buy sufficient liquor to last him for some time, which probably means buying more than four bottles at a time. The excise officer claims that the aim of the new rule is not to “harass anyone”. But that is precisely what it could easily do. Laws and rules should make sense, not provide ways for the authorities to extort, or create fear.It gets worse. Guess what is the annual licence fee and the “security deposit” for a “personal bar”? An exorbitant Rs12,000 and an outlandish Rs51,000, respectively! That’s outrageous. An ordinary law-abiding citizen, who enjoys his tipple, and invites friends occasionally for a drink, is virtually being compelled to get a hugely over-priced “bar licence”. If he doesn’t, he could be raided, and if found to possess more than four bottles, will he be put behind bars, and heavily fined as well? The news item does not mention the fine or the term of imprisonment, but it is bound to be pretty stiff. In effect, the offending person is being treated as if he actually owns a bar-cum-restaurant that charges customers for drinks and food. Downright ridiculous!The excise officer was also asked if the new rules would apply to military personnel, serving or retired, as they are entitled to more than the stipulated four bottles of liquor a month. The UP authorities had evidently given no thought to this, so the excise official was not able to give a satisfactory answer. However, his clarification on who could apply for a “personal bar licence” was entirely bizarre: “Only those who have filled income tax returns for the past five years, of which at least three years of IT returns are under the 20 per cent slab may apply for a licence.” Can you please repeat that? Will those wanting this “bar licence” have to produce five years of IT returns, and why should their required slab have to be under 20 per cent? Answers please.But it is not just the UP government that has become daft where alcohol is concerned. When I took up my first job in Bombay, as it was then called, in the 1960s, “prohibition” was in force. But there was a loophole. If you got a doctor’s certificate to declare that you were “an alcoholic” who could not, for health reasons, do without the stuff, you could apply to the authorities and get a certain number of “units” (bottles of liquor) a month (I was given four). Needless to say, you never actually went to a doctor, yet you could get the certificate after paying a bribe to the tout (who told me that part of the money went “right up to the top”). Many Bombayites did so, to be able to drink legally at home, while others went to clandestine and illegal “aunty” bars, as they were then labelled. Prohibition has gone from Maharashtra, but some of its aftermath remains. You still need a “permit” to buy alcohol, though most liquor shops will sell booze without you having to produce it. However, they won’t give you a receipt, thereby adding to the black economy. What’s more, you cannot transport alcohol without a permit. So, anybody returning from abroad, who buys the legally permissible quantity from the duty-free shop, as soon as he leaves the airport can be arrested if he does not have a “permit”! Stupid, isn’t it?In fact, stupidity permeates the government’s entire attitude towards alcohol. Low alcohol content beverages, like beer or wine, are more heavily taxed than high-alcohol spirits. Foreign tourists generally prefer wine and beer to spirits. But they find wine and beer too expensive in India. Vineyards generate employment for farmers and large areas in Maharashtra and Karnataka have the kind of climate and soil quality ideal for growing the variety of grapes that make decent quality wine. Give them incentives, instead of taxing them so heavily. In most countries, wine and beer can be served in restaurants and sold in shops without a liquor licence. Not in India.Most great men have their foibles. The Father of Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, had two: his views on sex and on alcohol. The American era of “prohibition”, essentially based on the same puritanical views of the Mahatma, taught the US government that banning alcohol did not work. It only bred corruption and crime. We still have to learn that lesson.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-officialdom-gets-it-wrong-when-dealing-with-alcohol-319456
