04-10-2021||Health Policy Expert||Challenges aplenty for digital health mission||Around the world, the ideal of public monopoly in healthcare provisioning and financing has lately come under the scanner. Even the staunchest proponents of public sector healthcare have come to acknowledge that public sources of healthcare finance, such as general taxation, are unable to keep pace with the rising healthcare demands across the globe.With this realisation comes the tangibly increased leaning towards private sources of finance and various forms of public-private partnerships (PPP), albeit without impairing health equity as much as possible.Recently, the Centre announced the nationwide rollout of Pradhan Mantri Digital Health Mission (PM-DHM), which is in its pilot stage in six UTs. The hallmark of this initiative is the provision of a health ID card and a 14-digit unique health identity number that will serve as a personal digital health account of an individual — apart from other features like healthcare facilities registry and healthcare professionals registry to facilitate easy access to health centres and personnel.Aspects like easy exchange and interoperability of health data, access to a more comprehensive range of useful medical information, and the possible boost to evidence-based health policymaking in the long run, which are the obvious benefits stemming from this initiative, have been widely discussed.And, so have been the possible cons such as breach of privacy and confidentiality.However, the larger picture lies in the subtler aspects, which go hand-in-hand with the Centre's ambitious plan to expand insurance-based healthcare coverage over the medium and long terms.The PM-DHM was launched on the third anniversary of the Centre's flagship health programme, the Ayushman Bharat Mission (ABM). Starting from the bottom, the ABM aims to gradually expand healthcare access to all Indians via the insurance route, through public-private partnership. For such a large-scale public-private partnership to be justifiable, engagement with the private sector has to be strategic. The cornerstone of such strategic purchasing is the availability of good quality data, not just for the government to assess the performance of private players, but also for private players to operate optimally and gainfully.This requires a robust health IT infrastructure to be laid, block by block, as ambitious plans to expand insurance-based healthcare unfold alongside. The PM-DHM is, thus, a central pillar of the current Central dispensation's plans to expand and cement a stronger role for private players and insurance companies in the country's healthcare landscape, which need not entirely be to the detriment of Indian healthcare. Any benefits that accrue to individual patients is actually incidental.The second most important aspect meriting discussion is the administrative barrage that this likely to accompany this initiative, which warrants to be minimised as much as possible in the interest of the country's frail healthcare infrastructure and human resources. Experience from the US indicates how such a digital health framework could entail formidable sums in administrative costs.In the Indian context, where public funds for healthcare are perennially short, every extra rupee spent on administrative expenses raises ethical concerns, since these costs don’t directly contribute to improving the health of the population. This does not downstate the significance of rolling out the digital health framework. Nor does this imply that the same should be deferred until funds for health are bountiful.However, there is a need for striking a balance between the competing concerns. We must also not ignore the rise in the administrative workload of physicians and other healthcare personnel that this initiative might result in, which would be more acutely felt, given that health manpower is in short supply. Data literacy is often poor, even among qualified medical personnel. Also, Internet connectivity is still precarious in large parts of the country. Although these issues must not deter the initiative, working around them will be imperative.Another important aspect of the initiative is its inherent linkage with the insurance model of healthcare, more precisely the ABM. The precursor of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY, the insurance component of ABM), namely the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY), was replete with alleged reports of insurance fraud, such as fake beneficiaries. The PMJAY has not been free of them either.With the health IT system unprecedentedly expanding health data availability, it becomes a double-edged sword of sorts, as data could be used both to instigate as well as to deter insurance fraud. This merits caution as the weak regulatory environment in the country may tip the balance towards the former.Secondly, it is worthwhile to note the beneficiary profile of the PMJAY, which is currently 40 per cent poorest population, which, moving forward, could be expanded to 85 per cent of the population (including the large informal sector) on a contributory basis. This population is very likely to lack the most in data literacy, exacerbating ethical concerns surrounding consent and privacy.It is also to be noted that expanding contributory health insurance to the large informal sector is in itself an administratively challenging exercise forecasting large, and likely to be wasteful, administrative costs. Concerns have also been raised regarding the large-scale availability of health data which could facilitate market expansion of the private sector as well as a gainful segmentation of the patient population.However, such data could also be of great use in building fruitful public-private partnerships, and it is for the government to ensure that things are steered down the right lane.Finally, undertaking a cost-benefit analysis of the initiative is called for. The overall costs, including the indirect costs of laying the digital health framework, could be substantial and crowd out investments in other essential areas of public health.The immediate benefits would mainly come in the form of better patient experience and management, which is unlikely to reflect significantly at the population level. Over the medium and long terms, a boost to strategic private sector engagement and more effective public health policymaking can be the possible benefits, but neither of them is guaranteed and would require strong government stewardship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/challenges-aplenty-for-digital-health-mission-319752
04-10-2021||Former Ambassador||Air link with Kabul is in India’s interest||The Afghan Civil Aviation Authority has addressed a communication to India’s Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) seeking the resumption of its scheduled flights operated by Kam Air and Ariana Afghan Airlines on the Kabul-New Delhi sector under the existing bilateral civil aviation agreement.The flights had been suspended since mid-August following the closure of the Afghan air space consequent upon the capture of Kabul by the Taliban. But the Kabul airport resumed functioning on September 20 and is open to commercial flights.The Taliban request comes with no strings attached. India is under no obligations. Kabul is not asking for the resumption of the flights by Air India or SpiceJet. Nor is there going to be any requirement of an Indian physical presence in Kabul, leave alone 'recognition' of the Taliban government. In short, the Afghan side simply desires travel facilities for its people to come to India on private visits.Of course, ‘suitcase trade’ is vital for the Kabul bazaar, and from our side, suppliers in Delhi's Lajpat Nagar or Paharganj will be happy that the Kabuliwallah is returning. The winter season is fast approaching and hosiery products are urgently needed, as indeed daily necessities. The Afghan traveller will probably bring in his suitcase as much dry fruits as he can.Afghanistan is in the same sad plight as the ‘Stans’ when the Soviet Union collapsed. The Central Asian bazaars were teeming with Indian products in the 1990s. We must be capable of empathy.Like Rahmat in the famous Tagore story, it is the heart-rending tale of innocence of a subsistence economy for which India is a lifeline. Then, there are people who want to come to India for medical treatment. Or, students seeking knowledge — or, those who simply want to breathe in the exhilarating freedom in the air, the clothes they wear.The Indian papers say a decision on the Afghan request will be 'a political call'. That means the bureaucracy will probably hold inter-ministerial consultations on the politico-security ‘implications’ of the Afghan request. Regrettably, once we start injecting geopolitics into the Afghan request, the tragic human condition becomes secondary.Of course, this is a piquant situation in political and diplomatic terms. But consider the following. The Afghan civil aviation authorities most certainly acted on instructions from the Taliban. If so, it conveys a signal in positive terms. The political symbolism is unmistakable.An overture of this sort was to be expected, but not so soon — a fortnight after the announcement of the Taliban government. In similar circumstances, the Mujahideen government that usurped power in Kabul in April 1992 took four months to reach out to India.The main difference today is that the seizure of power in Kabul by the warlords 29 years ago was not challenged by the international community. President Najibullah who had taken shelter in the UN compound in Kabul was not inclined to rake up the ‘legitimacy aspect’ as he surveyed the debris of the house he built following the defection of Uzbek warlord Rashid Dostum.As for the Americans, once the Soviet troops withdrew by end-1989 and the Soviet Union collapsed by December 1991, they couldn’t care less that a bunch of warlords grabbed power in Kabul. The Burhanuddin Rabbani government got the UN seat by default!Today, a new cold war is struggling to be born and Afghanistan is a turf in the ‘strategic competition’, as the Biden Administration calls it, among the US, Russia and China. All three big powers seem to visualise that a cooperative regime in Kabul will be to their advantage.Washington is unlikely to grant recognition to the current authorities in Kabul unless and until it has re-established a meaningful conversation with them. Efforts are under way. But it will take time. The Biden presidency is badly wounded; the State Department and Pentagon blame each other; the generals are livid. Polls say public opinion wants Biden to step down. Afghanistan has turned into a hot potato.Delhi should weigh its interests independently. The request from Kabul is a gratifying development that can open the door to a pathway for some degree of direct communication with Kabul. Certain regional states are already resorting to such a mode. The EU foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, admitted last week that Qatar was “facilitating contacts with the authorities in Kabul and the Western world… (and) facilitating messaging to the Taliban.”It is perfectly feasible and ‘legal’ to engage with the Taliban. What happened in Kabul is a reality and as things stand, there’s nothing restraining or hindering our contacts with the Taliban.The UN Security Council resolutions do not prevent us. Curiously, those resolutions stipulate the need to promote a political process, and without working together with the Taliban, that isn't possible. There are a sufficient number of exemptions from sanctions imposed on the Taliban. The rationale behind all that is the acknowledgment that the Taliban are an inalienable part of the Afghan society.All indications are that the UK is accelerating a process of re-engagement with Afghanistan, with the US apparently leading from the rear. Plainly put, the equations are changing.Delhi always factored in that Indian interests lay in keeping contacts with the authorities in Kabul at any given time. Air links facilitate travel between the two capitals and help nurture people-to-people contacts, which is an abiding part of the Indo-Afghan relationship. Restoration of trade and commerce is always welcome.Above all, it becomes possible for India to dispatch humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. China is using Ariana Afghan Airlines to send supplies of vaccines, blankets, food, etc, under its emergency $31-million aid programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/air-link-with-kabul-is-in-indias-interest-319753
04-10-2021||Former Northern Army Commander||Change and continuity||Lord Moran, who wrote the highly acclaimed book The Anatomy of Courage: The Classic WWI Study of the Psychological Effects of War, describes the art of command as “the art of dealing with human nature. The soldier is governed through his heart and not through his head”. For this reason, military leadership is characterised by simple virtues like courage, leading from the front, concern for soldiers, and in the words of Lord Moran, phlegm — a supreme imperturbability in the face of death.Technology has opened up ethical challenges. The sharp divide in societies raises issues about neutrality. Even as these core qualities remain indispensable while directly commanding men in battle, when the military leader climbs the hierarchical ladder, he becomes more concerned with leading the institution rather than leading the people. In this role, he must be aware of the country’s strategic culture, adapt to the character of warfare he is engaged in, and be conscious of the political environment in which the military operates to achieve the political objectives of war. In the words of Charles De Gaulle, “The true school of command is, therefore, the general culture… Behind the victories of Alexander, one always finds Aristotle.”With increasing responsibilities towards shaping the institution, senior military leaders must drive both change and continuity. The change is based on the character of future wars and the nature of civil-military interaction. The continuity is in the principles, values and ethos of the institution.Today, technological change is transforming the world in ways that had not been witnessed before. Klaus Schwab, founder of the World Economic Forum, in his book The Fourth Industrial Revolution, writes, “The fourth industrial revolution will change the character of security threats while also influencing shifts of power, which are occurring both geographically, and from state to non-state actors.”The impact of new technologies is strongly felt on the character of warfare. There is a blurring of lines between peace and war as ‘Grey Zone Warfare’ and hybrid conflicts take centre stage. As destructiveness increases, the aim will be to win at the least cost by achieving moral rather than physical domination. An effective way of doing this is by sowing internal discord and exacerbating the existing fault lines in society.Traditional notions of deterrence are no longer applicable. Weaker nations can now confront their stronger foes with greater impunity through the medium of information warfare, cyber-attacks, and other instruments of proxy war. Moreover, the distinction between civil and military technologies is disappearing with the plethora of dual-use applications, resulting in non-state actors increasingly getting access to lethal weapon systems.Military leaders must also look beyond the traditional domains of security. India is one of the few countries that face serious conventional threats on its northern and western borders. While keeping these in focus, the military should not isolate itself from national security challenges posed by climate change, demographic pressures, pandemics, technology disruption, and ethnic cleavages. These challenges would become more critical as we peer into the future internal security landscape of India.In India, the nature of the political-military interface is changing. Traditionally, the military had always kept its distance from politics. This had the downside of poor civil-military relations and the military leadership being kept away from the national security planning structures. However, it did make for a force that could focus on its professional responsibility of the state’s security without being distracted or influenced by the country’s political landscape.Today, the military is increasingly being dragged into political debates. While these declarations do not automatically translate into the politicisation of the military, some of the enthusiasm displayed by serving officers in defending the government’s political decisions or in praise of political leaders is a worrisome trend.Military leaders will have to walk a fine line that draws a clear distinction between the instructions of the political leaders and their ideology. It would be unfortunate if a crop of future politicians looks at military leaders with suspicion because of a perceived alignment with a particular ideology.Civil-military relations are characterised by what Eliot Cohen has called the “unequal dialogue”. Unequal because ultimately, the decisions made by the political leadership will prevail. However, military leaders are obliged to provide their professional advice, and in some cases, respectful dissent to arrive at the best strategic decision for a nation’s security.While dealing with these changes, military leaders must also ensure continuity in the institutional values and ethos. Technology has opened up new ethical challenges. The use of artificial intelligence and unmanned systems has prompted a debate on how much autonomy can be granted to machines for killing humans. The sharp divide in societies where the Army is engaged in counterinsurgencies raises ethical issues about remaining bipartisan and displaying absolute neutrality without being influenced by the ideological debates on social media. Leaders must set an example by their own moral conduct.India’s military ethos is based on its rich history and traditions and steadfast adherence to the Indian Constitution. Each member of the military has taken an oath swearing that he will “bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established”. The constitutional principles of equality, secularism and fraternity are an essential part of the military’s culture. Military leaders must ensure that their actions are not seen as diluting the institutional ethos.In his 2018 Republic Day address, President Ram Nath Kovind said, “A disciplined and morally upright nation is built by disciplined and morally upright institutions.” The Indian military is one of the strongest institutions that the nation has relied upon in times of crisis. Therefore, while dealing with the changes in the security environment, our senior military leaders must also ensure that there is continuity in protecting the strengths of the military’s institutional ethos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/change-and-continuity-319754
