05-10-2021||---||Wait-and-watch on Covid booster dose||India’s vaccination programme against the coronavirus is in full swing and nearly 89 crore persons have already received the vaccine. Of these, 24 crore have been given both shots and 65 crore one shot of the vaccine. These numbers suggest that India’s fight against the virus is progressing effectively, with an unprecedented coverage of the population in a short period of time. The next few months are going to be crucial as the goal to vaccinate all the adult population of nearly 1.08 billion must be met by the end of 2021. The younger population of below 18 years is also waiting to be vaccinated so that the anticipated harm to them during the presumptive third wave can be thwarted.The Delta variant of the coronavirus had wreaked havoc during the second wave in India due to its very high infectivity. This highly virulent strain found the unvaccinated populace an easy target to inoculate and multiply. Now, after a few months, the situation seems to be under control and the daily cases are on the decline, although not as anticipated. However, the danger has not dissipated altogether and carelessness by people during the festive season may become precarious.Reports from abroad show that many countries have suffered or are still hurting from the scourge of the Delta variant and a large number of cases is being reported daily even though these countries have already vaccinated significant portions of their populations. Though many of these cases involve unvaccinated individuals, some breakthrough infections have also been reported. This means that those who have received both doses of the vaccine are also getting infected, albeit with less severity and there are rare cases of mortality among the vaccinated lot.Studies show that the antibodies acquired through vaccination or natural infection dwindle after a few months, which can pose the threat of breakthrough infections. Even though such cases may not get serious and fatal, these may cripple the hospital infrastructure if the infections spread in the population and would lead to another lockdown, affecting economic activities and livelihoods of many people. We cannot afford to endure it again.To avert this scenario, many wealthy countries, including the US, France, Germany and Israel are administering booster shots to their older and vulnerable populations.Do we in India also need to administer the booster shot to our population? Is it required? The answer could be both yes and no. It would depend upon the projection of the status of the pandemic in the near future. For example, if a new variant emerges similar to or more potent than the Delta variant,it may pose a threat through breakthrough infections among even those who are vaccinated.The daily cases of new infections have been declining recently, but the reporting of more than 20,000 cases per day on an average is still a worrisome indicator. New infections in unvaccinated individuals can become a breeding ground for the virus, which may churn up new variants, leading to another wave, as we saw in the first half of this year.Further, the concern is also of breakthrough infections, which would indicate that either the protection offered by the vaccine has diminished over time or the virus has acquired a new form. If the daily cases of such breakthrough infections rise significantly, in such a scenario, a lockdown will be imminent and booster shots will be a way to manage the spread and severity.Western countries are now facing the ravage of the Delta variant following India’s agonising experience with it in April-May this year. In the sero-survey conducted by the ICMR between June 14 and July 6, 2021, as much as 67.6 per cent of the general population aged six years or more had antibodies against the virus, while among the healthcare workers, this ratio was 85.2 per cent. These numbers suggest that a significantly high percentage of the population had been exposed during the second wave and developed immunity against the virus.Genetic sequencing of the virus from the samples of patients reveals the presence of many Delta derivatives in patients, but they have not yet emerged as new entities. The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), which performs the sequencing of the virus genome, recently reported that AY.4, a sub-lineage of the Delta variant, is on the rise and was present in 44 per cent of the samples from Maharashtra in August 2021. Whether it is a matter of concern needs to be ascertained based on increased transmissibility, severity of infection and if it could cause breakthrough infections.On the science of booster shots, experts have diverse opinions. One section is against the blanket use of booster shots. It argues that although antibody protection — which is a part of the humoral immunity — of the vaccine wanes with time as the titer of antibodies goes down. Nonetheless, protection through cellular immunity against severe disease and death would remain effective.Others argue that booster shots would enhance the antibodies and prevent the infection rate from rising during a wave and may help decrease the patient’s viral load and infectivity and help avoid another lockdown.Let us understand what a booster shot is. When a vaccine is administered, it induces the production of antibodies against the pathogen in the body of the individual receiving the shot. It is a part of the innate immunity which acts as the first line of defence and neutralises the pathogen as it enters the body. Simultaneously, the body also develops a repertoire of T cells — a part of the cellular and adaptive immunity — which kill the infected host cells and also neutralise the pathogens. In order to bolster this immunity against pathogens for a prolonged duration, more than one shot of the vaccine is required.In the case of coronavirus, initially two doses of the vaccine were suggested to be sufficient. Many studies also suggest that the cellular immunity is still strong after several months of the second vaccine shot, but the antibody titer has declined. This has worried some experts in western countries and they want to bolster the antibody titer by giving another shot, the third one, as a booster dose amidst the ongoing wave caused by the Delta variant.The priority in India must be to first vaccinate its whole population with at least one dose of the recommended two doses of the vaccine as soon as possible. Moreover, the vaccines are effective against the virus, including the variants reported so far. It is also ethically and morally incorrect to administer booster doses to a privileged few while the majority of the population is still partially vaccinated and waiting for the first or second dose.Any plan to give the booster dose is not being mooted as yet, but when decided, it should be prioritised for the vulnerable and co-morbid people and the frontline workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/wait-and-watch-on-covid-booster-dose-320235
05-10-2021||---||Indo-US remarks point to joint terror fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent visit to the US had much more to it than meets the eye. In the joint statements of the two nations — both between President Joe Biden and the PM, and the PM and Vice-President Kamala Harris — there appear to be some clear understanding to address contemporary issues, such as the global fight against Covid and vaccination efforts, besides jointly fighting terror groups posing threats to India and the US.Surely, not coincidentally, has the US State Department’s timely Congressional Research Service Report named five India-centric terror outfits out of the 12 Foreign Terror Organisations (FTOs) being sponsored by the Pakistan Deep State. They include the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JEM), Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT), Hizbul Mujahideen (HM), Harkat-ul-Mujahideen (HUM) and Harkat-ul-Jihad Islami (HUJI). Other FTOs operating in that country such as the Al-Qaeda — in the Indian subcontinent and Islamic State Khorasan Province (IISKP) — are also capable of launching terror operations against Indian interests.In an address to the United Nations Security Council, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar sought to make an interesting point likening the threats posed by the Covid pandemic and international terrorism. He said: “No one is safe till everyone is safe” — in both cases.Though not deemed “official”, this report is acknowledged to be credible and authored by renowned experts on the matter. The total capitulation of the Afghan National Army at the hands of the Taliban and the Pakistan role in the fiasco has led Secretary of State Antony Blinken to call for an urgent re-evaluation of the US-Pakistan strategic ties. Twenty US Senators are known to have seconded such a reappraisal, reportedly leading to the turmoil in the Pakistani stock markets and the further depreciation of the Pak rupee against the US dollar.A recent editorial in an American publication has talked of how Pakistan has continuously and systematically manipulated successive Republican and Democratic presidential dispensations, making the US, and indeed the entire world, less safe. It is time, the author says therein, to “pull the plug” on the US’s toxic relationship with Pakistan. The Americans are ruing the nearly $33 billion given as military and counter-terror aid to their erstwhile ally, which includes $14 billion as anti-terror incentives.What the Pakistanis have done, of course, is just the opposite by promoting the ilk of Osama bin Laden, the Taliban and the Haqqani group ever since the US invasion of Afghanistan in 2001. Now, the China-Pak nexus covers military hardware, including tanks, aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). And, the CPEC, to the tune of $60 billion, is clearly tantamount to “sleeping with the enemy” as far as the US is concerned.After having violated an agreement with the US not to go nuclear in the 1980s, Pakistan’s track record in nuclear proliferation via the AQ Khan Network and the nuclearisation of rogue nations such as North Korea is legion. It could well go down the same route with the Taliban as its interests only revolve around desperate economic considerations and not sensible international aspects.For all this “turncoating”, the US is likely to seek action against Pakistan by moving it to the Black List of the Financial Action Task Force as also by coaxing its allies, such as the UK and Saudi Arabia, to deny military aid to that country.The recent visit of Pakistan’s ISI chief to Afghanistan in support of the new Taliban regime was a clear indicator of where its interests lie. Training and exercises between their militaries and between the intelligence agencies of both Pakistan and China are other matters for Indian and American concern. There is no gainsaying the fact that Pakistan has virtually become a client state of China, the full implications of which would play out by and by.Now, while the US would clearly have its own anti-terror priorities, what does India do to tackle this hydra-headed monster?Clarity in national interests is paramount to targeting known anti-national elements within and outside the country, employing all means to neutralising them. Entities such as Dawood Ibrahim and Hafiz Saeed would be high on India’s list, no doubt. Any proposed tie-up with the US, should it materialise, must revolve around action against elements inimical to India’s interests.For other terrorist elements within the country and along our borders, an efficient and seamless coordination between Home and Defence Ministries is the order of the day to ensure coordinated targeting by all agencies and state anti-terror squads.India has traditionally fought shy of employing its national defence air power to target its own citizens, even for anti-terror objectives. The mix of terror groups in the country is a heady cocktail, calling for dedicated national counter-terror efforts. Cyber warfare and UAVs should be optimally employed to get soft kills solution against the terrorists. Hard kills from the air should be opted for only where collateral damage can be avoided and accurate targeting is a given.The military wings and national intelligence agencies should marshal their resources to deny breathing space to the terrorists, employing technology where called for to prevail over these enemies of the state. An effective counter-terror campaign orchestrated centrally is called for to make Indians feel safe from the scourge of cross-border terrorist attacks.The newly formed Quad arrangement should also, down the line, include the counter-terror element as some of our neighbours, such as Pakistan, are opting to invest in low-cost terror assets to achieve their strategic goals in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indo-us-remarks-point-to-joint-terror-fight-320233
05-10-2021||---||Testing time for Young Turks||It is important to probe into the way power is possessed, disseminated and exercised, and reflect on the way the prevalent politics reveals the nature of the socio-cultural landscape we inhabit. Hence, as young leaders like Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani join the Indian National Congress, it arouses our interest. Well, it is for the professional political commentators to decide whether Rahul Gandhi is trying to change the character of the Congress and inject new life energy into it by inviting young/leftist minds in the party, or whether the Communist Party of India, because of its centralised bureaucracy, has failed to tap the creative energy of a youngster like Kanhaiya Kumar, or whether even these young minds are ‘smelling’ the taste of power, and becoming ‘ambitious’. However, what is really important is to enquire whether the spirit of the young is capable of making a qualitative change in the character of the prevalent political culture.The task of emancipatory politics is to liberate the people from toxic consciousness of caste hierarchies.To begin with, let us remind ourselves of its discontents. First, many of us find ourselves living in the age of cynicism. What else can you expect when you see the praxis of mainstream politics (I mean the electoral politics of big parties) devoid of the slightest trace of ethics? When the goal is neurotically instrumental — chronic egotistic ambition, craving for power, and winning the elections at any cost, everything is possible: say, the trace of a new ‘friendship’ between Capt Amarinder Singh and Amit Shah, the billboards advertising Yogi Adityanath’s ‘achievements’ in Uttar Pradesh, or Mayawati projecting herself as a saviour of the ‘Brahmin-Dalit alliance’. It is like normalising opportunism and above all, the doctrine of lies. Are we taken for granted? Or is it that the politics of this kind also reveals the way we are? Is it that in our everyday social life, you and I too have become crudely ‘pragmatic,’ opportunistic and utilitarian? Is it that we too want to become like these politicians — visibly ‘powerful’, protected by security guards and pampered by sycophants?Second, a distinctive feature of the prevalent mainstream politics — particularly the politics of the ruling establishment — is the cult of narcissism. It sustains itself through the gigantic propaganda machinery, the never-ending dissemination of the images of the supreme leader’s dramaturgical performances, and above all, the popularisation of the belief that the leader, far from being your and my representative, is essentially a messiah who cannot be questioned. The cult of narcissism, the obsession with militant nationalism, and the neoliberal doctrine of advertising and even selling politics as a consumable product have created a culture that clouds our vision. Amid the poisonous psychology of Hindu-Muslim binary, we fail to see how the unholy alliance of neoliberal corporate capitalism and militant nationalism disempowers us, intensifies socio-economic inequality, and reduces development into the glitz of techno-corporate spectacles, be it the Central Vista project, or the Delhi- Mumbai Expressway.Third, we seem to have become incapable of redefining ourselves, and seeing beyond limiting identities like caste and religion. We continue to see ourselves as well as our politicians through the prism of caste — Dalit, Yadav, Jat, Brahmin, Muslim, Sikh and so on and so forth. The prevalent politics does not want us to see beyond these identity markers and redefine ourselves through the ecology of shared human concerns like equity, fraternity, justice, honesty and cosmopolitanism. Hence, a militant Ambedkarite would continue to see Kanhaiya Kumar as nothing but a ‘forward caste Bhumihar’; in Charanjit Singh Channi, we would be asked to see only a ‘Dalit’ Chief Minister; and there are even intellectuals amongst us who see only Mahatma Gandhi’s ‘caste’— not his experiments with truth. Well, caste hierarchies do exist; but then, the task of emancipatory politics is not to promote or reproduce it further, but to liberate people from this toxic consciousness. When do we realise that caste hierarchies cannot be fought and overcome through the logic of caste?I have no hesitation in saying that in recent times, some of our youngsters — university educated, well-versed in political philosophies and filled with spirited idealism — have demonstrated extraordinary courage. They have struggled, raised their dissenting voice, and fought against the politics that divides, arouses hatred amongst people, communalises consciousness and distorts the idea of India. The non-dialogic character of the mighty state, the epidemic of sedition charges, and all sorts of threats have not yet succeeded in diminishing their striving for a counter-hegemonic politics. In a way, the likes of Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani have emerged out of this politico-cultural quest. Their intellectual clarity and their ability to connect with the subaltern make them refreshingly different from the kind of politicians we are otherwise used to see. In a way, they radiate the spirit of the young — the dream of visualising a new world free from caste/class/gender hierarchies. It is possible that a mix of diverse ideals — Gandhi, Ambedkar, Marx and Bhagat Singh — might have influenced their ways of seeing the world.Yet, it is equally important to be aware of two temptations these young politicians ought to resist. First, at a time when the all-pervading presence of the media simulations can transform one into a ‘star’ or a ‘celebrity’, they ought to continually renew the spirit of working in silence and with humility, and abandon the psychology of instantaneous stardom and success. Second, it is not easy to be free from the trap of hyper-ambitious impulses; and, as history has shown, it can seduce and divert even the saints and revolutionaries. It has to be seen whether these young radicals can pass this crucial examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/testing-time-for-young-turks-320231
