06-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur Kheri outrage shifts political discourse||SOME tyre treads leave a lasting imprint. Over 10 months after the protests against the farm laws began, a violent sequence of events took place in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district. In a video, now circulating on social media, an SUV can be seen just running over farmers walking on a road. The incident, now amplified through news and video clips, subsequently shows a car burning and men being thrashed, and reportedly three BJP workers too met a bloody death. A journalist, who had allegedly recorded footage of the vehicle running over citizens, died of gunshot wounds.There are good reasons for any ruling party to worry if its own members are accused of mowing down people who till the land. In June 2017, six protesting farmers were killed in police firing in Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh, then under BJP rule. That incident is believed to have been a factor in the dethroning of Shivraj Singh Chouhan in the state elections in 2018 that the Congress won (although it subsequently lost the government after a split and defections and Chouhan returned as CM).The Yogi Adityanath government has so far acted both characteristically tough, and uncharacteristically mildly conciliatory. It bordered on the dictatorial with any opposition figure who wished to travel to the site, even as it shut the Internet in Lakhimpur Kheri.Simultaneously, it did not want to appear tyrannical in its dealings with farmers and sent its trusted ADIG (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar for a photo opportunity next to BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been active in mobilising the UP leg of the farm agitation. The government offered a compensation of Rs 45 lakh to the families of each of the dead farmers and Rs 10 lakh to the injured, while agreeing to a judicial probe of the incident and the lodging of an FIR against accused Ashish Mishra, son of MoS (Home) Ajay Mishra, and the minister himself.The minister must now resign or be sacked to give the probe any meaning. Indeed, a week earlier, he had made a threatening speech, saying that he could clear the protests in two minutes if he wished to. A Brahmin strongman from the region, Ajay Mishra also said that Khalistanis and terrorists were embedded in the protests and it was this speech that had reportedly put the agitators on the edge. Many Sikhs are farmers in the fertile Terai belt of UP and this choice of words suggests an unfortunate profiling of an entire community.Simultaneously, it must be noted that the instinctive go-to position for the current regime has been to try to delegitimise any protest by saying the protesters are anti-national/terrorists. The minister’s words were in keeping with the BJP’s narrative built over months and put forward by sections in the broadcast and social media: that the protests were dangerous, illegitimate, a disruption of public order and against national interest.Indeed, the groups at the forefront of the farm protest see ominous portents in recent utterances of the Supreme Court that reportedly asked what the need for protests was when the laws they are agitating against have not been notified and are currently stayed by the courts. The farm leaders say they have not approached the court in this matter and whosoever has done so is not acting on their behalf. They worry that court utterances may be used to create a pretext for clearing the main protest sites on the borders of Delhi.For, the endgame of the BJP is to not give up on the farm laws that seek to bring the corporate sector into agriculture. There is arguably too much at stake for the BJP to do so. Ever since it rammed the laws through Parliament in a manner that raised many questions, it has been frustrated at being unable to notify them. But at no point has there been any suggestion that the party is inclined to rescind the laws, which is the maximalist demand of one of the largest and most consistent protest movements in contemporary times.The BJP’s calculations are based on several assumptions. First, it is committed to the corporatisation of agriculture. It also believed, till now, that it could manage the fallout of the farm protests in most states, with the exception of Punjab, where arguably every village has participated in the protest. The BJP knows it does not have much left to lose in Punjab, anyway. Elections in the BJP-ruled Haryana, the other impacted state, are some time away: they take place a few months after the 2024 General Election. Which is why it is in Haryana that we have seen the experiment with a tough line with the protesters.Indeed, on the day the violence in UP erupted, social media circulated a controversial video clip of Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, which his media adviser subsequently said was being seen out of context. On October 3, he was recorded telling BJP workers to form groups and get tough with the protesting farmers and ‘take up sticks’ without worrying if they would be in jail for a few months, as after that their names would go down in history. It was in Haryana, too, that we saw an IAS officer recently telling policemen to ‘break heads’ of protesting farmers.When the electoral game in Haryana is really afoot, the BJP also believes that it can use a certain Jat vs non-Jat social dynamic that translates to electoral arithmetic. Meanwhile, high-profile Haryana MP and Congress politician Deepender Singh Hooda was manhandled by the UP police when he accompanied Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to Lakhimpur Kheri, a journey cut short by the state administration. The overkill in arresting opposition figures certainly displayed a certain nervousness of the UP regime.Uttar Pradesh is a state with many regional variations, including those in the farming community. Certainly, western UP has been the most impacted by the agitation, but now it has also become a potent factor in the Terai region where the violence took place. This region extends to a part of Uttarakhand, also an election-bound state. The larger question is whether this incident would be a catalyst for political change in the large state that has several distinct zones.The BJP believes it has time on its hands to forcefully put forward other narratives built on identity, such as Hindutva/communalism and by building strong caste coalitions. It argues that the farm agitation is not an overwhelming issue in the state but just a flash in a very large pan that can be managed. It certainly has the most formidable cadres and financial resources of all parties that will contest the Assembly polls. In the last round of voting in 2019 in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP/RSS poll managers had the election management down to each booth with a correct assessment of which way the wind was blowing.Still, no matter how strong a ruling regime is or how weak an opposition, there are certain events that shift narratives. The BJP is, therefore, worried about the implications of the bloody events that have just taken place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lakhimpur-kheri-outrage-shifts-political-discourse-320622
06-10-2021||---||Politicisation can impact defence reforms||THE politicisation of the military is anathema to integration and jointness. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat has been pilloried over some of his recent comments on defence reforms, vis-a-vis the IAF especially, and even on his visit to the Gorakhnath temple along with UP CM Yogi Adityanath in December last year. Gen Rawat was chosen as the Army Chief overriding the seniority criterion, and was later made the first CDS. He enjoys the supreme confidence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and NSA Ajit Doval, but apparently not of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). In 2018, at the Raisina Dialogue, when asked whether India should talk to the Taliban, Gen Rawat shot back, ‘yes’, adding that ‘we have spoken to our own rebel groups’. The very next day, the Foreign Ministry put out a statement saying that Rawat’s comments were his own and did not reflect the views of the Government of India.Last month, during a talk titled ‘Towards Progressive Defence Reforms’, hosted by the India International Centre in New Delhi, Gen Rawat began by recalling Samuel Huntington’s ‘clash of civilisations’: the inevitability of convergence of Sinic and Islamic civilisations i.e. conjugation of China and Pakistan as a higher form of jointsmanship to keep India down. There was nothing objectionable in what he said. In fact, he was illustrating jointsmanship in the bonding of the Iron Brothers.Soon after, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, speaking at the JP Morgan Investors’ Meet, described the ‘clash of civilisations’ as a battle between different schools of thought. But Foreign Minister S Jaishankar, reading Gen Rawat’s remarks superficially while meeting his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, told him that India did not subscribe to any ‘clash of civilisations’ theory. To be fair, Gen Rawat was only painting the backdrop for an eloquent presentation on the transformation of national security architecture and jointness in integrated theatre commands. For the first time, he clarified aspects of the conversion of 17 single-service commands into four joint theatre commands. Ultimately, each geographical command would be threat/adversary-specific, its commanders drawn from any of the three services. Four serving Cs-in-C — two Lieutenant Generals, one Vice Admiral and one Air Marshal — are working on these new structures. War plans would be made jointly by the Chiefs of Staff Committee and approved by the CDS. Theatre Commanders will report to the Chiefs of Staff Committee (CoSC), whose permanent chairman is the CDS.The CDS is multi-hatted: Permanent chairman, CoSC; Secretary Department of Military Affairs; Chief of Integrated Defence Staff; and single-point adviser to the Defence Minister and overall approver of war plans and prioritisation of new equipment. The CDS has virtually replaced the Defence Secretary, who is now left with making the defence policy and peripheral departments like border roads and the NCC. Former Defence Secretary Sanjay Mitra had said the CDS should even take over the critical crafting of the defence policy, making Defence Secretary redundant. Gen Rawat said the selection and prioritisation of single-service platform, previously done by the Defence Secretary, was now his remit. The shelving of the Navy’s third aircraft carrier in favour of its submarine programmme is a CDS decision. The creation of the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) is the most innovative step towards civil-military and tri-service integration.Summing up, Gen Rawat said two land-based theatre commands (Pakistan and China), one maritime theatre command combining two existing naval commands and a joint theatre command would be responsible for defending India’s island territories, called the Islands of Resistance. Additional joint commands are the Integrated Air Defence Command, Joint Logistics Command, Air Space, Cyber Space and Special Forces Commands. Gen Rawat clarified the controversial division and reassembling of air assets, higher military education and declassification of restricted material. During the session, chaired by former Defence Secretary NN Vohra, Gen Rawat cleared the air on a multitude of defence reforms.With path-breaking defence reforms on the anvil, Gen Rawat must also ensure there are no cracks in the ethos and integrity of the armed forces and they remain strictly professional, secular and apolitical. Two recent and widely circulated events concerning a recruitment attestation parade and the unethical conduct of a senior commander require immediate investigation and accountability. Any attempt to glorify majoritarianism and one faith/religion at an attestation parade will disturb the secular environment carefully nurtured in the armed forces and will also harm the jointness and integration of the military.I have written this article after attending a recruits’ attestation parade in Shillong last week and found no deviation from the established norms and procedures.Sucking up to politicians and influential bureaucrats will breed sycophancy in the military. The ruling establishment has indicated that it is not averse to its political leadership being venerated. So, a ‘Happy Birthday’ tweet from a Lieutenant General to the Prime Minister is a serious violation of good order and military discipline and a breach of its apolitical ethos. We have not heard about any action on these two events from the MoD. The politicisation of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA) began when the autonomous think tank was named after Manohar Parrikar, former Defence Minister and Goa CM.I attended a Sainik Sammelan in Shillong where ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ was chanted even after the National Anthem had been sung. I believe the Army has been instructed to conclude all formal functions with this chant. This is highly irregular. Politicisation will undermine defence reforms.While Gen Rawat must investigate and act against these infringements visibly and with dispatch, a code of conduct is required for the armed forces, eschewing politicisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/politicisation-can-impact-defence-reforms-320621
06-10-2021||---||All not quiet on Chinese front||SINCE May 2020, when China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) intruded and massed forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh and the Indian Army rapidly counter built-up to block it, there has been an uneasy and tense calm on the border. Emphasising the absence of trust, reports reveal that both sides continue to strengthen their defences.WTC has been brought on a par with the Eastern Theatre Command, which ranks first in priority. Developments in the PLA’s Western Theatre Command (WTC), the largest of five theatre commands which exercises operational jurisdiction over China’s currently ‘active’ borders with India and Afghanistan, are of particular relevance to India. Since before May 2020, the Chinese leadership has accorded special attention to the Western Theatre Command (WTC). It raised its inter se grading to bring it on a par with the Eastern Theatre Command, which ranks first in priority and in receiving new aircraft and weaponry.An important, visible indicator of the leadership’s attention, given their studied silence on the border situation, was President Xi Jinping’s restricted meeting with nearly 400 PLA and PLA Air Force (PLAAF) officers in Lhasa on July 23. He complimented them for bravely facing the harsh conditions, their good defence of the borders and asked them to “prepare for future wars”. Among the senior PLA officers present was, significantly, General Ju Qiansheng, who had just that month been promoted and appointed Commander of the PLA Strategic Support Force (SSF). The SSF’s roles include combat support and it is the space, cyber and electronic warfare force of the PLA.In addition, senior officers have been posted to the Western Theatre Command (WTC). The number of exercises conducted by the PLA forces deployed in the Xinjiang and Tibet Military Regions, has increased, especially between June 2020 and June 2021, and is also qualitatively different.Key personnel changes in the WTC’s higher leadership echelons since the middle of last year have raised its potency. In addition to Wang Haijiang’s promotion to the rank of General and appointment as Commander of the WTC on September 6, 2021, the WTC witnessed the appointment of other senior officers.The promotion and appointment of Wang Haijiang as WTC Commander is significant. Born in 1963, Wang Haijiang was one of the first batch of students to enter the military academy after the national college entrance examination resumed in 1977. Early on in service, he participated in the Sino-Vietnamese war in 1979 and served as Company Commander of the main attack company, earning first-class merit. He is thoroughly familiar with the region and topography of the India-China LAC, having served for 22 years in the South Xinjiang Military District — overseeing the Hetian and Ngari (Ali) Military Sub Districts which have operational jurisdiction over the Depsang Plains, Pangong, Demchok and Chumar areas — with five years as the Deputy Commander and Commander of the Tibet Military Region. He is a veteran of the 1979 Sino-Vietnam War. It is likely that the Central Military Commission had decided to promote Wang Haijiang earlier, but possibly had to wait till he became eligible. His taking over will facilitate plans for military activity along the LAC.Another appointment of interest is that of the PLA Air Force (PLAAF) Lieutenant General Qiao Xiangji as a new or additional Deputy Commander of the PLA WTC in April 2020. News of Qiao Xiangji’s appointment was confirmed on June 27, 2021. It is not yet clear whether he will take over from the current commander of the WTC Air Force Lieutenant General Wang Qiang, or whether he brings in additional expertise. His appointment could suggest that the WTC’s air assets have increased. Reports indicate that the number of China’s latest 5th generation ‘stealth’ J-20 fighters, J-16, the upgraded J-16-D and other aircraft, including drones in the WTC, have increased.Born in February 1963, Qiao Xiangji joined the PLAAF in July 1979 and trained as a pilot. Qiao Xiangji received training in the Battle Command Class of the Air Force Command Academy of the PLA and attended the Advanced Training Class of the Military Academy of the Russian Air Force. He was conferred the award of ‘Model Division Commander’ by the PLA Air Force in 2011. In December 2013, he was appointed assistant to the Chief of Staff of the PLAAF. Qiao Xiangji was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant General in April 2020.Equally interesting is the promotion and appointment of Lieutenant General Liu Lin as commander of Xinjiang MR. Liu Lin was, till his promotion, a Major General and Commander of the South Xinjiang Military District which includes operational supervision of the Hetian and Ngari (Ali) Military Sub Districts. He represented the PLA at 12 rounds of Army Commander-level border talks held at the PLA Moldo Garrison near Chushul. Liu Lin has extensive service in the Xinjiang Military Region and is familiar with this sector of the border.On September 16, the Chinese Communist Party’s official newspaper People’s Daily reinforced Xi Jinping’s message of July 23 to PLA officers. It reproduced a speech delivered by Xi Jinping late last year, where he stated that “China has not yet achieved the complete reunification of the motherland, and has disputes over territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests with many neighbouring countries. Solving these problems is a hurdle we must cross, and it is also a major risk and challenge that we must correctly handle…The motherland must be unified.”Far from suggesting any de-escalation, these developments in the WTC give cause for considerable discomfort.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/all-not-quiet-on-chinese-front-320620
