07-10-2021||---||Seize the moment||An independent group of economists, academics, security analysts and former diplomats, including this columnist, held a series of interactions over the past year to chart out a trajectory for India during the current decade. The result of our deliberations is a discussion paper which was released on October 2, entitled ‘India’s Path to Power: Strategy in a World Adrift.’ The key premise of the paper is that we are living through a period of rapid geopolitical, economic and technological shifts which has heightened risks and uncertainties for India’s policy-makers and has also created new opportunities for the country to enhance its economic prospects and its diplomatic options. The current decade will be critical to determining India’s ability not only to preserve its strategic autonomy but also to expand it. Strategic autonomy refers to the capacity of the state to make relatively independent choices on issues of vital interest to the country and this is the hallmark of a great power.Atmanirbhar Bharat must not mean a relapse into a high-cost and low-quality economy that prevailed before the 1990s.An indispensable requirement to charting India’s path to power is getting the country back on a high growth trajectory. It is the substance of economic muscle rather than mere posture of strength which will expand room for manouevre in an era of geopolitical contestation. This requires not only sustaining but also expanding the outward orientation of the economy and its becoming part of both regional and global supply chains. Atmanirbhar Bharat must not mean a relapse into a high-cost and low-quality economy which prevailed before the 1990s. India’s future as a great power requires its integration with the regional and global economy and India must position itself as the engine of growth for the entire subcontinent. The Neighbourhood First policy needs to be underpinned by regional economic integration and SAARC should be utilised as an important platform for achieving this, even if Pakistan does not cooperate. Sidelining SAARC carries the risk of other member countries inviting China to be a full member which will only serve to complicate the security challenge for India. China has already set up a grouping consisting of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka for cooperation with China on regional connectivity and development. India could become a preferred partner to its South Asian neighbours in their pursuit of social and economic development, drawing upon the advantage of proximity, the size of the Indian market and the deep cultural affinities that bind the people of the subcontinent together.India is at a stage of its development cycle when it needs large infusions of capital and technology. India can leverage its benign partnerships with the key knowledge and financial centres of the world, in particular, the US, Europe and Japan, to build a stronger and modern economy. The evolving geopolitical situation places India in a sweet spot because of concerns about a rising challenge from China. Recent domestic developments in China, with growing hostility towards its hitherto vibrant private sector, is raising uncertainties and fears about the safety and viability of western investment in China. India’s economy alone offers a scale comparable to China. This would help transform India into one of the most dynamic and modern economies by the end of the current decade. The critical policy decisions to achieve this must be taken now.The paper acknowledges that China will remain the biggest challenge for India in virtually all metrics of power. The collusion between China and Pakistan has acquired an even greater salience due to the recent withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan and the Taliban takeover of the country. India’s strategy to meet this collusive threat needs a review. There is no option but to raise the level of military preparedness on our land frontiers but leveraging, in parallel, the country’s maritime assets and its partnerships with other naval powers in the Indo-Pacific, including through Quad.Most of the challenges that confront the country are global in scope and not amenable to national or even regional solutions. These include public health challenges such as the Covid-19 pandemic that is still ongoing and the impending threat of global climate change which may have catastrophic consequences. These demand global and collaborative responses infused with a spirit of internationalism. India has a tradition of supporting multilateral institutions and processes and can play a leadership role in reviving them. This will mean reorienting India’s foreign policy towards mobilising the large constituency of emerging and developing countries with which India shares concerns and interests on a large number of issues. This also points to the importance of India’s traditionally close relations with Russia and Iran. These include the growing salience of cyber security and data privacy and the regulation of advanced technologies such as Artificial Intelligence.India possesses a great asset in its visionary and liberal Constitution as a guidepost to the country’s destiny as a great power. It draws upon India’s civilisational attributes while envisioning a modern and democratic society. It commits the state to extending security, health and education to all its citizens through policies that are inclusive and egalitarian. The individual rights and duties inscribed in the Constitution recognise the immense diversity of India as one of its greatest strengths, with citizenship transcending but not rejecting individual or community identities. It is these intrinsic national strengths which convince the authors that India is the only country which in terms of area, size of population and scientific and technological capabilities can match, and even surpass, China and emerge as a parallel civilisational state, as has been the case through most of recorded history.The paper is an independent contribution to a national debate on issues that are fundamental to the future of India.The paper has been contributed by Yamini Aiyar, Sunil Khilnani, Prakash Menon, Shivshankar Menon, Nitin Pai, Srinath Raghavan, Ajit Ranade and the writer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/seize-the-moment-321202
07-10-2021||---||Plug loopholes in law to check tax evasion||The Pandora Papers are rocking the world and the vibrations have reached India too. There are 11.9 million leaked documents which the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists has gained access to and shared with a whole host of leading news organisations around the world who have investigated the papers focusing on individuals prominent in their territories.As a result, there is now information in the public domain on the secret offshore accounts of 35 current and former presidents, prime ministers, heads of state, as also over a 100 billionaires, celebrities and business leaders. This has blown a massive hole through the wall of financial secrecy that they had taken enormous pain to build around themselves.This is the largest expose yet of financial secrets gleaned from documents, emails, spreadsheets and images relating to those individuals. The information was hitherto in the safe custody of 14 financial services companies which set up 29,000 off the shelf companies and private trusts in which are placed assets whose ultimate owners are the names that figure in the lists.The financial services companies exist in not just tax havens like Panama and Seychelles, but also perfectly respectable countries like Switzerland, UAE, Singapore, New Zealand, and believe it or not, the United States. The Washington Post says that “a burgeoning America trust industry is increasingly sheltering the assets of international millionaires and billionaires by promising levels of protection and secrecy that rival or surpass those offered by overseas tax havens.”What is the value of what is now known? They add up to $32 trillion plus real estate, art, aircraft, yachts and jewellery which the owners were seeking to hide from tax authorities in their countries. This is the result of the investigation conducted into the information now available by news orgainsations like the Washington Post, Le Monde, The Guardian, the BBC’s Panorama and The Indian Express.Among those who are caught in the expose net are King Abdullah II of Jordan, Russian president Vladimir Putin, former British prime minister Tony Blair, the presidents of Chile, Kenya and the Ukraine, the Qatari Emir, the United Arab Emirates, the ruler of Dubai and many more.There are 300 plus people of Indian origin whose names come up in the Pandora Papers. Prominent among them are cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar, industrialist Anil Ambani, diamantaire Nirav Modi, Ajit Kerkar of Cox and Kings, Biocon founder Kiran Mazumdar Shaw and actor Jackie Shroff.At the end of the day, what do the Pandora Papers reveal? They show how the rich and famous, as also the notorious, many of whom are already under investigation in their home countries, set up complex multi-layer structures to take advantage of easy tax laws and tight secrecy rules.The trusts, many of which are genuine, have been set up with the following aim — hide the real identity of their owners so as to shield the assets from creditors and law enforcers. The multi-layered structures seek to hide the real entity of the owners so that it becomes impossible for the tax authorities of the home country to reach them.The Pandora Papers are not the first such exposure. Before them came the Panama Papers and the Paradise Papers. The two former exposes largely dealt with offshore entities set up by individuals and corporates. The Pandora Papers show how businesses have changed their game with the aim of dodging the tax and other authorities of countries which have been forced to get their act together in the midst of rising concerns over the role of offshore entities in money laundering, terrorism and tax evasion.In July, 130 countries, including India and China, agreed to a global minimum tax of 15 per cent on global companies. This was in response to a proposal by the US, supported by other countries, to rope in giant firms like Facebook and Alphabet which have major operations in countries but pay minimum taxes by carrying out the operations through companies registered in low tax countries.The aim of the agreement was to get at digital global companies. The move was part of the inclusive framework on base erosion and profit sharing agreed upon by G20 countries and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the formal name for the club of the rich and developed countries. India is in favour of a simple and easy-to-use solution that results in allocation of meaningful and sustainable revenue to market jurisdictions (where the business actually takes place), particularly for developing and emerging economies.This is not the same as the media thrust around the Pandora Papers which has focused on the hiding of real ownership and tax evasion. But the enabling tools are the same. Tax havens are used to house the entities through which the owners hide who they are. Large companies use countries like Ireland and Singapore to pay taxes where they have to pay less. If there were no tax havens or low tax jurisdictions, then neither large companies nor billionaires would be able to get away with paying low taxes or simply hiding the fact that they are the beneficial owners.There is also the matter of putting very different people in the same boat. For example, Sachin Tendulkar and Kiran Mazumdar Shaw should not be bracketed together with Nirav Modi. Shaw has stated that her husband’s offshore trust is “bona fide and legitimate”, managed by independent trustees. No Indian resident holds the key to the trust, as alleged.Many are also driven to offshore destinations because of unnecessary harassment by the Indian tax authorities. With great promptness, the government has ordered a multi-agency investigation, headed by the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), into the information contained in the Pandora Papers. Appropriate action will be taken as per law. The State Department of the United States has also ordered a review of the documents concerned. That’s where things stand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/plug-loopholes-in-law-to-check-tax-evasion-321203
07-10-2021||---||Intransigent Taliban risk global isolation||The international community had asked the Taliban regime, vide UN Security Council resolution No. 2593 (2021) dated August 30, to seek an inclusive government in Afghanistan based on negotiated political settlement with full and equal participation of women and to ensure that the soil of the country was not used by various terror groups to launch attacks against other countries. After six weeks of its armed occupation, it is clear that the Taliban have ignored these suggestions while implementing its harsh ultra-conservative Islamic rule in the country.The Taliban went back soon on its statement of August 27 that Afghans would be able to travel abroad anytime they wanted to. It imposed severe restrictions on the working of journalists (those covering women’s protests were mercilessly beaten) and killed many former government officials and civilians despite announcing a general amnesty. The working Afghan women were told not to come; the girls in secondary schools were not allowed to resume their studies. The protesting men and women against the Taliban rule were dispersed with the threat of gun.The barbaric punishments, reminiscent of the Taliban rule in the 1990s (Taliban 1.0) have returned with the public hanging of the body of a person killed by the police for abduction. Mullah Nooruddin Turabi, who was head of the Taliban’s Ministry of Propagation of Virtue and Prevention of Vice in Taliban 1.0, said recently that public executions, amputation of hands and other similar punishments would be reintroduced as these were in conformity with Islam and necessary for security.The Taliban cabinet is dominated by hardliners, including Mullah Hasan, who is known for his rigid religious views as the Prime Minister and Pakistan’s ISI favourite, Sirajuddin Haqqani, as its Interior Minister. Amir Khan Muttaqi, who was in charge of propaganda and served as the Chief of Staff to the Supreme Leader has been named as the Foreign Minister. A large number of Taliban ministers are on the lists of terrorists proscribed by the UN Security Council, the US government and others. The Taliban Supreme Leader Hibatullah Akhundzada, in a message recently, asked the Taliban government to uphold the Sharia.Pakistan, supported by China and Russia, is spearheading a campaign asking the US, UK and other countries to resume aid to Afghanistan, be “realistic, show patience and engage the Taliban”. “Don’t isolate the Taliban,” says Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, “the international community has to realise what is the alternative, there are no other options.” Qureshi says the Taliban are listening to the international community. As an example, the Taliban have included members from Tajik, Uzbek and Hazara communities in the cabinet. Others point out that these are mostly at lower levels while senior leaders have been completely excluded.Instead of seeking support from the minorities, the Taliban have uprooted hundreds of families belonging to the Hazara community in the Gizab district of Uruzgan province and Pato district in Daikundi province of Afghanistan (despite these families having deeds on their lands dating back from 50 to 100 years) to allot those lands to its own fighters without any legal recourse and in violation of Sharia.A large number of terror groups such as the IS, Al-Qaeda, Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and others continue to breed in Afghanistan. IS sponsored bomb attacks near Kabul airport in end August, which killed about 170 persons including 13 US personnel, other IS-led attacks in Jalalabad, Kabul and other cities have taken place. The Taliban have not shown any inclination to act against most terror groups except a few IS elements.China has been repeatedly urging the Taliban to check the activities of ETIM but is yet to get a convincing reply. TTP attacks on the Chinese personnel in Pakistan have slowed down the Chinese projects creating fresh irritants in China-Pakistan relations. A large consignment of heroin flowing from Afghanistan via Iran has been confiscated at the Mundra port in Gujarat. There has been a spurt in terror activities of the IS and Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad in J&K, Punjab and UP.Eyewitness reports say that no government institution is functioning in Afghanistan. The government is not earning any money and no salaries are being disbursed; the people are forced to use up their savings or the little aid provided by the international agencies. With the freezing of Afghanistan’s reserves by the IMF and suspension of most international aid, about 93% of the Afghans were not getting enough food, according to WFP, in September 2021. Though the US has recently allowed limited humanitarian assistance to flow into Afghanistan, the recognition of the Taliban regime and provision of larger economic assistance would be contingent on the Taliban meeting the goals delineated by the international community.Will the Taliban change their conservative beliefs and agree to set up a broad-based government? According to Prof Michael Sempley, an Irish expert, who studied the Taliban’s Islamic teachings, the Taliban follow a “war-like uncompromising rhetoric” in which all Afghan Muslims are encumbered to fight for the establishment of an Islamic Emirate. The coherence of the Taliban culture maintained over the last two decades derives primarily from religiosity, suppression of dissent, spartan ethos and complete dedication to jihad. The Taliban want global recognition without deviating much from their strict Islamic norms.If the Taliban continue to ignore the demands of the international community, it is likely that they would be isolated. With the economy in a free fall and a large number of people without jobs and food, the protests against the Taliban’s conservative rule would gather momentum, spawning more violence, anarchy and instability. It will foster a fertile ground for the IS and other terror groups to intensify their activities, threatening peace and stability in South, Central Asia, the Middle East and the world. The global war against terror for 20 years would have been lost with the sacrifices of Afghan people and other countries going in vain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/intransigent-taliban-risk-global-isolation-321205
