08-10-2021||---||Missions of mercy||The Modi-Shah government has applied the screws on NGOs receiving foreign aid through the Foreign Contributions Regulation Act. The new rules have deprived many Christian and Muslim religion- inspired NGOs of funds. Even earlier during Congress rule, conversion activity of Christian missionaries and possible diversion of funds to jihadi terrorists were under scrutiny of our intelligence agencies. But in 2021, many NGOs have been forced to diminish the scope of their activities.The fund is managed by a board of trustees presided over by the PM and consisting of his Cabinet colleagues. Being a ‘private’ fund, it is beyond the orbit of CAG.If distributing milk powder to malnourished children is going to goad them to change gods, thereby disturbing the social patterns in the countryside, there can be perceived ‘a method in the madness’! But the ‘madness’ has not stopped there. All NGOs are under attack for the simple reason that the bulk of their work could point to shortcomings in the government’s own delivery mechanisms. For example, during the lockdown that was proclaimed without any warning during the first onslaught of the Covid pandemic, tens of thousands, maybe lakhs, of migrant labour from northern states were forced to trudge on foot for hundreds of kilometres to their homes! Good Samaritans, ranging from actors to retired bureaucrats and graduates of national law schools to bleeding-heart housewives slogged day and night to feed and shelter these poor citizens. NLS alumni from Bangalore even hired private aircraft to transport some lucky ones!The PM got credit for these missions of mercy. Yet, one such bleeding heart, an actor, is under investigation of the IT authorities for supposedly not spending all the monies he collected. Those who gave their time and money did not grudge the PM the praise because they themselves had not worked with an eye on recognition or reward but purely from compassion, an attitude of mind alien to politicians.Like in any sphere of endeavour, there are NGOs who work because they care for the needy and the dispossessed, and there are NGOs that may harbour ulterior motives. The corporate world is aware of this phenomenon. It is careful with its money. It makes ‘due diligence’ enquiries before loosening its CSR purse. The Public Concern for Governance Trust is more than careful about how it spends donors’ money.But ever since the Modi-Shah government has opened CSR funding to the PM Cares Fund, even ‘good’ NGOs have been adversely impacted. The corporate world, always eager to be on the right side of authority, naturally will be more than generous to PM Cares and will find its ability to support these NGOs impaired. The corporates are already committed to bolster the ruling party’s electoral coffers anonymously through electoral bonds. Now, there is the PM Cares Fund which is to be differentiated from the PM’s Relief Fund. The latter is audited by CAG. No accounts of monies spent from PM Cares are supplied to the public. The fund is managed by a board of trustees presided over by the PM himself and consisting of his main Cabinet colleagues. Being a ‘private’ fund, it is beyond the orbit of CAG.The corporates and other donors part with their money because the PM and his other important colleagues are on the board but they cannot ask how the money is utilised! NGOs who receive money from corporates have to give a detailed account of expenditure to the donors. So, why is the PM fund exempt? It should be the first to set a good example but refuses to answer queries made under the RTI Act on the specious ground that it is a private fund.What happens if the government changes? Do the trustees carry the money donated to the ‘private’ trust along with their private belongings? How can this be allowed? The money was given to incumbents of high office! It was given to them because of the power wielded by each trustee in his or her official capacity. Corporates and others who contribute to PM Cares do so because the PM’s name is associated with the fund. They are under the impression that it is a government fund.There has to be institutional arrangements to handle such largesse made basically under a subtle form of duress. The source of funding of electoral bonds should also be compulsorily disclosed. Why should people not know who is propping up different political parties, what is the quid pro quo, and thereby trace the progress of democratic norms and values in the polity?If a government employee installs a private fund that people subscribe to because he holds high public office, he would open himself to charges of corruption. But the highest ranked public servant in India has done just that and the people are supposed to trust him and his chosen ones. Modi will never tinker with pious money but what happens when incumbents change? Money collected from private sources, even for a good cause, has to be accounted for. The do-gooder actor, Sonu Sood, is being hounded by the IT department, eager to tax monies not spent on the purpose for which it was collected.I appeal to Modi’s sense of decency and patriotism to disclose the names and details of the sum received in the PM’s fund and details of expenditure therefrom. When I set out to write this piece I did so because of frustration at not receiving even the promised funds from corporates to carry on with our mission of instilling good values in our youth. But as I proceeded, I realised that Modi had the higher objective of plucking lives from the jaws of Covid. He should say so and publicly account for each rupee received. Otherwise, there will be a sneaking suspicion that some monies, if not all, are diverted to the now common practice of buying elected legislators to achieve majorities in state Assemblies after a loss at the hustings.I also appeal to him to make purchase of electoral bonds an open affair, known to all voters so that they can make informed choices. For some reason, the courts are hesitating to examine the legality of these bonds. But surely, a party wedded to people’s good should not hide behind judicial hesitation to perpetuate lop-sided funding of political parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/missions-of-mercy-321630
08-10-2021||---||Forest conservation law must not be diluted||The assault on the country’s environmental protection laws that began with radical changes in the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) rules last year seems to be getting sharper. The latest victim of this tirade is the Forest Conservation Act (FCA), 1980 — one of the central pieces in India’s environment protection regime. The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) has proposed drastic changes in the 1980 law.These changes, made public in a consultation paper recently, are designed to nullify a wider interpretation of the law, effected in the landmark 1996 ruling of the Supreme Court. If the proposed amendments become a part of the law, it could result in large-scale conversion of forest lands for other uses.The environmental regime in India is not too old. The idea of integrating environmental concerns in economic progress came for the first time in the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1969-1974). Till then, hunting was rampant by former royals and foreign tourists who came for safaris. The Wildlife Board was just an office attached to the Ministry of Agriculture and forests were governed by colonial laws.The Project Tiger, launched in 1973, was the first wildlife conservation project. The Department of Environment — later to be a ministry — came into existence in 1980. Around the same time, the Central Government promulgated an ordinance making ‘prior approval of the Central Government necessary for de-reservation of reserved forests and use of forest land for non-forest purposes.’It also provided for the constitution of a committee to advise the government for such approvals. This was the beginning of legally mandated forest conservation and the need for mandatory prior approval for the diversion of forest land for any project.The environment conservation framework is constantly evolving, but not always for the betterment of the environment. Governments tend to treat it as a necessary evil. As a result, the FCA has undergone several changes since 1980 and has been at the centre of many controversies and litigation. A Supreme Court judgment delivered in December 1996 expanded the ambit of this law, saying it would apply to all areas that are recorded as ‘forest’ in any government record, irrespective of ownership, recognition and classification.Till this point, the Central and state governments applied the law only to areas notified under the Indian Forest Act, 1927 and state laws. The court also ruled that areas that conform to the ‘dictionary meaning of forest’ should also be brought under the FCA.The MoEFCC is now seeking to create loopholes in the form of a series of exemptions to let project proponents escape the need for seeking forest clearance in many cases.To begin with, diversion of the land acquired before the enactment of the FCA in 1980, but not used till now, will not need any approval even if it is considered forest as per criterion in the 1996 SC ruling or has been declared protected forest subsequently. In the same way, it is proposed that land categorised as forest in revenue records before the 1996 ruling should be kept out of the purview of the FCA. The ministry wants that new forests developed as a result of afforestation should not be treated as forests.Another exemption being sought would let states permit non-forest use of forest land for implementation of ‘strategic and security projects’. The provision, in the absence of a proper definition of such projects, opens a massive escape route for the use of forest land for new projects.Another exemption sought from the FCA is for projects that use certain new technologies like Extended Reach Drilling (ERD) which involve the extraction of natural resources through horizontal, and not vertical, drilling. It is being argued that such technologies are benign to the environment as holes could be dug outside a protected forest area and yet resources lying under protected areas can be extracted through horizontal tunnels.In reality, however, such horizontal drilling is not so benign. The Guwahati High Court last year stayed the environmental clearance given to Oil India Limited to explore crude under the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park using ERD in the absence of any assessment of impacts on biodiversity. Giving a blanket exemption to ERD and other new technologies without evidence of their being harmless could open up biosphere reserves and protected areas for extraction.The FCA has been effective in preventing deforestation to a great extent, according to MoEFCC data. From 1951 to 1976, about 1.6 lakh hectares of forest area was being diverted every year. The figure came down to 32,000 hectares annually between 1980 and 2011 due to the implementation of the FCA. Any dilution of the law is going to denude more forest areas.Forests are also a means of sustaining the livelihoods of millions of people who depend on forests for minor forest produce to meet their needs for energy, food, fodder for cattle, medicinal plants etc. Forests act as carbon sinks. Deforestation and forest degradation add to carbon emissions. To prevent climate change, preserving forests and creating additional forests are necessary. And India is committed to doing so under international agreements under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.Instead of treating forests as a stumbling block in the construction of new power plants, highways and bullet train corridors, the need is to treat forests as a common ecological heritage which should be preserved and expanded. A holistic and sustainable natural resources management policy should be pursued, instead of a piecemeal approach.India’s forest and tree cover at present is less than 25 per cent, as against the recommended 33 per cent of the geographical area. To begin with, a scientific audit of the forest cover is needed. There should be a wider public discourse on the proposed changes (MoEFCC has given only 15 days for people to send comments), with the participation of local communities, civil society, states and others. The approach of tinkering with regulatory frameworks to suit short-term objectives is dangerous.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/forest-conservation-law-must-not-be-diluted-321633
08-10-2021||---||Indo-Pacific region needs nuanced approach||One of the consistent components of the Biden presidency has been to characterise the Chinese challenge in the Indo-Pacific region as one of the foremost foreign policy priorities. Biden’s decision to host the first in-person head of the state meeting of the Quad, a grouping of the US, India, Australia and Japan, and the initiative to ink a trilateral security pact between Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States, known as AUKUS (Australia-UK-US), announced on September 15, seem to be a manifestation of the broad policy thrust of his administration.The term “Indo-Pacific”, as per the US framing, refers to the maritime space — stretching from the Indian Ocean, across the littorals of East Asia to the western Pacific Ocean. As per this definition, there are 24 countries including the US, all 10 South East Asian countries, South Asia excluding Pakistan, Taiwan, Australia, Japan, Papua New Guinea, Timor-Leste and Fiji.Apart from the US grandstanding on the issue, it is important to study the granular dimensions of the US-China contestation, including the structural realities, as this would have a sizeable impact in shaping the geopolitical alignments, particularly in the Indo-Pacific region. Within the US, expertise on China’s political and military landscape or its complex relationship with some of the countries in the Indo-Pacific has not matched with the progressive increase in the importance of the region. In contrast, during the Cold War or even in the 1990s, a sizeable foreign policy expertise at the apex level was on Europe or Russia. This can partly be explained by the fact that European immigrants or their parents had come to the US because of World War II and thus had a visceral understanding of Europe and Russia. For instance, Henry Kissinger, a first-generation German Jew, came to the US as a late teenager and became one of the pivotal figures in the Nixon administration as Secretary of State. His expertise was European political history in the 19th century though he was also the architect of the famous US détente with the People’s Republic of China. In the late 1960s and 1970s, the US blunders in the Indo-China region, particularly Vietnam, were a reflection of knowledge deficit about local regional realities and societal nuances.In the same vein, Kissinger’s rival, Zbigniew Brzezinski, with his Polish background, became the National Security Adviser (NSA) in Jimmy Carter’s Democratic Party administration and his expertise was Russia. Another eastern European second generation immigrant in the 1990s who rose to the top as the first woman US Secretary of State was Madeleine Albright. Enter post- 2000, even under George W. Bush, the first African-American Secretary of State was Condoleezza Rice and her specialisation was eastern and central Europe and the Soviet Union. During Obama’s presidency, from 2008 to 2016, there was frequent invocation of the Asia pivot but that rhetorical policy articulation never matched with the expertise at various levels of the administration and this impacted its ability to predict and formulate plans to bring in sync the regional demands with domestic priorities.This is ironical as in the last 30 years, the US internal landscape was greatly influenced by the changes taking place in China and the broader Indo-Pacific region. China’s industrial policies of the last four decades, and its entry into the World Trade Organisation on December 11, 2001, which was greatly facilitated by the Clinton administration, catapulted the country to the league of great powers. China’s growth as a factory of the world, with its relative cheap labour, initiated the process of shifting of labour-intensive jobs from the US to China and later on to South East Asian countries. This severely impacted the economic and later on the political landscape of the US Midwest as blue-collar jobs either shifted or wages declined. These trends were further exacerbated by China’s state capitalist enterprise of alleged currency manipulation and lack of transparency over its Exim policies.Even with the opaqueness of the Chinese economic system, there are a host of China-centric US consultancy firms that provide institutional investors with market-leading insights from China. There is a strong presence of the US expatriates in Shanghai, China’s financial headquarters. In 2019, the US exports to China reportedly totalled $106.4 billion and the goods imported totalled $451.7 billion. The US goods trade deficit with China was $345.2 billion in 2019. In contrast, Russia, which is the other geopolitical rival of the US, is relatively a small player in terms of trade with the US. In 2016, the US exports to Russia reportedly totalled $5.8 billion and US imports from Russia stood at $14.5 billion.The US-led alliances have their own importance and it has an advantage of geographical distance. However, such luxuries are not available for the countries that are in the immediate neighbourhood. With each country in the region, particularly the South East Asian countries, China has a complex relationship anchored in history, ethnicity and geography. For instance, the Chinese diaspora in the region is a liability as well as an asset for the Chinese state depending on the context. Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia and Myanmar have vast swaths of Chinese diaspora who have lived in these countries for generations and in each country, they have navigated a complex political and social journey that minorities generally traverse. Many of them are now urban classes and in some countries, they have become influential. As China rose and expanded its operations in the region, they relied on the diaspora and struck mutually beneficial deals to facilitate industrial and trade linkages between China and the wider region. The area has varied political systems in each country and in each country, the Chinese state has stitched highly complex relationships with various domestic stakeholders in a politically volatile milieu, which sometimes also have a military dimension.Thus, even with recurrent disputes with China over navigation rights in the sea lanes or in other spheres, it is unlikely that the political elite in any of the South East Asian countries, which nearly form half of the defined Indo-Pacific region and adjoin the world’s busiest and important shipping lanes, is ready to publicly give up its geopolitical equivocation between the US and China. While it is true that the threat emanating from China’s military assertion is a common thread that binds most of the Indo-Pacific countries, an effective deterrence will involve more than the US-led initiatives, namely, Quad, a strategic forum of four countries, and AUKUS, a security grouping of three countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indo-pacific-region-needs-nuanced-approach-321635
