09-10-2021||---||Eyeing a strategic leadership role in Asia||As a major Asian power, India needs to rightfully seek and perform its strategic leadership role in the continent. Its geostrategic location, the size of its landmass and population make it a natural contender for the pole position in the region. A growing economy which is the sixth largest by nominal GDP, the second largest standing armed forces which have played a lead role in UN missions globally and the largest democracy in the world — these are clear pointers of an ascendant nation. India has combated the scourge of the Covid pandemic, achieving daily vaccination targets of a magnitude in excess of the entire population of some countries and at the same time reached out for supplying vaccines to many nations.So, what holds us back? Primarily it’s due to the geographical legacy of shared borders with two inimical and often hostile neighbours. Pakistan’s implacable hostility towards India colours its entire policy to the extent that it does not hesitate to act like a colony of China. Its quest for legitimacy compels it to aspire for a hyphenated identity with India while fermenting and supporting militant terrorism across the borders. China’s aspirations for superpower status are based on regional domination in Asia and settling disputes on its terms. While this major factor does not augur well for peaceful growth of our country, India has to ensure its rise internally and externally. In July 2011, the then US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, while visiting India for the second annual US-India Strategic Dialogue, had remarked: “India has to stop punching below its weight in Asia.”Non-alignment remained a cornerstone of India’s policy in engaging with the world and it has always steered clear of any international alliances, while working through bilateral and multi-lateral strategic partnerships. The regional initiative in forming the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) could not realise its true potential due to the adversarial relationship between the two major members — India and Pakistan.The Quadrilateral Strategic Partnership (Quad) between the US, India, Japan and Australia has not really manifested into any tangible structure beyond emphasis on freedom of navigation in the South China Sea (SCS). The recently held first in-person Quad summit in the US focused on issues such as infrastructure, space and cyber security. However, our past experience of reluctance or even denial in sharing niche technology by the other three countries, especially America, does not hold out much hope.The trilateral alliance of the US, UK and Australia (AUKUS), has a major military dimension to it, aimed at China. While AUKUS may emerge as the Indo-Pacific version of the NATO to counter a different adversary in a second cold war, India is unlikely to have any alliance role in it even in the future, though its focus lies in our neighbourhood.For a leadership role in Asia, India needs to align with partners in the region who have similar strategic interests and security concerns and are nations of some consequence, with a history of friendly relations with us. The two main players in Asia who fit the bill are Vietnam and Indonesia.Vietnam, a very proud country that has a history of getting the better of France, the US and China, should be top of the list. It is the only country besides India which has had a direct armed conflict with China. The much-vaunted Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) of Communist China has also been promoted in Vietnam to facilitate trade and connectivity. However, Vietnam appears circumspect and the existing problems remain. India-Vietnam relations have been warm and on even keel, covering a large gamut of bilateral cooperation, though there is ample scope for further enhancement.Its size, strategic location and history of being colonised makes Indonesia a country capable of standing up to the crude bullying that China has made its weapon of choice to realise its maritime claims. Indonesia is one of the major countries in the Indo-Pacific region, with a maritime stake in the SCS, though it has refrained from being an active claimant and downplayed its differences with China. However, being part of the ASEAN, it will remain involved in the SCS dispute.To our immediate East, we need to continue investing in our relationship with Myanmar, another very proud country that has received ample criticism but little sympathy for the problems it faces. The ethnic armies who use the drug trade and extortion as their main source of revenue and prevent the government from functioning in large parts of the country, never seem to attract opprobrium, while the Myanmar army is routinely painted as some kind of rogue force. We have been sensible and pragmatic in this regard and need to deepen our relationship with Myanmar, given its geographical location in the context of China.Strategic partnerships with developed nations of the West have had limited benefits for India and while the Quad does not offer any help for our immediate security concerns, even the benefits that may accrue from shared technology are suspect. India’s place in the world stems from its pivotal location in Asia and it is countries in the neighbourhood which should be of greater importance to us. Vietnam and Indonesia are two such important countries where bilateral relations need significant enhancement.While it makes sense to be in concert with dominant and leading world powers on strategic issues which are aligned with our national interests, it would be of great significance to invest in deepening our relations and partnerships with countries in Asia with whom we can have convergence of views vis-à-vis China.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/eyeing-a-strategic-leadership-role-in-asia-322099
09-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur Kheri tragedy hardens battle lines||The Lakhimpur Kheri tragedy was a shocker — for the brutal manner in which four unsuspecting farmers were mowed down by an SUV owned by the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, triggering violence that killed four others. And for the arrogance of power it displayed. The Lakhimpur Kheri incident has also given a fillip to the farmers’ movement.The farmers’ protest has been going on for a year now. But it was beginning to lose momentum.So far, apart from Punjab and Haryana, the protest had affected Jats in certain areas of western UP where the Bharatiya Kisan Union, one of the groups leading the movement, and the Rashtriya Lok Dal have a following.Now, the Sikhs who live in the Terai region of UP have also become agitated. This is bound to have a ripple effect. The Sikhs also have a presence in other Assembly constituencies and can tip the poll outcome in closely contested elections.That is why Varun Gandhi, the BJP MP from Pilibhit, has called for immediate arrests and action.As it is, the Gujjar community in UP is annoyed with CM Yogi Adityanath. Last month, he unveiled a statue of one of their iconic figures — the ninth-century king ‘Gujjar Samrat’ Mihir Bhoj — but omitted the prefix ‘Gujjar’ against his name in his speech. He was seen doing this to please the Rajput community to which he belongs. The Rajputs also lay claim to Mihir Bhoj’s lineage.The farmers’ movement will have an impact in the forthcoming elections in UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab. To what extent, it is as yet uncertain. But it has got a new impetus.It’s not just the farmers’ protest which has got a new wind. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has suddenly come into sharper focus. So far, her rallies were being cancelled because of the virtually non-existent Congress’ inability to mobilise crowds. Other Opposition parties like the Samajwadi Party have been unwilling to look at the Congress for an anti-BJP alliance in early 2022 because the Grand Old Party of India brings nothing to the table.Priyanka was quick on her feet as she aggressively took on the police which prevented her from proceeding to Lakhimpur to meet the affected families. She was first detained in Sitapur, then arrested. Later, she accompanied her brother Rahul and two Congress chief ministers — Charanjit Singh Channi of Punjab and Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh — to commiserate with the affected families in Lakhimpur Kheri.Suddenly, the disarray in the Congress, which had overwhelmed the party over Punjab, was forgotten. The party had managed to seize the initiative again.Priyanka was seen thinking on her feet. She refused to be cowed down. She spoke up for the farmers. And she struck the right political notes.The trouble is that even if Priyanka gets sympathy, the Congress does not have the foot soldiers to come out in its support on the streets or sustain a movement. It had also strongly protested against the gang-rape of a young woman in Hathras, but there was little follow-up. The reason is that it no longer has the necessary organisational muscle.The BJP may also calculate that the revival of Priyanka, and the Congress — but only up to a point — suits it. For, it would confuse the Muslims and, thereby, divide their votes. In West Bengal, the Muslims did not waste their votes and voted only for Mamata Banerjee who was taking on the BJP, and not for the Left parties or the Congress. But UP presents a more complex picture.Lakhimpur Kheri also showed a non-unified Opposition. Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav and BSP’s SC Mishra also set out for Lakhimpur, but were stopped at their residences in Lucknow. The Trinamool Congress team managed to reach there. AAP leaders were also prevented, but they did not acquire as high a profile as did Priyanka.The Opposition may have an opportunity in UP, but it is divided and it is still to pick up steam. A non-unified opposition, it goes without saying, is bound to be at a disadvantage in UP —unless there’s aakrosh running through the state, as opposed to just “dissatisfaction” with the Yogi regime.Yogi was very quick to get an FIR filed against Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, alleging murder of the four farmers. Many eyewitnesses are alleged to have seen the son in the driver’s seat of the SUV that killed the farmers.The UP CM also went in for a quick settlement with the affected families, agreeing to pay them Rs 45 lakh each. And the money has apparently reached them.The agreement was brokered by kisan leader Rakesh Tikait who was allowed to go to Lakhimpur while opposition leaders were all stopped.Yogi’s intent was obviously to defuse the situation quickly. This, however, was not the case with Ajay Mishra, who upped the ante and it made the farmers even more angry. This was bound to make things more difficult for Yogi.There are wheels within wheels working inside the BJP.UP is not just about UP alone. It is about winning India. If the BJP does not fare well in the 2022 elections, it will lose steam for the General Election in 2024.And yet — and here lies the catch — it may suit the BJP brass to “just about” winning UP this time. A handsome victory, as in 2017, will go to the credit of Yogi Adityanath. It will strengthen him and Yogi may then begin to eye Delhi. He will certainly act more independently of the high command.As it is, the high command found it difficult to chasten Yogi earlier this year. At one stage, it seemed to have considered replacing the CM. Or, at any rate, curb him by appointing Modi confidant AK Mishra as the Deputy CM. But it had to give up its plan.Yogi is pulling out all stops to tom-tom his achievements with a full-blast ad campaign. For all the resentment against his regime, he hoped to ride the storm. Now comes Lakhimpur to queer the pitch.Beyond the immediate politics are the larger questions that need to be addressed. Should an avowedly democratic government leave a festering issue — the agitating farming community — unaddressed for a year?Is mowing down unsuspecting people — or a “jaisi ki taisi kar denge” or “doh minute mein dekh lenge” rhetoric — the way we will settle differences? Is this what Indian democracy is going to be about?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lakhimpur-kheri-tragedy-hardens-battle-lines-322098
09-10-2021||What was on display in Lakhimpur Kheri was an instance of medieval barbarism||Medieval barbarism||Instead of being sacked, Mishra is holding forth on prison reforms as the junior Union Minister on the fourth day after the incident. It’s a sad commentary on India’s governance.But at Lakhimpur Kheri, as two video clips — one in slow motion and the other at regular speed — show, these vehicles were deliberately ploughed into a peaceful procession of agitating farmers from behind in broad daylight. No normal driver would wilfully run over a pup or a kitten or a squirrel dashing across the road and, instead, would in general try to save them even at the risk of sudden braking. At Lakhimpur Kheri, not one but three vehicles were seen being driven at a high speed into a group of unknowing marchers. Sure, the veracity of the video clips can be challenged; but until they are conclusively proven to be doctored, they need to be taken at face value as valuable pieces of evidence pointing towards the culpability of the occupants of the vehicles.Two accused have been arrested and the minister’s son, Ashish Mishra, summoned for questioning. But that is not enough. All the owners of the vehicles need to be arraigned as accused — it is widely believed that the Mahindra Thar vehicle leading the convoy, which hit the farmers, belonged to Ajay Mishra. If this is true, he should step down or be sacked immediately and prosecuted. Instead, Ajay Mishra is holding forth on prison reforms as the junior Union Home Minister on the fourth day after the incident. All those who have seen the video clips have understood the import of the crime, except probably Mishra’s bosses in the government, which is a sad commentary on India’s governance.It is impunity that digs the grave of all grandiose political projects, whatever be their claims of organisational superiority. For, no ordinary voter, whatever be his religious or community affiliations, would want to be crushed under the wheels of arrogance of power, particularly in the Hindi heartland, where even an MLA lays down the rule for the local police and administrative officials. Or is the message from Lakhimpur Kheri a new diktat — to mercilessly crush protests in the most monstrous fashion possible? If Mishra is allowed to function from North Block without having to answer for what his son and his henchmen have allegedly done, it would only be read as a carte blanche for goons to literally mow down their opponents.A peaceful protest of empowered people is the sign of a mature democracy where proud citizens of a free republic act according to the dictates of their conscience. Most farm protesters fall into this category of idealistic opponents to the three farm laws. They genuinely fear that the farm laws would lead to privatisation of procurement and thereby loss of income. The government, which insists that the new laws will only increase the farmers’ income, should have initiated the reforms in Bihar and UP as test cases to prove to the rest of the country that these laws are indeed written to benefit the farmer.After all, agriculture is a state subject and an NDA-ruled state with poor procurement practices would have been an ideal laboratory to test the efficacy of the new laws. And if they were to prove successful, instead of UP and Bihar traders clandestinely sending their produce to Punjab, there would have been a reverse flow from Punjab. It is imperative to test new proposals on the ground before dismantling smooth-running systems. If only the finance ministry had kept the old TCS-run income tax portal operational while trying out the new Infosys-built system, there would not have been complete chaos for the country’s taxpayers. Similarly, there is nothing wrong in pausing the implementation of the farm laws in Punjab and Haryana beyond the moratorium of 18 months.Whether or not there is merit in the farmers' fears, there is no reason to daub them with the paint of secessionism. Here again, the religious identity of protesters is being used to criminalise a genuine movement driven by legitimate fears of the loss of livelihood. It takes a leap of faith to pronounce that there is no Khalistani secessionist terrorism in Punjab, but that really is the case now. Sure, arms and drugs are being dropped by drones, and posters are pasted and T-shirts sported by some supporters. Anyone who has lived in this region for some period of time would know that the entire secessionist trouble is being brewed by our western neighbour, and also by some NRIs. Greed can obviously drive some unscrupulous elements to get adventurous in a border state. But no society should be judged by such rotten apples.Rather than taking on the governments and agencies facilitating the secessionist NRIs, the hyper-nationalist spokesmen of our ruling dispensation are attempting to discredit farmers by calling them names. A T-shirt here or a poster there is no proof of the protest being led by miscreants. However, the video clip from Lakhimpur Kheri is proof of a Union minister's henchmen being involved one way or the other in the murder of four farmers and a journalist, thereby causing the subsequent lynching of three others, purportedly BJP supporters. And anyone demanding the sacking of the minister and the arrest of all those who were in the vehicles involved in that day's murderous “drivepast” cannot be termed a Khalistani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/medieval-barbarism-322097
