10-10-2021||India’s Partition was not just unique||Irrationality of a Pakistan||Partition was a result of a long chain of events since the beginning of the 20th century. A big milestone in this chain occurred in 1940, when the All India Muslim League, an important political organisation claiming to represent Indian Muslims, put forward a demand that the regions with a Muslim majority (Punjab, Bengal, Sindh and North West Frontier Province) should be constituted into a separate sovereign unit. This indeed was a novel claim as India was still a British colony, struggling for Independence. The claim was made on the basis that Indian Muslims were not just a religious minority, but a nation in themselves. Therefore, it was argued, they were entitled to a separate, representative, sovereign nation-state of their own. Mohammad Ali Jinnah, the leader of Muslim League, put it quite unambiguously: “The difference between Hindus and Muslims is deep-rooted and ineradicable. We are a nation with our own distinctive culture and civilisation, language and literature, art and architecture, names and nomenclature, sense of value and proportion, legal laws and moral codes, customs and calendar, history and traditions, attitude and ambitions; in short, we have our own distinctive outlook on life and of life. By all canons of international law, we are a nation.”How valid or justified was this claim? Simply speaking, there were two components to this claim. One, that Indian Muslims were an internally homogenised community and, quite apart from a common religion, were also united by a common culture and language. Two, that they were sufficiently different, culturally and linguistically, from non-Muslims, Hindus in particular. In reality, neither of these claims could stand up to even a cursory scrutiny of the nature of Indian social life as it existed and had evolved since the medieval times. Muslims in India were a minority of nearly 25 per cent. But this minority was not concentrated in any one piece of territory within the landmass of the Indian subcontinent. Muslims were dispersed all over India. There was hardly a district in India that did not contain some Muslims. And there was no district that was exclusively Muslim. The Muslim and the non-Muslim population had lived together since the medieval times on the Indian soil, peacefully and harmoniously, without any major conflict. It was clear that if ever a separate Muslim nation-state was formed, it could not possibly contain all, or even most, Indian Muslims. And there would inevitably be many non-Muslims in it. No amount of social engineering could separate India’s Muslims from non-Muslims. It was simply not possible.In the 1940s, when the movement for Pakistan had gathered momentum, it was suggested that regions with mixed populations, such as Punjab and Bengal, could be partitioned. And exchange of populations could be initiated so as to create religiously uniform zones of Hindus and Muslims. But it was quite clear to everybody that such a project was fraught with serious consequences. Everywhere in the world the experience of the exchange of populations had been violent and tragic. Yet, this prospect did not deter the proponents of the Pakistan scheme. In the end, this was what happened with predictable consequences.The Indian Muslims did not have a common culture or speak one major language. A Punjabi Muslim had very little in common with a Muslim in Bengal or in Malabar, except, of course, religion. There was no single language that could be called a Muslim language. For centuries, Indian Muslims shared the language and culture of the region along with non-Muslims.The second claim, that Indian Muslims were fundamentally different from non-Muslims, was even more absurd. Syncretism had been an important feature of Indian culture since early times. Culture and language were generally based on region, more than religion. And so a Bengali Muslim had much more in common with a Bengali Hindu than with a Punjabi Muslim. Considerable cultural diversity existed within Muslims and multiple connections existed between Muslims and non-Muslims. It was simply not possible to draw a dividing line, either of territory or of culture, between India’s Muslims and non-Muslims. How could then there be a separate Muslim nation-state as claimed by Jinnah? There is no doubt that a separate and exclusive Muslim nation did not exist, either on the ground or even in the minds and hearts of most Indians, Muslims and non-Muslims alike, till 1942 at any rate. Mere religious differences did not add up to creating separate nations of Muslims and Hindus.Pakistan was projected by Jinnah as the solution to India’s political problems. Jinnah often said before 1947 that the two nation-states of India and Pakistan will live as good neighbours and the people within them will live in harmony. Both the anticipations turned out to be untrue, as indeed they had to. Far from solving any problem, Partition actually created many more problems. India and Pakistan did not exactly live like good neighbours. The two countries have gone to war with each other four times — in 1948, 1965, 1971 and 1999. No two countries of the world have fought with each other as much as India and Pakistan, after the Second World War. Kashmir, the big unresolved issue, is also a legacy of Partition. Jinnah had claimed that the making of Pakistan would solve the minority problem. Partition actually exacerbated the minority problem in both the countries. Muslims in India were reduced from a substantial minority of 25 per cent to a small and vulnerable minority of 12 per cent after Partition. They were often a persecuted and a hounded minority after 1947. It is possible to argue that Indian Muslims have easily been the biggest victims of India’s Partition.The basic irrationality of the Partition scheme was not simply an appendage to it; it was an integral part of the scheme. The demand for Pakistan was inherently irrational and fraught with serious tragic consequences. And most political leaders knew it beforehand. The genocidal violence that accompanied Partition was not simply incidental. There was no other option; it had to be this way only. With Partition, there was no option between violence and non-violence. The real option was between Partition with violence and a united India with possibly less violence.If Partition was so self-evidently tragic and irrational, why did it happen? That is the question every scholar of Partition must turn to.— The writer is Professor of Historyat Ambedkar University, Delhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/irrationality-of-a-pakistan-322501
10-10-2021||Sachin Tendulkar advises us commoners to invest our hard-earned savings in mutual funds. He also parks some of his own savings in tax havens abroad||Bharat Ratna Sachin’s money in tax haven||There may not be a contradiction in Tendulkar’s advice to us and his actions regarding his own money — he perhaps invests in mutual funds, too. But why does he not publicly advise the commoners to stash away some of their funds in tax havens outside the country? Well, for one thing, most of the public who pay heed to his words don’t have that sort of money — most of his fans are likely to be struggling in these inflationary times, possibly borrowing money towards the end of the month; for another, it’s not supposed to be a morally exemplary action to not invest your money in your motherland but in tax havens outside the country. What sort of Bharat Ratna would do that? Well, we know the answer now.Ten years ago, during the 2011 World Cup — which India went on to win — this writer wrote an article that examined the question: should sportspersons, and specifically Sachin Tendulkar, be given the Bharat Ratna? At that time, the guidelines stated that the country’s highest award was to be given “for exceptional service towards advancement of Art, Literature and Science, and in recognition of Public Service of the highest order”. Tendulkar was ineligible, for he had no record of public service of any order, leave alone the highest, and there was no mention of sport in the criteria. In December 2011, the criteria were changed, and any “performance of highest order in any field of human endeavour” was made eligible for this honour.Two years after that, the day Tendulkar figured for the last time in an international match, the government announced his name for the Bharat Ratna. In retrospect, that was a bad idea, especially as Tendulkar was only 40 at that time. He still had, presumably, a full lifetime to live outside the sporting arena — and, heaven forbid, make errors of judgment that could devalue the Bharat Ratna. Unfortunately, Tendulkar has indeed made errors of judgment since then, and he has devalued the Bharat Ratna.The original idea of giving the award for ‘exceptional public service of the highest order’ made complete sense; in the nearly eight years since he was awarded the Bharat Ratna, Tendulkar is yet to do or say anything significant. His term as a Rajya Sabha member was marked by absence and inactivity.There is a reason the Bharat Ratna had been given to people in old age, or posthumously, when their life’s work was nearly or completely finished, and their virtues and vices weighed — and it was then that they were judged to be worthy of this award. Leaving politicians aside, let’s examine some cases: The great engineer M Visvesvaraya, for instance, got it at age 95, seven years before his death. Vinoba Bhave got it months after he had died at age 88. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was nominated for the award four decades after his death, and Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar some 35 after his. Clearly, governments have waited long before evaluating our achievers’ true place in history — political motivations apart!Why, then, this unseemly hurry in the case of Tendulkar? Evidently, the Manmohan Singh-led government had the 2014 elections in mind when it changed the awards criteria and gave Tendulkar the Bharat Ratna.Since he got the Bharat Ratna, Tendulkar has, for a significant fee, endorsed a fantasy gaming company, a multinational bank, a German car and, more apt for a Bharat Ratna, UNICEF. Yet, around the time the Pandora Papers were being published, Tendulkar posted this on Twitter: “Gandhiji always lived and lead (sic) with love, conviction and strength of character. His simple yet universal ideas remain relevant even today.” Relevant for the have-nots, which Tendulkar, due to his talent and hard work, is not. The haves park their savings in tax havens abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bharat-ratna-sachins-money-in-tax-haven-322523
10-10-2021||After achieving great success during the Indo-Pak war in 1971||Hospitality lessons from Gen Aurora||So, in April 1972, we, posted at the Communication Zone HQ, received his itinerary of three days of visiting units and formations, calling on the Governor and Chief Minister, followed by a month-long retreat.Immediately, frantic activity started, the most important being where to lodge him with his retinue. Finally, an old bungalow hired by the Military Estate Officer (MEO), lying unoccupied for want of repairs by the owner, an Anglo-Indian lady, underwent special repairs at her cost and risk. Fully renovated, its driveway paved, flower beds rejuvenated and lawn manicured, the Flag Staff House was ready, with the guard and support staff positioned within the given notice of a fortnight.Lt Gen Aurora’s ADC along with the Army Commander’s car — a turquoise blue Mercedes, earlier of the defeated East Pakistan army commander, Lt Gen AAK Niazi — arrived two days in advance and was given an extra shine by the local EME workshop. On the appointed date, we received him at the Guwahati airport; he was saluted by all those in uniform and the GOC’s wife presented a bouquet to Mrs Aurora. The couple was followed by the grandchildren and a retinue of maids, governesses, butler and so on.Arriving at the Flag Staff House, the Army Commander expressed his gratitude for the nice arrangements; however, immediately after a cup of tea, as the GOC took his leave, he asked me, his Liaison Officer, to dismiss most of the support staff as he himself had brought the cooks and other attendants.As the period of visits, golf and mahjong sessions came to an end, I was asked for the bill, which was duly presented to him. However, he observed that it was much less given what the family had consumed over the period. So, I was asked to include every small expenditure. He also asked as to why no rent was being charged. We did not know much about it so the MEO was approached; they dug out an old lease document which indicated a rent of Rs 150 per month for the bungalow — a duplex with wooden floors, bath tubs, mahogany furniture — spread over an acre on a knoll with an all-round view of the blue Jayantia, Khasi and Garo hills. This, too, did not satisfy Lt Gen Aurora, so he asked for electricity and water bills as well. Finally, we bade him goodbye.Two years later, after he had hung his uniform, he was invited by the veterans of the INA and Punjabi University in Patiala, where our unit was located. As he was our former Colonel of the Regiment (Punjab), I was detailed as his LO. I went to receive him at the Rajpura railway station, where a large crowd had gathered to welcome the ‘Hero of Bangladesh’.After garlanding and sloganeering in his honour, the entourage moved to the university campus where he was given a standing ovation and presented an honour shield by the Vice-Chancellor. Later, he had dinner with us in the Officers’ Mess and was seen off the next day, leaving a life-long impression — however high a post or stature you may attain, remain grounded and enjoy the hospitality, but never at someone else’s expense.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/hospitality-lessons-from-gen-aurora-322532
10-10-2021||It has been over a year of writing this column in The Sunday Tribune and I feel deeply rewarded in the form of feedback emails from readers. I don’t always manage to write back||Why we share personal stories in public spaces||The columns that received the most emails were the ones titled ‘I may have resisted belonging to Punjab, it belongs to me’ and ‘Conversations with my grandfather, Mulk Raj from Kasur’. I had written about the villages and small towns of Punjab that I know from the anecdotes I have heard from my grandfather, who was a postmaster and also a storyteller in the way that many grandparents of his generation have been. The farmers’ protests on the borders of Delhi, that are now completing a year, were inspiring me to get in touch with my own Punjabi identity and connection to farmers in Punjab. Their tenacity, poise and endurance remind us, once again, of the power of the singular human being and how important solidarity and political consciousness are in the pursuit of equity between groups separated by vested economic interests.I received many emails from Punjabis in the diaspora, sharing their connection and longing for the Punjab they had left behind. It was heartening to discover the reach of the online version of this newspaper. My father’s long-lost friends got in touch with him after receiving links to these articles on WhatsApp groups they are part of. A few people who had known my grandfather wrote in with details of his life from various postings that I was not familiar with. I corroborated them with my father.I share this because I am often confronted with the question of why one feels compelled to share personal stories in public spaces. I get told a lot that it is very brave of me to be writing about my family. Some people repeat it till I begin to get the jitters. Brave sounds like foolish when you say it in a certain way. Sometimes someone will repeat this in so many different ways that it sounds more like a warning.“If it isn’t of any use to you, it will be useless for everyone else,” I often say about the act of creating anything that we share with others. The process may be riddled with difficulties — sometime of starting, other times of finishing what we have started — but the essay or the film one shares must mean something unique to its audience. In interactions with young writers, we often discuss the ethics and aesthetics of writing about others and writing about the self.“Do it for yourself. Try to explore a mystery you feel you don’t understand. Answer a question you carry in your subconscious. Be honest, keep peeling off layers and challenging yourself. Otherwise don’t do it. Read others, seek connections. Respect what you create, protect its integrity.”The act of sharing liberates us. We risk shame, but we gain from connecting with strangers. When one person crosses the intangible threshold between the private and the public, it encourages others to reveal themselves too. It is empowering to face up to our own selves. To remove the masks we wear by default, the ones that serve no purpose anymore.It is true that authenticity can sometimes get one in trouble with others. It can be seen as brash and inappropriate. We live in a society where etiquette often demands that we disguise our true feelings and opinions. We are discouraged from appearing vulnerable. In effect, we risk losing touch with our own selves when we get accustomed to pretending to be okay even if we may not be feeling so good.“You wrote about conflicts and sadness in your family but reading about it gave me hope,” a reader wrote to me after reading my previous column, ‘Portrait of a day in the life of a dysfunctional family’. Another reader wrote that his family was quite the same, they fought and argued with each other a lot and then played badminton together in the evening. I could feel the laughter in his tone as I read his email. My words had reached their destination and in return I was receiving validation from others who were being generous with their expression.I feel grateful for this space and these connections that encourage me to express my joys, horrors, dissonance and conflicts in an attempt to find meaning in them. We are all burdened by expectations — both from others and those that we have internalised. It is never too late to support each other to let go. To choose generosity, kindness and laughter rather than judgment that shuts each other down.Fear and loss is a universal experience, irrespective of privilege, age and location. So is the desire to heal and shake off pressures that burden us. Let this be a safe space where we can simplify what has been unnecessarily complicated, interrogate ourselves without fear and find a way to get closer to our own best selves.— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-we-share-personal-stories-in-public-spaces-322533
