11-10-2021||---||Diplomatic tit-for-tat a double-edged sword||RECIPROCITY in the Covid-19 vaccine context, as India discovered during a week of its application on all United Kingdom nationals arriving in India, is a double-edged sword. After India imposed tit-for-tat restrictions on October 4 on British citizens on account of non-recognition of Indian vaccination certificates by the UK, the sole victims of New Delhi’s reciprocal action have been Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs).Because arrival restrictions such as mandatory quarantine applied only to the UK nationals, the collateral victims of New Delhi’s decision — although justified on principles of diplomacy — have been mostly Sikhs and other Punjabis among these arrivals. They account for the majority of travellers from London and Birmingham, the main points of direct flight departures to India from Britain.India stopped issuing tourist visas to foreign passport-holders a year and a half ago. Since March last year, there have been no regular, scheduled commercial flights into India. The only planes that flew in were evacuation flights for Indians abroad, known as Vande Bharat, and subsequently, those under air bubble arrangements for the movement of passengers as a temporary measure pending the resumption of scheduled flights.Barring rare exceptions permitted under the rules, the only UK passport-holders using either of these modes of air transport into India have been PIOs who are Overseas Citizens of India (OCI). White or black people from Britain or other Asian origin UK nationals, such as non-Indian migrants from Hong Kong have not been travelling to India from London or Birmingham since the first quarter of last year.Nor are they likely to be in any hurry to visit India even though they can get tourist visas from October 15 if they agree to hop on a chartered flight for sight-seeing, spiritual exhilaration or rest and relaxation. If the pandemic situation continues to improve throughout this country, British nationals other than OCIs will trickle back to India from November 15, when they can get tourist visas to fly on bubble flights to start with and later on scheduled commercial flights as and when they resume in a phased manner.Therefore, it is the ethnic Indian diaspora which will benefit from New Delhi’s decision to end reciprocal restrictions on the UK passport holders following Britain’s belated move to recognise Indian vaccination certificates issued to those who have been immunised by the Covishield vaccine. Supranationalist Indians have been accusing the UK of vaccine racism in non-recognition of Covishield, which is actually a formulation of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, but produced in India.Yet, the sad reality is that when India protested, New Delhi’s reciprocal actions were like water off the duck’s back for the white and black Britons on the street who did not care less. The only reason why British politicians took less than a week after India’s reciprocal measures to have a fresh look at charges of vaccine racism was that the mainly Punjabi — but also other Indian origin — vote bank across the UK was upset that their people travelling to India were being forced into quarantine in Delhi and Amritsar on arrival because of political insensitivity in the Whitehall. Besides, talks on resolving this issue were already at an advanced stage when reciprocity by India kicked in.In his earlier avatar as Ambassador, S Jaishankar, the External Affairs Minister, was the grandmaster of using reciprocity as a diplomatic tool to protect and promote India’s interests. When the Americans arbitrarily arrested and strip-searched Devyani Khobragade, then India’s Deputy Consul General in New York City, in December 2013, Jaishankar was rushed to the US prematurely to assume charge as Ambassador and deal with what snowballed into the biggest crisis in Indo-US relations in recent years.When the Barack Obama administration threw decency in state-to-state relations out of the window, Jaishankar, along with Taranjit Singh Sandhu, his Deputy Chief of Mission and a veteran in dealing with the US, recommended to New Delhi sweeping reciprocal measures on the Americans. These included several actions which crippled the American School in Chanakyapuri, the Capital’s diplomatic enclave, withdrew the diplomatic immunity of Khobragade’s counterparts at US Consulates in four Indian metros and effectively closed their recreation and shopping facilities at the embassy in New Delhi. New York’s Indian-origin prosecutor had to let Khobragade go scot-free as was her right as a diplomat with immunity under treaty obligations.Throughout the Indo-US nuclear negotiations, when he was the main Indian negotiator, Jaishankar insisted on reciprocity at every stage. In 2014, when captains of American industry were demanding unilateral concessions from India with a sense of entitlement, Jaishankar told them off pointing to the imperatives of reciprocity. This was the only time Indians turned the tables on the Americans in commercial negotiations.What last week’s reciprocal actions imposed on the UK showed, however, was that while reciprocity works in matters that are solely government-to-government, India is severely handicapped when it comes to steps which involve people. The huge Indian diaspora spread across the globe, from Aruba to Australia and from Fiji to Finland, ties India’s hands. Actions like the mandatory quarantine on British nationals affect PIOs much more than foreign nationals who are not of Indian descent.Last year, after India imposed a complete lockdown with no notice to contain the pandemic, there were 38,000 Canadian citizens who registered with the authorities for repatriation to their country. 38,000 Canadians stuck in India? It was a jaw-dropping figure. It turned out that 90 per cent of them were Indo-Canadians, the majority from Punjab. The shutdown of Indian civil aviation did not significantly affect the white Canadians or those of other races, but mainly OCIs.It did not help that Sushma Swaraj, the External Affairs Minister in the first five years of the Narendra Modi government, made the welfare of OCIs and non-resident Indians (NRIs) the primary mission of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). So much so, Indian consular officials across the world were saying the MEA had become one of the biggest service delivery organisations in the world. The recent experience of imposing reciprocity on the UK in people-to-people matters is a good occasion to take a fresh look at how to make Indian diplomacy less vulnerable to the needs and demands of its diaspora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/diplomatic-tit-for-tat-a-double-edged-sword-322853
11-10-2021||---||Propriety a weak ground to curb rights||AN issue of significance to Indian democracy cropped up with the Supreme Court asking whether the continuance of protests by the farmers was proper while the court was scrutinising the validity of the farm laws and had stayed their operation. The issue of propriety has been commented upon both by supporters and opponents of the farmers’ movement. Some have remarked that the court has always discouraged such protests and referred to the lawyers’ strike in Delhi during Kiran Bedi’s tenure as the Police Commissioner. While a farmers’ protest and a lawyers’ strike paralysing the court functioning are quite different as the former does not paralyse the judicial proceedings, yet a deeper look at the constitutional position is required. The observation, however, assumes that both pre-institution of the case and post- decision of the case, peaceful protests could happen.Peaceful protests are certainly an expression of dissent against the targeted act, be it a law or executive action. It can be accompanied by mass action. Article 19 of the Constitution guarantees free speech and expression, peaceful assemblage, formation of association and union, and free movement. But these rights extend to all citizens. While large protests would inevitably cause some inconvenience to the others and can be tolerated, the rights of others cannot be allowed to be shut out for long. But here, the question is: Should protests stop the moment litigation relating to the issue is instituted in a constitutional court? This would be a startling result.The continuation of a protest during litigation needs to be seen from the angle of scope of judicial review. Does it overlap? If yes, it may be stopped. Another question to be put is: Who started the litigation? If protesters have, then maybe? The judicial review by constitutional courts is restricted in many ways. First, as per Supreme Court judgments, the laws carry a presumption of validity and the challenger has to establish its invalidity. Secondly, the State is given a larger discretion in economic matters. Thirdly, the courts do not enter into the domain of wisdom of an economic policy choice made by the State. On the other hand, the protest primarily questions the wisdom of an economic policy choice. Farmers apprehend that the laws, if allowed to operate, would hurt them seriously. Hence, there is no clash between the exercise of judicial review and the exercise of protest. Their spheres of action are different, though the laws in issue may be the same.That apart, litigation is often started by spirited persons who may not be representing the protesters at all or may be representing merely a tiny section of them. Those opposing the protesters may have managed some litigation. The protesters would be justified in saying that they have not gone to court. It would be unjustified to block protests in such cases. And it is easy to determine whether those protesting are the ones who have instituted the case. In the farmers’ case, the protesters are demanding the withdrawal of the farm laws, even though the Supreme Court has already stayed them. Clearly, the protest is against the State and it carries no tilt against the court.Let us see how the protest impacts judicial proceedings. We know that the judicial process is slow-moving and prolonged. Moreover, the judges would examine the laws from the perspective of constitutionality, while the protesting farmers are primarily against the wisdom of the policy incorporated in the law. They are not concerned so much with the legality. So, there is no way the judges would be influenced by the continuing protests of farmers. The judges are not new to protests. Our democracy has been witness to many mass protests. There is a legacy of peaceful mass protests and Satyagraha. The judges don’t live in ivory towers. They are trained to carry on with the adjudication unaffected by what happens on the roads or protest spots. They notice, but remain unaffected. Thus, the adjudication and protest have different spheres to operate and there is no question of any prejudice arising.The continuance of protests during the adjudication in any case does not denote any disrespect or distrust towards the judiciary. As long as a protest does not obstruct the functioning of the courts, there is no clash and there should be no objection to the continuance of a protest. Rather, its continuance signifies that the protesters trust the judiciary to examine the constitutionality, but they do not wish to lose momentum against the State. Their target is the government of the day and not the court.Is it propriety then which could require the farm protesters to stop their protests on account of court proceedings on the same issue? Propriety, as it is, would be a weak ground to prevent the exercise of fundamental democratic rights, which are a basic feature of the Constitution. True judicial review is also a basic feature of the Constitution. But are they clashing? They are not. The protests are not obstructing the court procedure in any manner. Fundamental rights ought not to be restricted on grounds of propriety. They are too precious. The protesters must, however, abjure violence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/propriety-a-weak-ground-to-curb-rights-322852
11-10-2021||---||Big-bang reforms take off||THE ‘Maharaja’ has finally come home. Air India has been sold back to its original owners, the Tata group, though much the worse for wear after 68 years. The sale has become a hallelujah moment for economic reforms by a government seen till recently as a laggard on disinvestment. Unfavourable comparisons have been made to the Vajpayee era when bold steps were taken to privatise a host of public sector companies. The entire process was put on hold later due to political compulsions by the UPA government but it was expected to be revived by the Modi regime. On the contrary, despite ambitious disinvestment targets set annually in the budgets, achievement has repeatedly fallen short of the goals. Privatisation thus seemed to be a far cry till earlier this year when Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman laid down a road map for both privatisation and disinvestment. The banking industry was included for the first time while Air India and BPCL continued to be on top of the list for strategic sales.By concluding the Air India privatisation within the current fiscal, the government has signalled a determination to move ahead with bold economic reforms.Even so, given the constant delays and prevarications over the past seven years, it was expected all these big plans would drag on for years. By concluding the Air India privatisation within the current fiscal, the government is signalling a determination to move ahead with big-bang economic reforms.The critical need for getting government out of the business of business had been underlined as a policy goal by many in the top echelons when the NDA came to power. Yet, little was done to realise it throughout the first tenure of the Modi government. It seems that only now after the pandemic has placed the country’s exchequer in a precarious situation, it is being recognised that bold economic reforms are the only hope for higher growth. And moving to cut ties with the enormous public sector is one such move. The huge losses of public sector enterprises have been a drag on government finances for decades. According to the Economic Survey, as many as 110 of the 366 public sector enterprises are in a defunct state. The consolidated losses are estimated at Rs 44,816 crore. This data is not likely to include the losses of Air India itself which were hived off into a special purpose vehicle to enable the sale of this entity. Total losses at the end of March this year were estimated at Rs 83,916 crore, of which Rs 15,300 crore has been acquired by the Tatas.What gives credence to the hope that the government is now changing its policy stance on reforms has been a series of decisions announced over the past few months. These include the creation of a bad bank as well as the reversal of the retrospective tax legislation and the concern over revival of telecoms by allowing conversion of debt into equity. It is even approaching the courts to reverse its earlier pleas regarding telecom dues. In other words, there is a realisation that market realities must be given primacy rather than clinging to old shibboleths. One such is the rigid bureaucratic attitude towards revenue collections even if it means destroying livelihoods and creating monopolies. The repeated appeals at international tribunals regarding the Vodafone and Cairn tax cases are evidence of this approach. Earlier also, income tax demands on the Nokia plant in Tamil Nadu led to closure of the plant and loss of livelihood for hundreds. One can only hope that a more holistic approach is taken in future, keeping the larger public good in mind.As for Air India itself, it is a battered entity now being handed over to the Tatas for revival. Much work will be needed to bring it back into contention as one of the world’s major airlines. After nationalisation, it faced the same handicaps that all public enterprises have had to undergo of working in a fast-paced market but having decisions taken at a glacial pace. It remained for several decades as a niche but well-managed national carrier after being taken over in 1953. But losses began to mount in the 1990s.It was the disastrous merger of Air India and Indian Airlines that rang the death knell for the two carriers. The question asked then, and which needs to be examined even now, is the reason for such a merger which was opposed by most aviation experts at the time. The two companies had differing work cultures and salary levels. This created tensions at the workplace and smooth operations became a challenge.Successive governments should have taken a decision much earlier on selling off the airline as it gradually fell into a trough. Had that happened, the situation may not have been as dire as in the past few years. Any thinking on privatisation was stalled by political opposition to selling off a national carrier, considered a crown jewel of the establishment. But determined policymakers could easily have pointed to the success of the privatisation of other national carriers, like British Airways, Air France, Alitalia, KLM and Lufthansa. These airlines were also burdened with losses and bounced back after being sold to the private sector.What is unique to the sell-off of this iconic airline is the seeming consensus that Air India has gone to the right hands. There is not even a murmur of protest from any political party against the sale. It seems the reputation of the buyer has weighed in its favour. Charges of crony capitalism were levied after the release of the Radia tapes, but the group seems to have recovered from this setback.The government, however, must not sit on its laurels with this sale. It is time to move ahead and shed the weight of more public sector companies that are being buoyed up by taxpayers’ money. It needs to let both profitable and loss-making public companies be run on commercial lines and thus unlock their productive capacities for the country’s benefit in the long run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/big-bang-reforms-take-off-322851
