12-10-2021||---||Reshaping discourse on anti-conversion laws||The recent arrest of a prominent Islamic scholar, Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui, and eight others by the Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) on the charge of running a conversion racket has again turned the spotlight on anti-conversion laws. The ATS claimed that they were involved in the racket through inducements such as marriage, money, employment and even coercion. The arrests were made under sections of the IPC and the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act, 2020. The latter law has been criticised severely on the grounds that it bridles the right to freedom of religion as well as the freedom of speech and expression and may be misused against the minorities. This prominent discourse on anti-conversion laws, however, fails to account for social realities.Laws cannot operate in a vacuum. It is important, therefore, to understand the realities that led to the enactment of these laws. It is the case of the State that anti-Indian forces have an ulterior agenda behind organised mass conversions, particularly with the aid of foreign funding. Exorbitant funding from foreign sources must have an aim. Through forcible conversions, foreign actors seek to destabilise the demographic balance for achieving questionable ends. Liberal ideologies can and must promote tolerance of all thoughts and belief but only till the existence of the liberal order itself is not threatened. Motivated religious indoctrination coupled with inducements can negate the freedom of religion and conscience.It is unfortunate that the social, political and economic vulnerabilities of Indian society push our citizens to easily become a catechumen of this manipulated reality presented under the guise of lucrative offers. The current narrative against the validity of anti-conversion laws stems from the false assumption that forced conversions are a myth, unsubstantiated by data.Forced conversions do not necessarily take place in broad daylight by means of physical force. Rather, more subtle and nuanced approaches of allurement, inducement and coercion are deployed. Sometimes they are guised in the veil of interfaith marriage with lucrative offers of money, security, employment, false hopes of divine benefaction and a better life. The gravity of this situation is intensified with the advent of new technological advancements. The State is already struggling to track cyber-crimes and conversions through technological means that add an extra layer of complication to an already complex and multifaceted crime. Conversions, in many cases, are organised too. Systematic radicalisation of vulnerable sections has been detected in several states. Radicalisation or ‘coercive persuasion’ is the most popular explanation for conversion. According to William Sargant, the author of Battle for the Mind: A Physiology of Conversions and Brainwashing, “Various types of beliefs can be implanted in many people, after brain function has been sufficiently disturbed by accidentally or deliberately induced fear, anger or excitement.”Religion in India is a way of life, reflective of a person’s identity. Freedom of religion is protected as a fundamental right in the Constitution. However, when the exercise of a fundamental right impedes free choices of others through forcible, induced and/or deceitful conversions, it does not remain a matter of free exercise of an individual’s right. Rather, it must be brought under reasonable restrictions to maintain public order and prevent further encroachment into the exercise of the said right.The test for determining whether an act affects public order is to see whether the act disturbs community life or affects only an individual. It is mandatory, however, to ensure a reasonable and proper balance between the imposing restrictions and maintaining public order. The purpose of these laws is to prevent forced conversions and not to stop interfaith marriages or infringe upon the rights of the individuals as it might appear from the current scholarly narrative. The argument that such laws reflect a paternalistic eagerness of the State to infringe upon the right to practise and propagate a religion of choice is devoid of consideration for social realities.The anti-conversion laws do not create a class of interfaith marriage, they rather create a reasonable classification in favour of those forcibly induced to marry interfaith for the purpose of conversion. This classification has a reasonable link with the object of maintaining ‘public order’ while criminalising forcible conversions. The laws are equally applicable to all irrespective of their religion and the question of illegitimacy on the grounds of arbitrariness or unreasonableness does not arise.To brand a law as unconstitutional merely on the ground of a potential of misuse can be compared to a demand for scrapping Section 498A or Protection of Women’s Domestic Violence Act or even our rape laws because there is potential of their misuse. That a law can be an instrument of misuse cannot be an argument for its repeal. Instead, the discourse must result in suggestions as to how the law can provide for better safeguards against misuse.The anti-conversion laws gain even greater pertinence in light of their relation with the discourse on radicalisation. The converters are motivatedby strong religious and sometimes politically charged ideologies. They tend to convince and incentivise the converts through lucrative offers of a better life. The weak and vulnerable become easy targets for such conversion. It is an elaborate attempt at a planned and organised manoeuvre to undermine the sovereignty and security of the nation.In light of these realities, it would be ignorant to deny the need for anti-conversion laws and render them toothless by excluding words like “allurement” and “interfaith marriages” as has been demanded by many. History is proof that forced conversions were a heinous reality and, though in subtler forms, remain the reality at present. The recent arrests indicate that the conversionist forces are gearing up to target the poor and vulnerable sections of the Indian society. Perhaps it is time to look at the real threats posed by conversion and the actual purpose that is sought to be achieved by anti-conversion laws rather than painting a rhetorical imagery criticising these laws. It is imperative that the real threat is challenged and curbed at the earliest.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reshaping-discourse-on-anti-conversion-laws-323297
12-10-2021||---||Reforms needed for police accountability||Following the Supreme Court intervention in the Lakhimpur Kheri case, the rule of law appears to be on course after the arrest of the prime suspect, the son of a Union Minister of State. The same, however, cannot be said about the role of law, given the track record of the UP police. An empowerment of the legal process will not necessarily transform into citizen’s empowerment.In Lakhimpur Kheri, the UP police allowed a tense build-up that led to violence which claimed eight lives on October 3. Hardly a week earlier, in Gorakhpur, a visiting businessman was killed by a police posse in a midnight hotel search. At both places, the initial hierarchical cover-up was boosted with a liberal dose of compensatory ‘blood money’, promptly released as compensation by the state government.Worse than the everyday police violence is its normalisation as much in the state structure as in public estimation. The routine goes on uninterrupted till extreme cases of such violence surface to hog intolerably adverse limelight and popular outcry. Otherwise, the usual administrative practice is to view any questionable violent indulgence as if the police had merely overstepped their authority to apply force in a given situation. Similarly, those caught torturing citizens individually are seldom accounted for amid the normalisation of police violence.It is not every day that the Chief Justice of India (CJI) takes suo motu cognisance of the police’s deliberate inaction in a criminal case within days of its registration. However, before a three-judge Supreme Court bench headed by the CJI expressed strong dissatisfaction over the manner of investigation in the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage, he had, on October 1, hinted to consider forming state-wise standing committees on police violence, preferably headed by the chief justice of the respective high courts. This would be a step in the right direction as the police complaint committees created under the 2006 police reforms judgment of the apex court have proved to be a mirage, being part of the same power structure that was supposed to be reined in by them.Police violence is entirely different from the lawful use of force by the police. It should not be tested on administrative parameters. It is criminal and yet ingrained in policing processes and beliefs as one formidable routine that could not be shrugged off by training or discipline. Therefore, to make a mark, the proposed standing committee will have to justify an independent and time-framed existence for itself, much beyond the realm of administrative red-tape or judicial delays.What keeps this police violence routine ticking is the cycle of violence and cover-up occurring in tandem, as was evident in the Gorakhpur and Lakhimpur tragedies, on a regular basis. On October 3, the Kerala High Court came down heavily on two police officers who had handcuffed, chained and registered several cases against a man who had come to the police station to ask for the receipt of a complaint he had filed earlier. The court orally observed that due to the volume of police harassment cases that come up by way of misuse of Section 117 of the Kerala Police Act, which deals with the penalties for interfering in the functioning of the police, the provision itself should be taken away. On October 1, the Supreme Court imposed an interim cost of Rs 7 lakh on the state of Uttar Pradesh in an encounter killing case of 2002, for its prolonged avoidance to bring the accused police officers to book. Likewise, there are endless forms of police violence.Will the standing committee yield results? Yes, provided the citizenry gets interested in its method and outcome. Remember, the much-hyped Supreme Court-led police reforms of 2006 have been so conveniently ignored by the establishment mainly because of the lack of public interest in them. For example, it will embolden and compel community leaders to probe police violence from public platforms quite often if the figures for both fatal and non-fatal police violence are released periodically in terms of caste, religion, region and economic groupings. Further, the database can be collated in extracting the social and political misdemeanours which are prone to inviting police violence, for working out a reduction strategy.A parallel may be drawn from the American experience of consistently putting up a comprehensive database of police violence in the public domain, facilitating the historic ‘Black Lives Matter’ police reform movement of 2019-20. The researchers compared data from the US National Vital Statistics System (NVSS) to three non-governmental, open-source databases on police violence: ‘Fatal encounters’, ‘Mapping police violence’, and ‘The counted’. They extracted and standardised the age, sex, death registration, year of death, and race and ethnicity of each decedent for all data sources and used network meta-regression to quantify the rate of under-reporting within the NVSS. They found that more than half of all deaths due to police violence estimated in the USA from 1980 to 2018 were unreported in the NVSS.During the urgent hearing of the Lakhimpur case, the CJI was of the view that an investigative mechanism other than the state police or CBI may have to be thought of in the given scenario. In the context of a no holds barred ideological polarisation at the government level, an independent agency tasked with putting the police violence database consistently in the public domain will definitely empower the citizens. No amount of ‘blood money’ and adjunct publicity can reduce police violence. The standing committee will prove to be a much more effective deterrent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reforms-needed-for-police-accountability-323296
12-10-2021||---||US, China in defrost mode||To say that the global order is in a state of churn would be an understatement. There are, of course, long-term trends relating to economic growth, military power, climate change and so on. But what is important from the policy point of view are the short-term events. And here there is substantial instability.In the US, there is an administration that has not been able to manage to get a grip on policy, something that could lead to the return of Donald Trump in 2024. In China, the supreme leader has thrown the Communist Party’s rule book out of the window and is seeking an unprecedented third term in 2022 and has unleashed a slew of policies that are aimed at shoring his position. These domestic developments play into the foreign policies of these countries.New Delhi needs to carefully watch its flanks. The AUKUS alliance has already dented our expectations. There is an irony in the efforts between India and China and the US and China to normalise their relations. In the case of India, Beijing has been suggesting that there is need to detach the issues arising from their disputed border with normal relations in other areas. But, when it comes to Washington, China insists that it is not possible to pursue closer ties in areas like climate change and other transnational issues, even as their relations remain tense in other areas.With India, the Chinese are hanging tough and refusing to withdraw from areas they occupied in eastern Ladakh in 2020. The failure of the 13th high-level military talks in Moldo seems to suggest this. The Indian side seems to be living in a world of its own. Instead of saying that the Chinese are refusing to withdraw from positions they occupied in the Depsang Plains, Kugrang Valley and the Charding Nala last year, the official press note says coyly that the Chinese did not provide ‘forward looking proposals’ for an ‘early resolution’ of the issues. Meanwhile, the Chinese spokesman countered that India had persisted in its unreasonable and unrealistic demands.As for the US and China, there are signs of a thaw in their relationship. US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan’s long-awaited review of China policy that would flesh out the details of the Biden approach has been inexplicably delayed, with some suggestions that it could be a result of disagreement over China policy in the administration.Last week in Zurich, Sullivan met Yang Jiechi, the seniormost Chinese official dealing with foreign policy. This followed the September 9 telephone call between Xi and Biden where both leaders emphasised the importance of keeping channels of communications open. Sullivan underscored the point that Biden has been making that the US and China must manage ‘intense competition’ between them so that it does not veer off into a conflict.Yang bluntly rejected this notion of ‘competition.’ According to Xinhua, Yang told Sullivan that the US needed to understand ‘the mutually beneficial nature of the US-China ties and correctly understand China’s domestic and foreign policies and strategic intentions.’ Even so, there can be little doubt that the Chinese prefer dealing with the Biden administration, considering that rhetoric of the Trump administration had reached a point where its officials were encouraging policies of regime change to challenge the Communist Party rule of the country.On October 4, US Trade Representative Katherine Tai unveiled a ‘top to bottom’ review of US’s China trade policy. Held a week before her virtual dialogue with Chinese Vice-Premier Liu He, Tsai said the US would hold ‘frank’ talks with Beijing and seek to re-engage China to achieve a ‘durable co-existence’ by ‘frank conversations’ with Chinese officials about addressing US complaints regarding Beijing’s trade and subsidy policies.As of now, US import duties still exist on $360 billion worth of Chinese goods and exemptions for 2,000 products have expired, though last week the process of providing exemptions was restarted. But the Biden administration has maintained a tough position on human rights, Xinjiang, Hong Kong, South China Sea and Taiwan.That there is internal debate on US policy towards China is evident from a news item in the New York Times last month saying that American businesses were ‘increasingly frustrated’ by the Biden administration’s approach. They were lobbying heavily for the White House to drop tariffs on Chinese goods and come up with a more durable policy than the chaotic one pursued by the Trump administration.An important recent signal from the Chinese side is the declaration by Xi Jinping that while China was determined to pursue reunification with Taiwan, it would be through ‘peaceful means’. This is an important qualification and comes in the wake of Biden’s statement that he and Xi had agreed to abide by the existing policy where Washington recognises Beijing as the sole legal government of China, even while remaining ambiguous about its commitment to prevent a forced reunification.In the coming two months, many of these issues are likely to be accorded high priority by Washington and Beijing as the two countries prepare for the first summit, albeit virtual, between Biden and Xi later this year.These developments have implications for India. A US re-engagement with China would mean that the leverage New Delhi hopes to exercise from the US-China estrangement will be reduced. AUKUS has already dented it somewhat. New Delhi needs to carefully watch its flanks. In the rapid flux of events, we could find ourselves in a tough spot. The Chinese build-up in Tibet suggests we could be in for a long haul anyway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-china-in-defrost-mode-323294
