13-10-2021||---||US seeks intelligence outreach to check China||MEDIA reports indicate attempts to re-energise American intelligence as a measure of strategic dominance. As a first step, an unprecedented top-secret cable was sent by Langley early in October to CIA’s global stations about the ‘troubling’ number of their agents being ‘neutralised’.On October 6, CIA Director William J Burns messaged to his employees that in China, the United States was facing “our toughest geo-political test in a new era of great power rivalry”. Burns said in his public statement on October 7 that a new “China Mission Centre” and a “Transnational and Technology Mission” would be set up. The latter would identify new technologies for better intelligence collection and to counter the technical ability of adversaries to detect CIA operatives.Interestingly, the first cable on the loss of CIA’s assets abroad through arrests or as “double agents” also mentions Pakistan besides Russia, China and Iran. In 2011, Pakistan stopped CIA’s drone operations from its Shamsi air base following NATO strikes on November 26, 2011, which mistakenly had killed 25 Pakistani soldiers. Complaints of losing intelligence help from Pakistan became louder after the Taliban captured Afghanistan, leaving no “eyes and ears” on the ground.Israel, which had compensated for the loss of CIA assets in Iran, was also mentioned in the American media among troublesome “partners” for their intelligence gathering. This was after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu “curtailed” intelligence sharing with the Biden administration, protesting at the possible restoration of the 2015 Iran Nuclear Agreement. However, the visit of Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett to Washington DC and his meeting with US President Joe Biden on August 27 provided an opportunity to restore the traditional intelligence relationship, although Biden had clearly preferred “diplomacy first”. Yet, he was “ready to turn to other options” if that failed.The first cable must be read with a The New York Times report (May 20, 2017) which gave startling details of CIA agents lost during 2010-12 when China “killed or imprisoned 18 to 20 of the CIA’s sources”. This was more than the dark days of Soviet penetration into CIA and FBI through the betrayals of Aldrich Ames (CIA, 1994) and Robert Hanssen (FBI, 2001).Burns plans more resources to be placed in China — though recognising that it might be difficult, these would cover China through other countries “where China is active”. Last month, the sub-committee on intelligence and special operations of the US House of Representatives had already directed the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) in their Bill 4350 to explore the possibilities of expanding the ‘5 Eyes’ (US, Canada, UK, Australia and New Zealand) intelligence sharing to include India, South Korea, Japan and Germany. On October 5, 2021, Australian think tank Lowy Institute felt that India had “begun to take an interest” in this expansion.China’s technical prowess was exhibited on June 4, 2015, when the Obama administration publicly disclosed a breach of four million federal employees’ data through a technical intrusion, suspected to be from China. This included personal files of thousands of individuals who had applied for security clearance from among scientists and even covert agents. This had jolted the US counterintelligence officials who were till then under the impression that China stole only intellectual property files.The American media has also been quoting a recent book, The Recruiter — Spying and the Lost Art of American Intelligence, by Douglas London, a 34-year-old CIA veteran, spelling out the reasons why so many assets were compromised. London says that the shift from traditional espionage which had marked the Cold War era to quick covert action and paramilitary operations from the late 1990s due to terrorism was one of the reasons for the poor tradecraft when case officers hurriedly recruited agents without a full background check.The hurry with which Humam Khalil al Balaswi, a Jordanian doctor was recruited following President Obama’s call to defeat the al-Qaeda in April 2009, was an example. Balawi was spotted with the help of Jordanian secret service General Intelligence Directorate (GID) and sent to Pak tribal areas to infiltrate the al-Qaeda. None knew that he hailed from Zarqa, the town of al-Zarqawi, a known al-Qaeda leader. On December 30, 2009, he came to the CIA’s Camp Chapman at Khost, pretending to convey intelligence on Ayman al-Zawahiri. As he was a “known asset”, he was not searched. Balawi, who was wearing a suicide vest, blew himself up, killing seven CIA officials, the biggest loss since the 1983 Beirut barracks bombings.In 2016, Reuters revealed declassified documents of the National Security Archives of the George Washington University, suggesting a strong possibility of Pakistani involvement in this bombing. It found that $200,000 were reportedly paid by the ISI to the Haqqani network to attack Camp Chapman to frustrate CIA activities in Afghanistan.Another reason cited by intelligence experts is that the CIA’s skills at defeating preventive measures by hostile services had grown “rusty” after decades of focusing on terrorism threats, which resulted in quicker but unsafe covert communications. Growth of artificial intelligence (AI) and biometric technology, including facial recognition measures in target countries, have resulted in exposing CIA assets.Simultaneously, the “back-to-back” sentencing of three former intelligence officers in 2019 revealed aggressive Chinese penetration. Jerry Chun Shing Lee, a former CIA employee (May1, 2019), Kevin Patrick Mallory, who had worked in the CIA and Défence Intelligence Agency (May 17, 2019) and Ron Hansen, a former Défense Intelligence official ( September 24, 2019) were sentenced to varying terms of imprisonment for revealing classified information to China, including methods of communication with CIA assets.Chinese intelligence does not follow classical Western espionage norms and hence, the difficulty in countering its methods. Two studies could be quoted: In 2020, Nick Eftimiades, an expert on Chinese intelligence operations, studied 595 cases and said that China uses ‘societal power’ for intelligence gathering by tweaking its policies, using all government organs.This was also what French journalist Roger Faligot had found in his Chinese Spies — From Chairman Mao to Xi Jinping (Hurst, London, 2019) which I had reviewed. It uses the tactics of Chinese snake-like fish “ba mu man” (eel with eight eyes) by blending with the landscape, clinging on to the rocks, and latching on to its prey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-seeks-intelligence-outreach-to-check-china-323767
13-10-2021||---||Violence born out of ignorance, misbelief||EARLIER this month, Indians were forced to bear witness to scenes of mind-numbing violence. At Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, a convoy of three SUVs deliberately ploughed into a group of farmers walking along the road. Four of them died. The murder sparked a chain of violence. Four more people, including a journalist, were killed.People were murdered in cold blood simply because their killers acted as protectors of the ruling class. According to their warped logic, citizens do not have the right to protest against discriminatory laws. The normative principle of civil disobedience, which presupposes moral judgement, was dumped into the bin of history.In the Kashmir Valley, militants shot down a prominent citizen and two migrant workers in Srinagar. Subsequently, they murdered two non-Muslim schoolteachers. Ethnic cleansing is based on a vulgar set of beliefs that the region is reserved for the dominant religious community. In the case of Lakhimpur Kheri, anyone who held a different conception of democratic rights had to be exterminated. For the militants in Srinagar, anyone who believes in a different god/truth has to be wiped out.The fundamental misconception that any random group has the right to impose its own truth upon others was critiqued by Gandhi. He had read Plato’s Apology which deals with the trial of Socrates conducted by the wise men of Athens, and translated it into Gujarati.In the Apology, Socrates defends himself against the charge that he had misled Athenians by engaging them in the Socratic mode of dialogue. My friend Chaerephon, replied Socrates, had asked the Oracle at Delphi whether anyone was wiser than Socrates. The Oracle’s reply was a resounding no. When I heard the answer, Socrates continued, I was puzzled because I knew that I have no wisdom small or great. The only way of establishing that my knowledge was far less than the knowledge possessed by other men was to find someone who knew more than I did. “Then I might go to the god with a refutation in my hand.” But when I began to speak with men who had a reputation for knowledge, continued the philosopher, I realised that I was wiser than them only because these knowledgeable men did not even know that they lacked knowledge. “I am better off than he is, for he knows nothing and thinks he knows, I neither know nor think that I know…I seem to have slightly the advantage of him.”Gandhi came to the same conclusion. I, he wrote, have been striving to serve the truth and have the courage to jump from the Himalayas for its sake. But as I advance towards it, I perceive my weakness, and the knowledge makes me humble.He evoked the parable of the seven visually challenged men, who obviously possessed limited access to any sort of knowledge about the elephant they sought to describe. Similarly, suggests Gandhi, we must be content with believing the truth as it appears to us.This does not mean that we stop searching for the truth, because truth or sat means a state of being. Our status, as human beings, is connected to our knowledge of the truth. Where there is no truth, there can be no true knowledge.Yet, different sorts of truths can only approximate the ultimate truth. What appears as the truth to one person often appears as untruth to another person. That need not worry the seeker, because different truths are like different leaves of the same tree.There is nothing wrong in human beings following their own truth, provided they realise the partial nature of their truth. We are ultimately seekers after the truth. None of us has the moral authority to impose our limited truth on other people because they dissent, or because they belong to a different value system.Consciousness of the limits of our knowledge, and awareness that we will probably never realise the truth holds important implications.All of us are flawed. None of us has the competence to present our own truth as the final version, or dismiss the truth held by other groups and individuals as false, and therefore, in need of correction.The argument that knowledge, which Gandhi identified with truth, is necessarily incomplete cuts the ground beneath the metaphorical feet of violence.In Indian philosophy, the practice of violence is closely connected to ignorance about our own nature, and of our relationship to others and to the world.Enlightenment dissipates violence and allows us to choose between our propensity to violence and non-violence. When they choose non-violence over violence, human beings make ethical choices.It is only when we realise that violence is born out of ignorance that we embark upon a shared search for the truth. It is only then that wecan denounce violence. We have to do so because we have turned into helpless consumers of a spectator sport: violence.Gandhi negated violence because he believed that it reduced people to feeble pawns. We do not control violence, violence controls us. Violence that is based upon an imperfect conception of truth harms the perpetrator. Non-violence illumines our minds.To learn this lesson we have to reinvent Gandhi. We have to make him relevant to our collective life not as the Mahatma who is above politics, but as a political philosopher who guides our struggle against the senseless violence that crushes our sentiments and our solidarities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/violence-born-out-of-ignorance-misbelief-323766
13-10-2021||---||Uttar Pradesh all stirred up||THE brutality and horror of Lakhimpur Kheri, marked by a callous Central regime, a slippery UP Government which survives on chicanery and repression, and an Opposition that arose belatedly from sleepwalking, brought other twists and turns to the state’s politics as well before the elections. An interesting aspect that emerged was the unpredictability of the smaller players, who have not yet launched their parties, as well as the minor political entities who punch above their weight, giving an impression that they are more sought after by the mainline parties this time. One of them is Rakesh Tikait, the BKU spokesperson, who was thrust into the spotlight once the farmers’ protest picked up steam in west UP, his home ground.Where does Lakhimpur Kheri fit into this jumbled picture? It does, if only farmers form a cohesive federation based on their economic interests and not caste allegiances. Tikait wore his celebrity-hood with assumed reluctance, as though his head felt heavy wearing the crown, although he savoured every moment of the attention he drew from politicians and the media. If he had political ambitions that were blown away in the past because he lacked conviction in the cause he supposedly espoused, this time he did not reveal a thing. Sanjeev Balyan, the MP from Muzaffarnagar, tempted Tikait to float a party when the BJP, Balyan’s party, was in hot water. Tikait didn’t bite the bait but he possibly did a bigger favour to the BJP and the Yogi Adityanath government when he accepted the brief to mediate and quell tensions in Lakhimpur Kheri after the farmers’ killings and the reprisals. Tikait partially delivered on the mandate set by the CM but probably lost face among his colleagues in the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), who span the ideological circumference from the left to the centre and right of centre.The mowing down of four protestors, whose only ‘crime’ was to wave black flags before a UP minister signified a low in the ongoing agitation. Not only has the unrest spilled from the west to Avadh in central UP, the issues have gone beyond the refusal to ratify the Centre’s farm ‘reforms’ and the state government’s small one-time payment hike for sugarcane growers to the rise in agricultural inputs, power tariffs, uneven irrigation facilities and the continuous preying on fields and standing crops by rogue cattle. The range of issues affects every farmer, big, marginal and small. No longer is the agitation about the ‘prosperous’ sugar-cane Jat farmers of the west. It spans the peasants in the other districts, cutting across caste and class divisions. Against such a fluid backdrop, Tikait’s role will be closely monitored by the SKM as well as the Opposition to see if he gets closer to the BJP or whether his engagement with Adityanath and his apparatchiks was a limited one.What accounts for the salience of once peripheral individuals like Tikait? The state Opposition lay dormant for the better part of Adityanath’s tenure, although issues came thick and fast. No Opposition leader raised his or her voice, fuelling a perception that they were nonchalant, scared of a counterstroke if they spoke aloud, or risked alienating the Hindus of UP. The last factor was premised on a belief that Hindus had voted almost en bloc for the BJP since the 2014 Lok Sabha elections and the leader in saffron robes who presides over North India’s richest monastic order in Gorakhpur consolidated his position as the new ‘monarch of the Hindu heart’.On the ground, people, Hindus and Muslims, Jat, Yadav, Saini and Dalit, rich, middle-class and poor, urban and rural, had reasons to not just worry but despair. The Opposition was not around to tap the sentiments, and funnel them into a movement against the establishment. When the winds of an agrarian uprising blew from Punjab and Haryana to UP, the farmers of the west divined the potential to vent their problems and organised themselves, almost spontaneously. The BKU, and later the RLD, headed by Jayant Chaudhary, were default beneficiaries of the signals beamed from Punjab and Haryana and not the catalysts. It’s a reflection of popular desperation and disillusionment that people were ready to resurrect a has-been like Tikait.If indeed the impending contest is bilateral and not multi-polar as in the recent past, why is a politician like Om Prakash Rajbhar — courted, co-opted, dumped and wooed again by the BJP — hot property? Om Prakash, who represents the backward caste Rajbhars, tried to band together the most backward and extremely backward castes as well as Muslims into an umbrella outfit called the Bhagyadari Sankalp Morcha (BSM). The BJP was partially successful in attracting some of these castes into its fold since 2014. However, Adityanath, who allegedly carried his patronage of the Rajputs, the caste to which he belongs, to inordinate lengths, might have antagonised not just the Brahmins but the backward castes too. Om Prakash was approached not by Adityanath but state BJP leaders whose only pre-condition to him was excluding Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen from his front. Om Prakash indicated that he would reveal his roadmap at a mahapanchayat in east UP on October 27.Simultaneously, the Samajwadi Party that has positioned itself as the BJP’s direct rival is soliciting the support of parties which addressed specific castes to widen its backward caste base.Where does Lakhimpur Kheri fit into this jumbled picture? It does, if only UP’s farmers form a cohesive federation, underpinned by their economic interests and not caste allegiances. It nearly happened in Madhya Pradesh in the 2018 elections. Will MP repeat itself in UP?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/uttar-pradesh-all-stirred-up-323765
