14-10-2021||---||Post Merkel, challenges await Indo-German ties||GERMANY eagerly awaits the coalition-building process following its indecisive electoral verdict. This emerges from the lack of majority of the ruling CDU-SPD coalition (Christian Democratic Union and Social Democrats) to form a stable government individually. They each require the support of at least two other parties. This is unprecedented in recent German history.The Greens lead the early negotiation process. They were placed third with 14.8% share of the vote, and the Free Democratic Party (FDP) got 11.5%. Between them, they have 210 seats in the Bundestag, which is more than the SPD at 206, and the CDU at 196.The two parties’ (Greens and FDP, or informally GFDP) negotiations have already taken place, and now they are separately discussing matters with the SPD and the CDU. While the preference appears to be for an SPD-led government, the CDU is not out of the picture. The FDP is more comfortable with it.In 2017, similar negotiations with the CDU and the GFDP failed after months of negotiation. At that time, President Steinmeier nudged the SPD to join the CDU in a grand coalition. That remains the last option for now, provided the GFDP becomes realistic. They have scored well this time, but not enough to have a ruling mandate.The contradictions between the Greens and the FDP are troublesome. The Greens support climate action. They seek zero emissions by 2040 by emphasising a massive expansion for renewable energy. The SPD and the CDU have a target of 2045 and the FDP, which is the least climate-friendly of the parties, believes 2050 is good enough.The Greens and the FDP also differ on issues like setting the speed limit on German autobahns. The phasing out of petrol and diesel-based automobiles and taxing air travel are Green preferences. The FDP is liberal on these, and does not want hasty action. FDP is the party for deep tax cuts, up to 20% of the federal budget. The Greens want greater differentiation in taxation between the rich and the middle class, but want to be flexible on the ‘debt-break’ which prevents massive public expenditure beyond a limit. The CDU and the SPD have learned to live together and govern and prefer gradual tax cuts. The SPD is willing to increase taxes by 5% for the rich Germans.The parties differ on the EU debt situation. The FDP does not want the special euro 750 billion Covid relief package to be repeated. The Greens seek a common EU policy to promote investment in environment, R&D, infrastructure and education.On foreign policy, the Greens and the FDP are more anxious about China, than the grand coalition has in practice been. Both agree that the next generation of German telecom systems should be secure and Chinese firms should be barred from them. This is different from the CDU’s ambivalence. The Greens and the FDP are likely to change nuances towards China, rather than overlooking Chinese contradictions with German values for the sake of big business.If the coalition tradition of a junior partner leading the Foreign Ministry obtains, the Greens could have the foreign ministry and suggest these changes. If the Greens also succeed in having a larger climate ministry, which includes industry, energy and environment, then the approach to China can be tempered. The Federation of German Industry, during the campaign, expressed apprehensions about a Green approach to the economy and evident lack of trust in business. The FDP, on the other hand, is a pro-business party, and it is unlikely they will allow business to be hurt at the altar of value-based politics.The Greens oppose the enhancement of the military budget to the NATO target of 2% of the GDP. Given the state of play between the EU and the US, this is now a necessity for a European defence option.India should hope for a change of emphasis. A tightening of the policy with China will not necessarily benefit India. If the Greens have a free hand and pursue the democracy and human rights agenda, it could singe India as well. The Greens and SPD are not pro-defence industry; this may impact the offer of submarines to India just when the strategic partnerships were better defined by the long Indian processes.PM Modi and the new German Chancellor are due to hold the sixth inter-governmental consultations (IGC) later this year. It will depend on the time taken to form the new government. Otherwise, it will be shifted to 2022. The IGC took off during the Merkel era in 2011 and meets biannually since then.New Delhi should seek a three-pronged effort to enhance Germany’s engagement with India. Given the PLI scheme and special window to fast-track German investments, India should seek greater German FDI into establishing manufacturing hubs. This will create jobs and can lead to exports to Europe and ASEAN. The German Indo-Pacific policy prioritises India and ASEAN as focal points for enhanced economic engagement. As India has an FTA with ASEAN, German companies may use it for expansion.Germany has increased its participation in Indian infrastructure by supporting several metros, along with the French AFD and the European Investment Bank. An agreed role for Germany in Indian high-speed railways could be finalised. The discussions on these have resulted in a stalemate due to a lack of clarity on financing options. The entry of German and European companies into the railway sector in a big way will alter the nature of economic engagement.The Greens would continue to have interest in climate-friendly policies. Through the IGC process, Germany is engaged in renewable energy and solar rooftop projects, besides Namami Gange and electric transportation systems. Better coordination and expansion of these areas, keeping in view India’s own INDCs (intended nationally determined contribution), should be managed. This will give a green corridor for India and Germany to expand their cooperation.The new coalition is likely to be Green-dominated. To smoothen any rough edges that it may bring to Germany’s international relations, it will be prudent to build a more robust partnership with Germany under Green influence. The initiative with Denmark may serve as a good model.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/post-merkel-challenges-await-indo-german-ties-324223
14-10-2021||---||How US got it all wrong in Afghanistan||WHEN France sneezes, the rest of Europe catches a cold,” Austrian Chancellor Metternich said in the 19th century while devising his infamous ‘master plan’ for the ‘preservation’ of the autocratic Habsburg dominion in Europe’s heartland. What’s striking is the uncanny applicability of this failed plan to 21st-century Asia, when America stepped into Austria-like shoes to preserve the hegemony of the dollar and impose ‘democracy’ on Afghanistan through the ‘war on terror’ on which $21 trillion was blown in 20 years.If the 19th-century scenario is visualised today, it will look thus: When Afghanistan sneezes, America-led West catches a cold. Hasn’t seniormost US General Mark Milley publicly conceded that the US suffered a crushing defeat in the 20-year-long war? “It’s clear... the war in Afghanistan didn’t end on our terms we intended, with the Taliban coming to power in Kabul. It was a strategic failure.”The top military commander’s startling admission of the superpower’s monumental defeat at the hands of the Taliban during last month’s hearing before the US lawmakers notwithstanding, the confidence exuded by US President Biden on July 8, in retrospect, appears ironic: “The Afghan military has well-equipped troops... the likelihood of the Taliban overrunning the whole country is highly unlikely.” Even thereafter, when the Taliban were only six days away from the Kabul conquest, the Pentagon appeared all at sea on August 9. The US Defence Secretary too believed that the “Afghan army had the capability and capacity to make a big difference on the battlefield” against the Taliban.And when Kabul fell to the Taliban, preceded by a wholesale flight of the US troops, and en mass escape, surrender and capitulation of the much-vaunted Afghan National Army (ANA), the epitaph of the greatest military humiliation of the sole superpower was written in public. Yet, a vanquished America had the gumption to put the blame on a ‘fractured’ polity and ‘cowardly’ soldiers of the ANA for the ludicrous fiasco.How bizarre was the US logic? That the “events unfolded more quickly than we had anticipated”? Because the “Afghan political leaders gave up and fled the country”? Owing to “Afghan military which collapsed.....without trying to fight”? And that the US “gave them every chance to determine their own future” but “what couldn’t be provided to them was the will to fight for future”?Regrettably, this language and logic weren’t befitting the status of the sole superpower, making childish accusations against its own partner, arguably one of the poorest and socially famished landlocked countries in a challenging and turbulent terrain.After a defeat, a blame game is par for the course. Nevertheless, for America to solely blame Afghanistan for the 2021 “fall of Kabul” is misplaced. The US was “the master of what it surveyed”. Didn’t Washington notice things going wrong from the beginning? Didn’t the US behemoth notice the ground report of Jane’s World Armies-2005? “Efforts towards the creation of the ANA have been largely unimpressive, although official statements have been relentlessly upbeat”! That “recruitment and retention are potentially problematic!”By 2008, on paper, the ANA had five corps located in Kabul, Gardez, Kandahar, Herat and Mazar-e-Sharif. But the inbuilt problems remained unresolved. Reportedly, “no independent in-country assessments of competence was made....and some foreign officers expressed doubts concerning Afghan units’ combat capabilities”. More worrisome was the Afghan official position: “The problems of desertion and difficult recruitment are recurring.” The worst, however, was the common knowledge that there remained in 2008 between 1,600 and 2,000 illegal armed groups threatening stability across Afghanistan and “army and police being specifically targeted by insurgent elements.”These fundamental threats to the ANA soldiers never ceased. In fact, these shot up with each passing day, thereby resulting in chronic demoralisation and defeat for the ANA, with or without the presence of the US-led 48-nation International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). The US-led West simply misread the Afghan reality. Being a war-scarred society with a record number of destitute, widow, begging orphans and crippled youth, floating in every nook and corner of the land, like flies and mosquitoes, the very sight of foreign musketeers sowed the seeds of hatred and paved the way for revenge and the inevitable defeat of the ANA whose services to the West couldn’t have been taken kindly by the fiercely independent-minded Afghans.At the end, the US was the commander in Afghanistan and the ANA operated under Washington’s diktat.Hence, it’s unbecoming of the US President to put the blame on the Kabul garrison alone. Does the proverb ‘there’s no bad soldiers, only bad commanders’ ring familiar? Despite inherently “fractious and feuding” features, the Afghans fight foreigners for faith, family and freedom. Secondly, Afghans buy and sell weapons like Americans do automobiles. Intractable by birth and difficult to convince, the Afghans can be a collective liability without careful handling, and unfortunately, the US didn’t inspire the desired level of confidence.Before blaming the ANA, the US should have gone through the 1979-89 Soviet-Afghan war report prepared by its erstwhile collaborator, the ISI: “The Afghan army was totally unreliable.” Pitiable working condition, violence-prone home-front where the Taliban posed a life-threat to the family members, high casualty rate at the hands of their own ‘Taliban brethren’ and a host of internal factors, made an Afghan soldier-in-uniform a bad actor in front of the Taliban fighter hailing from the same stock without a uniform. Set-piece army doctrine was inherently unsuitable to the Afghan soldier psyche. The terrain and soil too didn’t suit Moscow and Washington equipped with modern machines. The locals got the better of them.Finally, a few words on private US war contractors who constituted a parallel war machine with thousands of personnel behind the supply line and logistics for the front. It has emerged that it was riddled with corruption from Washington to Wardak and Pentagon to Panjsher. Contractors made millions as the US spent billions. And in the end, the US left behind armaments worth billions of dollars: 33 Mi-17 helicopter; 4 C-130 transport; 23 Embraer and A-29 Super Tucano; 28 Cessna aircraft and 33 UH-60 Blackhawk helicopter. Besides, there went to the Taliban hundreds of thousands of trucks, radio sets, rifles, pistols, machine guns and artillery pieces.So, in the end, the Taliban crushed the corruption-riddled ANA as well as American private contractors backed by a few from the State. If money only could win a war to crush a populace mired in poverty and starvation, the 20-year US-Afghan war is an anti-climax of ignorance, suspicion and defeat of the “strong” and victory for the “weak”. The war once again showed that Afghanistan is beyond comprehension for even the US-led best of the West. ‘Cold-afflicted’ Kabul fatally contaminated the cash-rich coalition of nations to call it a day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-us-got-it-all-wrong-in-afghanistan-324222
14-10-2021||---||The goings-on in Myanmar||THE focus of global attention in the recent past has been on human rights violations arising from the restrictions imposed on women by the Taliban in Afghanistan. There has also been seething anger in the US at the manner in which the withdrawal of US troops was executed by the Biden administration. People in the US were particularly outraged by the humiliation faced by their armed forces and citizens while leaving Afghanistan. US policy of embracing the Pakistani military, when the ISI was arming, training and providing a safe haven to the Taliban, was an unmitigated disaster.Continuing talks with the Myanmar army are a must for peace and security on India’s northeastern borders.There is now a widely held feeling, that President Biden’s hasty withdrawal from Afghanistan was ill-advised. People in the US cannot understand why the invasion of Afghanistan, which had cost the US treasury $8 trillion and resulted in9 lakh deaths, should have concluded in a humiliating manner. Americans saw a sneering Pakistani ISI chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, walking imperiously across Kabul, even as the then Afghan government, led by the moderate Mullah Baradar, was being replaced by hardcore fundamentalists dominated by ISI favourites from the Haqqani family. Viewed historically, the US involvement in Afghanistan during its ‘global war on terror’ is now seen diplomatically, militarily and financially as a disastrous misadventure.The Quad Summit in Washington, which took place soon after the US setback in Afghanistan, was dominated by discussions on a ‘free, open and rule-based’ Indo-Pacific, focused on dealing with challenges posed by an ever more aggressive China. A notable feature was the attention paid to Myanmar. Quad noted: ‘We continue to call for the end to violence in Myanmar, the release of all political detainees, including foreigners, engage in constructive dialogue, and for the early restoration of democracy. We further call for the implementation of the ASEAN Five Point Consensus’. This is the first time that India has joined regional partners, and even the US, in singling out a neighbouring country for human rights abuses.Myanmar shares a 1,640 km land border with four insurgency-affected Indian states — Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. Cooperation between the armies of India and Myanmar in dealing with cross-border insurgencies is an important feature of bilateral cooperation. China, on the other hand, adopts a carrot and stick policy while dealing with Myanmar, like a vassal state. While it backs Myanmar against western economic and other pressures in the UN and elsewhere, its own behaviour is crude and exploitative. It has links with armed groups in Myanmar, like the heavily armed United Wa State Army, and other separatist armed groups, particularly in Myanmar’s Shan state. Myanmar is being torn apart by the growing resistance to the military regime, but it is so dependent that it has to do Beijing’s bidding on many bilateral and national security issues. In the meantime, China itself has been forced to seek special protection from Myanmar for its 800 km oil and gas pipelines that have terminals in the Bay of Bengal port of Kyaukphyu, and pass through large tracts of Myanmar territory before crossing the border into China’s Yunnan province.Even as world opinion has been outraged at the killings in Myanmar, ASEAN neighbours are moving to increase pressure on the army regime. The heads of ASEAN governments announced a ‘five-point consensus’ that there shall be an immediate cessation of violence and all parties shall exercise restraint. This would be accompanied by commencement of a constructive dialogue among all parties to seek a peaceful solution in the interests of the people. Brunei’s second foreign minister Erywan Yusuf has been appointed ASEAN’s special envoy to Myanmar. India’s envoy to the UN, TS Tirumurti, has called for restraint by the Myanmar government, and the release of all detained political leaders, including Aung San Suu Kyi. US Secretary of State Blinken has welcomed these efforts, which have been stonewalled by the army regime. ASEAN leaders are also discussing the possibility of not inviting Myanmar’s military leader, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing to the forthcoming summit later this month. Myanmar has rejected a proposal by the ASEAN Special Envoy, seeking access to Suu Kyi.With events in Myanmar heading for a stalemate, which can only lead to a further loss of lives, India must ensure that these events have no impact on peace and stability along its borders with Myanmar. Neither China nor Russia favour any punitive measures against the Myanmar army in the UNSC. India has to work with the Myanmar government to ensure that Myanmar’s actions do not result in a large inflow of refugees into its North-eastern states.The issue of providing a haven to refugees from Myanmar needs to be handled sensitively. It needs to be borne in mind that Myanmar has been very helpful in acting against members of the Indian separatist groups which cross the international border. Continuing consultations with Myanmar’s armed forces are essential for peace and security.ASEAN is discussing the possibility of not inviting the head of Myanmar’s military government to its summit due to a lack of progress on an agreed roadmap to restore peace in the strife-torn country. The junta’s inaction on a five-point plan it agreed in April with ASEAN was regarded as ‘tantamount to backtracking’, the bloc’s special envoy to Myanmar, Erywan Yusuf, told a news conference recently. India should continue to work closely with the special envoy and the Myanmar government to devise measures for arriving at a regional consensus on dealing with the situation in Myanmar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-goings-on-in-myanmar-324221
