15-10-2021||---||For integration, J-K needs a healing touch again||Revocation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, was a major landmark in the history of insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir. The opinion on the revocation was divided. A majority of the countrymen seemed to be in its favour though the residents of Kashmir valley were totally against it. It indeed opened some of the old wounds, leading to a very strong reaction which could only be controlled through a prolonged lockdown. The silver lining was that the security forces did well and avoided civilian casualties. In the meantime, another important development has been the revival of the agreement between the armies of India and Pakistan on cessation of firing on the line of control (LoC).Since the revocation of Article 370 was anathema to most Kashmiris, the alienation levels in the valley continue to be as high as ever but some of the other parameters seemed to be moving in a positive direction. The spurt in incidents of killing innocent civilians by the militants in the past few days in the valley and the two major encounters on the line of control may have come as a surprise, but it is not something which cannot be explained.It appears that the visible calm in the valley has unnerved the ISI and it is worried about the implications of revocation of Article 370 and 35A. The spurt in the killing of civilians which particularly includes three Hindus and a Sikh lady teacher are surely not an odd incident by some maverick militants. It is an attempt to defeat what the government has tried to achieve through the revocation of two articles, particularly Article 35A which defined the ‘permanent residents’of the state and provided special rights and privileges to them. It is part of a larger design executed under the guidance of the ISI, which seems to have succeeded to the extent that these killings have already revived fear among the minority communities. Some of the Hindu families have already moved out and it will not be easy to send them back. As compared to anything else, human beings fear for their life the most. This rekindled fear is unlikely to go away for a long time. This is a strategy of the ISI to neutralise the revocation of the two articles. It will perhaps remain a matter of discussion forever, if the revocation of these articles was really something, which the government could not do without. Regarding the unfortunate killing of the men belonging to the Muslim community, it is not new. The killing of informers and government supporters in Jammu and Kashmir has been going on since the insurgency started. It is a part of militants’ operations to demoralise them and keep the insurgency alive.The second issue which needs an analysis is the two major encounters on the line of control, widely spaced out, one in Uri sector, north of Pir Panjal, and the other one near Surankot, south of Pir Panjal. The encounter in Uri is not unusual since Pakistan always ensures some infiltration in the valley before the winter snow sets in. The line of control may be calm, but the firing on the line of control and the infiltration of militants across the line of control are two different issues. Most of the infiltration takes place by stealth, helped by the local guides. The ISI’s efforts in sending the militants across the line of control has not stopped since it began in 1989, except that the ISI always keeps the number of militants crossing the line of control under its check. It keeps the pot boiling, yet not letting it boil over, drawing a strong reaction from India.One of the major reasons behind infiltration, other than the fact that it has tied down a good part of the Indian Army on the line of control, has been that Kashmir is high on Pakistan’s domestic agenda. Being a small country, unless Pakistan keeps the infiltration pressure on, India may ignore Pakistan on the issue of Kashmir. This is a demonic leverage created by Pakistan on Kashmir and it seems to have worked for them, and with plausible deniability. Pakistan has also been able to whip up adequate sentiments to boost up local recruitment in Kashmir, which now stands at an average of about 200 militants every year. However, the local militants have been seen to be rather soft for the job. Therefore, the infiltration of some Pakistan-trained militants is old wine in old bottles. These two infiltrations attempts were designed to boost the number of Pakistani militants in Jammu and Kashmir before the onset of snow in winters. Since the infiltration south of Pir Panjal had almost dried up in the past, a major encounter south of Pir Panjal may be looked at differently. The ISI seems to have concluded that it is important for them to keep this area also active, as this area is equally affected by the revocation of the two articles. Pakistan also knows that due to Chinese trouble in Ladakh, India’s options to use force against Pakistan has been further limited.Kashmir is an important domestic agenda for Pakistan. It is unlikely to give up on it soon. It is difficult for India to control Pakistan’s actions; therefore, India needs to deny Pakistan its options. Fighting an insurgency is a combination of winning the hearts and minds and neutralising the hardcore militants. The former is as important if not more, than the latter. It has been seen the world over that if people are alienated, then the government’s development agenda does not deliver. As per the reports coming from the valley, the security forces have reacted by arresting a large number of over-ground workers and supporters. It may be a tall order but we need to work to remove alienation from the Kashmiri minds to integrate them into the Indian mainstream. The security forces can keep it under the threshold, the situation calls for a political solution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/for-integration-j-k-needs-a-healing-touch-again-324628
15-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur is also about India’s democracy||The gruesome killings in Lakhimpur Kheri transfixed the country for a week. The incident is now receding from occupying top media space because of the arrest of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra’s son, Ashish. It will continue to draw attention but its salience will decline. The response of the political class to the murders is linked to next year’s Uttar Pradesh assembly election. It is still early to assess though how much of an impact either the farmers’agitation or this specific event will have on the election result.The Lakhimpur Kheri killings have a dimension apart from their electoral impact. Many foreign observers who have a serious interest in the current state of Indian democracy will seek to place them in the context of social and political developments in the country. These observers would have no doubt carefully gone through Modi’s assertions on Indian democracy in his September 25 address to the United Nations General Assembly. How do the social fractures that the Lakhimpur Kheri incident reveals square up with Modi’s claims about India’s democracy? How will foreign observers refract Lakhimpur Kheri through the prism of Modi’s speech?Naturally, it is inappropriate to judge a country’s democratic system on the basis of a single incident or even a series of events during a relatively short period. But there is a tendency to do so if a country is passing through a time when its very ideological fundamentals are being fiercely contested. In such a situation, a single incident assumes salience for it is considered to be part of a pattern. Hence, Modi’s eloquent exposition on Indian democracy may receive a critical examination in many quarters abroad.Modi emphasised that India was the mother of democracies and its democratic tradition went back thousands of years. He stressed that India’s diversity was the identity of its strong democracy. Referring to his own personal journey, Modi asserted that it was the strength of India’s democratic political system which had enabled a child who used to help his father at a railway station tea stall to have the opportunity to address the UNGA four times as the country’s prime minister. And, based on his experience of 20 years in office, 13 as Gujarat’s chief minister and the last seven as India’s prime minister, Modi articulated the propositions: “Yes, democracy can deliver; yes, democracy has delivered”. To establish that India had taken positive strides in the past seven years, Modi referred to many economic measures taken by the government such as the extension of banking and life and medical insurance facilities to the people and the construction of houses for the poor. He also referred to the digital mapping of villages so that secure and bankable property records would be given to all land owners. The guiding principles of all his actions were based on Deen Dayal Upadhyaya’s philosophy of antodyaya or ‘where no one is left behind’.The steps taken by the government and mentioned by Modi constitute significant achievements and even if there are some lapses in these programmes, the prime minister can rightly take satisfaction at their progress. There is no doubt that no other prime minister has paid a detailed attention to schemes for the people’s welfare as he has. However, while foreign observers will no doubt factor all this in positively, they may probe his contentions about India’s historical democratic traditions more closely. While they may applaud Modi’s categorisation of India’s diversity as “an identity” of Indian democracy, they may find it somewhat confusing. For, Modi is an integral part of a movement which is not known for its commitment to Indian diversity.There are of course social empowerment aspects of some economic measures of the Modi government, but there is undoubtedly great social turbulence both on the surface and below it because of the ruling dispensation’s orientations. These may be because of misperceptions but they are there. They also show the inability of the political class to evolve a comprehensive consensus to deal with economic, social and political issues by reconciling their ideological differences.Thus, while Modi focussed on democracy’s ability to deliver economic success, the question is if in the present times, it has delivered on social peace? This issue will not escape the attention of either domestic or foreign analysts and it is here that the Lakhimpur Kheri incident assumes significance. Hence, it is the farmers’ agitation and the violence should not be seen only as a law and order matter but as a manifestation of social and political currents flowing through the country.There is another aspect of democracy’s ability to deliver. At a global level, China is subtly projecting the superiority of its system on account of its economic success and relative social command control of the pandemic. It is thus projecting the superiority of its system over that of democracies. It is overlooking its own role in being responsible for the origin of the virus but the world too is not really holding it to account in this matter. Thus, in this competitive world, it is not only a question of democracy’s ability to deliver, but its capacity to deliver better than the other systems; and while doing so, to succeed in maintaining social peace and political equilibrium.At the UNGA, Modi said that when India reforms, the world transforms. This is true but it also means that India comes in for far greater scrutiny in all aspects of its functioning—economic, social and political as well as judicial. Thus, the political class and especially the government have to be aware that terrible incidents such as Lakhimpur Kheri are therefore not seen merely as law and order issues or local development but are placed in a much wider context and through them perceptions on the country’s system and its ability to deliver are judged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lakhimpur-is-also-about-indias-democracy-324627
15-10-2021||If Aryan Khan had not been SRK’s son||More than meets the eye||The involvement of a BJP ‘karyakarta’ leads me to suspect that there is a bid by the party in power to target Bollywood so that it falls in line with its ‘grand design’.The NCB was constituted in 1986, with the objective of collecting information and data on major smuggling syndicates operating in South Asian countries and beyond, and using India as a destination or a conduit for trade with the richer countries of Europe and America. The supply side of the drug trade with its international ramifications was best tackled by an apex enforcement body like the NCB, leaving the demand side to local police forces to manage.But the demand side was obviously more exciting. When Bollywood is involved, it becomes even more exciting. Interest in the personal lives of actors invariably hits headlines. And now the youthful progeny of the stars provides the starry-eyed public a lot to think and talk about. Aryan, the 23-year-old son of Shahrukh Khan, just returned from the US, where he was studying to be a film producer, was just the target that any agency, greedy for publicity and recognition, could dream of.That piece of luck landed in the Mumbai office of the NCB in the shape of two informers, a BJP ‘karyakarta’, named Manish Bhanushali, and his friend, GP Gosavi, charged four times, thrice in Thane and once in Pune, of the offences of cheating, extortion and the like. They doubled up both as informants and NCB ‘constables’ used for escorting the frightened drug user, Aryan, into the NCB’s office from the court or some other place not indicated on television. Only the triumphant mugs of these worthies announcing their importance to the world was pictured on the TV screen.The involvement of the ‘karyakarta’ leads me to suspect that there is a concerted attempt by the party in power, starting from the Sushant Singh Rajput investigation, to target Bollywood so that it falls in line with its grand design of bringing all elements of the media to heel. The National Socialist Party in Germany, before World War II, had perfected this subjugation of the film world to a fine art under the direction of its propaganda czar, Heinrich Goebbels. Any autocratic party has to tame the media to fork out its own version of facts. Cinema is a medium that counts much as it is the most powerful influencer of minds. Kim Jong II, the North Korean despot, had actually arranged for a well-known South Korean actress and her director-husband to be kidnapped from across his country’s borders and incarcerated till they fell in with his grand design!In a democracy like ours, no leader can emerge that is ruthless like Hitler, Mussolini, Saddam Hussein, Gaddafi and Idi Amin. But some nascent idea of regulating the dissemination of narratives that suit the dominant ideology is certainly discernible. A fairly well-oiled propaganda machine is firmly in place.I have heard an argument being made that the demand side is as important as the supply side in NCB’s mandate to curb this menace of drugs. When marginal and potential users learn of the arrests of famous individuals or their children, the temptation to indulge automatically reduces. This hypothesis has no feet to stand. The usage of drugs in some social circles is so rampant that the only thing that will help is cutting off the supply. Columnist Shobhaa De has commented on this phenomenon recently and I would accept her assessment.My own view is that drug consumers should be treated like patients in a doctor’s clinic, requiring medical care rather than retributive justice. The police need to concentrate on the pushers and the distributors who are the real menace. The NCB, when reminded of its responsibility in this regard, arrested a Nigerian national involved in the distribution network. It is a matter of concern that a disproportionately large number of the city’s Nigerian residents are mixed up in the drug trade.There has been considerable sympathy aroused in the public mind for Aryan. For one, his father is popular. Two, he has always avoided the public gaze. Most importantly, his picture in newspapers after his arrest reflected innocence, fright, some penitence perhaps, much remorse probably for embarrassing his parents. There is no arrogance or defiance or a sense of entitlement that kids of the high and mighty often demonstrate. The son of the Minister of State for Home in the Union Cabinet, arraigned for the murder of protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri, was a picture in sharp contrast. Unfortunately for Ashish Mishra Teni, their pictures appeared in the newspapers around the same time.Much of the sympathy for Aryan in Mumbai was, of course, due to what Shobhaa De calls the city’s ‘drug culture’. The widespread use of party drugs described by the respected columnist make Aryan and his friends brothers and sisters in arms with a sizeable slice of Mumbai’s partying society. There are many in the city who do not think or feel that these young people have been guilty of a really serious crime.On the other hand, the presence of the two ‘informers’ in the thick of events, instead of in the background or on the periphery, has left a very bitter taste in the ordinary Mumbaikar’s mouth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/more-than-meets-the-eye-324623
