16-10-2021||---||Economic growth a test for govt’s policies||EVEN the biggest supporter of the Modi government finds it difficult to defend the regime when it comes to the economy. On almost every economic metric — GDP, employment, investment rate, industrial output, exports, building of assets — the Modi sarkar’s performance is worse than that of the UPA. This is especially galling for Modi-backers, because the PM came to power on the promise of taking India out of the economic mess supposedly created by the UPA’s policy paralysis.In a recent video that has gone viral in liberal circles, PM Modi’s former Chief Economic Advisor Arvind Subramanian, has admitted that the Modi government failed to fix the economy and probably even made things worse. Although Subramanian traces the turning point in India’s growth story to theGlobal Financial Crisis of 2008-09 that affected every country, he argues that India slipped more than the others. And since then, various kinds of policy mismanagement — what he calls ‘aborted structural transformation’ — have exacerbated the situation.Underlying Subramanian’s thesis is the idea that India had got things mostly right in the first decade of this millennium. It was on track to beat China to become the fastest growing economy in the world. It had an enviable investment rate, was building assets at a record pace, and was gradually capturing a larger share of global trade, especially in IT services and pharmaceuticals.But what if this very ‘boom’, between 2002-11, is to blame for India’s economic slowdown over the next decade? I will take a cue from Subramanian’s own speech to argue my point. Subramanian says that one of the biggest failures of the Modi government is its inability to fix the ‘twin balance sheets’ problem: On the one side, thelarge number of bankrupt companies who don’t earn enough to service the huge loans they have taken, and on the other, public sector banks who are saddled with bad loans on their books.This indeed is the secret sauce of India’s boom years. The cycle began in the capital markets. There was so much money sloshing around in the world, that excuses were invented to justify fabulous stock prices, especially of real estate, infrastructure, steel and power companies. These companies first raised money through over-valued IPOs, and then used their shares as collateral to raise money from banks.Flush with funds, they launched projects that could only make economic sense if India’s domestic demand expanded at a very fast rate. And that is precisely the rosy picture that was being painted by the UPA government, professional economists, commentators and business news media. In hindsight, it is clear that private sector banks did not buy into this story of perpetual growth. An overwhelming majority of the loans given to these companies came from public sector banks, most likely because of political pressure and corruption.I will call this the ‘twin bubble’ problem. The first bubble was a financial one, caused by overheated stock markets and an unregulated and irresponsible credit growth. The second bubble was in capital formation — homes, power plants, airports, roads, steel and cement plants — that were built without any concern for who would pay for their use.If power plants had to sell electricity to state electricity boards, those boards had to be able to charge more money to their consumers. That would have required higher income for a wider section of India’s people. That, in turn, could only have been possible if India’s economy had been able to create more jobs during this ‘boom’period. But employment grew by just 1.2% per year between 2002-11, just about half of the 2.3% annual growth of India’s working age population between 2001 and 2011. Much of this growth took place in low-paying jobs like retail trade and construction. So, it is clear that India’s output was growing at a much faster rate compared to what its people could sustain through domestic demand.This ‘capital formation bubble’is not easily understandable, because it is a bubble made of solid, visible assets. But that is what empty unsold homes, factories running on half capacity, and power plants that don’t generate any electricity, ultimately mean. On the face of it, it gives a real sense of economic growth, especially when buildings, factories, roads, power plants and airports are being built. It is a ‘boom’ that can be seen and felt, in the form of brick, mortar and steel. But it is a bubble nevertheless, however ‘concrete’ it might be.In fact, the signs of a demand stress were visible well before the Global Financial Crisis. The real estate sector, for instance, was already seeing a growth slowdown and prices begin to plateau by early 2007. Road projects were running into trouble over toll rates. Construction companies that had got ‘build-operate-transfer’ contracts, found to their dismay, that Indians didn’t have enough money to pay the toll rates that would give them decent returns on their investments.Some heterodox economists had been warning of this for a long time. They had said that investment in infrastructure without generating good jobs will make them unsustainable. They were also pointing to the growing income inequality in the country that was shifting commodity production to cater only to the top 10% of India’s consumers. These were all clear signs that a collapse was about to come. The Global Financial Crisis accelerated the process, but its conditions were already present.The only reason why India’s economy appeared to recover after the global crisis of 2008-09, with just one year of slowdown, was because of huge stimulus packages announced by the Manmohan Singh government for the next two years. The fiscal deficit was allowed to balloon to stimulate demand, and that sustained the output. But once the fisc was tightened, the economy folded once again.We are now sitting on huge capacities built during the ‘capital formation bubble’, without any commensurate demand. The private sector has no reason to invest when capacity utilisation is so low. It is only the government which can invest and employ people to revive growth. But that is unlikely to happen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/economic-growth-a-test-for-govts-policies-325095
16-10-2021||---||Power trip gone too far||INDIAN voters often tolerate corruption by a political leader, but they never tolerate arrogance of power.’ I often heard LK Advani, BJP’s ‘Bhishma Pitamah’, saying this during my long association with him. ‘A majority of the people who come to vote in elections are poor and not highly educated in the formal sense. But they have high democratic consciousness. They can teach a lesson or two to even the tallest of leaders when he or she behaves arrogantly, abuses power, and creates an atmosphere of fear to browbeat people.’ In his exhortation to colleagues in his own party to be humble, he would often give the example of how the voters had handed a humiliating defeat to Indira Gandhi in the 1977 parliamentary elections after she was forced to end the draconian Emergency rule.Advani believes that people ‘can teach a lesson to even the tallest of leaders when he or she behaves arrogantly, abuses power, and creates an atmosphere of fear.’Himself a hero of the anti-Emergency struggle, Advani spent 19 months in jail, along with thousands of other leaders and workers of non-Congress parties — he would often recount an anecdote to drive home his point. Significantly, the anecdote is from UP, and hence topical and instructive for those who are now ruling in New Delhi and Lucknow. The Emergency was lifted on January 18, 1977, Opposition leaders were released from prison and the Lok Sabha elections in March were announced. Under the guidance of Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan, a new political entity named the Janata Party was formed on January 23, with the merger of the Congress (O) led by Morarji Desai, Bharatiya Jana Sangh led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Bharatiya Kranti Dal led by Charan Singh and Socialist Party led by George Fernandes. Congress rebels like Chandra Shekhar also joined the new party, which began campaigning for the elections. Like now, the Janata Party’s main focus was on UP, which then had 85 seatsin the Lok Sabha.About the anecdote, it is best to hear in Advani’s own words. ‘Even though the Emergency was lifted and press censorship was over, the atmosphere was still filled with fear. Common people were not talking to us freely, as I found out when I travelled across UP to campaign for the Janata Party candidates. I was disheartened to see Congress flags atop houses and shops everywhere. I said to myself, “Indira ji looks set to sweep the polls again.” At a roadside chai ki dukaan, I asked the owner about the election scene in the state. After much prodding, he said in a low voice, “Ma aur beta donon haarenge.” (Indira Gandhi and Sanjay Gandhi). In disbelief, I responded: “How can you say so when your own shop has hoisted a Congress flag?” His reply was a big lesson in political education. “Aapko sirf jhanda dikh raha hai. Jhande ke neeche danda bhi hai. Us dande ki dar se humne jhanda lagaya hai. Lekin hamara vote toh is baar Congress ke khilaaf hi hoga.” His prediction came true. Both Indira and Sanjay lost, and the Congress couldn’t win a single seat in UP.’ The Janata Party won a landslide victory.I have recalled this anecdote because what we now see in UP is a brazen display of misuse of power by the BJP government. The killing of eight persons at Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, in the course of a farmers’ agitation, has shocked and outraged the nation. Five of the victims were mowed down by a speeding car driven allegedly by the son of a Union Minister of State for Home Affairs. So far neither PM Narendra Modi nor UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has condemned the massacre. The son was arrested only after a valiant protest by Priyanka Gandhi and other Opposition leaders. The Prime Minister has refused to ask the accused’s father to step down, even though there is considerable evidence that the latter not only contributed to the creation of an atmosphere of violence in his constituency but also tried to shield his son from arrest.Just a week earlier, Modi in his address to the UN General Assembly had announced to the world: ‘India is the Mother of Democracy.’ In any democracy worth its name, the Prime Minister would have asked the minister to step down, and the CM of the state would have urged the PM to take appropriate action. The refusal of Modi and Yogi to do so can be attributed to only one reason: their arrogance and political expediency. With the Assembly elections in UP only a few months away, neither the PM nor the CM wants to antagonise the caste (Brahmin) to which the minister belongs. They also seem to think that the Opposition’s demand for the minister’s dismissal can be stonewalled by remaining ‘firm’. Actually, the kind of firmness the nation expects from its leaders is to remain faithful to constitutional morality. Without an ethical core, democracy becomes a hollow shell.True, there are major differences between the Emergency and the Modi era. Yet, there are some eerie similarities, too. Arrogance of power, contempt for the Opposition, disdain for the rule of law, misuse of the police and other institutions of governance, enslavement of the media (at least a large section of it), spread of fear in society, personality cult built around the top leader and sycophancy in the ruling party. Whether, and to what extent, the BJP will pay the price for all this in the UP elections is unclear. Ominously, the negative fallout of the crime at Lakhimpur Kheri may be offset to a considerable extent by the saffron party’s conscious policy of communal polarisation of society and vigilante action by criminal gangs — something which Indira Gandhi did not attempt during the Emergency. Indeed, dark days are ahead for our democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/power-trip-gone-too-far-325094
