17-10-2021||I HAVE just returned from a long trip to Kumaon||A story of change||The great thing that development has done to these inaccessible and sparsely populated places is that they all boast of modern resorts and getaways, with all the mod cons. So the luxury of running hot and cold water, comfortable beds, en suite bathrooms and a caring staff erase the aches and pains of the bumpy and winding roads that many find exhausting. At 70, I was the youngest in the group and felt like a spring lamb as we trekked through trails to get spectacular views of the Panchachuli range that is fitted like a glittering tiara on the horizon. Next was a bone-rattling drive to Munsiyari that had everyone lying prone for the next day. Munsiyari is on the old Indo-Tibet trade route and was once the home of the Bhutia tribesmen, who took caravans of mountain goats through the passes to barter their goods from here for the herbs and medicinal plants, pashmina wool and so on from Tibet. There are magical accounts of these intrepid men who were chosen by the British to map the area as they played out the Great Game with Russia. But that is a story for another day. Trishul, named for its three peaks, is the jewel in this range of the Panchachuli mountains and each morning, its darshan from our camping hut fortified us to face a tough walk and trek to the market. I have been going there since the Seventies and the sea change I see in the little town is so heartening. Munsiyari lies on the main trekking route to Pindari and Milam glaciers through the Johar valley passes.Several trekkers come here through the season and now this sleepy little town has some very nice inns and homestays that they can rest in. This story of the unchanging natural environment and the rapidly changing human environment hits you in the face as you roll along. First, there is visible prosperity all over the region. Seldom does one see a mud hut or a bare-footed traveller. Second, the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan has cleaned the place so effectively that there is no plastic waste clogging the hillsides or malodorous smells from the open defaecation in the fields. The government offers a handsome subsidy for eco-tourism, so smart homestays and modest resorts dot the countryside. Our old panda in Jageshwar has a spanking new eco-resort in this faraway temple town and proudly displayed his acquisition. Thirdly, and most happily, there is much more greenery and forest cover than I have seen in a long time. The greenery can be attributed to the fulsome monsoons this year but forest regeneration is the work of long years of planting and care by the Forest Department. Of course, all this makes one happy but development has a flip side that is disturbing. The same syndrome that I described when I went to Dehradun has afflicted Kumaon. The beautiful old homesteads, built of locally mined stones and slate roofs that gave it a distinct character, are now rarely seen. The flat-roofed cement boxes that the new generation of Paharis favour have erased the romantic views and the carved wooden doors and doorways have been replaced by cement lintels, often painted in lurid psychedelic colours. Eating places, from modest momo and the ubiquitous Maggie joints to posh restaurants that serve fancy Mediterranean and Punjabi fare, have taken over the old tea shops and aloo-poori dhabas. This is how we are being slowly colonised by a new kind of economic onslaught, but there it is.Finally, a word on the gradually changing iconography of our beloved gods and goddesses. The gentle faces in our hill shrines are now projecting a hard, aggressive, and almost militant devta. The little local shrines, which were often just a small rock smeared in vermilion, are now boldly painted orange spires. And as if to keep up, every other religion, Muslim or Sikh, is busy as well. The raucous sound of off-key Ramlila performances ricochet off stone walls, just as the azaan and kirtan from the masjids and gurdwaras add to the noise. Do all our Gods need hearing aids (like us oldies) to hear the supplications and prayers better? How absurd is that!My next column will tell you how I find Chandigarh when we go there next week to pay our homage to our dear theatre friend, Gurcharan Singh Chani, who would have turned 70 on October 19. Let’s see how our dear Chandi-ghar has changed from a time when we knew the phone number of every friend there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-story-of-change-325543
17-10-2021||ONE of the beauties of the English language is the metaphor||Opium Triangle to Golden Triangle, drug smuggling flourishes||On September 21, one of the largest-ever drug hauls was made by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) at Gujarat’s Mundra port: 3,000 kg of heroin was seized from two containers of a ship, the street value of which was a mind-boggling Rs21,000 crore. It is virtually certain that the heroin originated from Afghanistan. The Taliban, now back in power in that country, used to fund their activities through the illegal sale of heroin. Then, a few days later, on October 2, NCB personnel raided a cruise ship which was about to sail to Goa. They apprehended 17 youngsters, who were accused of possessing drugs. Among them was the 23-year-old son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan. The NCB had their red herring, as since that day, the media has been agog with that case, while hardly any further news has been forthcoming about the massive heroin haul at Mundra port.Incidentally, Mundra port is India’s largest private port, handling the maximum number of containers. It is owned and run by Gautam Adani. The phenomenal rise of the Adani group coincides with the years that PM Narendra Modi was Chief Minister of Gujarat.The Mumbai zonal director of the NCB is the same official who was also in charge when the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case took place. Red herrings were then also strewn all over, drawing in Bollywood actors, just to hoodwink the public into believing that the NCB was doing its job. Then, too, only “soft” drugs, like hash and charas, were involved, which are legal in many countries. What happened to all the people the NCB apprehended on that occasion?At this point, a brief history of drugs is called for. I have just finished reading Thomas Manuel’s ‘Opium Inc.’, a fascinating account of the opium trade. India, under British rule, was at its heart. China was then the only major producer of tea, a beverage that had caught the fancy of a great many Britishers. To pay for the tea, the Chinese authorities only wanted silver, as they were not interested in the other goods that the West had to offer. So, the British colonialists devised a diabolical plan: to export opium from India to China and make millions of Chinese addicted to the opiate, which could be smoked or ingested. Large parts of India were ideal for growing the poppy plant, from which opium and its derivatives, such as poppy husk and heroin, are produced. Morphine is another derivative, used by doctors to alleviate pain.“Over the 18th and 19th centuries, the British transformed entire farming economies in Bengal and Bihar into opium-producing machines,” writes Manuel. “And their agents smuggled the drug illegally into China, exchanging it for tea. Suddenly, the balance of trade leaned the other way. Silver started flowing back out of China into British hands. Slowly, this new equation solidified into a stable system: the Great Opium Triangle… the Chinese got opium, the British got tea, and the Indians got colonialism.”The Opium Triangle became so indispensable to the British that when some Chinese nationalists, outraged by how their fellow countrymen were rapidly becoming opium addicts, tried to halt the trade, the UK government went to war to sustain it! These were the ‘Opium Wars’, fought in the false guise of protecting “free trade”. Curiously enough, two of the leading merchants of this nefarious trade were a Parsi and a Jew settled in India, Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy and David Sassoon. They became enormously wealthy. Jejeebhoy became the first Indian to be knighted by the Queen of England and also the first Baronet. He set up two of Bombay’s premier institutions, the JJ School of Art (where Lockyard Kipling, father of Rudyard Kipling, taught) and the JJ Hospital. The Sassoons have Bombay’s Sassoon Dock and the Sassoon Library named after them.Much later, the Opium Triangle was replaced by the Golden Triangle, with Afghanistan at its centre. Opium became the main source of income of the Mujahideen, when the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan. The Mujahideen morphed into the Taliban, who ran the country after the Soviet exit, from 1996 to 2001. They are now back in power and despite their denials, the illegal export of opium is going to be their major financial support. The heroin seizure at Mundra port is evidence of this.Let me end by outlining the major difference between “soft” and “hard” drugs. The derivatives of opium, particularly heroin, are addictive and are “hard” drugs. The two classic “French Connection” films, largely based on fact, were a vivid portrayal of this. Cocaine is another “hard” drug. But as the coca plant is not known to grow in India, it’s of marginal importance here. However, as the “Narcos” web series shows, it caused havoc in countries like Colombia and Mexico. The many derivatives of the marijuana, or cannabis, plant (which can be easily cultivated) are the “soft” drugs. They come under a variety of names — charas, hash, bhang, ganja — and are basically “recreational” drugs, widely ingested or smoked and legal in many countries. India has a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act of 1985. It has been amended four times. Unfortunately, it still does not differentiate between “hard” and “soft” drugs. Which is how the NCB can make a show of tackling the drug menace, when it is doing nothing of the sort.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/opium-triangle-to-golden-triangle-drug-smuggling-flourishes-325542
17-10-2021||FOR officers of India’s armed forces||Welfare of ‘thanedar’, not just soldier||The standard procedure was to send a letter to the police authorities of the soldier’s home district. I went through a thick file, ‘Welfare of Serving Soldier’, which had copies of letters to police authorities. These were all in the same style, with just the name of the soldier and his particulars changed. There were but a few responses. After quizzing the aggrieved soldier in detail, I prepared a comprehensive letter, listing his allegations against the neighbours. In the end, I added that it was the soldier’s version based on inputs from his relatives and requested the authorities to carry out an unbiased investigation.The clerk, on seeing the long letter, was aghast, “Sir, this is a routine matter. Why spend so much time on this? Nobody will bother at the other end.” I insisted that he type it out without any mistakes. A few weeks later, he was all smiles as he handed me a response from the police, who had written to inform us that they had carried out inquiries, found partial merit in our complaint and had acted upon it in an appropriate manner.A few years later, I moved to a unit in Delhi. A jawan there complained about land-related problems in his village. During discussions with my boss, it was decided that since his village was barely 75 km from Delhi, instead of a letter, it would be better to personally visit the police authorities. The jawan seemed reluctant and requested that a visit was not necessary; a strongly-worded letter would be enough. It was brushed aside and one afternoon, off I went with him to his village, highly enthused with the spirit of soldier welfare.The police station in charge was in an adjacent playground with 50 persons sitting in an orderly manner in front of him. He received me warmly and heard me out. He replied, “Thanks Captain Sahab for taking the trouble to come here. This place has many armed forces personnel and we are besieged with letters from your units, all with the same heading, ‘Welfare of Serving Soldier’. All these people are here with letters from their relatives’ units.”Pointing towards one specific row, he continued, “See this line here? They have many letters against your soldier. I am glad you came here personally.” Then, in rustic Haryanvi, accompanied by laughter, he added, “For the first time today, it is ‘Welfare of serving thanedar’.”By this time, our chief protagonist was missing. He was found sitting in our jeep, trying to make himself as inconspicuous as possible. The thanedar took me aside and said, “Sir, your chap is a major trouble-maker. He threatens everyone that he knows many Generals personally and will have all of us fixed.”Anyway, since both the warring parties were present, we were able to get to the root of the matter and broker truce. Our return trip was in complete silence as I mentally listed out the many lessons I had learnt that day, the most important being — here onwards, for me, welfare would also mean teaching my soldiers not to ever misuse their soldierly status.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/welfare-of-thanedar-not-just-soldier-325541
17-10-2021||---||Covid-19 vaccine for high-risk kids should be prioritised||IN India, indigenously developed plasmid DNA- based Covid-19 vaccine, Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the 12-17 year age-group (as well as adults), in August 2021. It became the country’s first Covid-19 vaccine licensed for the children. Then, on October 12, the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended the approval of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for the 2-17 year age-group. As the next step, it has to be cleared by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). In addition, two other vaccines — Covovax (2-17 years; Serum Institute of India) and Corbevax (5-17 years; Biological E Ltd) — are undergoing clinical trials in children.Soon after the EUA for ZyCoV-D, there was excitement and interest among parents that children are about to and should get vaccinated. However, nearly two months since then, the vaccine is yet to be rolled out for any age-group. With the SEC giving clearance to Covaxin, the interest and hope of the parents about the vaccination of children starting soon, have been revived. However, the moot point is: Do children really need the Covid-19 vaccine? Also, it can be asked that if the licensing of a vaccine does not mean starting the vaccination of that age-group, what is the purpose of licensing? Let’s delve into both issues.The SARS-CoV-2 infections occur in all age- groups, and therefore, the vaccine researchers and manufacturers conducting clinical trials in children, is understandable. Then, once the trials are completed, the findings and data are submitted to the regulatory authorities — the DCGI in India — for approval. For vaccines before the Covid-19 pandemic, the approval would mean availability in the private market. However, in case of Covid-19 vaccines, since it has been an expedited process of the EUA with limited and at times no follow-up data, the vaccines are not made available in the market. Then, the EUA by the regulatory body is a process completely delinked from the programmatic roll-out of vaccines.The decision on whether (or not), when and who should be administered the Covid-19 vaccines under the government programme in India is recommended by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and needs to be endorsed by the National Expert Group on Covid-19 Vaccination (NEGVAC). One can recall that even after the EUA of two Covid-19 vaccines for adults (18 year onwards), by the DCGI in January 2021, the vaccination of all adults did not start immediately. The vaccines were rolled out — as per the recommendations of NTAGI and NEGVAC — in a phased manner — first the health staff and frontline workers, then the elderly and 45 to 59 year old with co-morbidities and so on.How the NTAGI arrives on recommendations on whether to vaccinate a specific age-group or the other? The criteria are globally agreed upon and have been detailed in India’s National Vaccine Policy of 2011. In the context of Covid-19 vaccination of children, two considerations — the risk and benefit of vaccination by age-groups and optimising the available supply (prioritisation) are very relevant.The currently available Covid-19 vaccines in India are not proven to prevent the transmission. However, they reduce the risk of serious illness and death in a vaccinated individual. The epidemiological evidence from the last 18 months of pandemic indicates that children do get infected at the rate nearly similar to the adults (as also reported in the fourth nationwide sero-survey in India). However, the risk of moderate to severe disease is low. Therefore, the benefit of vaccinating children is lower than vaccinating the adults. Then, though the Covid-19 vaccines have been given EUA after examining their safety profile in clinical trials, the trials on children in India, however, had been and are being done on 500 to 1,500 children only. Such sample size is sufficient to provide an indication on safety in the context of common adverse events and immunogenicity of vaccines; however, not enough to identify any adverse event which may occur among one in more than 1,500 vaccinees.It is scientifically known that the rate of vaccine adverse events in general and Covid-19 vaccines specifically are inversely proportional to the age. A few rare adverse events such as viral myocarditis (with mRNA-based vaccines) and blood clots (with viral-vectored vaccines) are more common in younger age-groups. Therefore, the risk in Covid-19 vaccination is greater in children than in adults. The clinical trial of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine (AZD1222) in 5-17 years had to be halted — due to rare blood clot events, in trial participants — and is yet to resume. This vaccine is being administered to millions of adults in many countries. In short, the benefit of Covid-19 vaccination in children is lower and the risk greater (than in adults). It is because of this risk-and-benefit analysis that only a few countries have started vaccinating children and in spite of having access to licensed vaccines and sufficient supply, have prioritised the vaccination of high risk sub-group in children.Both ZyCoV-D and Covaxin have not been used in children outside the clinical trials. Therefore, it will be logical that India also prioritises high-risk children only. A decision on vaccinating healthy children should be deferred till complete data from the clinical trials is available and also factoring in additional vaccine adverse event data from the high-risk children, which will accrue over a period of time. Covid-19 vaccination of children should not be influenced by political expediency or any external urgency and has to be exclusively guided by and based upon a calm assessment of the data, evidence and science.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-19-vaccine-for-high-risk-kids-should-be-prioritised-325096
