18-10-2021||Author and Former Academic||Time to define the law on marital rape||Feminists and women’s rights groups have long demanded criminalising of marital rape. But unlike domestic violence, and the various other aspects of rape, marital rape is yet to be a part of mainstream public discourse, especially in India’s deep-rooted patriarchal society. In fact, India is one of the 36 countries in the world where marital rape is not criminalised. Since it is not a crime to rape a wife, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) does not maintain any separate statistics on marital rape. The government seems to have turned a deaf ear in the name of culture or the family domain and privacy. Even the judiciary has conveniently given the responsibility to the legislature and has not played an exemplary role on this issue.Undoubtedly, not making marital rape a crime in India is a message to the women of the country that as against their husbands, their consent to any sexual activity ceases to matter. It underlines the fact that a woman’s body, after she gets married, is her husband’s property and her own right, her own agency and her own autonomy over her body cease to exist. In other words, under the Indian law, a woman, whether she likes it or not, grants perpetual consent for cohabitation to her husband. Marriage gives a husband licence to engage in sexual behaviour with his wife as he wills and wishes. Any dissent is unacceptable not only to the husband but also to the patriarchal family. The irony is that few women are aware of this concept of marital rape. They are accustomed to the fact that having sex in marriage is a necessary corollary, even if it is coerced. As a result, women have less personal freedom and worse psychological and emotional well-being.Both the judiciary as well as the government is divided in their approach to tackle the issue. The High Courts of different states have given differing verdicts leading to utter confusion. For example, in August this year, the High Court of Chhattisgarh observed that sexual intercourse or any sexual act by a husband with his spouse would not constitute rape even if it was forcible or against the consent of a legally wedded wife. The high court’s stance on the issue came days after a two-judge bench of the Kerala High Court upheld a family court’s decision to allow divorce on the grounds of marital rape because it constitutes physical and mental cruelty. Multiple petitions have been filed in various courts across the country to criminalise marital rape. Unfortunately, none of them have reaped any benefit yet.The judiciary has conveniently given the responsibility to the legislature and has not played any active role on this issue. The government seems to have turned a deaf ear in the name of culture or the matter falling in the private domain. A Rajya Sabha member declared that ‘the concept of marital rape, as understood internationally, cannot be suitably applied in the Indian context due to various factors — e.g. level of education/illiteracy, poverty, myriad social customs and values, religious beliefs, mindset of society to treat marriage as a sacrament…’ According to many members, recognising marital rape would lead to ‘excessive interference with marital relationship’ which has the potential of destroying the institution of marriage, which is sacred in India. Most recently, in 2018, a private Bill introduced by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor in the Lok Sabha, sought to criminalise marital rape, among other rights. However, it lapsed after the failure to garner support from the elected government.While recommending changes to India’s rape laws, the Justice JS Verma Committee, constituted after the Nirbhaya rape case, said in 2013 that forced sex/sexual violence between spousal partners should also be considered as rape and punished as a criminal offence. The UPA government did not incorporate this suggestion, arguing that such a move would destroy the institution of marriage. The BJP-led NDA government has the same viewpoint. In fact, it has come up with a list of justifications as to why rape within a spousal relationship isn’t a crime. The judiciary too has not been progressive on the issue. Early this year, the Supreme Court refused to entertain a woman’s petition to declare marital rape a criminal offence, arguing that it couldn't order a change in the legislation for one person.It is beyond doubt that marital rape is widespread, and refusal to recognise it emanates from misogyny and patriarchal mindsets that are deeply entrenched in Indian society. The government’s position has drawn criticism from all quarters. The UN Committee on Elimination of Discrimination against Women had twice (in 2007 and 2014) urged India to criminalise marital rape. It made no difference. One of the arguments being used is that women can misuse such a law if it came into force and they would file false cases of rape against their husbands. However, it would be worthwhile to keep in mind that any law can be misused. That doesn’t mean it should not exist. It is for the judiciary to carefully examine each case and also make proper suggestions so that loopholes can be plugged. Why can’t our male-dominated legislature and judiciary understand that a wife is a partner and not a possession? When we could pass laws to end certain anti-women customs, like Sati and female infanticide, why can’t we address this one?There is an urgent need for the judiciary to recognise marital rape as an offence under the Indian Penal Code, especially now when there is a surge in domestic and sexual violence cases against women due to the pandemic-induced conditions. Now is the time to make amendments to the age-old definition of rape. We need to ask whose interest the legislators are safeguarding in the name of protecting the status quo of marriage — the husbands raping, or the wives being raped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-to-define-the-law-on-marital-rape-325943
18-10-2021||Professor Emerita||Lakhimpur marks shift in political narrative||Public protests have been recurring events in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s second term in office at the Centre. In the series of agitations against the present dispensation, the farm protests and the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri mark a turning point in the history of such protests. At a moment when the economy is struggling to recover from a slowdown and the government is running out of ideas to resolve the economic crisis, the three controversial farm laws that the farmers have been opposing for over a year are at the front and centre of this change. The death of eight people — four of them were farmers and four others died in the ensuing clashes — is an important moment in Indian politics with the potential to change the government-Opposition equations and alter the terms of the national debate.Several video clips of the speeding vehicles have surfaced which show that this was no accident; rather these vehicles were deliberately ploughed into a peaceful procession of agitating farmers. The large volume of recorded footage clearly shows the deliberate manner in which this brutality was executed. It would be hard to dismiss this footage mainly because the visual imagery sharply conveys the callous nature of political authority. It gives a clear indication of the coercive instincts of the state.Until now, the government had dismissed such protests as expressions of the disgruntled Opposition which is unable to accept the popular mandate for the BJP government and the popularity of its prime minister. Lakhimpur has changed that. The farmers’ protest has acquired powerful political significance with the Opposition parties openly backing the protests and demanding action against the perpetrators of the Lakhimpur violence. That changes the dynamics of the protest which has now assumed the shape of a confrontation between the government and Opposition parties also. Additionally, the farm agitation has already found political roots in Punjab and Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh (UP), its extension deep into the Terai region of poll-bound UP and Uttarakhand, which is also going to the polls has been expedited by the events. This has jolted the BJP a few months ahead of the assembly elections.Further, the government’s high-handed response to these events underscores yet again the ruling party’s attitude to dissent and to the rights and liberties of anyone questioning their policies and decisions. The UP government has once again displayed its disregard for democratic norms and justice. Every time there is a protest, it has tried to prevent politicians from Opposition parties from reaching the protest site. For three days, Opposition leaders were prevented from visiting Lakhimpur to condole the grieving families. They were either detained or prevented from travelling. Priyanka Gandhi was detained in Sitapur and several other Opposition leaders were likewise stopped from travelling to Lakhimpur. The Chhattisgarh chief minister was not allowed to travel out of Lucknow airport to hold a press conference, even though Section 144 was not imposed at that point in the state capital. Not allowing politicians to travel violates the freedom of movement guaranteed under the Constitution. This arbitrary approach is a violation of the constitutional right to protest under Article 19. It has serious implications on the democratic functioning of the polity.This is, of course, hardly the first time the UP government has disallowed democratic protest. Lakhimpur is not an isolated incident. The same happened in Hathras in 2020 after the gang rape and death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman. Imposition of Section 144, communication blackout and the internet shutdown is almost immediate in case of any protest. However, the issue is not stopping politicians; in fact, it is intolerance of opposition and protests. This is the crux of the matter. The most brazen example of this intolerance was the state government’s response to the protests against the CAA. In 2019, a massive agitation against the contentious new citizenship law saw the UP police often use overwhelming force to curb the protestors. The religious identity of the farm protesters has been used to criminalise the farmers’ movement which is driven entirely by economic interests and not identity issues. But this slanting and misrepresentation haven’t managed to delegitimise or break the farm protests.The farm protests have cast a long shadow over the coming UP polls. The deliberate projection of the government’s power and authority and disinformation to discredit protests have been seriously challenged. Faced with massive outrage against the heartless killing of farm protestors, the chief minister had to negotiate with the agitating farmers and reach a compromise that entails registering an FIR against the Union minister’s son who was eventually arrested. The government also announced compensation and the promise of a government job to the next of kin of the four deceased farmers. The BJP’s changed response is a recognition of the game-changing nature of what happened at Lakhimpur.Finally, this incident marks a shift in the political narrative that has thus far been dominated by the Hindutva push and creating a communally charged atmosphere to polarise the electorate that allows the ruling party to remain in power. This approach has begun to generate resistance at different levels including in UP — the bastion of the Hindu Right. It finds a substantive challenge in a discourse represented in farmers’ issues, the collective anger against lawlessness and administrative arrogance. The contradiction between the farmers and the government which has taken a sharp political turn has been bolstered by a massive churning at the ground level, which in turn is shored up by the support of a multitude of classes, castes and religions for the farmers’ agitation. No farmers’ movement in the past has been as inclusive as the current one as regards its support structure and the wider issues it has taken up for the country as a whole. The farmers have been opposing wholesaleprivatisation of the public sector and also defending secularism, democracy and the Constitution against attempts to undermine them. To be sure, this remarkable movement is salvaging democracy and for that, Indian society and polity would remain indebted to the farmers, notwithstanding the electoral outcomes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lakhimpur-marks-shift-in-political-narrative-325944
18-10-2021||Former Ambassador||US fakes India’s fealty||The US foreign policy towards the South Asian and Indian Ocean region is in historic transition. The policymakers in Washington are picking up the pieces from the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan, which created new facts on the ground. The implications for India’s external environment are profound and far-reaching.The announcement that India will attend the conference on Afghanistan in the ‘Moscow format’ speaks for itself.The Congressional hearings in Washington on the Afghan fiasco left the Biden presidency badly bruised, with the Pentagon commanders openly distancing from their commander-in-chief’s decision on troop withdrawal and the Pentagon and the State Department getting entangled in an unseemly blame game. ‘Global Britain’, donning the robe of a bygone imperial era, is cajoling the US to be brave-hearted. Asia holds breath, for this is not just about a failing state in the Hindu Kush. It’s history on the march.The Central Intelligence Agency is spearheading the US’ re-engagement with the Taliban. The Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation at the State Department since September 2018, Zalmay Khalilzad, is being cashiered. To survey the debris, Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of State, recently passed through Uzbekistan, India and Pakistan.As regards India, Sherman’s mission has been more of an uneasy holding operation to figure out a course of action designed to maintain the status quo under difficult circumstances. Simply put, it took Herculean efforts through two full American presidencies to lure the Indian stallion into the US stable, but now with the unravelling of its regional strategies, already weakened in the upheaval of the pandemic, Washington is worried that the moody horse of an anxious temperament might simply bolt away.Now, how do you stop a horse from bolting? The right thing to do is to just go back to the walk again and make him realise you’re the one in control. That was what Sherman tried to do in Delhi — natural horsemanship. She created a narrative in three parts: One, Washington is not reverting to the infamous Indo-Pak ‘hyphenation’ in its South Asian strategy; two, the US and India are ‘on the same page’ as regards a way forward in Afghanistan; and, three, the salience of the US-Indian partnership lies not really in Afghanistan but in Indo-Pacific.Delhi neither endorsed nor disputed Sherman’s narrative. However, such silence cannot airbrush the contradictions in the US narrative. In an interview in India, Sherman said her trip to Islamabad was ‘for a very specific and narrow purpose, we don’t see ourselves building a broad relationship with Pakistan. And we have no interest in returning to the days of hyphenated India, Pakistan.’ Evidently, Sherman’s assertion that Pakistan is no longer an anchor in Washington’s priorities was largely meant for Indian ears. But was it convincing?The very next day, after talks with top Pakistani officials in Islamabad, including Gen Qamar Bajwa, Sherman corrected herself: ‘Afghanistan was at the top of our agenda, but we also discussed our cooperation in other areas, including the climate crisis, geoeconomics and regional connectivity, and ending the Covid-19 pandemic … the United States believes that a strong, prosperous, democratic Pakistan is vitally important for the region and indeed for the wider world.’Washington is crafting new rites of passage involving Pakistan. Sherman hinted that Biden may soon be calling PM Imran Khan. Sherman’s reference to ‘geoeconomics and regional connectivity’ is significant, as she focused on these issues while in Tashkent on the first leg of her regional tour. Conceivably, the time has come for the operationalisation of the so-called Quadrilateral Diplomatic Platform — the US, Uzbekistan, Afghanistan, Pakistan — which Washington mooted in July rationalising that peace in Afghanistan and regional connectivity are inter-related templates.The US no longer has the luxury of looking away from Afghanistan and Central Asia as it did at the end of the 1980s’ proxy war. Washington’s ‘strategic competition’ with China (and Russia) has a compelling Eurasian vector. Sherman knew Washington and Delhi are not holding the same book on Afghanistan, leave alone reading the same page. The announcement in Delhi that India will attend the conference on Afghanistan on Wednesday in the ‘Moscow format’ (Russia, Afghanistan, China, Iran, India and Pakistan) speaks for itself.Interestingly, this announcement closely follows the Russian foreign ministry’s forewarning to the Biden administration that Moscow will not accept American military presence in Central Asia ‘in any form whatever.’ A senior Russian diplomat took a big leap forward on Friday that any US deployment to Central Asian region ‘on the pretext of struggle against terrorism… is categorically unacceptable for the Central Asian countries and for Russia, China and Iran, because we understand well enough what aims such bases in Central Asia would pursue.’For the first time, Moscow is forcefully articulating the common stance of regional states to push back at the US attempt to return to Afghanistan. Certainly, against this backdrop, Sherman was way off the mark to allude to ‘same page’. India’s participation in the Moscow conference is a significant step forward to join the regional states in support of a process of intra-Afghan reconciliation and normalisation in Afghanistan in the long-term interests of regional security and stability.Sherman’s thesis of the ‘different paths’ of China and India’s rise — and her rap on our knuckles over the S-400 missile deal — is a blasé attitude to intrude into our strategic autonomy. What is it that Washington is attempting through AUKUS — or by propping up a puppet Nawab through Quad? This is not a matter of India’s ‘self-confidence’ as US lobbyists propagate. Time past from the shameful chronicle of Asia and western dominance is revisiting. ‘Global Britain’ is back east of Suez.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-fakes-indias-fealty-325945
18-10-2021||I AM a fanboy of Punjab. I have always been overwhelmed by it and have been visiting it for the last 21 years; its gurdwaras||Why I made Sardar Udham||I happened to be there on April 13, 2000. People were paying homage. A very old man asked me what I was doing. I told him I was researching on Jallianwala Bagh. This was a time when I had been influenced by the revolutionary movement in Punjab. He invited me to his house, his wife was there too. He started crying, I didn’t realise what he was trying to say. After a while, he took out a box that had some papers and photographs of his mother and father. He said they had been there that day — on April 13, 1919. In those alleys and streets, there was so much echoing of that day. Still, whenever I go to those streets, Jallianwala Bagh, it is difficult to ignore. It just echoes there. And it is to Jallianwala Bagh that we owe the birth of Bhagat Singh and all the revolutionaries of that time.I did not want to see the very filmy revolutionaries or freedom fighters. I find them very straight, they do not have any grey shades. On the other hand, there were these young boys of 20-23, romantic in nature. Just like anybody. They fascinated me, and I started digging on these two — Bhagat Singh and Sardar Udham. And I thought that in ‘Sardar Udham’, I can marry the two. What they think, who they are.Intellectually, Sardar Udham was influenced by the Ghadar movement, the birth of which was in itself quite rich. He may not have been outspoken, but was intellectually rich. Sab kuch apne andar hi rakhta tha. Internalised it.He somehow managed to learn and speak English. He did all kinds of jobs in London, but what he really wanted to do was always in his heart. He knew he would be doing a revolutionary act. But then, everyone’s method of doing a revolutionary act varies. Living in London, being a common man, he still wanted to carry out his revolutionary act. That is what’s fascinating about him.The idea stayed with me for 20 years. I was not sure if I would be able to do make it. But the idea kept maturing, never lost colour. I kept on discovering Udham, his thoughts, Bhagat Singh… all of them started becoming so much more relevant, not just in India, but around the world. Their thoughts, their ideologies are much more needed today. A lot of the film (released on October 16 on Amazon Prime) is in English, I have not dubbed the dialogues into Hindi. I just want to be as authentic as possible.There are not too many texts by Udham Singh to fall back on — just a few letters he wrote from jail, a handful of photographs. These were, as such, my primary sources. There are some stories about him on the Internet; for the Jallianwala Bagh portion, especially, I was dependent on people like that old man I met that day. And, of course, there are many survivor statements from the day, recorded in the Hunter Committee Report and Congress Committee Report giving an insight into the man. They are an important source on what happened there. We spoke to many professors from all over and referred to a lot of essays and write-ups available online, a lot of newspaper articles and The Tribune archives helped us a lot. We spent a lot of time there, pictured a lot of things and took a lot of pictures from the paper. We also referred to some British archives.For approaching the film, my reference point was Richard Attenborough’s ‘Gandhi’, Akira Kurosawa’s ‘The Haunted’, besides several World War II films made in Europe and some documentaries. All that helped me to conceive how I am going to shoot this film, how I am going to characterise, how I am going to picturise this film in terms of the look and feel of that era. And, of course, the most difficult part was recreating Jallianwala Bagh, for which I referred to a lot of archive photos of the time and ‘Gandhi’.When making a feature film, you use a lot of imagination. In a film, that works. And that imagination is actually who you are as a director, what kind of personality I am. That drives how much liberty I can take, where will I draw the line. I have been with the film for long.I have tried to say in the trailer itself that we should not forget our history. I don’t know what to tell the youth but the film talks to a lot of youngsters. For instance, in the film, Udham Singh asks an investigator what he was doing at the age of 23. He says he was looking for a job, was happy, getting married. Udham Singh tells him that at that age, Bhagat Singh was hanged. He had done everything he could for his country. That is what is underlined in the story. Will the youngsters relate to this story? It is said that ‘sone wale ko toh jaga sakte ho, par jaag ke sone wale ko kaise jagaoge?’ They will understand when it is time.(As told to Sarika Sharma)— Shoojit Sircar is a National award-winning filmmaker||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-i-made-sardar-udham-325540
