19-10-2021||Senior Journalist||No short-cuts to becoming an arms hub||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, in a recent article in a leading newspaper, has for the first time made a clear declaration that India wants to be an arms exporter, and that the aim is to not only make arms for India in India but also for the world. For once, there is no ambiguity on the policy and moral fronts.The Modi government had decided from the day it came to office in 2014 that India must make its own arms and not depend on other countries in this vital matter. But it became apparent quite early on that you cannot make arms just for your own needs, especially if you want the private sector to come in.The private sector would not have found it profitable to manufacture arms for just domestic needs. There was a compulsion to export to make profits and keep the business going.We shall not at this point ask uncomfortable questions as to whether the Indian private sector can produce sophisticated arms that could be sold at a good price in the foreign markets and also remain competitive.Perhaps, in the beginning, India may want to concentrate on selling ammunition, rifles and armoured cars. Of course, it will take a decade and more before India could count itself as a reasonably big player in the global arms market.One of the strategies that the Indian government and the private sector could adopt is to forge foreign collaborations with manufacturing facilities in India. The cost factor would weigh in India’s favour. And it should be able to develop a skilled force needed in the sector.Singh expressed the desire that India should become a defence manufacturing hub. It is an ambitious desire indeed, but there is no harm in being ambitious if it can spur economic growth.The military-industrial complex that American President Dwight Eisenhower spoke of in negative terms in the 1950s is sure to develop in India as well. But it may not become the evil force that it had become in the American economy because India lacks the money and scale of operations to become a big arms exporter. The beginnings will be modest and the foreign exchange earnings through arms exports will be small but substantial.It could be argued that would India manufacturing arms and turning into an arms exporter influence its foreign policy? India has tried to be the peacemaker, though it has not had much success. India has been hobbled by its own external challenges from the two hostile neighbours, Pakistan and China. India is sure to lend its voice to the cause of world peace because the largest arms exporters, like the United States, do speak of peace and development in eloquent terms.There is no need to bother about the contradictions inherent in the arms exporters preaching peace. All that one has to do is to read George Bernard Shaw’s Major Barbara.Except for the diminishing number of peaceniks and antediluvian Gandhians, most people would celebrate the decision of manufacturing for our own defence as well as for those who want to buy arms for their needs as the right step in our new journey of virile nationalism.It would be futile to indulge in chest-thumping nationalism if we could not make our own guns and tanks, fighter planes and battleships. And, it would create a lot of jobs as well.The hitch, however, would be that India would need to have cutting-edge technology to do well in arms manufacture if it has to help itself and be able to sell arms wares to others.So far, India has not displayed that flair for breakthrough technology which marks the American, Japanese and even Russian and Chinese enterprises.So far, the Indian industry has shown its ingenuity in absorbing and adopting new technologies and even improvising on them. That is good as far as it goes, but that is not good enough to keep ahead of the curve. No social scientist has tried to make sense of the mental makeup that drives Indian science and technology.More than half a century ago, American sociologist Edward Shils tried to make sense of the Indian intellectual outlook and found that there was less fresh thinking and more of exegesis.In the field of science and technology, this would translate into more of adaptation and less of breakthroughs. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been struggling to break this mould through his experimental hackathons, but so far, he has not been successful.India needs huge investments in regular research and development (R&D) in universities and research laboratories. There are no shortcuts here. India has been unable to invest as much as it should in R&D. There has been either unwillingness or we have simply lacked the resources.There is also the further complication that to be successful in arms manufacture and exports, India must be an overall thriving economy. It should be vibrant in many other sectors and not just in arms manufacture. It is a big economy that makes a country a big power, and not just its military might.It is the lesson that the Soviet Union did not learn during the Cold War and paid a heavy price. It is a lesson that China learnt and strengthened its economy. China is considered a big power today because of its economic clout.So, India and its neo-nationalists may have to rein in their nationalist enthusiasm, verging on frenzy, and get going with the general economy which would require greater ideological flexibility.Beating the war drums is exciting, but it is necessary to remember the dictum attributed to Napoleon: that the army marches on its stomach. It is a strong economy that supports a good war machine. It does not work the other way round.A strong armaments industry does not make India a big power, either militarily or economically.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/no-short-cuts-to-becoming-an-arms-hub-326427
19-10-2021||Ex-Secretary||Towards a billion vaccinations & counting…||India will soon cross a billion doses of Covid vaccinations. This is no small feat. The journey towards this target has been anything but easy. The delivery of a billion doses of vaccine to the people of the nation sets a world record, but more importantly, it is testimony to the country’s resilience, self-reliance and capacity to face and overcome enormous obstacles posed by the pandemic.It was on January 17, 2020, that India issued its first nCoronavirus (the disease was unnamed then) advisory as part of a proactive, pre-emptive and graded response to an evolving threat. Exactly a year later, on January 16, 2021, India embarked upon the world’s largest vaccination drive, launched by the PM. In less than a year, and before October 2021 ends, a billion doses of the Covid vaccine would have been administered to our people.The story behind the ‘billion doses’ has many parts to it. The first is the supportive facilitation to fast-track vaccine development and manufacture. From the establishment of the Task Force for Focused Research on Corona Vaccine in April 2020 to the development of the vaccine in less than a year of the pandemic reflects the capacity of our research and development processes in the public and private sectors.Sharing virus samples, collaborating with and supporting indigenous industry, facilitating trials and easing regulatory processes resulted in the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin (recently approved for kids aged 2-12 also), ZydusCadila’s ZyCoV-D for the 12-18-year-olds and at least three more indigenous vaccines that are at the clinical stage.As a first, supporting at-risk manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccines by Biological E, an order for 30 crore doses to the tune of Rs 1,500 crore has been approved. Of course, India is not alone in such an endeavour. Some other countries have also accomplished this task. Indeed, it is a true testimony of global scientific research and rigour.Another key factor in this achievement rests on India’s decades long experience with immunisation programmes, mostly targeted to specific sub-population groups of children and pregnant women. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) has been guiding India’s universal immunisation programme in terms of the vaccine policy. Dovetailed with a Covid-specific National Task Force on Vaccine Development (NEGVAC), these two groups are the force behind the evolving Covid vaccine policy.Their key roles were to ensure free vaccination for all, make every possible effort in augmenting more production of vaccines, guiding evidence-informed decisions, such as prioritising vulnerable groups, identified by NEGVAC (in keeping with WHO guidelines and later expanding beyond these, as other countries did), providing graded flexibility to the states and the private sector to participate in the effort, ensuring that the vaccination drive is policy-driven, overseeing the creation and maintenance of a data base and tracking mechanism to ensure delivery of the second dose among vaccinated individuals and emphasising that the fundamental protocols for the prevention of the spread of Covid-19 are scrupulously followed during the vaccination drive.Vaccine hesitancy was evident in the early months of initiating the vaccination process. An effective communication strategy based on rapid assessments to understand the prevalent reasons for vaccine hesitancy was implemented. This created awareness among the beneficiaries, leading to a demand for the vaccine. Central and state governments, assisted by civil society, undertook a well-planned, coordinated, synergistic set of actions, involving district and sub-district officials and an army of frontline health workers who carried out the vaccinations while working to tackle hesitancy and win public trust. We owe a huge debt to the medical fraternity and frontline workers who have tirelessly worked to keep us safe.The focus on ensuring equitable access to Covid-19 vaccine to all citizens — Sabko vaccine, muft vaccine — emphasised easy access to vaccination services by all, including vulnerable groups such as persons without identity cards, prisoners, transgender population, the differently abled, the destitute and the homeless.The Centre maintained a high level of attention to ensuring an adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccine doses with states and UTs by setting up systems to monitor the pace of vaccination and maintaining a balance between oversupply and insufficient quantities of vaccines.Before the Covid vaccination initiative, the country’s immunisation programme delivered vaccines to newborn babies, infants, children under 5 and pregnant women. The delivery of the Covid vaccine posed several new challenges, including identifying the elderly, both women and men, and those with chronic diseases to prioritise them and then address the remaining adult population.These challenges were met through an organised, systematic process that utilised communication strategies, expanding service delivery platforms and undertaking ongoing rigorous monitoring, support and mentoring through the use of digital tools.The CoWin platform has ensured the tracking of every precious dose of vaccine, minimising wastage, real-time collaboration between the Centre and the states and the private sector. Going global, CoWin is poised to help other nations deliver vaccines efficiently through technology.The service delivery platforms of India’s immunisation programme range from all three tiers of health facilities and through outreach to ensure last-mile reach. In order to supplement these platforms for Covid vaccination, innovative strategies such as the utilisation of common service centres and the establishment of 1075 helpline for simpler registration along with the CoWin portal, the availability of ‘workplace CVCs’ and near-to-home Covid vaccination centres came up.This was done through an efficient system with multiple trained vaccination teams stationed at over 2.62 lakh Covid-19 vaccination centres countrywide. The capacity of the vaccination teams and the programme management structure was conducted in a cascade manner — from the training of trainers at the national level to the vaccination teams working at the ground level.It needed collaboration for efficient training, regular reviews and adoption of required and planned measures and people’s participation on a whole. The states and UTs have done a remarkable work in mobilising the beneficiaries for vaccination and making this drive a jan andolan (people’s movement).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/towards-a-billion-vaccinations-counting%E2%80%A6-326428
19-10-2021||Sociologist||What it is to be ‘educated’||Recently in an interview with Sansad TV, Union Home Minister Amit Shah expressed his anguish and said that ‘illiterate people could never become good citizens of India’. For him, an illiterate person is a ‘burden on the country because he neither knows the rights given to him by the Constitution nor knows the duties expected of him by it’. Apparently, a statement of this kind is likely to give the impression that he is attaching great importance to the light of knowledge and education, and the need for spreading the network of schools to spread literacy and create awakened citizens. Yet, if we dare to think deeply, it is not impossible to find some serious problems in his way of looking at the entire issue.Educated, technically skilled and economically mobile people are not necessarily noble souls guided by the spirit of constitutional principles or altruism. It is wrong to regard an illiterate person as a burden. It deprives one of one’s soul and humanity. A landless farmer, a fisherman, a street vendor, a construction worker — in other words, the illiterate subaltern — might not quote the Constitution, and give a lecture on fundamental rights and directive principles; but they are certainly not like those who are ‘knowledgeable’, yet terribly clever, and ethically and politically irresponsible. Generally, they work hard and somehow survive without hurting anybody. We cannot divert our attention from the real structural problem that confronts our society — a ruthlessly unequal/hierarchical/oppressive society that privileges the rich, and perpetually reproduces socio-economic inequality. One does not choose to be poor and illiterate; nor does one find some joy in surviving as a bonded labour, or in becoming homeless, and living with all sorts of stigma.The real burden is a mix of patriarchal/casteist/feudal structure and emergent neoliberal capitalism; it produces hunger and malnutrition amid vulgar affluence; it manufactures child labour amid international schools for the rich; and it demotivates Dalits, women and other marginalised groups, and leads to massive dropout amid the dominant practice of mainstream schooling that remains insensitive to the habitus of the poor. In other words, far from interrogating the structural violence, he seems to be blaming the illiterate. This is easy. However, it requires a different kind of insight and courage to interrogate the powerful.Second, Mr Shah has not bothered to ask yet another fundamental question: What is education? While there is no reason to glorify or support illiteracy, is there any special reason to feel proud of what we — the privileged, literate and educated people — are doing? Let him look around, and allow himself to be disturbed by the fact that people like us — university educated, technically skilled and economically mobile — are not necessarily noble souls guided by the spirit of constitutional principles or altruism. Many of us accept dowry and bribes; we engage ourselves in scams and corruption; through our reckless consumption, we manipulate and destroy nature; we evolve strategies for war and surveillance; we evade income tax; we watch toxic television channels, and get carried away by English-speaking noisy anchors; we exploit the brigade of the domestic help; we encourage our children to leave the country, and settle down in the Euro-American ‘promised’ land; and we send idealist young minds to jail. Mr Shah ought to go deeper, and realise that the so-called literacy or formal education — say, a gold medal as an award for being a topper — does not necessarily imply that one is determined to follow the constitutional ideals, and lead a life that radiates humanistic sensibilities. Instead, what we generally promote as education is only cultivating the strategic and instrumental intelligence; it has got nothing to do with love, compassion and collective responsibility for a just world. Is it possible for him to ask our IIT/IIM graduates — living in gated communities, and working for the gigantic corporate houses — whether they really celebrate the dream through which the likes of Gandhi, Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh wanted to enchant the country? Is it possible for Mr Shah to question the integrity of those celebrity lawyers who use their expertise to transform vice into virtue, or ugliness into beauty? Or, is it possible for him to question those IAS/IPS officers who, far from following the Constitution, surrender before the whims of the local MLA/MP, or minister?Third, if his heart really aches for the illiterate, he ought to reimagine education. It is more than the statistics of enrolment; it is not about the advertisement of PM Modi’s achievements. Instead, he ought to realise that education does not mean that a child is just enrolled, taught by a poorly paid/non-imaginative instructor, and like a parrot, learns to equate ‘A’ with ‘apple’, ‘Q’ with ‘queen’, or, for that matter, patriotism with the chanting of Jai Shri Ram. Emancipatory education requires what Paulo Freire would have regarded as the ‘pedagogy of the oppressed’ — a kind of learning that respects the child’s innate humanity, reflexivity and creative agency; or a mode of learning that makes her question the prevalent discourse of power. In other words, no emancipatory education is possible without vibrant schools and learning communities in every village or slum. It requires politically awakened and spiritually enriched teachers/educators whom the community respects, and who, far from insulting the poor or the oppressed, communicate with them, love them as new possibilities, tap their hidden potential, and encourage them to problematise a culture that promotes gross inequality, social hierarchy, cult of narcissism and economic exploitation.Is Mr Shah ready to reflect on this possibility? Or is it too much to expect?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/what-it-is-to-be-educated-326429
