20-10-2021||---||Imran at peril over standoff with Deep State||The discord between Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan and military commanders, especially the army chief, General Bajwa, could have only one victim — even if Pakistan’s past isn’t a precedence, when prime ministers were shown the door — and that would be Imran Khan because Khan has been widely referred to as a ‘selected’, and not an elected, prime minister.And the man who ensured his selection was the very army chief, General Bajwa, whom Imran seems to be now standing up to. Their apparent disagreement is about the tenure of the current ISI chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, who ran into trouble with his military bosses in the GHQ, Rawalpindi, when he had rushed to Kabul in September — without the knowledge of the army’s brass hats — to ensure that the ISI-orchestrated takeover of Afghanistan had a ‘happy’ ending (for the ISI) when the Taliban’s government was sworn in.General Hameed not only had the Taliban’s PM-aspirant Mullah Baradar beaten up by the hoods of the Haqqani group, but he also ensured that more than 20 out of the 33 cabinet appointees of the new Taliban regime were the men whom the ISI had control over. But that wasn’t all.The Pakistan army’s unending denials about its role in Afghanistan, when the US and NATO forces were at a loss on how to succeed against the challenge posed by the Taliban, was finally a secret no more when Lt-Gen Hameed was spotted having tea with the Pakistani envoy at a Kabul hotel where many foreign journalists were staying.Moreover, General Hameed had cockily, on that occasion, also responded to a journalist’s question about the future of Afghanistan, saying: “Don’t worry, everything will be okay.”This incident was duly photographed and it laid bare the Pakistan army’s overt role in the Taliban’s victory march into Kabul. The military brass hats were visibly upset — as their great game was exposed — at General Hameed’s reckless behaviour. He was summoned to the GHQ, Rawalpindi, the ISI flag was removed from his car, and he was marched up to the army’s Adjutant-General and issued a ‘show- cause’ notice. Hameed was asked to submit an unconditional apology to the army chief or face disciplinary action.As any military man would know, you can’t challenge the military’s hierarchy — especially so in Pakistan — and get away with it. He apologised.But he soon received a posting order, with Lt Gen Nadeem Anjum being appointed as the new chief of the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and Lt Gen Faiz Hameed being posted out as Commander of the Peshawar-based Corps XI, where he’ll still remain relevant for Pakistan’s great game in Afghanistan.But this is where Imran Khan comes in. In Pakistan, stated custom and procedure requires the prime minister to approve the appointments of the army chief and the DG ISI. All other military appointments are left to the wisdom of the generals in the GHQ, Rawalpindi.So, Imran has asked for Lt Gen Hameed to continue as the DG ISI, but the army’s brass hats want him posted out as General Hameed’s tenure has been marred by controversies — even before he undertook that cavalier visit to Kabul, and this had often kept the ISI under the media’s spotlight.In fact, there were concerns about his behaviour dating back to his days at the ISI as head of internal security. It can be argued that Imran is trying to hold on to the DG ISI to prevent being browbeaten by General Bajwa.Historically, whenever the two — the army and the ISI chief — have worked in cohesion, they have quickly put an end to the prime minister’s tenure. But even if a prime minister tries to use one against the other — as Nawaz Sharif did when he removed General Musharraf as he was flying back to Pakistan from Colombo, briefly replacing him with Lt Gen K Ziauddin Ahmed — the army chief prevails, as did General Musharraf. Nawaz was booted out of office and was lucky to get away without being hanged!So, if Imran Khan hasn’t learnt from history and has become a victim of delusion or the hushed whispers of his advisers — and he assumes that he’s now happily saddled in his seat — he could be repeating history to his own peril.Imran claims that Lt Gen Hameed must stay on as the DG ISI for reasons of national security, arguing that Hameed knows the players and the situation in Afghanistan rather well. But in any army, nobody operates in isolation — not even the army chief — and hence, any other DG ISI could be educated in the agency’s deep, dark secrets very quickly.But the generals in Pakistan are apparently behind Bajwa on this count as many postings are linked to Hameed’s move. Moreover, the Pakistan army says that Hameed must command a corps to be in contention to be the army chief after Bajwa.Coincidentally, General Bajwa was given an extension in his appointment as army chief by Imran by citing ‘national security’ concerns. This had upset the ambitions of a few contenders for Bajwa’s post and though they were placated with post-retirement appointments that were prestigious and lucrative, nothing comes close to being Pakistan’s army chief.As for General Bajwa, now he has gone through the charade of meeting the prime minister to convince him that his stand is upsetting the brass hats. But those watching the standoff closely, like Pakistani opposition leader Maryam Nawaz, have said that Imran is holding on to Hameed to prevent being ousted.No wonder this civil-military controversy has made some of Imran’s cabinet ministers nervous and has led Imran to reassure them by stating that ‘aap ne ghabrana nahin hai’, and that there was good institutional cooperation between his government and the army.This was followed by a press briefing by Pakistan’s information minister Fawad Chaudhry, who reassured the public that all was well between the PM and army chief, though he smartly skipped questions on who would be the next ISI chief and what might happen if the controversy is unresolved. All that Chaudhry could do was to reiterate that the appointment of the DG ISI was the PM’s prerogative.But that’s the problem, not the solution. Unlike India, Pakistani prime ministers serve at their army’s approval, not vice versa. And, Imran Khan should know it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/imran-at-peril-over-standoff-with-deep-state-326768
20-10-2021||---||Challenges in India’s bid to be military power||A long-delayed policy decision related to the revamping of India’s moribund defence production capability was formally unveiled by PM Narendra Modi on October 15 by way of the inauguration of seven new defence public sector units (DPSUs). They have been culled from the venerable Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) that had 41 disparate units spread across the country. They have now been corporatised as seven new entities.The OFB, which traces its origin to 1801 and the East India Company, is now a closed chapter and a part of Indian history.In his address, PM Modi dwelt on the Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) initiative that he has championed. He declared that the abiding goal was to make India a major military power through its own efforts.Describing this revamp of the OFB as part of the “new resolutions to build a new future” as India entered its 75th year of Independence, he added that “many major reforms have happened in the defence sector” on his watch.This resolve by the PM to turn India into a major military power (“Bharat ko apne dum par duniya ki badi sainya taakat banana hai”) is welcome and unexceptionable.It has a special resonance against the backdrop of October 20 and the ‘surprise’ attack by China on that day in 1962. At the time, PM Nehru and his higher defence management team were stunned and the ill-equipped Indian military was routed despite the gallantry and professionalism of the Army at the tactical level.Almost six decades later, there is a sense of déjà vu. In the last year, the China challenge has morphed from the Galwan setback in Ladakh (June 2021) to the more recent incursions by the PLA in the central and eastern sectors of the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC). The 13th round of Corps Commanders’ talks (on October 10) failed to resolve the impasse and it is estimated that as many as 50,000 PLA troops will be strung across the uneasy LAC for an extended period.Hence, this winter will be challenging for the Indian military. The Army Chief, General Manoj Naravane, has cautioned that “it is a matter of concern that the large-scale build-up has occurred and continues to be in place; and to sustain that kind of a build-up, there has been an equal amount of infrastructure development on the Chinese side.” He added: “So, it means that they (China) are there to stay. We are keeping a close watch on all these developments, but if they are there to stay, we are there to stay too.”On the politico-diplomatic front, tension increased with the Chinese Foreign Ministry issuing a terse statement protesting the visit of Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu to Arunachal Pradesh and asking India to “stop taking actions that would complicate and expand the boundary issue.”Delhi was quick in ‘rejecting’ it with a rejoinder that “Arunachal Pradesh is an integral and inalienable part of India.”The more grave development is the preliminary agreement arrived at between China and Bhutan (October 14) to resolve their long-pending boundary dispute and what is of considerable import is that Delhi was totally out of the loop apropos this bilateral meeting.The enormity of this development is multi-layered for India. Not only is this a diplomatic setback for Delhi which traditionally guided Bhutan’s foreign policy but it also points to the Chinese footprint being extended in the Indian periphery with a country considered to be India’s closest and most special neighbour.It would be premature to suggest that Bhutan will go down the Sri Lanka-Nepal path in the consolidation of the Chinese presence, but the Doklam tri-junction has a critical locus for India by way of the proximity to the slender ‘chicken’s neck’ corridor that connects the Indian heartland to the North-East.While there is little doubt that the India of 2021 is not that of 1962 and is now a nuclear weapon power, the correspondence lies in the refusal by Delhi to objectively review its composite military index and the attendant implications in relation to managing the troubled bilateral relationship with China.The amber lights were flickering in March 2018 when the report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence observed that the prevailing fund allocation “is not supportive to the inevitable needs of the Army” and added that there are “huge deficiencies and obsolescence of weapons, stores and ammunition existing in the Indian Army.” The report further said that almost two-third of the equipment inventory of the Army was deemed to be “vintage”.Much the same applies to the Indian Air Force and the depletion in combat air power is stark.While the pressure on the national exchequer due to Covid is understandable and belt-tightening in the budgetary allocation is inevitable, the reality check about the military modernisation blueprint is distressing.The Defence Budget of 2021 saw capital allocation slashed by more than Rs 76,000 crore and the OFB revamp is illustrative about taking recourse to misleading rhetoric.The PM’s exhortation to make India a major military power on the back of its own effort is laudable and the corporatisation of the OFB is being held up as an example of this resolve. The OFB’s track record in providing high quality products in a cost-effective and timely manner to the Army has been well below par and these lapses have been highlighted in many CAG reports.In the so-called revamp, over 70,000 employees of the erstwhile OFB have been transferred to the seven new DPSUs, including their senior leadership, and this is being hailed as a major reform that will enable India to develop a modern military industry. If the OFB was riddled with inefficiency and corruption in its original identity, it defies logic as to how the seven new entities (with the same HR) in their corporate avatar will become “productive and profitable assets”, as envisioned by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.The OFB’s inability to design and produce high-quality personal weapons for the Indian soldiers is a grim reminder of the daunting R&D challenges that India faces as it strives to become a reasonably self-reliant military power. Resorting to make-believe in matters of national security can have disastrous consequences, as October 1962 demonstrated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/challenges-in-indias-bid-to-be-military-power-326767
20-10-2021||---||Bring up to speed||For a considerable period of time, I have been drawing attention to the cross-sectoral and cross-domain nature of the challenges that India confronts as it pursues its economic and developmental goals. There are strong feedback loops among different domains which must be made explicit. There are interventions which appear to offer benefits in a particular domain but are cancelled out by negative fallout in another related domain. Similarly, some interventions are rejected due to insufficient benefit in one domain but which may offer collateral benefits in other domains. If these collateral benefits were taken into account, investment in that intervention would be more than justified. Our existing accounting systems do not handle such feedback loops well. This exercise of cross-sectoral and cross-domain policy planning and intervention is all the more important today, given the overweening challenge of climate change. Virtually all project planning, especially of long-term infrastructure, must incorporate what has come to be known as ‘climate proofing’.The initiative is still in the nature of an ad hoc mechanism. To enable cross-sectoral approaches, a radically different Allocation of Business Rules will be necessary.Let me illustrate the importance of adopting such an approach to governance. The provision of a clean water supply is not only an aspect of water security but also of health security because contaminated water is a major contributor to ill health and disease. The use of chemical fertilisers and toxic pesticides may be important for food security but also contribute to the undermining of health security by the contamination of groundwater and the food chain. The apparent gain in food security is more than negated by losses incurred in mounting health costs. A better way of ensuring food security has to be found.In Uttarakhand, in the vicinity of Kathgodam, there are hundreds of acres of hillsides which are covered by pine forests. These are the result of some very successful afforestation programmes. Pine was used because it is a fast-growing species and therefore the forest department targets could be more speedily achieved. However, pine needles soon carpet the forest floor, stifling undergrowth and microbial life. They also prevent the recharging of underground water because rainwater runs off the pine needle-carpeted forest floor. Water supply to downstream farmlands and inhabited areas, then, reduces over time. Most of the downstream areas near Kathgodam have abandoned villages because of lack of water. What made sense for the forest department and counted as a success story proved to have very adverse collateral consequences in terms of water security and food security but these feedback loops did not figure in governmental calculations. These examples testify to the importance of coordinated planning and implementation of government programmes and of collaborative, whole of government approaches.It is in this context that the PM’s recent announcement of the Gati Shakti National Master Plan is to be welcomed as a step in the direction of breaking down silos within the government and creating a culture of constant interaction, and hopefully, collaboration among different agencies. Gati Shakti relates to the Rs 100 trillion infrastructure plan announced earlier and is aimed at creating ‘a world-class, seamless multi-modal transport network in India’. It will utilise a digital platform developed by ISRO, which will connect 16 ministries engaged in infrastructure development, enabling each to ‘have visibility of each other’s activities providing critical data while planning and execution of projects in a comprehensive manner. Through this, different departments will be able to prioritise their projects through cross-sectoral interventions.’A central monitoring group will operate from the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. In case issues arise in the execution of projects, a Group of Ministers (GoM) will be empowered to sort them out.Gati Shakti represents major but still partial reform. The initiative is limited to achieving multi-modal transport connectivity, important in itself, but not comprehensive in scope. With the experience gained through the initiative, the government should aim to overhaul the governance system with the aim of incorporating cross-sectoral approaches across the board.The sustainable development goals (SDGs) adopted at the UN in 2015 are an important guidepost. The 17 goals set out the key domains requiring intervention but also explicitly link goals to interventions in other domains with which there are strong feedback loops. Since India is a signatory to the SDGs, it can benefit from mainstreaming them into its economic development strategies.In taking the Gati Shakti initiative forward, it is important to make the states full stakeholders since most of the development activity takes place at their level. Civil society is an equally important stakeholder. There should be a mechanism through which civil society views are gathered and feed-back made available to it.When different agencies of the Centre, the state governments and even agencies at the district or municipal level propose developmental programmes, there are bound to be contradictions and conflicts. The GoM mechanism is one way of reconciling such differences but it must be serviced by a well-resourced institution that is able to assemble the necessary data and expert advice needed to come to a well-considered decision. Perhaps Niti Aayog could undertake that responsibility. For inter-state issues, it may be necessary to revive and revitalise the Inter-State Council to reconcile any differences between the Centre and states and between states themselves. Zonal councils could also have a role to play.Gati Shakti is still in the nature of an ad hoc mechanism. The Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961, and as amended up to January 2017, still form the basic governing structure. These rules reflect the traditional stovepipe approach. To enable cross-sectoral approaches, a radically different Allocation of Business Rules will be necessary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bring-up-to-speed-326766
