21-10-2021||---||IT sector looking for ways to maintain buoyancy||India’s IT services companies have in the latest quarter (Q2 2021-22) put in a stellar performance. The Covid-19 pandemic has turned out to be a blessing in disguise for them, boosting demand. TCS’s revenue for the quarter grew by 16.8 per cent over the same quarter in the previous year, Infosys by 20.4 per cent and Wipro by as much as 30 per cent.To keep their head above the water virtually, all large businesses have sought to go digital as quickly as possible and put their data and applications on the cloud (at common data centres). The Indian IT companies which have a cost advantage (relatively lower salaries for their engineers) have sought to cash in on this and ramp up their digital offerings.Infosys now has over half of its offerings in the digital category. Plus, the IT companies have reaped a cost-and-productivity advantage by allowing their staff to work from home. All this has improved margins and their share valuations. TCS, the biggest of them all, achieved a huge margin of 25.6 per cent, with Infosys following not far behind at 23.6 per cent and Wipro at 17.8 per cent.But in this boom time of sorts, a dark cloud has also begun to hover on the horizon. As all IT majors seek to ramp up their digital offerings, there is a huge demand for engineers equipped with the right skills. The vendors are seeking to entice away each other’s staff and this is leading to huge attrition which is now nudging an incredible 30 per cent. Cognizant had the dubious distinction of leading the pack with an attrition rate in the quarter of 31 per cent, Infosys and Wipro both crossed 20 per cent and TCS, which traditionally kept its attrition rate in single digits, ended up at 11.9 per cent.In this scenario, the IT companies are doing the only thing they can in the short run (it takes quite a bit of time to train fresh graduates in digital skills) — raise compensations. If things go on the way they are doing right now, the vendors will soon see a sharp hike in their costs (staff compensation is the biggest expenses for firms in the services space) which will affect profitability and share value.Additionally, a shortage of trained staff will affect the quality of their offerings. This will over time put off clients who will either try to go elsewhere or postpone their digital plans. Infosys has recently been in the news for not just good results, but a wrong reason — the quality complaints from the government and taxpayers on glitches in the new tax portal whose work has been contracted to it. It is unclear right now if the next big government order will go to the firm as easily as it did earlier.Across the board quality complaints among the IT clients will eventually dampen the demand for services from Indian vendors and kill the goose that was laying the digital golden eggs. They will perforce have to look for vendors elsewhere who will not come as cheap as the Indians did, but will at least be able to offer a minimum quality of service.The skills shortage currently plaguing the older Indian IT vendors comes not just from the highly rapid expansion in demand for digital services but another sector too — the startups which need high-end input from their staff to be able to deliver the innovative products and services which they promised when they came into being with venture capital and early stage funding. As they can wait for some time before breaking even and begin to give a return to their investors, they are often paying top rupee to get the skills they need. And with such compensation packages, they are taking away the best skills from the large IT services companies.The challenges that Indian IT services firms are facing do not end there. There is increasing demand in the US, the foremost market for Indian IT services, to source the offerings from within the country and not development centres located in India. Competitively priced offshore deliveries tend to depress US technical workers’ wages who are in the same kind of war that manufacturing industry worker unions wage against cheap Chinese imports.Mindful of this kind of sentiment, Indian IT majors are rapidly increasing their staffing in the US, as opposed to work sourced from offshore delivery centres. These US workers have to be paid much more than what their counterparts in India earn and as this process gathers steam, it will reduce the Indian IT companies’ margins.How can Indian IT address this challenge? It is important to remember that although IT services have traditionally been in most part routine jobs involving writing codes and looking after maintenance — jobs which have in good part now gone because of the advent of automation — there has been no dearth of innovativeness on the part of those who run those companies.Hence, there have been several instances of the world in general foreseeing an end to the forward march of Indian IT because of some insurmountable problem being ahead of it. But over time, those problems have been resolved and the forward march has resumed. Most notably, the bursting of the dotcom and tech bubbles at the turn of the century was foreseen to be an insurmountable hurdle, but over time that was surmounted and the forward push continued. Then growth slowed down during the global financial crisis but contrary to the doomsayers, the growth momentum resumed thereafter.The current high attrition rate and sharp rise in compensations, partly the result of entry level packages stagnating for a long time, will likely over time generate a supply side response. Not only will intake in computer science programmes in engineering colleges increase, the higher education industry will come up with new programmes which will be able to hand over to the industry more finished products who will not have to be trained for months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/it-sector-looking-for-ways-to-maintain-buoyancy-327254
21-10-2021||---||Farmers need assured price for sustenance||We all know it by now. Agriculture was the saviour during the gloomy days of the pandemic. Not only that, an individual household got its regular supply of food during the lockdown, and those who could not afford were supplied with free rations, but agriculture also kept the wheels of economy moving. At a time when the economy had slipped by 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of the 2020 financial year, agriculture was the only bright spot, registering a gross value added (GVA) growth of 3.4 per cent.All through the year, agriculture provided a solid foundation. Despite the Covid-19 disruptions, and at a time when all other sectors of the economy were struggling, desperately counting the emerging green shoots, the country achieved a record foodgrain production of 308.65 million tonnes. The bumper harvest reaped in 2020-21 was higher by 11.15 million tonnes over what was achieved in the previous year. In addition, the country also produced 329.9 million tonnes of fruits, vegetables and aromatic and plantation crops, including spices; around 204 million tonnes of milk, and 36.10 million tonnes of oilseeds.Simply put, farmers produced economic wealth for the country. Not only during the pandemic, but what needs to be appreciated is that year after year, farmers have toiled hard to bring food to our table. From a stage when India was living in a ‘ship-to-mouth’ existence, and that was not too far distant in the mid-1960s, the role Indian farmers have played in turning the country self-sufficient in food is widely recognised. Agriculture has taken a quantum jump, increasing food production six times in seven decades, between 1950-51 and 2020-21.A vibrant agriculture is what sustains a growing economy. But to believe that economic growth alone can address issues of hunger and malnutrition is nothing short of delusion. As the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) itself acknowledges that ‘economic growth is necessary but not sufficient to accelerate reduction in hunger and malnutrition’, a study published in the scientific journal The Lancet shows a reduction in malnutrition by a maximum of 6 per cent even if the economic growth soars by 10 per cent. On the contrary, a well-fed nation builds up an efficient and productive manpower which is required to attain a higher economic growth.Since 1950-51, if measured in terms of population growth, four times more Indias have been added. From 359 million in 1950-51, the country’s population has multiplied roughly four times to 1.4 billion. Agriculture not only kept pace, defying the predictions of the Malthusian catastrophe, but has also produced an unmanageable surplus. Not only producing enough to feed the nation, the rise in the per capita availability of foodgrains, fruits, vegetables and milk also helped in meeting the challenges of malnutrition and hidden hunger. That hunger still persists in some parts of the country is not because of any shortfall in food production, but is the outcome of the twin problems of access and distribution.If growth and prosperity are the central theme of Adam Smith’s seminal work, An inquiry into the nature and cause of the Wealth of Nations, it has to be accepted that the remarkable transition in Indian agriculture is what has essentially not only added, but led to the wealth of the nation. Though India is the world’s second largest producer of essential foods like wheat, rice, fruits, vegetables and crops like cotton and groundnut and the largest producer of milk, jute and pulses, the long strides taken by the farmers to shatter all records, however, have not translated into higher incomes. Growth, in this case, has not led to prosperity on the farm.The invisible hand that Adam Smith talked about has actually failed to provide living incomes for farmers, not only in India, but across the globe. One doesn’t need to apply sophisticated economic models to find out how farm incomes have actually been squeezed over the years, and how free markets have sucked income from farmers. Instead, as the citation for this year’s Nobel Prize in Economics admits: “Conclusions about cause and effect can be drawn from natural experiments.” Agreeing, I feel there is no need for economists to hold econometrics studies when conclusions can be drawn easily from the available evidences.The FAO has estimated India’s gross value of crop production in 2018 (report released in March 2021) at$289,802,032 million, and that of gross food production at $400,722,025 million. When it comes to the gross value of agricultural production at current prices, India stands second in the world, next to China, with a gross value of $418,541,343 million. Now before you get lost in the maze of production statistics, what is important to ascertain here is the enormous economic wealth that farmers produce and eventually what the agriculture sector generates. In other words, farmers too are wealth creators.It, therefore, requires a change in economic thinking, which has traditionally banked on the assumption that only businesses — small and big — are wealth creators. The obscene wealth inequality that prevails is the result of this outdated economic thinking. Otherwise, I see no reason why at a time when the gross value of agricultural production since 1999 has grown at an average annual rate of 8.25 per cent, farmers should be at the bottom of the ladder. In America, the share of a farmer in every food dollar in 2018 has plummeted to just eight per cent. In India, the latest Situation Assessment Survey for agricultural households computes income from crop cultivation at only Rs 27 per day.There is enough evidence to show how free markets have devastated farming across the globe. This has to change. It can only happen when we begin to treat farmers not simply as the primary producer but also as wealth creators, and ensure their contribution in wealth generationis adequately compensated. To sustain billions of farm livelihoods across the globe, and to celebrate the role farmers play in wealth creation, a beginning has to be made by guaranteeing an assured and profitable price for farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/farmers-need-assured-price-for-sustenance-327252
21-10-2021||---||Time to plan coal exit||The shortage of coal in the power generation sector being reported from different parts of the country has been grabbing the headlines in the past few days. Out of 135 thermal power stations in the country, 104 had coal stocks only for five days, as of October 17, according to the government data. The reasons for this situation could be several short and long-term factors connected with production, supply chain, stocking, demand fluctuation etc. Whatever may be the contributory factors, the situation seems to be precarious and has caused concern in many sectors that depend on uninterrupted power supply like large outsourcing firms and continuous production facilities. Long power cuts have been reported from some states. The crisis has coincided with the global focus on climate change and preparations for the next round of climate change talks beginning in Glasgow on October 31. The Conference of Parties (COP) of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) will grapple once again with the vexed question of reduction in carbon emissions from coal, oil and other fossil fuels.Transition from fossil fuels to renewables in the power sector is critical for meaningful and sustainable low-carbon transition in other sectors as well.The coal crisis has led to a predictable slugfest among political parties, the Central government and Opposition-ruled states. The discourse is on the looming shortfall in electricity and skirts the larger issue of the future of coal as a source of energy in India. Coal is still a dominant contributor to India’s energy mix. Of the 3.88 lakh MW installed power capacity, over 60% is in thermal power plants (mostly coal-fired). The hydro-based power plants account for more than 11% of the installed capacity. Renewable sources of energy — solar and wind — are the next big contributors accounting for 11 and 10%, respectively. The rest 8% installed capacity is in nuclear, small hydro and bio power plants, with much-hyped nuclear adding just 1.7% to the power kitty. These are all installed capacity shares. The actual power generated is much lower, particularly in renewable power plants where power generation depends on sunshine and wind speeds.While coal and hydro continue to be dominant sources, renewables like solar and wind have grown dramatically in the past two decades. Coal directly adds to carbon emissions. Mining the coal locked in the reserves often located in forest areas results in emissions due to clearing of forests and other environmental impacts. Hydropower plants don’t add to direct emissions but are considered harmful to the environment in several other ways. The ecological fallout of large hydropower stations in hilly states like Uttarakhand has caused concern in recent years. As a result, many projects have been stalled and those completed are working at very low capacities.To keep the global temperature rise below the threshold of 1.5 degrees as per consensus under the Paris Agreement, carbon emissions will have to be reduced in all sectors — automobiles, buildings, agriculture, industry, power production and so on. Some of the deepest cuts will have to come from the power sector. The share of coal and hydro in the energy mix must go down, and new capacities should come from solar and wind which have a minimum carbon footprint. In other carbon emitting sectors like transportation, the transition is just about beginning with electric vehicles but it won’t be meaningful unless the source of electricity (to power vehicles) is also green. In the same way, if domestic cooking has to shift to induction stoves from biomass and LPG, the source of electricity should be renewable. That’s why the transition from fossil fuels to renewables in the power sector is critical for meaningful and sustainable low-carbon transition in other sectors as well.In the industrialised world, Germany is fast progressing with about 43% of its power generation coming from solar photovoltaic and wind energy in 2021. The figure was 48% last year. Germany’s renewable roadmap envisages it to become carbon neutral by 2045. In recent elections, the Green Party has emerged as a key player and if it joins the new coalition government, it will seek a faster exit of coal than earlier planned year of 2038. Japan has announced that it will stop investing in coal-based power plants in other countries. At the recent UN General Assembly meeting, China said it would stop overseas coal financing in developing countries. However, it has remained non-committal on any reduction in domestic consumption of coal, given that it is facing power outages currently. Australia, a major fossil fuel exporter, has also not made any commitments. India has unveiled large plans for renewables such as the International Solar Alliance but has not presented any firm plan of replacing coal with solar in the energy mix as yet.The climate change imperatives strongly favour the phase-out of coal-based power but the future of coal depends on several political, economic and technological factors. Falling prices of renewables are making them competitive increasingly. Over the years, subsidies and fiscal policies boosted coal-based power. Now onward, investors are unlikely to put their money in coal as it becomes financially unviable. Multilateral financial institutions are planning to introduce ‘energy transition mechanisms’ basically to help countries retire coal plants before their life cycle ends. More investment is needed in research and development to address critical technological challenges like energy storage and integrated smart grids.The energy question is intrinsically linked with the economic growth, infrastructure development and competitiveness of nations. Even if the climate talks make little progress on emission cuts and timelines, the only way forward is decarbonisation. It is in the common interest of all to end the dominance of fossil fuels for the sake of the environment, human health and to prevent catastrophic impacts of climate change. The current coal crisis has provided India an opportunity to rethink coal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-to-plan-coal-exit-327249
