22-10-2021||---||China’s unrelenting posture on the LAC||The Chinese have hardened their defences along the LAC and refused to withdraw from Hot Springs PP15, indicating their intention to hold on to the remaining friction points in east Ladakh for another winter. They have also refused to discuss the 15-km deep intrusion in the Depsang bulge in the strategic DBO sector, leave alone vacating other incursions in Demchok. This is a case of “we told you so”.I had earlier pointed to the perils of a segmented Indian withdrawal from the friction points on the Kailash range for the Chinese vacating Fingers on the North Bank of Pangong Tso, forfeiting a decisive strategic advantage. The Chinese statement after the recent 13th round of talks clearly conveyed its unwillingness to withdraw from other intrusion points.The caustic exchange between the two sides is unprecedented. India has blamed China for not being agreeable to constructive suggestions as well as failing to provide any forward-looking proposals. China’s stern response was that India was making ‘unreasonable and unrealistic demands and instead of misjudging the situation, the Indian side should cherish the hard-won situation in the China-India border areas.’In plain language, Beijing is telling New Delhi to be content with what it has achieved. China is belittling India.Statements from the Chinese foreign ministry have accused India of following a forward policy in an explicit invocation of 1962. The fresh face-offs in Barahoti, Uttarakhand, and Tawang, Arunachal Pradesh, in August-September reflect China’s unrelenting posture on the LAC, corresponding with India’s determination to strengthening its partnerships with Quad, Malabar exercises and other Indo-Pacific strategies.The Army Chief, Gen Manoj Naravane, has confirmed Chinese troop, training and infrastructure build-up from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh and, strangely, he wondered why this was happening, adding, “I wish I knew.”The military escalation is on despite two face-to-face meetings between Foreign Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart Wang Yi during the SCO meetings in Dushanbe in July and September. Jaishankar described the India-China relations at the “lowest ebb.”Clearly, China has closed the door on a full and complete return to peace and tranquility — a euphemism for the restoration of status quo ante, April 2020 — in clear violation of the five-point agreement reached between the two ministers at Moscow last September.The PLA has succeeded in creating buffer zones in Galwan, Gogra and Pangong Tso on the Indian territory and blocked patrolling in Depsang between traditional Patrolling Points 10 to 13. Several grazing grounds in Gogra and Chushul have been lost to the Chinese. Some reports suggest that they are denying access to Indian patrols from PP 4 to PP 9 in the shadow of the Karakoram Pass.China has continued to develop infrastructure at a hectic pace. In August, the G6 — the Beijing-to-Lhasa Expressway — was completed. In addition, the 295-km road from Lhasa to Nagque at 4,500-m height will connect the Central and Western Theatre Commands responsible for operations against India. In June, the railway between Lhasa and Nyinchi on the Arunachal Pradesh border was completed. President Xi Jinping, on his first visit to Tibet in July, travelled on it. Two live fire exercises were held in the Xinjiang military district in September. China has deployed its S400 air defence missile system in Demchok. These missiles will be effective against Indian aircraft, covering all of J&K, including Ladakh.Xi is out to prove that the PLA is not allergic to high-altitude deployment, as Indian writers have indicated. However, it is true that the PLA was never deployed earlier along the LAC as the PLA and border guards used to patrol the LAC on horseback or vehicles. It is also true that at some places, troops were rotated every 10 days till their acclimatisation state improved.On the Indian side, infrastructure development and deployment of heavy weapons has intensified. My meetings with soldiers deployed up front reveal an avoidably heavy troop density. At places, a company is deployed against a PLA platoon, with another company held in depth. Troops deployed at 17,000 ft are being rotated in two months. In Siachen, they are rotated in three months.The main issue faced by troops is the high red blood cell count, which shoots up in high altitude and due to lack of roughage in the diet. Hill troops naturally fare better than those from the plains. High-altitude casualties from frostbite and chilblains were initially heavy as the troops were rushed without proper acclimatisation from 10,000 ft to 15-to-17,000 ft. The habitat has improved considerably lately. The Army’s strategic pivot towards the north with 1 Corps in Ladakh is complete.General Naravane’s fears of the LAC turning into an LOC will be realised as China imposes costs it can afford on India for daring Beijing on issues of national sovereignty and China's rejuvenation, as Xi aspires for another 10- year term as China's sole ruler next year during the 20th party congress.On February 11, when India agreed to mutual troop withdrawal from Pangong north and south even though India held dominating heights on the Kailash range, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who considers VD Savarkar as India’s first and biggest defence and strategic expert, indicated that talks on other intrusions at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang would be taken up within 48 hours of disengagement at Pangong Tso. The pullback from Gogra happened six months later and, since then, the only exchange has been of diplomatic abuse. India's lightning seizure of strategic heights on the Kailash Range, coupled with moves to capture the 21,000-ft-high junction of Fingers 4 and 5 ridge lines (which was called off), was a game-changer.The disengagement from the Kailash ridge without Chinese guarantees of vacation from other friction points, including Depsang, was a strategic blunder. But our brave jawans in Pangong Tso have displayed a giant sign ‘Never Give Up’ as India’s tallest and biggest Tricolour flutters from a hilltop in Ladakh. As many as 13 rounds of corps commander-level talks, 10 at the Major-General level, 55 at the Brigadier level and 1,540 hotline calls later, China has succeeded in annexing Indian territory and promulgating its 1959 claim line in Ladakh, which was preventable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinas-unrelenting-posture-on-the-lac-327713
22-10-2021||---||Responding to adversity with achievement||India completed vaccination of 100 crore doses on October 21, in just about nine months since starting vaccination. This has been a tremendous journey in dealing with Covid-19, especially when we recall how things stood in early 2020. Humanity was dealing with such a pandemic after 100 years and no one knew much about the virus. We remember how unpredictable the situation appeared then, as we were faced by an unknown and invisible enemy mutating rapidly.The journey from anxiety to assurance has happened and our nation has emerged stronger, thanks to the world’s largest vaccination drive.It has been a truly bhagirath effort involving multiple sections of society. To get a sense of the scale, assume that each vaccination took just two minutes for a healthcare worker. At this rate, it took around 41 lakh man days or approximately 11 thousand man years of effort to reach this landmark.For any effort to attain and sustain speed and scale, trust of all stakeholders is crucial. One of the reasons for the success of the campaign was the trust that people developed in the vaccine and the process followed, despite efforts to create mistrust and panic.There are some among us who only trust foreign brands, even for everyday necessities. However, when it came to something as crucial as the Covid-19 vaccine, the people of India unanimously trusted ‘Made in India’ vaccines. This is a significant paradigm shift.India’s vaccine drive is an example of what we can achieve if the citizens and the government come together with a common goal in the spirit of Jan Bhagidari. When India started its vaccination programme, there were many people who doubted the capabilities of 130 crore Indians. Some said India would take 3-4 years. Some others said people will not come forward to get vaccinated. There were those who said there will be gross mismanagement and chaos in the vaccination process. Some even said that India will not be able to manage supply chains. But just like the Janta Curfew and subsequent lockdowns, the people of India showed how spectacular the results can be, if they are made trusted partners.When everyone takes ownership, nothing is impossible. Our healthcare workers traversed hills and crossed rivers across difficult geographies to vaccinate people. Our youth, social workers, healthcare workers, social and religious leaders, all deserve credit for the fact that India faces minimal vaccine hesitancy when compared to even developed nations.There was a lot of pressure from different interest groups to give preferential treatment to them in vaccination. But the government ensured that, like our other schemes, there is no VIP culture in the vaccination drive either.In early 2020, when Covid-19 was rampaging across the world, it was clear to us that this pandemic will have to be eventually fought with the help of vaccines. We started preparing early. We constituted expert groups and started preparing a roadmap right from April 2020.Till today, only a handful of countries have developed their own vaccines. More than 180 countries are dependent on an extremely limited pool of producers and dozens of nations are still waiting for the supply of vaccines, even as India has crossed 100 crore doses! Imagine the situation if India did not have its own vaccine. How would have India secured enough vaccines for such a large population and how many years would that have taken? It is here that credit should be given to Indian scientists and entrepreneurs for rising to the occasion. It is due to their talent and hard work that India is truly Aatmanirbhar when it comes to vaccines. Our vaccine manufacturers, by scaling up to meet the demands of such a large population, have shown that they are second to none.In a nation where governments used to be known as a roadblock impeding forward movement, our government has instead been an accelerator and enabler of progress. The government partnered with the vaccine makers right from day one and gave them support in the form of institutional assistance, scientific research, funding, as well as accelerated regulatory processes. All ministries of the government came together to facilitate the vaccine makers and remove any bottlenecks as a result of our ‘whole of government’ approach.In a country of the scale of India, it is not enough to just produce. Focus has to be on last-mile delivery and seamless logistics. To understand the challenges involved, imagine the journey taken by one vial of vaccines. From a plant in Pune or Hyderabad, the vial is sent to a hub in any of the states, from where it is transported to the district hub. From there, it reaches a vaccination centre. This entails the deployment of thousands of trips taken by flights and trains. During this entire journey, the temperature has to be maintained in a particular range which is centrally monitored. For this, over 1 lakh cold-chain equipments were utilised. States were given advance notice of the de-livery schedule of the vaccines so that they could plan their drives better and vaccines reached them on the pre-decided days. This has been an unprecedented effort in the history of independent India.All these efforts were complemented by a robust tech platform in CoWIN. It ensured that the vac-cine drive was equitable, scalable, trackable, and transparent. This ensured that there was no scope for favouritism or jumping the queue. It also ensured that a poor worker could take first dose in his village and the second dose of the same vaccine in the city where he works, after the required time interval. In addition to a real-time dashboard to boost transparency, the QR-coded certificates ensured verifiability. There are hardly any examples of such efforts not only in India but also the world.In my Independence Day Address in 2015, I had said that our country is moving ahead because of ‘Team India’ and this ‘Team India’ is a big team of our 130 crore people. People’s participation is the biggest strength of democracy. If we run the country through the participation of 130 crore Indians, our country will be moving ahead 130 crore steps every moment. Our vaccination drive has yet again showed the power of this ‘Team India’. India’s success in its vaccination drive has also demonstrated to the whole world that ‘democracy can deliver’.I am optimistic that the success achieved in the world’s largest vaccination drive will further spur our youth, our innovators and all levels of government to set new benchmarks of public service delivery which will be a model not only for our country, but also for the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/responding-to-adversity-with-achievement-327671
22-10-2021||Much is happening in Punjab these days. I need to comment on these events||A murder most foul||The first of the two latest happenings is the grisly killing of a young man from Cheema Kalan village in Tarn Taran district at the Singhu border protest site. A group of Nihangs has owned up to the murder, offering the excuse of the alleged blasphemy to justify the gruesome act. The tendency to react violently when someone is foolish enough to allude to another person’s religion in pejorative or even mildly pejorative language is becoming alarmingly frequent.A true believer who has imbibed the core values of love, charity, mercy and forgiveness, common to all religions, will never think of resorting to violence for perceived wrongs.The first instance of extreme violence that came to my notice was in Kerala some 10 or more years ago when a Christian lecturer in a Christian college asked a question in an examination paper that referred to some aspect of Islam. His hand was chopped off by some local Muslim hotheads because they had taken offence. Earlier, a Maratha organisation in Pune burned old and rare manuscripts in the prestigious Bhandarkar Institute in the city for publishing a research paper by a foreign scholar that they felt was vaguely defamatory of their icon, Shivaji Maharaj.This tendency to take offence at real or imaginary insults to religious beliefs has been sharpened in neighbouring Pakistan where blasphemy is made punishable with death. A mere complaint of a quarrelsome neighbour is enough to nail the accused ‘blasphemer’! Many cases of injustice have been reported consequently and a governor of the Pakistani province of Punjab was shot by his own guards for criticising the blasphemy law!A true believer who has imbibed the core values of love, charity, mercy and forgiveness, common to all religions, will never think of resorting to violence for perceived wrongs. Fanaticism is a disease that affects the less devout!The second happening that has drawn public attention, rather unnecessarily I think, is the permission granted to the BSF to chase and arrest border crossers and smugglers of arms or contraband up to 50 km from the borders. The limit used to be 15 km in my time and there was not a single occasion when a dispute arose between the Punjab Police and the BSF about misuse of powers.I suspect the revision was undertaken because of the dropping of arms or contraband by drones, now widely used for different purposes. I cannot envisage what the BSF is going to do about the drones. Is it going to place its men deep inside Punjab territory to monitor the sightings, and if so, where exactly will it place its watchers? I do not think that BSF men will be deployed in crowded cities or places because arms or contraband drops are hardly likely to be made there. The decision was a knee-jerk reaction by the BSF top brass under pressure to perform. Because if the problem is the use of drones by the enemy, I would imagine that the Intelligence Bureau or the NIA would be more adept in dealing with the menace, specially as they operate incognito in plain clothes as compared to a uniformed force like the BSF.The BSF has recently been favoured with a top-notch, IPS officer of the Rajasthan cadre as its Director. He can be trusted to do what is right.The unfortunate propaganda that the BSF is going ‘to take over law and order in half of the state’ is false and unwarranted. I was amazed to hear the Congress spokesperson also parroting this theory to disparage the Centre and arouse the local sentiments against an ‘assault on federalism’!The BSF is not empowered, nor is it trained, to deal with homegrown mobs or investigate crime. And it is not being asked to do so.While the farmers of Punjab continue their agitation apace, two Congress bigwigs of Punjab are at each other’s throats! I have never met Navjot Singh Sidhu, only seen him on TV when he played Test cricket for India. When I headed the Punjab Police, the cricketer had lost his temper with a car owner over a parking dispute in Patiala. The other disputant, also a Sikh, was old and, unknown to Sidhu, ailing. The blow Sidhu landed on the elderly man led to his death. The SSP of Patiala referred the matter to me over the phone since Sidhu was a national figure. I advised him to register an offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder since there was no intention to kill. I do not know how that episode ended in the courts of law.Sidhu’s adversary, Capt Amarinder Singh, of the royal house of Patiala, I know personally. I am privileged to have him as a friend. On the last occasion I visited Chandigarh, I called on him at his home. My first encounter with Amarinder Singh was not very cordial. I had been the DGP for a couple of months when he publicly alleged that the Punjab Police was mowing down young Sikh boys in the border districts. The newspaper report mentioned the existence of numerous bodies in a morgue in Amritsar, Tarn Taran or Gurdaspur, I forget which.I took off for that morgue because I was alarmed. No report of police firings had been received. I did find a few bodies lying unclaimed and was informed that they were border crossers brought down by the BSF. They were neither Sikhs nor Punjabis. I issued a rejoinder to the Captain’s tirade. He did not like my interjection. But, subsequently, we became friends and he used to frequent my residence to discuss peaceful methods of ending the terrorist menace. I feel sorry for what is happening to him at present.I learnt recently that he proposed to form a new party that would tie up with the BJP to fight the Assembly elections. The Punjab BJP chief in my days was Hit Abhilashi, a man of sterling character and integrity. He was gunned down by terrorists along with his Sikh driver. That was the one political killing that really shook me. Abhilashi was a man of rare virtue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-murder-most-foul-327669
