23-10-2021||---||South of Pir Panjal poses counter-terror challenges||The year 2021 has again turned the spotlight on the multi-dimensional challenges that the security establishment faces in areas to the south of the Pir Panjal region in J&K as militants have repeatedly tried to circumvent fencing to infiltrate — at times, successfully. The hunt for militants in the Mendhar area of Poonch, where nine soldiers were killed recently, is a manifestation of this trend.In the over three-decade-old counter-insurgency in J&K, most of the studies and scholarly exercises have been limited to the Kashmir valley for understandable reasons. But time and again, the area to the south of Pir Panjal — the mountainous stretch that divides the Kashmir valley from the Jammu region — has posed challenges that are far more arduous and complex. From 1990 to 2007, J&K saw large-scale violence, with nearly 35 per cent of such instances happening in areas to the south of Pir Panjal.In order to understand the present challenge, one has to factor inthe geography, terrain and demography, including the ethnic and linguistic profiles, of the region and the past trends.The frontier to the south of Pir Panjal extends from the Jammu-Samba-Kathua plains to the hilly Rajouri-Poonch as the plain, nearly 198-km International border makes way for the nearly 740-km hilly Line of Control (LoC) from the Akhnoor area onwards. The ongoing mission to hunt down militants is similar to past fierce encounters in the Poonch sector.In the early 1990s, this route was used by Kashmiri-speaking militants to enter this side of the LoC from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). At times, the Indian forces were able to track down these militants even in the interior while they were on their way back to the valley. For instance, in a major operation on July 17, 1990, about 33 militants who had crossed the Sauji area in Mandi, Poonch district, were gunned down. All of them were Kashmiri-speaking and belonged to Pulwama and Anantnag districts of the valley.In fact, most of the former militants living across the Line of Control that this author has met in PoK and Pakistan during his research had used the Rajouri-Poonch area to cross the LoC. The family of Sher Khan, who finally resided at a dingy refugee camp in the Kotli area, from Rajouri, was one of them. Sher Khan was one of the five militants whose release from an Indian prison was negotiated by the JKLF operatives in lieu of freeing Rubiya Sayeed, daughter of Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, the then Indian Home Minister in the federal government.By the mid-1990s, the challenge enhanced for the security forces in the religiously heterogeneous Rajouri-Poonch area as there was a greater presence of militants who were non-Kashmiri speaking, and they had started establishing their bases there.The label of foreign militants from Pakistani Punjab and PoK is true in the Kashmir valley because of their language and culture that are separate from the local area. In the Rajouri-Poonch belt, this terminology doesn't hold true in practical terms. The militants coming from across the LoC are largely from the same ethnic and linguistic stock. This ensures easy assimilation, making it difficult for the security apparatus to detect them.Another recent security challenge to the south of Pir Panjal has been the regular use of drones from across the border. Drones have been regularly spotted in the air space of the Jammu plains that border Pakistan’s Sialkot district. A drone, on June 27, this year, had even dropped explosives at the Indian Air Force station, causing injuries to its two personnel.In fact, the Jammu plains have been at the heart of the militants’ logistical support and infiltration strategy for the last three decades. Various investigations have repeatedly led footprints of many infamous attacks to this terrain. For instance, the weapons and the militants who had planted improvised explosive devices (IEDs) on January 26, 1995, that nearly killed the then Governor KV Krishna Rao came through this route. Three bombs went off at the MAM Stadium in Jammu as the Governor was delivering his speech on Republic Day as a bomb exploded only a few yards away from him. Because of the meticulous nature of the attack, it took the security apparatus by surprise. It killed eight people, including three J&K information department officials, and injured 45 persons.More recently, as per the 13,500-page Pulwama attack charge-sheet of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), one of the prime accused, Mohammad Umar Farooq, nephew of Jaish-e-Mohammad founder Masood Azhar, had infiltrated through the Samba plains in April 2018. Actually, the information about the intrusion was known even before the Pulwama attack. As per the NIA, “Farooq took over as Jaish-e-Mohammad commander of Pulwama as he along with his compatriots had planned and prepared for the attack on security forces using IEDs on February 14, 2019.” Forty security personnel were killed as the attack brought India and Pakistan to a war-like situation.From the Ravi river to Manawar Tawi, the plains to the south of Pir Panjal provide several infiltration routes. It is a lesser known fact that some parts of Jammu city, the winter capital of J&K, are just 10 km from the International Border. In fact, most of the recent weapon droppings and sightings of the drones have taken place around the Tawi watershed near the International Border, an area which is at a 2-3-km aerial distance from the Jammu Civil Secretariat.Before militancy started in J&K, this terrain was used for smuggling narcotics, which, too, has seen some spike recently. The main route taken by the infiltrators was the Basantar corridor in Samba and the Hiranagar sector of Kathua district, which, again, has a number of ravines and ditches that are difficult to fence.The prevalent complexity and heterogeneity, including religious demographics, ethnic and linguistic profiles, geography and political orientations, to the south of Pir Panjal demand more rigour and a non-binary understanding of the region.Unlike Kashmir, where the terrain consists of plains and a road network has been built, the transportation system to the south of Pir Panjal is underdeveloped. Therefore, the formulation of an effective counter-terrorism strategy will have to factor in the new sets of challenges, including technological and local realities and the past trends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/south-of-pir-panjal-poses-counter-terror-challenges-328227
23-10-2021||---||Chinks in Yogi’s armour ahead of UP polls||If there were any doubts about the BJP strategy for next year’s UP Assembly polls, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat cleared the air in his annual Dasehra address. He set the stage for a polarised campaign by stoking Hindu insecurities about the minorities and flagging communally sensitive issues.He highlighted two measures which are likely to form prominent themes of the ground-level campaign. One is the compilation of a national register of citizens. The other is a population control law, which is already in circulation in UP in the form of a draft Bill. Bhagwat said that both are necessary to check the “vast differences in growth rates of different religious groups, infiltration and conversion resulting in religious imbalance of the population ratio, especially in border areas.”These are dog whistles to unite Hindus by invoking fears of being outnumbered by “others”. In the context of UP, the “others” are Muslims who constitute an estimated 19.3 per cent of the state population and can influence the electoral outcomes in roughly 130 of the 403 Assembly constituencies.It is hardly surprising that Bhagwat used his Dasehra address for a political speech, laying out a majoritarian agenda for the UP polls. A tough battle lies ahead, with the BJP fighting to win a second term amid widespread public disaffection which has given rise to fears that its carefully crafted rainbow caste coalition is unravelling.Yet, it’s an election the BJP must win at all costs, not just because of UP’s clout in terms of the Lok Sabha numbers but also because the Sangh Parivar hopes to replicate its successful Hindutva experiment in Gujarat in this populous heartland state which is home to important Islamic centres of theology and has large concentrated pockets of Muslims.For three consecutive elections since 2014, the BJP has managed to prove that Muslims can be made irrelevant to UP’s electoral paradigm if Hindus rise above caste differences and vote as a bloc. It stitched together a formidable coalition of Hindu social groups consisting of upper castes, non-Yadav backward castes and non-Jatav Dalits to win sweeping victories in the Lok Sabha polls of 2014 and 2019 and the Assembly polls of 2017.Much water has flowed under the bridge since 2019, giving rise to deepening concern that this winning Hindu alliance may be coming apart as the 2022 polls approach. Four groups are a major source of worry for the BJP-RSS. One is the lower backward castes. They were a new catch in 2014 and have been a pillar of the BJP’s support base in UP since.Today, they seem to be drifting away for a variety of reasons. For instance, this section has been the worst affected by the increasing joblessness in a Covid-afflicted listless economy. It has also been hit the hardest by the pandemic which raged through UP villages that were ill equipped to handle medical emergencies.Pictures of bodies being washed up on the banks of the Ganga during the second wave continue to haunt as do photographs of mass cremations in open fields and on city pavements because overflowing crematoriums were hard pressed to offer a dignified farewell to the dead.A second worry is the Jats whose unstinted support since the 2013 communal violence in Muzaffarnagar has ensured the BJP’s domination of western UP. This support appears to be wavering because of the controversial farm laws. Rakesh Tikait, who hails from Muzaffarnagar and is the son of the late founder of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Mahendra Singh Tikait, is at the forefront of the farmers' agitation. He has managed to mend fences between his community and the Muslims of western UP and in panchayat after mahapanchayat, farmers have vowed to defeat the BJP in 2022.The recent tragedy at Lakhimpur Kheri, where four Jat Sikh farmers were mowed down by a vehicle belonging to union minister Ajay Mishra’s son has only heightened tensions between the farming community and the BJP.The alienation of non-Jatav Dalit groups is a third factor to contend with. Communities like the Passis and Koris have been committed voters, but there are signs that they too are doing a rethink because of a spurt in clashes and tensions between Scheduled Caste groups and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s Thakur clan.In fact, the Yogi administration is seen as a return to Thakurvad. A Thakur-packed police force running riot in the state amid frequent reports of fake encounters and harassment of ordinary businessmen has served to reaffirm this perception. And, Yogi has done little to dispel it by continuing to protect Thakur police officers accused of various misdeeds.From this flows the fourth reason for anxiety: a perceptible disenchantment among Brahmins who have been core supporters of the BJP ever since the Ram Janmabhoomi movement was launched in the late 1980s. Although community members still dominate the administration, the free run given to a police force dominated by Thakurs has upset Brahmins used to controlling all the levers of power.The clouds darkening the electoral landscape leave the BJP with little choice but to follow Bhagwat’s prescription for a polarised campaign. The writing was on the wall when Yogi Adityanath won the tussle with the Modi-Shah duo some months ago and stayed on as UP CM. It is no secret that the top brass in Delhi wanted him out, or at least have his wings clipped by the induction of a former bureaucrat loyal to Modi.Yogi triumphed thanks to the backing of the RSS which had decided as early as then that Hindutva would form the main campaign plank in UP. And who better to do the job than a saffron-clad monk whose claim to being a Hindu icon almost rivals that of Modi?It is significant that after Bhagwat’s prod, Modi wove Hindu imagery into his speech at Kushinagar while inaugurating the first international airport in the region. The Opposition will have to think out of the box to counter what promises to be a high-pitched divisive campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinks-in-yogis-armour-ahead-of-up-polls-328220
23-10-2021||Aryan Khan should get bail at the earliest; Diwali should also be called Jashn-e-Riwaz; but are these the most pressing issues of communal disharmony in our country right now? At least five people have been killed in Srinagar in the last few weeks because they were not Muslim — as simple as that. Two of them belonged to Jammu & Kashmir — unfortunately||For a Shaheen Bagh in Srinagar||That majoritarianism is not the preserve of any particular religion needs to be understood to tackle this menace. But what makes it worse is mainland India’s business-as-usual response to targeted killings of Hindus and Sikhs in Kashmir. It is almost as if Sikh and Hindu lives of J&K do not matter or are not worth protests all across the country. The anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests from Delhi to Thiruvananthapuram and Mumbai to Kolkata were held over an apprehension of loss of citizenship of Muslims. The apprehension was legitimate in the context of the much-feared National Register of Citizens and the process of identifying recent illegal migrants in Assam. The Muslim community wanted a legally-bound assurance from the government, which was not forthcoming.All that the community sought was an opportunity for peaceful coexistence, a life without fear of being lynched over food habits or the meat in the fridge. After about two dozen cow vigilantism murders of Muslims, the community rightly protested to ensure their freedoms, rights and privileges enshrined in the Constitution.Well, should not these noble, idealistic, constitutional conditions of harmonious citizenship be applicable to the minorities of J&K, too? About a lakh people have been living in “refugee camps” for the last 30 years in their own state. It was derisively said in 1990 that these Kashmiri Hindus ran away because the then governor Jagmohan wanted them to be removed to deal with the militants. What a fallacy! Just as that old falsehood has been exposed for what it was, the recent killings have conclusively established the motive for the massacre of 35 Sikhs in Chittisinghpura in 2000. There were innumerable murders to force able-bodied people to abandon their valuable homes with everything inside. But unfortunately, there were no “Kashmiri Hindu murder trackers” then. But each murder and each eviction were quietly working on the psyche of the voters in the Hindi heartland, who were being coaxed to identify with the victim's religion.Kashmir Valley was being turned into Dar al-Islam with the ethnic cleansing of non-Muslims. The secular parties did not want to see it then and do not see it now, with the result of the Hindutva forces reaping a rich harvest of hatred. There could be many local factors driving these targeted killings — terrible justifications for the most heinous deeds. The cruellest reason offered is that these killings are aimed at stopping Hindus from reclaiming their lost homes or trying to drive a stiff bargain against properties earlier sold off for a song over power-of-attorney documents. If this is true, it only means that the targeted killings of Hindus and Sikhs have societal sanction of the Muslims of the Valley.It is also the responsibility of all those who have been marching for minority rights against the CAA to create a Shaheen Bagh in Srinagar to ensure equal rights for non-Muslims and non-locals in the Muslim-majority province. Caravans of love should travel to the Valley every time a local Sikh school principal or a Hindu teacher or a Bihari Hindu labourer is targeted. Otherwise, these attempts to fight majoritarianism lose their meaning and get reduced to mere Muslim religious projects. When a Hindu or Sikh gets killed in the Valley, when Dar al-Islam gets established there, then by default it strengthens the demand for a Hindu Rashtra elsewhere. And the chronology of the eviction of Hindus shows that the rise of the Hindu Right began primarily after the appalling attacks against the minorities in the Valley. That majoritarianism is not the preserve of any particular religion needs to be understood to tackle this menace effectively.Kerala has a fast-growing, sizeable, successful and progressive Muslim community, which unfortunately has spawned its own Islamist fundamentalists. According to news reports, over 100 people “either joined or tried to join ISIS” from Kerala and 10 of them travelled to Syria in 2018. Even when Kerala remains a Dar al-Harb for the hotheads, they managed to enforce the Sharia law of chopping off the hand of a college professor for “blasphemy”. How does this equivalence work? While we insist that the Hindutva radicals should accept MF Husain’s right to disrobe Hindu goddesses and even the Bharat Mata (which is a modern, fully dressed construct of Abanindranath Tagore), nobody really tries to convince Islamists that Prof TJ Joseph has every right to refer to a character called Muhammed in a question paper without getting his hand chopped off.Dar al-Islam and Hindu Rashtra are two sides of the same coin. If we allow the former to be enforced in a Muslim mohalla, the latter becomes an eventuality across vast swathes of equally regressive terrain. India remained staunchly and honestly secular despite the horror of Partition and the creation of Pakistan for Indian Muslims. The mainstream sentiments did not allow the Hindu Right to ask Muslims to go to Pakistan now that they had got a nation of their own. The first two wars by Pakistan to annex Kashmir over religion could not build Hindutva in India. The genocide of Hindus in tens of thousands in East Pakistan was never even discussed in religious terms when Bangladesh was liberated. But the secular, mainstream silence over the murder of innocent Kashmiri Hindus has triggered a political backlash that continues. It is imperative for every secular person to fight for the right of Hindus and Sikhs to live peacefully in the Kashmir Valley.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/for-a-shaheen-bagh-in-srinagar-328219
