24-10-2021||A senior Pakistani cricket journalist||Working up passion for India-Pak game||But such gimmicks and hype are fomenting passion among fans. It’s turning men into kids. “This may be the most uncertain format (T20), but we get serious about even a match of marbles between India and Pakistan,” says a colleague, who seems reasonable at most other times.The Indian subcontinent is perpetually tingling with nervous tension. The reasons are innumerable. Religion, caste and language top the list of metaphysical sources that torment souls here. Then there are historical grievances and injustices within nations and beyond national boundaries. Then there is disaffection with our rulers, past and present. Modern and pre-modern ideas are tearing the social fabric apart in nations. There’s the big brother, small brother polarity, too. National boundaries are being contested. All this combines to invest much meaning, anger, hope into a match of cricket, the No. 1 sport of South Asia. People need to vent pent-up frustrations, and cricket is useful for this.In the 50-over World Cup in 2019, tension was always palpable in the stands when siblings from the subcontinent played — and it was the most intense when India played Pakistan. The game witnessed aggressive ‘banter’, taunts and even abuse in the stands — it was being played not long after the Pulwama terror attack, the Balakot airstrike and the capture and release of Wing Commander Abhinandan. All this was used as ‘banter’ on the cricket field in Manchester on June 16. The Afghanistan and Pakistan fans actually got into physical fights in the stands at Leeds the same month.In Adelaide in February 2015, one old man — born in Uttar Pradesh, resident of Karachi, visiting his son in Australia — desperately pleaded with Pakistan captain Misbah-ul-Haq to “please, please, don’t lose this match”. ‘This’ match was the next day’s contest against India. We’ve seen similar scenes in various venues across several countries, but that old gentleman’s pitiful entreaties before the Pakistan captain keep returning to the mind’s eye; notions of national ‘izzat’, physical strength, skill and even competitiveness over religions seemed to underlie his desperate wish for the first ever win for his team against India in the World Cup.India have won 11 times in 12 matches against Pakistan in the cricket World Cups — seven times out of seven in the 50-over World Cup and four times out of five in the T20 World Cup. The one time India didn’t win, the match was tied, and India got full points after a bowl-out. That was in 2007, when no one really took T20 cricket seriously — then India won the title by beating Pakistan in a thrilling final. A month after that, Yuvraj Singh said T20 cricket shouldn’t be taken too seriously: “It obviously feels great to be part of the winning team in the T20 format, but it’s more of an entertainment for the crowd and the batsmen.”Then came the super-cash of the IPL. The cricket landscape changed irrevocably. The T20 format, now possessing envious financial muscle, began to be analysed very, very seriously by even very serious professional cricketers — why, some even landed jobs as a mentor or a consultant with a team. But the fact remains that the brevity of T20 cricket reduces skill gaps between teams. No amount of gimmickery can change this fact. It’s prudent, thus, to do as cricketers do: Enjoy the game, don’t bother too much about the result — and make a rupee or two, if possible!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/working-up-passion-for-india-pak-game-328740
24-10-2021||I had a long chat with a newly-minted teenager last week. I had no idea that this suddenly tall||An open letter to teachers and parents in 2021||“I feel so isolated when I am surrounded by people that I wonder if it will be a respite to be alone,” he said. “But I am a child. No one leaves me alone. Not even when I am sleeping.”My young friend opened up slowly. He was testing me as we went along. I was careful to not sound alarmed. I guarded myself from offering help or intervention when he broached sensitive topics. He was clearly looking for a safe space in which he could articulate his thoughts and try to untangle conflicts. His primary need was to not be judged. When I validated his sensitivity and appreciated him for his insightfulness, he would look at me silently with a half-smile on his face.All the things I didn’t say to him, I want to say to all the teachers returning to physical classrooms after a traumatic disruption of the last year-and-a-half. This is for everyone leading teams, including parents.Recreate spaces of empathy and trustNo learning is going to take place unless children feel heard, seen and valued. The panic of the pandemic months has pushed back children into the background. Watching adults battle it out in survival mode through rounds of lockdowns and Covid-19 surges, has left children worrying for others as well as themselves. Our first role is to make them feel safe again.Help restore boundaries againBesides losing the structure of school hours, children have also been deprived of playground time and other opportunities to socialise and play. They have witnessed the work stress of their parents and extended family at close range. There have been untimely, sudden deaths. Elders around them are glued to their screens as well, often playing toxic videos on their mobile phones on full volume. There are barely any filters left between the world of adults and children.We need to recreate spaces that enable innocence, humour and the illuminating insight of the young. Our teachers are best placed to make this start.Pay attention to the child who is acting out his/her distressPsychologists tell us that when a person experiences trauma, they don’t always feel the full force of its effects until after they’ve gotten safe. That is when one is finally free to process what happened. Often the hypervigilance, panic attacks, rage and nightmares start after the danger seems to have passed. The children who seem to be behaving the worst are the best guides to what the needs of the rest of the group are.“Nobody rebels without a cause,” my teenage friend said to me. “They don’t always know how to resist without provoking the anger of those in authority.”Respond to the here and now without offering solutionsOur challenge as adults is to hold the space for children as they experience complex emotions. Most of the time, we are tempted to intervene too fast. It is inconvenient to have to sit with these difficult, discomforting moments. Yet, admitting that our fears and anxieties are shared and real is far more reassuring than being forced to deny them.This is the life lesson. Giving up the arrogance of certainty and accepting the vulnerability of not being entirely in control. It is okay to lay out the questions and get comfortable with confessing that we don’t know the answers. That is more effective.Practise being kind by looking out for yourself as wellOur mourning is incomplete. Healing is always a long, drawn-out process. Healing our way on this path needs a new script from us. We need to reckon with shame, guilt and our own unacknowledged fears and resentments. Skipping this part means remaining trapped.There are precious gifts on this uncomfortable path. We owe it to ourselves to be compassionate towards our needs.As students return to classrooms all over the world, they offer a mirror to the adults around them. They want to make sense of their experiences. They want to reconcile. Children are believers. Let your presence be the sacred space that offers dignity and respect for their uniqueness. At first, it will seem that nothing is happening, and then one will watch joy emerge from the cracked earth and the skies above.— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/an-open-letter-to-teachers-and-parents-in-2021-328739
24-10-2021||ONE evening||Surrender that wasn’t at Bharatpur||“Sahib, the depot is in danger, a band of terrorists has come and is hiding next to its perimeter wall. Tonight, they will blow off the ammunition depot.”Terrorists in Bharatpur? Impossible, I thought. Bharatpur only had gangs of quite patriotic local highwaymen, dacoits and ruffians. The police made convoys of civil vehicles and escorted them safely from Mathura to Bharatpur and beyond. After dark, you ventured on the roads if you had a wish to be robbed and beaten. But they respected the Army installation that employed men from villages all around the depot.Girdhari, who had brought the alarming news, was a scatterbrain storekeeper in the Ammunition Depot. I was the security officer of the installation.“Are you damn sure? Hope you aren’t drunk or something, Girdhari?”“Radhey Radhey, sahib, I swear on the holy cow I saw them with my own eyes. Tall, fierce, fair, bearded terrorists who came riding camels and have hidden in my fields close to our depot. You will thank me tomorrow that I saved the depot and your job as well,” he offered solicitiously.“Well, they could be anybody. How can you be certain that their intention is to sabotage our depot?” I enquired.“They are armed, well-built men and very fair. When I tried to go close to them, they shooed me away, making cold-blooded gestures. I couldn’t understand their language and they hid with camels in my field, which is in a depression and well-hidden. Why would they do so if they mean peace?”He seemed to have a point. “Meet me in five minutes outside the quarter guard,” I told him.I changed quickly and with a team of soldiers kept ready for just such eventualities, started with Girdhari. Jackals slinked away in the ‘sarkanda’ and scorpions struck our boots as we marched across the dry scrub. After an hour’s march, Girdhari pointed to a sunken field with sand cuttings all around it.“They are in there. Kill all the scoundrels, sahib.”We climbed the embankments and the soldiers took positions all around with rifles.“Surrender for the love of your mothers, sisters, wives and children. The Indian Army has surrounded you,” I hollered loudly in Hindi. No reply came from the ghostly shadows in the field below. A huge beast swaggered and rose in the dense unspeaking night. I repeated the warning thrice, to no avail.Thereafter, I cocked my rifle and aimed at a sand wall, firing a burst as a warning. A startled voice started shouting from the dead ground loudly. “Jim, I say Jim, did you hear that? Wake up mate. Everybody, wake up,” someone was shouting. I recognised the British accent.I ordered my soldiers to remove magazines and make safe their arms. “Fall in, switch on the search lights.”Shafts of light illuminated the hollow saucer of ground down below. Five camels blubbered and rugged-looking men crawled out from pup tents, pulling on clothes.“Girdhari, come let us go and say hello to your terrorists.” I slithered down the sand bank, almost falling on a camel’s neck down below.“And who might you be?” I asked the tall, bearded man who stood frozen and was staring at my rifle. “We are a British army (special forces) camelback expedition, Constantinople to Lhasa. We head towards Agra tomorrow on our way to Kathmandu. We didn’t hear you guys come at all.”“You are camped on this man’s ground, he mistook you for terrorists,” I said, as Girdhari looked on sheepishly. The British army officer apologised, offering to move at once.“Never mind,” I said. We shook hands and I wished them luck.Girdhari had almost cooked and salted my goose that night. I had come very close to giving the command to fire at his “terrorists”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/surrender-that-wasnt-at-bharatpur-328738
24-10-2021||ONE of the basic truths about societies is that things which are deemed to be real have real consequences. Which means that||Walking the communal talk||The Partition of India happened because there already existed a belief, long nurtured by the Ashraf elite in India, that Muslims were discriminated in India, that Hindus got a much larger chunk of any benefits that accrued because of British rule over India, and that only the creation of a separate nation for Muslims would bring any relief. That was another matter that almost 30 per cent of the army and the police force in India were made up of Muslims, even though the Muslim share of the population was a mere 15 per cent and within Muslims, Ashrafs constituted just a little over 10 per cent of the Muslim population. It also did not matter that not a single Muslim could ever qualify in the competitive exam for the Indian Civil Service and yet, at least two Ashrafs were nominated in each batch by the government to the ICS.This was the way of the British to ensure that there was adequate Muslim representation in the institutions.The next inevitable step, promoted by the liberal Secretary of State for India, the journalist John Morley, was to provide separate electorates for Muslims. A few years later, Gandhi would stand in support of the desire of the Ashraf Muslim merchants of Bombay Presidency to launch an agitation in India, the Khilafat movement, on what could best be called an internal matter of Turkey. The only success of the Khilafat movement was to provide an overtly religious nucleus for Muslims in India around which to coalesce, something which the Muslim League, a body entirely made of Ashrafs, had failed to do till now. One of the usually forgotten facts of Indian history is that in 1920, under the religious impulse sparked off by the Khilafat movement, almost 20,000 Muslims (30,000, according to the textbooks in Pakistan), mostly poor and of the lower castes, began their long march northwards in the hope of reaching a land where Islam was not in danger. In India, they believed, Islam was in danger. A handful of them who managed to intrude into Soviet Russia converted to Marxism, and returned to India as Communists. The rest simply vanished, unremarked and unnoticed. The usual fate of those who allow themselves to be used as canon fodder.Only the Akali Dal objected when the idea of separate electorates was expanded to include the Sikhs. The Congress maintained silence, even while its own report on the Kanpur riots of 1931 had concluded that the British were trying to create a narrative in India which could show that Muslims formed a separate ‘nation’ within India; and worse, they seemed to be succeeding in their enterprise since the Congress, by its silences, went along with the narrative of separatism. The faux sense of victimhood which the Muslim League propagated was challenged by Partap Singh Kairon in the Legislative Assembly when in December 1938, he moved the ‘Jhatka Meat Bill’. “I am moving this Bill in the capacity of a nationalist or a Punjabi, rather than that of a Sikh,” he explained. “I, as a true Indian or a Punjabi, intend to bring forward a measure by means of which the existing discriminatory restrictions against jhatka meat are sought to be removed.” The premier of Punjab, Sir Sikandar Hyat Khan, praised Kairon for taking this initiative. “I welcome such sentiments,” the premier said, “I again congratulate him for having such liberal views. I agree with him that people having their allegiance with any religion should be free to use whatever food they like and in whatever way they choose.”Three years later, Kairon would leave the Akalis for being too communal and join the Congress, which then was a minor player in the politics of Punjab but was overtly nationalist.A few years later, in 1946, when Nehru, as the head of the Interim Government, toured the North West Frontier Province to convince them of joining India, he was greeted with jeers by the local villagers and village elders. In the recently concluded elections, they had all voted for the Muslim League and its promise to form a separate Pakistan. Some of them even opened fire with canons at the aircraft in which Nehru was travelling. The reality of Muslim separatism that had been imagined for many decades was reaching its inevitable political conclusion.The months that followed saw an unprecedented bloodbath in India. When almost 50 years later the Scandinavian political scientist of Pakistani origin, Ishtiaq Ahmed, asked those who had been directly involved in the killings and lootings of 1947, about their reasons for such obnoxious behaviour on their part, all that he heard were stories of incomprehension and remorse. Those who had paid the price for Partition, as well as those who had extracted the price from them, were equally at a loss to explain what had caused them and others to behave so badly.— The writer is Professor of History at Panjab University, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/walking-the-communal-talk-328737
