25-10-2021||---||No lessons learnt from past flood disasters||This month’s flood disasters in two states distant from each other — Kerala and Uttarakhand — have a lot in common. Both happened after the end of the normal dates of the south-west monsoon. It was a repeat of earlier such disasters in the respective states. In both cases, there were reports by experts warning about the disasters. The rainfall events were broadly along the lines warned by the climate scientists. But the states were ill-prepared to cope with the situation. Inappropriate human interventions worsened the disasters in major ways. Disaster management seems to be absent from the ground. In both cases, more precise forecasts about the rainfall quantum and location would have helped.Over 250 people have lost their lives in these floods in Kerala, Uttarakhand and contiguous areas of Uttar Pradesh and Nepal and the damage is likely to go past Rs 10,000 crore. The disaster is also extending to Sikkim and neighbouring sub-Himalayan West Bengal areas. The full scale of the disaster is still unfolding. The floods have some unprecedented aspects, but that cannot be any justification for the lack of preparedness.For example, the rainfall at a number of locations has crossed recorded figures, including in Nainital, Mukteshwar, Pantnagar and Pithoragarh. The river water level crossed the highest flood levels at many places, including Pancheshwar, the Banbasa barrage, Ghat and Paliakalan (all four sites along the Sharda river) and Deoprayas and Karanprayag (both along the Alaknanda river). In Kerala, the water level crossed the highest flood levels along the Manimala river in Kottayam district and along the Kodiyar river in the neighbouring Kanyakumari of Tamil Nadu.Madhavan Rajeevan, former secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, says that there were clear forecasts of heavy rains in Uttarakhand and Kerala, but the absence of disaster reaction mechanisms at local levels, advanced landslide prediction systems and some basic ground work of evacuation from the low-lying vulnerable areas resulted in the loss of lives and properties.Along with better forecasts, we need better monitoring and reporting of actual rainfall, water levels in rivers and incidents of landslides. It was disturbing, for example, to see that the IMD’s daily district-wise rainfall report showed ‘no data’ for Bageshwar and Pithoragarh districts of Uttarakhand on October 20 in the midst of the disaster. Its river basin-wise reporting of rainfall has been persistently callous and problematic for years, but the IMD seems to be making no amends. It needs to understand that reporting the rainfall along hydrological units like river basins and sub-basins is vital.Moreover, more timely and location-specific forecasts that would enable the disaster management authorities to take the necessary advance actions would help. Such emergency action plans would follow only if a functional, accountable and participatory disaster management mechanism is in place.Such actions would include advance water releases from dams, shifting of vulnerable people from landslide-prone areas, ensuring sufficient stock and distribution of essential items.In Kerala’s flood disasters of 2018 and 2019, the inappropriate operation of dams played a significant role, as it has happened at many other places, including Uttarakhand. But there is no transparent or accountable mechanism in place to either learn lessons from such events or hold accountable those responsible for such wrong operations. Neither the Central Water Commission (India's official flood forecasting body) nor state water resources departments are legally required to publicly display the rule curves for dams and how the actual dam operation compares with it.By consistently ignoring the recommendations of the Madhav Gadgil Panel, Kerala politicians have ensured that the state will continue to face disasters.In fact, the CWC's flood forecasting performance is pretty pathetic and it is doubtful if it can contribute to flood management, as also considering the lack of independent oversight or accountability.The National Disaster Management Authority did come out with some steps for reservoir operations mentioned in the flood management guidelines in January 2008 and urban flood management in September 2010, but the guidelines remain unimplemented.It's been more than a decade since climate scientists have been telling us how the rainfall is intensifying, their timing and locations are changing, as has also been clear from our experience over the years. In Uttarakhand, scientists have recorded over 7,500 extreme rainfall events since 2015. The Himalayas are warming faster than the average warming experienced across the world. Snowlines are going up and rainfall is increasing at higher altitudes. Similarly, Kerala has faced the third major flood disaster in four years. The warming of the Arabian Sea has led to a 52 per cent increase in the frequency of cyclonic storms.So, our disaster management plans, mechanisms and governance should have been prepared for this, but we are far from prepared.As part of better disaster governance, we need to identify the vulnerable locations, assess their vulnerabilities and prepare appropriate policies and plans.One of the key steps has to be to ensure that we do not increase the vulnerabilities of these locations by our actions. All development projects and plans that are increasing the vulnerabilities by the destruction of ecology and land use change should be reviewed and reversed.We are, in fact, doing the opposite. We are continuously increasing the disaster potential of the vulnerable areas in Kerala, Uttarakhand and elsewhere by inappropriate interventions in the name of development.So, we continue to push disaster-enhancing, unviable hydropower projects, build highways without assessing impacts or looking for less damaging options, continue with indiscriminate and unsustainable mining, blasting, deforestation, keep encroaching on river beds and floodplains, and keep dumping muck and waste into the rivers. All of these are majorly contributing to increasing the disaster potential of the already vulnerable Himalayas and the Western and Eastern Ghats.It should be clear that the climate change-induced disasters are taking a heavy toll of society and economy. We may be good at saving people once the disaster sets in, but we are pathetic in being prepared to prevent avoidable disasters.One of the things that can help is to learn lessons from past disasters. For that, a basic requirement is to institute an independent assessment of each such disaster which would tell us what all happened during the disaster and who played what role. Such a credible objective assessment would also tell us what lessons the disaster provides for us.Do we have the benefit for such an assessment of, say, the June 2013 Uttarakhand disaster or the 2018 Kerala floods or, for that matter, any other disaster? If not, how can we even start the process of identifying the lessons we can learn from a disaster? Till we change this situation, we are possibly destined to experience a repeat of the worst kind of disasters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/no-lessons-learnt-from-past-flood-disasters-329093
25-10-2021||---||Ailing Congress getting its act together||Amid the many hiccups and disquiet, the Congress under the Gandhi trio — Sonia, Rahul and Priyanka — seems to be getting its act together. The outcome of the 2022 Assembly polls in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Manipur is keenly awaited before Rahul Gandhi formally declares himself as a candidate for the party’s presidential polls.The period between May 2019 (when Rahul had resigned as the 87th AICC chief) and October 16, 2021 (when the CWC announced the organisational poll schedule for the 2022-27 period) was challenging on many counts. The Congress’ electoral fortunes were constantly dwindling. The fall of the Madhya Pradesh government, the desertion of Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sushmita Dev, Jitin Prasada and other leaders, ideological confusion, dissidence and a sense of despondency had reduced the grand old party to a pale shadow of self.Yet, the party has not seen a repeat of what happened decades ago. In some ways, it’s a failure of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duo compared to the Ram Manohar Lohia effect of 1967, the Jaiprakash Narain campaign of 1975 and PV Narasimha Rao-Sitaram Kesri’s own undoings that had seen the formation of the Congress (O) in 1969, the Congress (Reddy) and the Congress (Sharad Pawar) in 1978, the Congress (Tiwari) in 1995, the Madhya Pradesh Vikas Congress (led by Madhavrao Scindia) in 1996, the Karnataka Vikas Party (Sarekoppa Bangarappa) in 1996 and the Trinamool Congress in 1998.No major group of Congressmen has broken ranks in spite of the humiliating and crushing defeats of 2014 and 2019.Since August 15, 2020, the G23 had tried to keep the ante up, but on October 16, 2021, it saw a somewhat belligerent Sonia openly throwing a challenge, questioning the premise of its grievance that there was a sense of drift and lack of a hands-on party chief. Three members of the G23 — Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik — were heard murmuring things that could not be dubbed as defiance.Some leading lights within the G23 privately say that the group has been effectively dismantled, having ‘achieved’ a commitment for intra-party polls. It must, however, be said that the G23 was not unified from day one. Rather, it was an assortment of senior Congress leaders having different objectives in mind. While some succeeded in getting themselves nominated to party panels, others remain “happy to be unhappy”.On a more positive note, both Rahul and Priyanka are showing signs of promise. Priyanka has been successful in getting some mind space in battleground Uttar Pradesh. Her offer to grant 40 per cent tickets to women candidates is interesting and innovative. There is lack of empirical research on gender-based voting patterns, but in recent years, Mamata Banerjee, Narendra Modi and Arvind Kejriwal have been successful in mobilising a greater percentage of women voters.The big question is whether Priyanka Gandhi can show some spark of her grandmother Indira Gandhi. More importantly, would she muster the courage to contest the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls? For the cynic, the 2022 UP polls may be already over for Priyanka and the Congress, but any foothold in terms of 25-odd seats or 10 per cent-plus vote share will hold promise. As the cliche goes, the road to Delhi goes via Lucknow.Rahul, on the other hand, is focusing on issues of ideology. His move to induct Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani and the importance accorded to Hardik Patel are courageous as Rahul seems inclined to look beyond the Indian middle-class voters. The middle class may have been a great beneficiary of the Congress-led economic reforms, but currently, it is with the BJP. Rahul is keen to court and champion the cause of the poor, farmers, daily-wage earners and other marginalised sections of society. The left-of-centre tilt is there for everyone to see and those unwilling to buy his line of thinking are encouraged to head for the exit gates.Long-time Congress watchers say the arithmetic is simple. There are over 200 Lok Sabha seats spread across Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Goa, parts of Maharashtra, Odisha, Jammu, Punjab etc., where the Congress is in a direct contest with the BJP. At present, the BJP holds sway in almost 90 per cent of such seats. Unless the Congress manages to deal a blow and reduce the BJP tally to 50-60 per cent, the chances of its revival are slim.Outside this cluster, the Congress is in a triangular or multi-cornered contest with the BJP on the one hand and non-NDA regional parties on the other. The alliance strategy has its limitations as bargaining for seats from a position of weakness is a non-starter in politics.The Congress leadership's tussle with the regional satraps requires a separate volume. In a nutshell, Rahul and Priyanka are far less reverential towards the regional satraps, including the chief ministers of the party-ruled states or chief-ministerial aspirants in the poll-bound states.Capt Amarinder Singh learnt this the hard way and is eager to settle scores at a time when age and political clout are not on his side. Navjot Singh Sidhu, by now, must have realised the kind of politics Rahul and Priyanka pursue while appearing to be different, yet effectively on the same page. Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot and his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel have been on tenterhooks. Even veteran Harish Rawat is beginning to realise that the road to the chief ministerial post is not going to be easy even if the Congress wins the hill state of Uttarakhand. As if the return of Yashpal Arya was not enough, that of bete noire Harak Singh Rawat and Saket Bahuguna is also on the cards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ailing-congress-getting-its-act-together-329091
25-10-2021||---||The plurilateral push||Elazar Cohen is a name readers in India will not recognise. Not even practitioners of onomatology, despite his distinctly Jewish name. Long before the idea of an “international forum for economic cooperation” among India, Israel, the UAE and the US burst into headlines a week ago, Cohen has been working quietly on the ground to bring together three of these four countries — except the US — in a trilateral relationship.If anyone is expecting that China will be a factor to be put down or competed against, they will be disappointed.Cohen is the Commissioner General of the Israeli Pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai which opened for the global public on October 1. India is his neighbour: the Indian Pavilion is close to Israel’s and Cohen has benefited most from this than any of his counterparts from the 191 other countries taking part in the exposition.Governments will take their time to give life and substance to ideas such as the new four-nation platform discussed last week during External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s visit to Israel. Besides, public discourse in India has a tendency to run away with bilateral and plurilateral ties, which Indians are comfortable with. Israel is one such. Headline-writers in India have already christened the new forum as the “Middle East Quad,” whereas the media and think tanks in the US, UAE and Israel have been more restrained in their enthusiasm about the quadrilateral foreign ministers’ meeting.Indians constitute the biggest expatriate population, not only in the UAE, but also in all six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. They have been thronging the Indian Pavilion and are among the top out of the 7,71,477 ticketed visits from 181 countries in the first 18 days of the exposition. An Israeli outpost on this scale in an Arab country is a novelty for Indians and they have been visiting to see the activities which are under Cohen’s watch.The majority of companies in Israel are small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and these have been hugely successful. Indian-owned enterprises in the UAE are almost entirely made up of SMEs. It is an ideal match for new business as Israel looks to penetrate Arab markets in a big away, one year after the historic Abraham Accords paved the way for formal Israeli diplomatic and economic presence in the Gulf and vice versa.Indians have been doing business with the Gulf for centuries and they knew these markets long before the GCC countries attained formal, structured statehood in their present modern forms. Israel does not have that advantage: the Jewish state came into being just shy of 75 years, and for most of its existence has been boycotted by all member countries of the Arab League, including those in the Gulf. That is now in the past and Indians in the Gulf have the wherewithal to consummate the marriage solemnised in the White House by the Abraham Accords.Prior to Jaishankar’s hybrid meetings — he and Israel’s foreign minister met in person while their counterparts from the UAE and the US were present virtually — last week, Indian decision-makers at various levels at the Centre and in the states have been working on advancing trilateral relations using the Cohen route, as it were. One impromptu visitor to the Israeli Pavilion was Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, president of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) and BJP member of the Rajya Sabha.He was at the Indian Pavilion, where ICCR performers were entertaining a distinguished audience on its opening night. He noted Israel’s Pavilion nearby. The next day, he went back to the Expo Village and called on members of Cohen’s team. Now the ICCR and its Israeli counterparts are working on a mega cultural event to be presented jointly by their pavilions. The ICCR, which is associated with the entire cultural organising for India’s participation in the exposition, has been mobilising talent from within the UAE to add to its cultural content. Working with the Israelis, a trilateral cultural relationship will soon see fruition.Taking the cue from stories cleverly planted by spin doctors in Tel Aviv, sections the Indian media have given credit for the idea of the new four-nation group which includes New Delhi, to Israel’s foreign minister, Yair Lapid. The truth is that in November last year, Jaishankar spoke about opportunities for India following the Accords.During a visit to Abu Dhabi, Jaishankar told WAM, the official Emirates News Agency, that the rapprochement among Bahrain, Israel and the UAE would impact the entire world, not just the South Asian and Gulf region. “It will bring new economic combinations and create new logistical opportunities for the countries in the region and beyond,” he said. No one anticipated then that the international forum for economic cooperation, which came out of last week’s quadrilateral meeting, was what he had on his mind.A senior Israeli diplomat in New Delhi has been quick to avow that the new forum is not meant to counter China. It was just as well. Supranationalists in India have a tendency to target China on anything and everything, whether it is in place or out of place. They build imaginary China shops whenever they sight a bull, as it were. The Israeli diplomat’s quick move to disabuse any idea that four nations, including her own, are ganging up against China also points to the challenges before any new economic forum of four countries which are very different from one another in every way.The UAE, for instance, was one of the early countries to team up with China’s Huawei for its 5G networks. As a coastal state with critical commercial shipping and defensive maritime interests, Israel wants China to assist in its port development. So if anyone is expecting that China will be a factor to be put down or competed against, they will be disappointed.An understated outcome of Jaishankar’s visit to Jerusalem has been Israel’s accession to the International Solar Alliance (ISA), which has its origins as a Franco-Indian initiative. The UAE is already active in the ISA. Both countries hope to do brisk business with India in this renewable energy source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-plurilateral-push-329090
