26-10-2021||---||Imran’s problems mount as TTP attacks increase||IF Pakistan had hoped that the attacks of Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) against its armed forces would cease after the occupation of Afghanistan by the Taliban, recent violent incidents have falsified those myths. On October 20, four Pakistani security personnel died when a roadside bomb exploded near the Afghan border. That same morning, a sepoy succumbed to militants’gunfire at a checkpost in Hangu district of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.According to Pakistani media reports, the year 2021 has registered a sharp increase in terror-related fatalities. Between the second and third quarters of 2021, there was a 73 per cent rise in such incidents, mostly targeting Pakistan’s armed forces. Of the nine terror attacks in September, eight were claimed by the TTP, which is operating unhindered from Afghan areas bordering Pakistan, now under the control of the Taliban. The latter continues to be reluctant, for ideological and strategic reasons, to pressure the TTP to cease attacks and has advised the Pakistan government to talk to the TTP directly.Despite the advice of the opposition parties and armed forces, which have lost a large number of personnel to the TTP attacks, Pakistan PM Imran Khan authorised talks with the TTP leadership. But the latter has rejected these overtures and resolved to continue its fight for the establishment of a Sharia state in Pakistan. Now the TTP is feeling much more emboldened about its jihadi cause with the victory of the Taliban and consolidation of several splinter groups and ethnic Pashtun and Baluch organisations in its fold.Imran Khan’s headache has increased with the deterioration of his relations with the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), General Qamar Javed Bajwa, over the removal of Lt Gen Faiz Hameed as Director-General (DG) of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). While Bajwa wanted to replace Hameed with Lt Gen Nadeem Ahmed Anjum, Imran is keen to continue with Hameed as DG, ISI, and appoint him as the next COAS after Bajwa retires in November, 2022. According to certain reports, Imran favours him as he had helped his party in winning the last elections in July 2018 and he hopes that Hameed would replicate that favour again in 2023. Bajwa, reportedly, has his own ambition of seeking another term beyond November 2022 and wants to have his own favourite as DG, ISI.The Pakistan army has maintained a façade of unity despite internal differences. The army has seldom allowed any civilian prime minister to dictate the military appointments against its will. Whenever the latter has done so, he has paid a heavy price.Given that Imran Khan is opposed by numerous political parties and extremist groups, like the Tehreek-e-Labbaik and others, and that he rules with a thin majority, the likely result of any continuing confrontation with the army for him is obvious. His government is already facing many problems due to poor governance, strains between key institutions and a polarised polity.Imran Khan’s popular support is tenuous as Pakistan’s economic situation has floundered with the failure of its negotiations with the IMF for disbursal of the next tranche of $1 billion over its refusal to raise new taxes. Pakistan has witnessed a sharp depreciation of its currency (8.8 per cent from July 2021 to October 18), worsening fiscal situation, high inflation and unemployment.Pakistan’s relations with the US have deteriorated over its duplicitous support for the Taliban as the latter has cut off most military and economic assistance. Imran Khan is flustered by the refusal of US President Biden to talk to him and his downgrade of the USA’s relationship with Pakistan to the “narrow talks on Afghanistan” instead of a “broad-based” relationship desired by Islamabad.To mollify Washington, the Imran Khan government is in talks to support the USA’s counterterrorism efforts by allowing the use of its airspace to conduct military and intelligence operations in Afghanistan against the Islamic State (IS) and other adversaries in exchange for “help in managing the relationship with India”. While Pakistan may get some economic benefits such as the revival of some US assistance and the loosening of the IMF conditionalities over its remaining loan, such military collaboration will not be to the liking of the Taliban, which has already conveyed its opposition.Meanwhile, Afghanistan continues to be riddled with political, economic and humanitarian disasters as the food, health and electricity situations there remain precarious. The international community has cut off most economic assistance and is insisting that the Taliban government must establish an inclusive government, respect the human rights of its women and minorities and prevent terror groups from using its territories against its neighbours. The Taliban has not complied with most of these conditions.Pakistan’s efforts to seek international recognition of the Taliban government have not made much headway. There is a threat of the migration of a large number of Afghan refugees into Pakistan and Iran, if the humanitarian situation worsens further.China remains concerned about the activities of the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and TTP militants against its interests in Xinjiang and Pakistan. At the last China-Pakistan Economic Corridor meeting on September 23, 2021, China reportedly expressed indignation at Pakistan’s failure to provide adequate security to its project personnel. It asked Islamabad to take “real action”, resolve project funding issues, like payments owed to operators of independent power projects, impose new taxes on power generation companies and increase incentives for the Chinese companies. No new major projects were announced at that meeting.The failure of the Pakistan government to respect the primacy of the military, maintain cordial relations with the key countries and internal stability is likely to weigh on its continuance in power. Imran Khan has survived so far with the support of the military. If his differences with the COAS are not resolved quickly, even that support may wither, forcing his government to totter before long.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/imrans-problems-mount-as-ttp-attacks-increase-329570
26-10-2021||---||Consolidate gains of a billion vaccine doses||ON October 21, India achieved the milestone of one billion vaccinations against Covid-19. It is remarkable because this landmark has been achieved within just over nine months of starting the vaccination, and that too, with made-in-India vaccines. Approximately 75 per cent of our adult population has received at least the first dose and over 31 per cent both the doses. Remarkably, India saw an unprecedented 23.6 crore vaccinations in September alone and the total vaccinated numbers so far are close to the entire population of the US. Contrary to earlier fears, over 65 per cent of the vaccines have been used in rural areas.Where do we move from this milestone? Apart from achieving the target of fully vaccinating our adult population, there are concerns about booster shots and vaccination of children as also apprehension about the development of new variants. Though India has proven the skeptics wrong with its vaccination programme, at the current rate of vaccination, we will be able to cover the entire eligible population by March 2022 only.There are some other disturbing trends too. While Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Kerala have fully vaccinated nearly half of their eligible population, UP and Maharashtra have covered only 19 per cent and 32 per cent of their population. It is feared that with the daily caseload decreasing steadily, the level of urgency and enthusiasm to be vaccinated may wane in the coming months. This is exactly what generated the last wave in the US, as thousands of people did not turn up for the second dose. In India, 10 crore people have missed the second dose. Thus, a large segment of people is at a risk of infection as well as passing it on to others.As vaccination coverage increases the world over, there is a concern about falling immunity generated by the vaccines. Scientists do not yet know the level of immunity needed to prevent infection after vaccination against Covid-19.Some other vaccines too do require a booster shot. The hepatitis B vaccine needs a third dose or the booster dose at six months. The tetanus vaccine needs a booster shot every 10 years. The hepatitis A and typhoid vaccines also need to be given periodically and so is the case with the flu shots.Follow-up of the vaccinated individuals in Israel has shown that people over 60 years who had received both shots five months ago were at three-fold risk of getting infected from the virus than those recently vaccinated. A UK study found that the ability of the AstraZeneca vaccine to prevent Covid after the second dose fell from 67 per cent to 47 per cent after 20 weeks. A recent study has shown that a booster shot of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is 95.6 per cent effective against symptomatic infection. This is especially significant as the study was conducted during a period when Delta was the prevalent strain.The US Food and Drug Adminstration (FDA) recently approved emergency authorisation for two of the vaccines as booster shots. The FDA allowed a single booster dose of Moderna or Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine to be given at least six months after the last shot to over-65-year-olds, those between 18 and 64 years who are at a high risk of contracting a severe disease and those with frequent institutional or occupation exposure. The FDA has also given the green signal to “mix and match” for the booster, i.e., the booster could be different from the initial vaccine as it has been seen that two different vaccines can boost the immune response.The NHS in the UK has also started offering booster shots at least six months after the second dose to select people — those over 50 years of age, frontline healthcare workers and a few other categories.India also needs to look at the need to allow booster shots to the fully vaccinated individuals. Data from different parts of India have shown breakthrough infections after vaccination in 8-10 per cent of individuals. With over 10 crore doses available with the states, booster shots for the vulnerable populations, like the elderly and healthcare workers, could be considered.The other group of likely recipients is children. The authorities have already given emergency use authorisation for the use of two indigenous vaccines, Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, for use in the 2-17 years age group. But VK Paul, chief of the Covid Task Force, recently said that the government would take a final decision on vaccinating children and adolescents soon. As schools and colleges have started reopening, unvaccinated children pose a risk, though the disease is often mild in them. Many countries, including the UK and the US, have initiated vaccination in the under-18 age group in a phased manner.Social scientists and medical experts are also worried because of inequality in vaccination across the globe. While the US, China and Europe have achieved vaccination of more than half of their population, Africa has a dismal seven per cent coverage so far. Experts have repeatedly warned that because of the opening up of travel and business, Covid-19 cannot be got rid of unless it is controlled in every part of the world. Though the consortium for equitable vaccine distribution, Covax, was constituted by the WHO last year itself, rich countries have not spared enough doses for the poorer countries. This has resulted in a sort of hoarding, resulting in large-scale vaccine wastage due to the expiry of millions of doses.Vaccine hesitancy to the extent of public hostility has been another reason for poor vaccine penetration in some east European countries like Latvia, Romania and Bulgaria. Even in Russia, despite more than one indigenous vaccine, there is a similar crisis and, in fact, the country is seeing its highest death rates of the pandemic.Another important concern is the likelihood of the development of new variants. India was devastated by the highly infectious and virulent Delta variant earlier this year. The Delta variant was also responsible for the widespread infections and deaths across the world. A new sub-variant of Delta, designated as AY.4.2, was detected in England in September and it has a greater transmissibility. It accounted for about six per cent of the sequenced cases and seems to be increasing. As the virus continues to find new hosts, it will continue to mutate, with the potential of a more virulent strain emerging.We need to learn lessons from our own past experience and that of the other countries. We need to be cautious in the coming months as people have let their guard down, with poor compliance to masking and social distancing and the opening up of travel and social gatherings. The festive season and elections can be harbingers of an increase in new cases, especially as the vaccine-induced immunity wanes over a period of time.England is seeing the daily caseload touch 50,000 — the highest since mid-July this year — due to the lifting of restrictions and non-adherence to masking and social distancing.To consolidate the gains of one billion vaccinations, we must continue to enforce Covid norms of masking and avoiding crowded places and unnecessary gatherings. We must complete the vaccination of the remaining population and accept booster shots when they are offered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/consolidate-gains-of-a-billion-vaccine-doses-329569
26-10-2021||---||The N-challenge and beyond||TWO recent tests of hypersonic glide vehicles by China have raised concerns over the rapid gains Beijing was making in harnessing a new generation of weapons. The tests were reported by Financial Times, and while US officials have remained tight-lipped, specialists are being cagey about the capability that was demonstrated.These tests come on the heels of other reports based on satellite imagery, showing that the Chinese are constructing hundreds of missile silos capable of housing intercontinental ballistic missiles.The logic that compels China to expand its arsenal also holds good for us vis-à-vis Beijing.In the tests described by FT, a Long March rocket boosted a hypersonic glide vehicle to a low earth orbit where it flew through space before hitting its target, which it apparently missed by 30-40 km. Because it is manoeuvrable and does not follow a parabolic trajectory of a ballistic missile, such glide vehicles are difficult to track and destroy.Commenting on the FT reports, US spokesman Ned Price said the US was “deeply concerned about the rapid expansion of the PRC’s nuclear capabilities, including its development of novel delivery systems.” He said China appeared to be deviating “from its decades-long nuclear strategy based on minimum deterrence.” The Chinese say they only tested a reusable space plane, and that too, in mid-July, not in August, as claimed by FT.China’s nuclear posture, like that of India, emphasises “assured retaliation” and both countries have committed themselves to a “no first use” posture. Both have small arsenals — China around 300 and India of 150 nuclear weapons — in contrast to the US and Russia who possess nearly 6,000 warheads each, though a substantial number of them are in storage.Yet, the US and Russia have no such restraints. The Americans, for example, make it clear that their nuclear posture is based on a desire to maintain primacy in all areas, nuclear and conventional and they give no assurances about the pre-emptive use of their nuclear weapons.What China seems to be reacting to are the enormous changes being wrought by technological advances in a range of areas from Artificial Intelligence (AI), robotics and quantum computing which could help the US develop capabilities to launch disarming conventional or nuclear first strikes that makes retaliation impossible.This is not just in the realm of nuclear weapons. Conventional technologies used in Prompt Global Strike, and now, hypersonic glide vehicles weapons, can very quickly and accurately take out nuclear weapons and missile systems of adversaries.Another aspect has been the use of unmanned systems which has lowered the threshold of conventional conflict. They have been used for eliminating Iranian commander Qassem Soleimani, dropping weapons and explosives in Jammu & Kashmir and bombing oil facilities in Saudi Arabia.This will inevitably affect decision-making in the nuclear weapons’ area. AI-controlled swarms of unmanned platforms, networked intelligence and surveillance capabilities, can be used to launch overwhelming and conventional attacks on aircraft carriers, missile launchers and nuclear weapons facilities and pose a “use or lose” dilemma for a country.In a 2015 article, Fiona Cunningham and M Taylor Fravel of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) had argued that despite US efforts to achieve strategic primacy, China was unlikely to alter the basic tenets of its “assured retaliation” strategy. But they could alter the way they put it into effect by “increasing the capabilities for the ‘assuredness’ of retaliation” by increasing the number and quality of missiles that can hit the US. That is what the Chinese seem to have been doing since. But in the process, they could be moving away from their “minimum deterrence” posture.And this is where India comes in. Given their adversarial relations, a sharp accretion of Chinese capabilities — nuclear and conventional — has implications for us. The logic that compels China to expand its arsenal quantitatively and qualitatively also holds good for us vis-à-vis Beijing.Our problem is that while Beijing is already operating at the level of the US in terms of technology such as AI and quantum computing, in India, the DRDO has not even been able to develop a useable Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV).According to the 2021 issue of the International Institute for Strategic Studies’ (IISS) Military Balance, as of now, India does not even have a fully formed force of intermediate-range ballistic missiles (Agni III), leave alone intercontinental-range ones (Agni V). While its force of short-range Agni I and Prithvi missiles is sufficient to take on Pakistan, it has a limited capacity to deal with China.Most nuclear powers believe that they will use their nuclear weapons against an existential threat. Countries like India and China have so far signalled that they will only do so to block nuclear coercion or retaliate against an attack. But the cycle of conventional technology developments is destabilising this logic since it makes smaller nuclear powers like China and India more vulnerable.The obvious answer is to somehow control the proliferation of technology, literally before critical decision-making slips out of the hands of human beings altogether. But as of now, arms control agreements are under severe stress.In 2002, the US walked away from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty. More recently, it also terminated the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty. The Biden Administration has extended the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) negotiations with Russia and says it is ready for more arms control measures. The challenge, however, now is to rope in China which has so far resisted efforts in that direction.The issue now is not just simply nuclear weapons and warheads, but the manner in which they are entangled with newly emerging technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-n-challenge-and-beyond-329568
