27-10-2021||---||Despite challenges, WTO is relevant for India||WHETHER the World Trade Organisation (WTO) is still relevant and meaningful for India is the question right now. With developed countries increasing their grip over the multilateral forum, it is becoming an arduous task for this country to hold on to the hard-won concessions at every negotiation.The latest visit of WTO Director-General Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala has put the spotlight on the way in which advanced economies continue to control the agenda while whittling down space for basic trade issues concerning the less developed world. Despite her cordial talks with the government, the top WTO official concluded her trip by commenting that India’s concerns over some key issues would be heard but may not be addressed ultimately. This points to the reality that developed, rather than emerging economies, are strengthening their hold over this trade platform.India’s role right from the inception of the institution has always been that of a leader of the South, trying to ensure that fair play is brought into a rule-based system of global trade. It has retained this role till now, given that many smaller developing countries rely on it to provide support against the influence of powerful global players led by the US and the European Union. In this context, it is interesting that while this country’s strategic relationship with the latter entities continues to strengthen, economic ties remain bogged down over predictable contentious issues.It was anticipated there would be some welcome changes in these entrenched negotiating stances with the entry of the new Biden administration. The expectation was based on the premise that the new regime was committed to playing a greater role in the multilateral arena. This was in sharp contrast to former US President Donald Trump who preferred to play a solo game on the geopolitical stage. He distanced the US both from strategic partners like NATO as well as multilateral institutions like the WTO. It was the Trump administration which virtually dismantled the operations of the trade body’s dispute settlement mechanism by refusing to appoint officials to the key appellate body. Surprisingly, the lacuna has not been made good by the Biden team, in contrast to earlier hopes on this score. The appellate body, thus, remains in limbo even now.The tussle between developed and developing economies over farm subsidies also continues, with rich countries reserving the right to spend billions of dollars on supporting their farmers. The livelihood issues raised by India, on the other hand, are considered only grudgingly, while the “peace” clause, allowing a 10 per cent subsidy on public stockholding of foodgrains, was extracted after uphill negotiations at the Bali ministerial conference in 2013. The issue of providing a permanent peace clause for public stockholding based on government procurement to support Indian farmers is expected to be taken up at the conference scheduled in Geneva from November 30.But a decision may not be possible, given the opposition by developed countries which are rigid, in contrast, on not reducing their own enormous food subsidies.The latest issue to cause friction is the fisheries subsidies. Many countries carrying out industrial-scale fishing in areas outside their exclusive economic zone provide huge subsidies to their seafood industries. India has submitted a proposal that opposes such subsidies and is stringent on the issue of overfishing and overcapacity. Developing countries, on the other hand, are not being given the needed support to develop their own vastly smaller fishing industries. The proposal is likely to be strongly opposed by countries with large fleets that engage in distant-water fishing. No wonder, the WTO chief felt the issue may not be fully addressed.Efforts are now being made assiduously to include new items on the trade body’s agenda, including investment facilitation, e-commerce and rules of MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises). These are areas where developed countries feel the multilateral route could help carve out better market access. This is even as earlier issues like agriculture have not yet been resolved. In this context, one must recall that commitments had been made to reduce the North’s food subsidies even when the WTO was established 26 years ago. Such commitments have yet to be fulfilled, but new items continue to be pushed onto the trade agenda.At the same time, being a member of the multilateral agency brings many benefits as well. The proposed waiver, for instance, on intellectual property rights for all technologies for the detection, prevention and treatment of Covid 19, is an excellent example of the way in which the multilateral agency can play a pivotal role. The TRIPS waiver, as it is described, envisages suspending certain provisions of the trade-related aspects of the Intellectual Property Rights Agreement of the WTO. It will enable all to share the various technologies to tackle the pandemic rather than making each country seek separate waivers. The proposal, mooted by India and South Africa, aims to short-circuit the entire process of waiving IPR protection. The US has, surprisingly, come on board, but limited its support to patents on vaccines alone, rather than other pharmaceutical areas.The other positive aspect relates to trade flows as India has yet to become part of any of the major regional trading blocs. It has voluntarily opted out of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). But it is also facing an uphill task in even finalising bilateral free trade agreements with the US, indicating its disinterest for the time being, while the one with the European Union is a non-starter even after years of negotiations.Despite these issues, India has managed to raise its share of global trade, partly by relying on the benefits available to all of the trade body’s member countries. It has also won some significant battles through the dispute settlement mechanism.So, there are many challenges, but it is clearly more in this country’s interest to remain an active leader of the developing world in the multilateral trade body rather than become a passive spectator. A predictable rule-based trade organisation that relies on consensus for decision-making is needed by all stakeholders. To that extent, it will remain relevant for India not only just now but even in the long run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/despite-challenges-wto-is-relevant-for-india-330057
27-10-2021||---||China’s Bhutan foray a cause for concern||FIFTY-NINE years after the October 1962 Chinese invasion, are the recent Bhutan-China border talks a harbinger of bad news? Is India’s Himalayan blunder in for a potential encore? Shouldn’t India revisit the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) naked aggression of 1950 to forcibly capture Tibet behind Delhi’s back which it unwisely ignored, owing to an advisory to the nascent Indian government by its first ambassador to China (1950-52): The Indian ambassador appeared worried more for the foreign country where he was posted, rather than the security of his own country: “I don’t think there’s anything wrong in Red China troops moving in their own territory (Tibet).”However, despite a 71-year-gap between the October 1950 Tibet invasion and October 2021 Bhutan dialogue, the CPC aggression remains constant. Expansionism and land gobbling constitute the CPC’s core competence and sole aim. Tibet was crushed; today’s long-term plan to rout Bhutan proceeds under a diplomatic garb. The Dragon’s Tibet dagger was strengthened by Indian indifference, ignorance and incompetence. Diplomacy with Bhutan today is CPC compulsion, not choice. Because, beyond a point, Delhi will have to protect its core national and geostrategic interests. Delhi can’t afford to sit idle, allowing the CPC to pose an existential threat to its sovereignty. The CPC-PLA entry into Druk must be countered, for it can rip apart areas from Darjeeling, Dooars, Dirang Dzong, Digboi, Dibrugarh, Dispur, Diphu and Dimapur axis to access Dhaka and break the east and north-east away from “One India”. It’s undoubtedly the deadliest, most dangerous of all challenges to have occurred since the partition in 1947, threatening the very foundation and fabric of Delhi and its hinterland’s fractious polity.Way back in October 1950, at the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, Tamil Nadu, when the news came of forced Chinese entry into Tibet, the British commandant Major General Joe Lentaigne burst into profound professional prophecy, widely misunderstood though: “India’s backdoor had been opened...with…expansionist China. Defence of this mountain frontier would cost India more than she could afford. India would pay dearly for failure to act.”So, we visit the fundamentals of South Asia’s biggest geopolitical nation, India, and assess the global canvas. Axiomatically, every large state does have its zone of influence and interest, like the exclusive economic zone ((EEZ) and territorial waters. For the USA, it is Alaska and Hawaii; for Russia, the Caucasus, Finland, Ukraine and Central Asia’s landlocked states; to Australia, it’s Tasmania and New Zealand; for Iran, the Persian Gulf; for Turkey, Bosphorus and Dardanelles Strait, connecting Black Sea to the Aegean/Mediterranean; and to India, the Himalayas — from Karakoram to the Tibet-India-Myanmar junction, notwithstanding the absurd, hallucinatory claim of a remote Han CPC.In juxtaposition, how will the CPC take India or Russia’s diplomatic discussions with Mongolia for upgrading of the mission status or the EU conferring with Hong Kong for expanding consular facility; the USA basing the Pacific fleet of three carrier battle groups (CBG) along with Ticonderoga cruisers and Arleigh Burke-class destroyers at Da Nang (Vietnam); the UK initiating Hong Kong’s “special status” restoration; Taiwan becoming NATO’s Indo-Pacific Far-East Air Command; and Russia’s 99-year leasing of nuclear subs to North Korea? Obviously, each will be unacceptable to the CPC, being its perceived zone of influence, notwithstanding their remoteness.Today, the silent and virtually top secret Bhutan-Beijing talks too amount to an unethical encroachment on India’s core strategic security which goes far beyond the mundane semantic “zone of influence and interest”. Beijing’s entry into Bhutan is one-for-all prelude to an inexorable change of future India map. It surely gives the CPC-led dictator vantage “punching ground to knock out India from her own territory”. Like Mao, his disciple Xi too is itching to cement his place, outclassing his idol. Xi sees the CPC centenary year as a life-time opportunity to put India on the mat in her own backyard.And regrettably, if Beijing does break the traditional Bharat-Bhutan goodwill to directly access the landlocked sub-Himalayan nation, all of India’s seven states in the North-east and the eastern states of Sikkim, Bengal and Bihar instantly come under the CPC’s “fire-and-forget” trajectory and line of fire.Unmistakably, the officially mandated August 2009 CPC goal propounded by Zhan Lue of the China Institute for Strategic Studies (CIISS) comes alive: “China should break India into 20-30 states with the help of friendly countries like Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan.” Understandably, in the Chinese game plan, Bhutan’s importance originates not from gun-power or manpower, but the power of geography which makes the CPC's long-cherished dream come true: Mission Break India.It is India’s time of reckoning, as even at the best of times, the North-east has shown fragility and vulnerability, thanks to CPC malice for the last 60 years. In the east too, three vivisections (1905, 1947, 1971) and two partitions (1947, 1971) have made it volatile in patches. The CPC, therefore, is bound to relish the taste, at the expense of acute Indian distress. Thus, more the division and destruction, nearer comes the CPC’s Mission India — from acquiring the water resources of Himalayas to operating across the Bay of Bengal for trade, marine food, profit, cash and expansion without expenses. Conquest without combat, money without mayhem, intelligence without investment!Though India is ceased of CPC malice, yet what’s worrying is the conspicuous and recurring failure to deal with visible and known China malware. This has cost India dear as her smaller neighbours, instead of banking on traditional friendship, are steadily looking up to the Dragon, thereby pushing Delhi to an acute angle where from its becoming impossible to launch an effective counter-measure against the CPC onslaught.Lastly, Delhi may remind Bhutan of the Dragon’s long-term game-plan. Mao had assumptions of claim to Bhutan as ‘lost territory’ (1939) and Nepal as ‘lost’ Chinese property, whose envoy from Lhasa wrote in 1904: “The Bhutanese are subjects of the Chinese Emperor who’s Lord of Heaven”, adding significantly that Bhutan is the “Gateway on the South”. Isn’t the 1939 warning grave enough? South Asia’s Bhutan going to remote Beijing implies a massively territory-shrunk Bharat!Postscript: The calculated inexorable result appears near. Dragon’s October 23, 2021 stipulated “law”, effective January 1, 2022 states: “Sovereignty and territorial integrity of China are sacred and inviolable”, thereby suggesting that India’s is not. Obviously, Beijing is bent on a long haul over Bharat through Bhutan. Ominous indeed are the days ahead for India’s territorial integrity. The Han-engineered Himalayan “climate-change radiation” has started harming Hindustan to the point of no return.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinas-bhutan-foray-a-cause-for-concern-330056
27-10-2021||---||BJP on election duty||COME elections, the BJP can be counted on to excavate one or more of its core issues, give them a fresh lick of paint, let the coat dry and put them out before the voters. “Illegal” immigration is one of the core issues along with the Ram temple at Ayodhya, abolishing Article 370 of the Constitution and introducing a common civil code to replace religion-based personal laws governing marriage, divorce, adoption and inheritance. In the eight years of the Modi government, the BJP has delivered, in entirety or partially, on three of them. However, the subject of “infiltrators” or “ghuspethiya” (intruders), largely from Bangladesh, remains a knotty one, not the least because the RSS and BJP underpinned their understanding and exposition on a distinction between a “refugee” and an “infiltrator”. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019, is founded on this definition that segregates a “refugee” as a Hindu who sought sanctuary in India to escape alleged religious discrimination and persecution in the country of her origin and is, therefore, deserving of empathy and citizenship. A “ghuspethiya” on the other hand is one who “sneaked” in through a porous border to foment trouble by using unlawful means to acquire nationality and enfranchisement.The recent communal violence in Bangladesh has come as grist to crank up the perceived apprehensions over an ‘influx’ from that country.Before the CAA was redefined to reduce the 11-year waiting period to six for getting citizenship through naturalisation for Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians from Muslim-majority Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, the BJP sharpened its tone on “illegal” immigration. At a national executive meeting in Bhopal before the 1996 elections, it demanded the three ‘Ds’ — detection of “illegal” immigrants, deletion of their names from voters’ lists and deportation to their country of origin (read Bangladesh). The 1996 election manifesto issued a generic warning, stating, “Various demographic entities are bound to come in conflict” due to “an alarming growth of a section of the population” in “certain Northeast areas”. West Bengal was not on the BJP’s radar then. A more definitive commitment towards “resolving” the infiltration issue was enshrined in the 2019 manifesto which affirmed the completion of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in the areas impacted by “illegal” immigration, extending the NRC countrywide in a phased manner, and fortifying border security. The CAA was a consequence of these averments. The CAA was one component of a larger package that contained the NRC as well as the resolve to upgrade the National Population Register (NPR).On August 10, 2021, Nityanand Rai, the junior home minister, gave a status report on the CAA, NRC and NPR in a written reply to a question raised in the Lok Sabha. He said while the CAA was enforced on January 10, 2020, there was no decision on preparing a national NRC, while the NPR could not be updated because it required field work which was thwarted by the pandemic. The BJP has a long way to travel before realising the commitments contained in its last manifesto.But that has not stopped the party from campaigning against infiltration with the vigour it musters in election after election. The BJP has propagated the issue widely because it noted that the “unlawful” migrants have penetrated nearly every corner under the “guise” of seeking employment. It’s no longer about Assam and the Northeast. The BJP identified West Bengal as the present epicentre of “disorder” fuelled by the expatriation from its neighbour.In the West Bengal Assembly polls, the BJP called attention to the implementation of the CAA as a “priority” if voted to power, but was mum on carrying out the NRC for fear that it may unsettle the Hindu migrants from Bangladesh as well as the Rajbanshis of the north and the Matuas of south Bengal it wooed. The Rajbanshis and Matuas, who constitute over 25 per cent of the state’s population, had asked for the CAA, but opposed the NRC, a reflection of the contradictions inherent in a tangled package. Taking the infiltration pitch to unexpected heights, Home Minister Amit Shah, who led the West Bengal battle from the front, described cross-border infiltration as its biggest problem, called Bangladeshis “termites” and declared once the BJP was in power, “not a single bird will be able to enter”.Between the rhetoric and the reality lies a vast, grey space inhabited by quotidian matters that impinge directly on people’s daily lives without compelling them to adopt ideological stances. This is what happened in West Bengal, where barring pockets, the BJP’s infiltration pitch left voters indifferent.The BJP never gives up. The recent communal violence in Bangladesh, allegedly triggered by the desecration of a Koran at a Durga puja gathering in Comilla which spurred attacks on Hindu temples, homes and business establishments across the country, came as grist to crank up the perceived apprehensions over an “influx” from Bangladesh. There are four impending bypolls in West Bengal and two seats, Shantipur and Dinhata, lie close to the border. The Centre remained silent on the violence, but the BJP’s state leaders breathed fire and brimstone.In January 2020, shortly after the Centre had notified the CAA, Sheikh Hasina, the Bangladesh PM, gave a measured response in an interview to Gulf News, where she nonetheless questioned why the amendment was necessary. At various points, Bangladesh’s politicians expressed disquiet over their country being clubbed with Pakistan on the subject of minorities’ treatment. After the violence, Obaidul Quader, the ruling Awami League’s general secretary, assured Bangladesh’s Hindus that Sheikh Hasina and her party were with them.Does it help India’s ruling party to yoke the conduct of foreign policy and strategic affairs to domestic politics intended to win elections? It’s incumbent on the BJP to reflect on this question.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjp-on-election-duty-330055
