28-10-2021||---||Can Priyanka’s 40% idea spark a revolution?||Priyanka Gandhi’s announcement that the Congress will give 40 per cent tickets to women in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh elections is radical and has the potential to shift the discourse in Indian politics. True, the Congress is organisationally weak in the state and one should not imagine that it will suddenly be reborn and rise on the shoulders of women and defeat the BJP. The main opposition in Uttar Pradesh will be given by the Samajwadi Party, which has structural depth — the reason why it is attracting defectors from all parties and has begun tying up with small but significant parties built on the support of a specific caste leader.Yet, the Congress has begun a process that could mark its presence both in the state and outside the boundaries of UP, and potentially, also lay the groundwork for it to recover in time for the national polls in 2024.If we do the math, the Congress promise implies that there will be over 160 women candidates out of 403 seats that the UP Assembly has. Just the process of finding these women and giving them tickets would set off a churning and add a new chemistry to what is otherwise an overwhelmingly male domain — full of history sheeters and dons — in the tough interiors of the Hindi heartland state.Beyond the possible gains or losses at the state level, the Priyanka promise can be a catalyst for change in politics. For, women — half the population — make up just 14 per cent of the MPs in the current Lok Sabha. It is a dismal number given the fact that they have made strides in almost all professions.Indeed, if we presume politics to be an agency for seeking rights and entitlements, then let us note that some of the most outstanding activists in India have been women.The argument that there are just not enough women candidates is patently false today, given the fact that there has been reservation for women in panchayats and local bodies that extends from one-third to 50 per cent in some states. India has, therefore, at the ground level, created an entire army of women familiar with politics and public life. These are women who know how to work the system, but they have not been able to cross the threshold and male ceiling in the state assemblies and Parliament.The big question, therefore, is whether Priyanka’s salvo will give a fresh lease of life to the Women’s Reservation Bill, introduced in 1996, that promised 33 per cent reservation for women in Parliament and state assemblies. When the UPA was in power during the decade of the Manmohan Singh government, Sonia Gandhi supported the Bill and it was actually passed in the Rajya Sabha, but the Lok Sabha never voted on it because of the reservations of the overwhelmingly male political class.The greatest opposition, interestingly, was articulated by some of the leaders of the Mandal-era parties in the Hindi belt, who were also allies of the UPA. The Bill proposed seats being reserved in rotation and, obviously, the leaders of these parties did not want to risk their bastions being reserved for women whom they possibly saw as unwinnable. It’s worth noting that one of the parties that refused to support the Bill in 2010 was led by a woman, the BSP’s Mayawati.There have, however, been changes in public perceptions since then. In recent years, we have seen a considerable awareness of a distinct women’s constituency, most lucidly expressed in the state of West Bengal where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, also called Didi, won a third term earlier this year.When the statistics of the verdict were analysed, outfits such as CSDS-Lokniti discovered a clear women’s constituency that did not replicate the voter choices of males. Among women voters, the TMC had a 13 per cent point lead over the closest rival, the BJP, and it was much higher than the six-point lead among men.As a rooted woman politician, Mamata succeeded in both making women identify with her and targeting women with specific welfare schemes. Moreover, the TMC can also be credited with the 40 per cent idea as in the 2019 General Election the party had given 40 per cent tickets to women.The late AIADMK chief and multiple-term chief minister of Tamil Nadu, J Jayalalithaa, too, had created a women’s constituency. In 2016 — the last election she fought and won before her passing away in December that year — she had promised 50 per cent subsidy for women buying mopeds and scooters, among other schemes.But beyond Amma, as Jayalalithaa was called, and Didi, there have also been male politicians who have got support from women for specific policies. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, for instance, is believed to have carved a women’s constituency for his prohibition policy and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has had women’s support for schemes such as Ujjwala that distributes LPG connections to women below the poverty line.Ideas have wings. For instance, Jayalalithaa was famous for her Amma canteens that distributed clean wholesome food for minimal prices. In Bengal earlier this year, I noted the presence of Didi canteens that were clearly a version of the Tamil Nadu idea.Similarly, Priyanka’s idea obviously comes from noting the existence of a women’s constituency and the gap in their representation. It can certainly snowball into something that works for the greater public good.But questions will indeed be posed to her. First, unlike Mamata Banerjee and Jayalalithaa, Priyanka is not the chief minister of a state but a dynast of a legacy party who has yet to make her mark in politics. There are contradictions, too, and she could be asked why the 40 per cent idea could not be extended to other states where the Congress is in power, such as Punjab, where the party has witnessed recent upheavals. It’s also rather obvious to note that in UP, where the Congress stands without a specific caste base of its own, it needs a great idea to even mark its presence in what will be a viciously fought election.But the basic onus of this idea clicking on the ground and compelling other parties to also pitchfork more women into politics will be on Priyanka herself. She must walk the talk now and find over 160 women to contest in Uttar Pradesh and it would help each of them if she herself bites the bullet by contesting the elections. The big idea has come. Now, the consistent hard work must begin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/can-priyankas-40-idea-spark-a-revolution-330619
28-10-2021||---||Towards a net zero emission economy by 2050||The recently released first part of the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has set the backdrop for the conclave of world leaders at COP26, beginning in Glasgow on October 31. The conclave is scheduled to take stock of the progress in achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement based on the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), which aimed at limiting global warming to below 2°C and pursuing efforts to limit it to 1.5°C and strengthening the ability of countries to cope with the impacts of climate change and supporting their efforts.Ahead of COP26, participating countries are reviewing and updating their NDCs which formed the Paris Agreement framework to align their greenhouse gas emission targets with net zero emission economy by the middle of the century. By the end of July, over 100 countries had filed their new/updated NDCs which account for about 49 per cent of global emissions.China, the top emitter, accounts for 29 per cent and the US follows with 16 per cent while India is the third highest polluter, emitting 6.6 per cent of the global emissions. Their NDCs and progress in achieving them is critical to reach the goal of net zero carbon emission global economy by the middle of the century.China, with its huge population and ranking in the world on its relentless pursuit of economic growth, still has a lower percentage of per capita emission than the US. Recently, in a tectonic shift in its energy policy, China pledged to speed up reduction in emissions and reach carbon neutrality by 2060. Aspiring to be a superpower, China is seeking to lead by example, but it has not yet detailed the path to reach its targets.The second largest emitter, the US, with the highest per capita emission, at the recent leaders’ summit pledged to reach net zero emission in the power sector by 2035 and move up to zero emission economy by 2050. The US federal, state and local governments will follow multiple paths, working with industry and civil society to reach the goal.The third biggest emitter, India, has neither submitted its updated NDCs nor committed itself to any date for a net zero-carbon economy.Reiterating its sustainable development goals (SDGs) and emphasising the overarching priority of poverty eradication, India has committed itself to a low carbon path to progress, leading to a reduction of the carbon intensity of its GDP by 33-35 per cent of the 2005 level by 2030.Under the National Environment Policy 2006, the National Action Plan on Climate Change, through its eight national missions in India, seeks to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions without compromising on its development objectives. The policy framework covering strategies for abatement, adoption and mitigation is backed by a wide range of legislations, institutional mechanisms and financing instruments.Taking into account the quasi-federal character of the Indian polity, the states of the union have also put in place state action plans which sub-serve the national plan. These plans embrace every facet of development activities impinging on environment.On the eve of COP26, the buzz about climate change is intensifying at every global forum, including the United Nations General Assembly. Countries are being asked to come up with their emission reduction targets to align with net zero emission by the mid-century.China and the US, the top two global emitters, have already unveiled their respective pathways to the goal. For obvious reasons, India, the third largest source of global emission, is coming under increasing pressure to update its NDCs and commit itself to net zero emission by the mid-century.The largest source of GHG emissions in India is the energy sector, with 68.7 per cent, followed mainly by agriculture, industrial processes and transport. The National Action Plan on Climate Change has already identified the ways and means of reducing GHG emissions in these sectors.The mitigation strategy for the energy sector, which envisages several measures for the promotion of alternate sources of energy, has already become integral to our energy scenario. At the same time, several innovative technologies, including clean hydrogen, are on the horizon. They have tremendous potential for revolutionising the energy sector and transforming the economy.Already, e-mobility is gathering momentum, thanks to a whole host of enabling policy initiatives of the government, paving the way for decarbonising the transportation sector. Several innovative technologies of proven merit could be introduced in different sectors of the economy which would help reduce the increasing carbon emission considerably. Flow of funds and access to new technologies hold the key.The second most populated country in the world, India, with 2.4 per cent of global land area, supports 16.7 per cent of the world population. Out of the total land area, nearly 30 per cent, or about 97mh, is degraded on account of extreme weather events like droughts and floods and other factors, including human interventions. Regenerating the wastelands and making them productive ought to be one of the top priorities, especially in view of the comparatively low cost and large employment potential of the process. Under the Green India Mission, it should be eminently possible to cover over 10 million hectares of the degraded forest/non-forest land to enhance carbon sequestration on the path to net zero emission by the mid-century.As India is mulling over its NDCs in the backdrop of the latest sombre projections and warnings of the IPCC, without compromising on its top priority of poverty eradication, it could consider committing itself to a net zero GHG emission economy by the middle of the century, provided the flow of funds and access to emerging technologies for adaptation and mitigation are suitably assured and enacted into binding international law under the United Nations Conference on Climate Change so that India is enabled to access them for realising its enhanced climate ambitions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/towards-a-net-zero-emission-economy-by-2050-330618
28-10-2021||---||Wheels within wheels||My colleagues and I were relaxing in Islamabad on October 12, 1999, after the Kargil conflict had ended. One expected that internal battles between the Musharraf-led army establishment and PM Nawaz Sharif would soon become more intense. But, we were all in for a rude shock. Driving past the main building of Pakistan Television (PTV), I ran across an incredible and unforgettable sight. Soldiers of the Islamabad-based 111 Brigade were climbing walls of the PTV to capture the building. I headed back to the High Commission to join my colleagues to ascertain what was happening. The PMO and the External Affairs Ministry in New Delhi were informed that an army coup was underway in Islamabad.Imran had neither the means nor the courage to change the transfer orders. If he had, there would have been a constitutional crisis, with prospects of yet another coup.Within half an hour thereafter, we learnt that when Musharraf was on his way back to Islamabad from Colombo on a PIA flight, the Air Traffic Control advised the pilot that he could not land in Pakistan. He could seek a landing elsewhere, including in India! In the meantime, PM Sharif sacked Musharraf and had Lt Gen Ziauddin Bhatt, the ISI chief, appointed to replace him. But, other senior Generals, led by the Chief of General Staff, Lt Gen Aziz Khan, seized control of the capital. They arrested Sharif and others colluding with him, just before Musharraf’s flight from Colombo landed in Rawalpindi. This was followed by a period of ruthless martial law. Sharif, meanwhile, faced the prospect of being hanged for sedition. He was saved following some quiet intervention by the Saudi monarchy.Pakistan again landed itself in a mess, both economically and politically, in the recent past, thanks to the exertions of PM Imran Khan, who has bent backwards to encourage the ISI continue messing around in the country’s internal politics. His closest ally in his efforts to undermine the opposition has been the ISI chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed. The ISI chief was the centre of international media attention on the day the Taliban was taking over charge in Kabul. He, in fact, ensured that he was the centre of worldwide media attention, even as the formation of the new government was accompanied by the sidelining of moderate leaders like Abdul Ghani Baradar and Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanikzai, who fled to Dubai after expressing fears about his life.Even as Afghanistan is descending into chaos, it is finding that friends and foes alike are averse to having formal diplomatic ties with it, because of its brutal treatment of women. It is, however, possible and even likely, that countries like Pakistan, China and Russia will change their stance, and establish diplomatic relations, with the Taliban government. There are also a large number of OECD countries which would link diplomatic relations with meaningful changes on essential issues, like the presence in Afghanistan of internationally designated terrorist groups like the Al-Qaeda and Islamic State. There is international condemnation of the Taliban’s suppression of women.The real issue of concern in Pakistan has, however, been the growing rift between the army chief, Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa, and Imran Khan over the transfer of the present ISI chief, Lt General Faiz Hameed. General Bajwa used his prerogative for transferring Hameed as Corps Commander of Pakistani forces on the Afghan border. This could clear the decks for enabling Hameed to become the army chief when Bajwa retires in 2022. Bajwa also announced the appointment of the Corps Commander, Karachi, Lt Gen Nadeem Anjum, as the new ISI chief. Anjum will obviously not be as close a confidant of Imran Khan as the present incumbent. This could leave the none-too-popular Imran Khan in deep trouble in getting his present supporters to back him whenever he is threatened, politically.Given the powers that ISI chiefs enjoy, Hameed has helped Imran Khan in dealing with moves of the opposition, aimed at embarrassing and unseating him. Imran Khan, therefore, wanted the ISI chief to continue in Islamabad, as the country moved towards national elections in 2023. Imran Khan had refused to sign the orders approving the transfer of the ISI chief and the appointment of Anjum as his successor. Imran Khan, however, had neither the means nor the courage to change the transfer orders. Pakistan could then have ended up in a constitutional crisis, with prospects of yet another coup. The judges in Pakistan’s Supreme Court would prefer to avoid getting drawn into this controversy. No military takeover has ever been rejected by the judiciary.Imran Khan got caught in a quandary of his own making. While the US, its European allies and some others may have reservations about a military takeover, not many people in Pakistan would shed too many tears at Imran Khan’s departure. Imran Khan, however, was left with little choice. He could have made peace with Bajwa, and then lose the next election, which has to be held not later than October 12, 2023. Imran Khan would have had to sail into uncharted waters, if he chose to confront the army chief. Many of his own party’s MPs would have dumped him if he got into a confrontation with the army.Bajwa had issued orders to the two Lieutenant Generals to take over their new posts. They were hardly likely to disobey their chief. Going to the court would have been risky for Imran Khan, as the court itself would not be enthusiastic about getting caught in the middle of a dispute between an unpopular PM and a quiet, but resolute army chief. In these circumstances, Imran Khan has finally accepted the demands of his army chief. He has lost face and exposed himself to ridicule. India, meanwhile, should keep in touch with Taliban leaders and offer, at a suitable time, relief supplies for the suffering Afghan people, while linking diplomatic recognition to democratic freedoms, particularly for Afghanistan’s women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/wheels-within-wheels-330615
