29-10-2021||Last week||Heart in the right place||A young lawyer has succeeded in her efforts to seek compensation for widows of manual scavengers who died while unclogging Mumbai’s sewers.The evil practice of manual scavenging had been banned by the promulgation of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act of 2013. Municipal and local bodies entrusted with the task of disposing of solid waste in ever-burgeoning cities had been left with no alternative but to invest in costly machines and accoutrements to do the job of cleaning the sewers and protecting lives.Some municipalities were short of money, but even the well-heeled ones like Mumbai relegated this task to low priority. I ascribe this attitude to the fact that in our caste-ridden society this task of cleaning sewers manually is assigned to one community alone. And to compound the crime of neglect, the economic situation does not permit the traditional scavengers from seeking alternative sources of income. Their children take the more easily available route of an assured job even if they are well educated since the job market today is unfavourable.The inhuman tradition of employing manual scavengers is still widely prevalent in Maharashtra and a few other states. The municipalities cross legal hurdle by arranging for willing hands through the medium of contractors. The 2013 legislation had made offences covered by the Act non-bailable. My dear friend, Kewal Semlani, before he breathed his last some years ago, was passionately involved in fighting this evil. The well-known social activist and Magsaysay Awardee, Bezwada Wilson, is involved in the stoppage of this cruel practice, known only in the Indian subcontinent.The Public Concern for Governance Trust (PCGT) which engages young students in studies of such injustices prevalent in our society has been researching the problem for the past one year. It began with three interns from TISS who started the ball rolling. It was taken up by students of law and other disciplines who produced added inputs for a research treatise that is in the making.In the meantime, Isha came into our orbit. Unknown to us, she and her mother Abha, a friend and the wife of YP Singh, an IPS officer who resigned because he could not stomach the injustices spawned by the work culture, had befriended three widows of such scavengers who died by inhaling toxic gasses in the sewers. Mother and daughter, both lawyers, took up their cause pro bono and approached the High Court for compensation to the three women.Isha argued the case so passionately that the judges delivered a land-mark judgment, identifying the office of the District Collector as the institution primarily responsible for the safety and the lives of the manual scavengers, even though they died cleaning the septic tank of a private housing society. The court accepted her argument of ‘strict liability’. Since manual scavenging is banned, it is the state’s duty to ensure no person is engaged as a scavenger, and is strictly liable for it. The BMC was ordered to pay Rs 10 lakh to each widow, a small substitute for lives lost, but welcomed all the same by impecunious families who had lost their bread winners. The court also directed the government to rehabilitate the widows and their families by way of scholarships etc. It also questioned what action the police had taken, and why nobody had been convicted for the crime.The PCGT lost no time in inviting Isha to address our students. Her commitment to the cause, her compassion, her knowledge of the subject and the sheer force of her spoken word impressed us. She has been selected for my old service, the IPS. Her mother belonged to my father’s service, the Indian Postal Service. She, too, resigned after 20 years. YP and Abha are practising in the High Court. I wish we had more young people like her joining the All-India Services.After the catastrophe that has hit the service in Maharashtra recently, with the police on the lookout for its now absconding leader, the mantle of redemption in the shape of this young new entrant is heart-warming. We require officers with a social service bent of mind.Last week, Abha invited members of the press to impress upon them the inhumanity involved in using humans to clean sewers. The fact that the authorities take scarce notice of the law, that they break the law repeatedly, that no thought is given to the human rights of the poor, that compensation is the least the municipality or the government can do for families living on the verge of penury, that the state should think of adopting fatherless children and educate them.But this subject is not of sufficient interest to their readers, conditioned as our traditional society is in allocating jobs by caste.PCGT representatives present for the press conference did speak out for the scavengers. They came away with the realisation that an uphill task awaits them. PCGT’s young students came across jail manuals in some states where prisoners on arrival are allotted tasks on the basis of their caste. One would have thought that such a practice is repugnant to the basic values prescribed in the Constitution. All political parties swear to end caste discrimination. But it is there in the jail manuals, in black and white, and will remain there till an Isha or an ex-intern of the PCGT brings it to the notice of the courts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/heart-in-the-right-place-331029
29-10-2021||---||EAS sets stage for more rivalry in Indo-Pacific||The 16th East Asia Summit (EAS) was held on October 27 virtually due to the pandemic. This is a premier summit in the Indo-Pacific region and attracts the most attention. Prime Minister Modi addressed the summit for the seventh time.India has been a charter member of the EAS since its inception in 2005. Originally, it had 10 countries comprising the ASEAN countries and its six dialogue partners, viz India, China, Japan, Korea, Australia and New Zealand. The US and Russia were added in 2011, making it a high-powered leaders’event.The members look forward to the EAS for the importance it brings to ASEAN centrality. Indian PMs have rarely missed participating in the summit. The US, under President Trump, had started to ignore the EAS. This year was the first time since 2017 that a US President took part in the summit. It was the debut of Japanese Prime Minister Kishida, who took over recently. For ASEAN, it is the first occasion for its leaders to meet with President Biden.The EAS this time sought to exhibit placid calm in a region roiled by extensive power rivalries. It is no more only a rivalry between concepts of the Indo-Pacific. China derides the concept while ASEAN has its own Indo-Pacific Outlook (AOIP) and the Quad members have their own and coordinated outlooks. All Quad members are also members of the EAS. The AUKUS alliance has elicited diverse reactions in a normally unified ASEAN. It is to ASEAN’s credit that it has maintained order among such contention in the Indo-Pacific region.The EAS is chaired by the ASEAN chairman for the year, which is Brunei. Thus, Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah of Brunei Darussalam chaired the session which ran over two hours. It was Vietnam in 2020 and will be Cambodia in 2022. This was the first time that ASEAN excluded one of its own members, Myanmar, for not following ASEAN principles.At the summit, Modi emphasised the importance of EAS as a premier leaders-led forum in the Indo-Pacific. It gathers countries to discuss important strategic issues. Modi highlighted Indian efforts to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic through the supply of vaccines and medical equipment. He also spoke about ensuring resilient global value chains for post-pandemic recovery. Emphasis on balanced and sustainable economy, ecology and climate issues was placed. He drew parallels with the AOIP and India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI). This has moved beyond the SAGAR initiative as it seeks partnerships with the EAS countries to achieve its goals which are akin to the EAS objectives.Japan too supported the AOIP and saw congruence between it and the Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP), promoted by Japan. Japan valued the AOIP, which upholds the values of openness, transparency, inclusiveness, and the rule of law. Japan and ASEAN are engaged in concrete cooperation, based on the ASEAN-Japan Joint Statement of the AOIP Cooperation, which is contributing to 73 projects.The EAS discussed important regional and international issues, including the Indo-Pacific, South China Sea, UNCLOS, terrorism, and situations in the Korean peninsula and Myanmar. By emphasising on UNCLOS and the rule of law to keep the region stable and secure, India and the Quad countries bolstered ASEAN’s position on including UNCLOS on their Code of Conduct in the SCS negotiations with China. ASEAN’s efforts to resolve the problems in Myanmar were supported. On terrorism and Korea, the earlier positions were maintained. The Quad countries had taken clear positions on these issues in their September summit and each of them reiterated those.Japan was most vocal on these issues. While India did not directly raise specific issues with China, Kishida mentioned the problems in the East and South China Seas (SCS) and the Taiwan Straits. He stated that the Code of Conduct on the SCS should be in accordance with UNCLOS and respect the legitimate rights and interests of all stakeholders using the SCS. Japan and the US also spoke about Hong Kong and the human rights situation in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. This was raising the heat on China. The Japanese readout mentions these clearly, but that of the White House does not mention these direct references to China.Biden’s participation at the EAS showed a continuity in the US’ policy towards ASEAN. After a slow start by his administration in August, there were visits by the Secretary of Defence and the Vice-President to some ASEAN countries. Secretary of State Blinken had participated in the ARF and the EAS ministers’ meeting. Biden’s participation was welcomed by ASEAN since it came after a long hiatus. Biden laid emphasis on the centrality of ASEAN and his commitment to continuing to engage with them during his administration.He termed the partnership with ASEAN as critical to maintaining an FOIP, which has been the foundation of the concept of shared security and prosperity for the US and ASEAN. Like other Quad members, Biden’s emphasis on principles, rule of law, UNCLOS, etc made it clear where the problems lay.Biden announced a $102-million fund to expand the US partnership with ASEAN by improving cooperation on health, climate issues, education and economic programmes. He sought to reassure ASEAN that the US participation in the Quad and AUKUS was not intended to diminish ASEAN centrality.He made it clear that challenges to the international rule-based order would be met. The US would stand with partners in support of democracy, human rights and freedom of the seas. While these are principles of the ASEAN charter, they are often interpreted as challenging China’s view of the world which China aggressively promotes in the ASEAN countries.The EAS leaders adopted three statements on mental health, economic recovery through tourism and sustainable recovery, which were co-sponsored by India. These manifest the concerns on post-pandemic recovery. They focus on the emotional impact on people due to the pandemic; they seek remedy for tourism-based recovery since several ASEAN countries are dependent on tourism revenues; and sustainability is the flavour of the season as the COP26 to deal with climate issues is scheduled for next month. The EAS tries to deal with more functional issues. Post pandemic, this is more necessary.However, the contention of power and value systems in the region means that the Quad-led democracies are now challenging Chinese hegemony and aggression vocally. This brings ASEAN more attention, but it also has to face a more contentious rivalry. The EAS reiterates ASEAN centrality, buts it’s up to ASEAN to accept greater responsibilities in the evolving region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/eas-sets-stage-for-more-rivalry-in-indo-pacific-331036
29-10-2021||---||America’s Af woes far from over, lessons for India||With the US intelligence community making a clear assessment of the capability of the al-Qaeda and the Islamic State in Afghanistan to launch an attack on the US in the not-so-distant future, the clock can quickly turn back to the times when the 9/11 attacks shook the world. It also comes as no surprise that General Mark Milley, the senior-most US General, has conceded that the US had suffered a crushing defeat in the 20-year-long Afghan war. In the events that led to the ignominious US withdrawal, there were visible signs of the debilitating handling of the war by both the political and defence establishments. The military, on its part, conveniently overlooked the gradual stifling of its ability to operate and conduct professional training for the handover of security responsibility to the Afghan National Army (ANA).The role of the military leadership in any security scenario, both in a counter-terror or conventional operations, is to be able to ensure that political and bureaucratic decision-makers are given clear and unambiguous professional opinion. In the case of the US war in Afghanistan, apparently there were multiple failures by the leadership either under pressure from political compulsions or self-serving ticket-punching by senior Generals. The similarities between the US military’s steady road downhill and the security situation in India are too stark to ignore.Inaccurate reporting by the military leaders of the US-led coalition led to the impression being given that the military efforts in counter-insurgency (COIN) were achieving their objectives, whereas the Afghan psyche was either misread or deliberately ignored. They misread the Afghan reality of the foreign soldier being a master and the Afghans being ruled by US diktats — the peace deal and release of Taliban prisoners only exacerbated this reality. The rise of the Taliban happened as the leadership stayed in the denial mode. The US military brass did little to protest or stop the largely political interference in its duties. Accountability has not been affixed for the US withdrawal fiasco so far.Unbridled military procurements by the US military, especially for the war on terror, led to a distinct economic opportunity for the infamous military-industrial complex to obtain a free run, ably abetted by US politicians and bureaucrats of the US Department of Defence. US logistics was handled by private contractors and along with procurements ran on an economic model fashioned by the Washington DC’s ‘Beltway bandits’ — a term used to describe the de facto heads and decision-makers of the military-industrial complex that the US defence industry is based on. A model riddled with nuanced corruption starting from the topmost rungs.Training of the ANA by the US forces led to the infusion of large-scale funds which, however, did not translate into the ANA achieving a capability to operate independently, despite kitting out and equipping the ANA. Afghans are known to openly buy and sell weapons and the huge stockpile of US equipment and weapons, including aircraft and helicopters, were bound to be a cash cow to the average ANA soldier/commander once the coalition withdrew.In the Indian context, the security top brass, though fully aware of the Chinese tactics of ‘two steps forward and one step back’, has been unable to break the deadlock despite numerous rounds of corps commander-level meetings. The ‘sectionised’ handling of the LAC imbroglio, rather than retaining hard-won positions of inter se dominance of the Kailash range by the military, led to loss of leverage as the comprehensive situation is still tilted in China’s favour. The Chinese have deployed large force levels along the LAC and the deployments seem to be permanent. This ground reality has forced mirror deployments by the Indian forces. The replication of the LoC (Line of Control with Pakistan)-like deployment along the LAC with China which has been alluded to by military commentators, is now a reality and will impose huge economic and manpower costs.The slew of rapid procurements and heavy spending on developing logistic infrastructure for the forces in Ladakh has resulted in rapid procurement and checks and balances could have been bypassed in many cases.Long-term force structuring has been given short shrift — a case in point being the jettisoning of the raising of a Mountain Strike Corps (MSC). The LAC flare-up has prompted the reassignment of one of the conventional strike corps to be restructured as MSC. The rapid induction of forces into Ladakh in April-May 2020 which was necessitated by the Chinese threat and the pandemic have adversely affected long-term training and force structuring. The recent spurt of killings and incidents in Jammu and the Valley have brought into focus the looming threat of the rejuvenation of terrorism now that the Taliban have taken over Afghanistan.The signing of the MoU between Bhutan and China on the “three-step roadmap” for expediting the boundary negotiations and the passage of the new Chinese law to legitimise border actions pose another new challenge to the security establishment which basked in the glory of ‘India’s strong stance’ that made the Chinese blink after a 73-day stand-off between the Indian Army and the PLA at Doklam in 2017. The Indian Army has a long-term investment in Bhutan to ensure safety, which is necessitated for the security of the Siliguri corridor and links to the North-Eastern states.The military leadership now faces a major challenge of realignment of forces on the northern borders as well as the pressure to reorganise forces into theatre commands simultaneously. A step-by-step approach by stabilising the LAC and only then attempting theaterisation after due deliberation is imperative for effective change management. This stand has to be taken by the top military leadership. It is now more than ever incumbent on India’s military not to go the US way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/americas-af-woes-far-from-over-lessons-for-india-331041
