30-10-2021||Defence Analyst||Turkish twist to Pakistan’s terror policy||During my consular tenure in Ankara (Turkey) from 2008 to 2011, one acknowledged achievement of diplomats in the mission (support staff included, of course) was the favourable reinforcement of the host country’s age-old fondness for India, as against the trumped-up factoids in favour of our ‘twin-at-birth’ Pakistan. It took some doing to convince the then Turkish PM Recep Erdogan (now President) and his minions that it was undivided India from whence substantial gold jewellery and other donations came to Turkey during the Khilafat (also called Caliphate) movement, and not from Pakistan, because there was no Pakistan during the movement!I had stood in for the late Ambassador Ramindar Jassal at an official dinner with Erdogan and experienced the newfound bonhomie first-hand. This goodwill has supposedly petered out over the past decade or so, as Erdogan’s neo-Ottoman Islamist leanings pushed him again towards his Pakistani brethren.India’s decades-old rivalry and competition with Pakistan has tended to dictate its Afghan policy, no doubt. But now, the advent of Taliban-II has caused some real worries for its policymakers — whether we could expect an increase in Pak-sponsored terror. As the US’s only designated major defence partner, Indian concerns in this respect have surely been conveyed to it, as also earlier this month during the Defence Policy Group meeting between the two countries.Clearly, the Americans are in a quandary about handling Pakistan, mainly for reasons of gaining continued access to its airspace for the critical air operations that would be required over Afghanistan should push come to shove counter-terror-wise. So, Uncle Sam is bound to ride a thin wedge to tailor its counter-terror priorities with partners such as India whilst ensuring that Pakistan is kept on tenterhooks for airspace considerations.Meanwhile, India’s diplomatic clout has been shown amply by the recent retention of Pakistan on the Grey List of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). Be that as it may, Pakistan has other worries on this score. Its bosom buddy Turkey — Erdogan and Imran have hit it off as bedfellows in the Sunni political milieu — has also found itself being given the dubious membership of the FATF Grey List for the first time, thanks to Erdogan’s recent “inadequate” measures to counter terrorist elements in Syria and elsewhere.That now has led to the Turkish strongman being forced to make amends, literally pleading with US President Biden to reconsider sanctions on account of the Russian S-400 deal/CAATSA provisions and its consequent exclusion from the F-35 joint venture with the West (now hoping for a refund of its monies therein, whilst the wily Americans may opt to give them some F-16s instead).The FATF ruling is bound to hit Turkey hard and it showed its concern by going soft on Kashmir utterances, as the Pakistanis saw it (possibly to appease India, now seen as a US favourite). He chose to compare Kashmir with the Uighur and Rohingya issues bedevilling the Muslim Ummah, much to Pakistan’s ire which sees Kashmir as an existential problem. More so since Erdogan had chosen to bring up Kashmir during the past three UN General Assembly speeches. When Erdogan did not condole the recent death of Kashmiri ‘freedom fighter’ Syed Ali Shah Geelani, it was seen by his Pakistani minders as a clear snub.Besides, the squabbling between PM Imran Khan and Army Chief Bajwa over the ISI chief has substantially rocked the boat politically, for Imran himself in terms of not having a pliable ISI chief in place to orchestrate his re-election as also for Pakistan’s international stature (or what there is of it) in terms of the shenanigans of a police state with no pretence of democratic norms or media freedom.Pakistan’s other more serious predicament, of course, is on account of its economic hardship. To add to its woes of suspension of the Asian Development Bank and World Bank programme loans (disbursements of loans from these agencies may continue, but at an abysmally low rate in view of the country’s inability to execute projects), a double whammy has been dealt to it by the unrest in Afghanistan, fuelling a large refugee influx into that country. Further aggravating the challenges to governance are the rampant crime and terror-related activities.Members of Pakistan’s supposedly outlawed Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) are reportedly sneaking back incognito into the country from safe havens in Kunar and Nangarhar provinces of Afghanistan, posing a direct threat to Indian interests in J&K. How to deal with the TTP is another bone of contention between the all-powerful Pakistan Army and Imran’s civilian dispensation which has been seeking to make peace with this terror group responsible for the deaths of several citizens.Given this situation, it is just as well that India has opted to coordinate intelligence-gathering and counter-terror operations with the US. The Indian armed forces would have their task cut out for keeping the LoC quiet, with the recent successes in counter-terror operations being a boost to the troop morale.Imran Khan would, meanwhile, amble from one policy mess-up to another, till the Army feels he has outlived his utility. But the real worry is the expected surge in cross-border terror, as often happens in such situations in the “Land of the Pure”.Turkey, as a Sunni Islamist NATO entity, was expected to play a role in acquiescing to Pakistan’s policy of employing terror as also in defence cooperation with that country, but that fear may be somewhat ameliorated on account of the FATF strictures against its government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/turkish-twist-to-pakistans-terror-policy-331725
30-10-2021||Cyber Law Expert||Pegasus ruling a call for law on cyber security||The Supreme Court has once again emerged as the guardian of privacy and other rights of the citizens with its landmark judgment in the Pegasus case. The Pegasus issue has rocked many countries across the world, including India. Various Indian stakeholders complained of being targeted by the Pegasus software, which is a spyware aimed to strip them of their privacy. Consequently, petitions were filed before the apex court.While analysing those petitions, the court was categorically asking the Union of India to come up with its crystal clear response to the same. However, the government’s approach was embodied in raising the flag of national sovereignty and security. So much so, the government also did not take any clear stand before the court on the actions taken by it regarding Pegasus.Consequently, keeping in mind the compelling circumstances, the court has come up with a judgment built upon the existing jurisprudence on privacy. By forming the technical committee, the court has started the process for examining in depth various allegations made by petitioners on the unauthorised activities and spying engaged in through the use of the Pegasus software, which is created by a legal entity based in Israel.While surveillance is a legitimate tool in the hands of governments, it can only be in accordance with the stipulated parameters and procedures established by law. No wonder, the Supreme Court categorically held that indiscriminate spying of citizens cannot be allowed except in accordance with law. This becomes more relevant given the fact that India is a democratic country governed by rule of law.While the said judgment is historic as it has upheld the importance of protecting the right to privacy, it is also equally a watershed inasmuch as it has, for the first time, addressed the nebulous issue of national security.Earlier we had been seeing the scenario where the government would often raise the issue of national security and that alone would be enough for preventing the court from examining issues connected therewith. This is so because national security purely comes within the parameters of the executive and it’s the sovereign government which alone has the right to protect and preserve national security, sovereignty and integrity of India as also protecting the Indian sovereign interests in cyberspace.While the court acknowledged the right of the government to deny information where the issue of national security is involved, it has once again reiterated that courts cannot become mute spectators at the mention of national security. The principle of law that has evolved is that the issue of national security does not escape the gaze of judicial review.This judgment is effectively going to open a new door for the evolution of jurisprudence pertaining to national security and connected legalities. Cyber security today has become such an important element and factor impacting nations like India. Given the fact that India does not have any dedicated law on cyber security, this judgment throws light on the way forward as to how the issues pertaining to national security will have to be dealt with by the judiciary.Following this judgment, governments of the day will have to quickly see the writing on the wall. They will have to be mindful of the fact that while they may raise the national security card in an argument before the court, it is not always that the courts are going to not pierce the veil of national security that is being popped up. This judgment also reiterates the power of judicial review. The executive has its responsibility towards protecting national security. However, it has an equally accountable responsibility towards the judiciary when the judiciary is exercising judicial review processes.More and more national security issues as also cyber security aspects are likely to come up for consideration before the Supreme Court. Citing this judgment, courts could now push the envelope of cyber legal jurisprudence as also jurisprudence concerning national security law to come up with a balanced approach.There is no denying the fact that national security is paramount. However, national security should not be used to trammel the liberties of citizens. There has to be a harmonious balance between the protection of national security on the one hand and the protection of enjoyment of individual liberties on the other.The technical committee has been handpicked by the Supreme Court and has been given various terms of reference. These terms include the mandate given to the committee to inquire, investigate and determine various aspects pertaining to the use of the Pegasus suite of software on phones and actions connected therewith and also legalities pertaining to use of the Pegasus suite of spyware on the citizens of the country. In that direction, the court has authorised the committee to devise its own procedure to effectively implement and answer the terms of reference, hold such inquiry or investigation as it deems fit and take statements of any person in connection with inquiry and call for the records of any authority or individual.Further, the court has requested the technical committee to make recommendations pertaining to the enactment of legal provisions on surveillance for securing the improved right to privacy and also for enhancing and improving the cyber security of the nation and all its assets and also to ensure the prevention of invasion of the citizens' right to privacy, otherwise done in accordance with law.The court is further expecting the committee to come up with recommendations regarding the setting up of a well-equipped independent premier agency to investigate cyber security vulnerabilities, for threat assessment relating to cyber attacks and to investigate instances of cyber attacks in the country. As India does not have a dedicated cyber security law, this judgment represents a first major step forward in the evolution of a law in this regard. The committee is going to deal with issues that are transnational in nature. Further, the ability of the committee to access information residing on the NSO servers is an area where more clarity would be required.The setting up of the committee is a great starting point. However, it’s not the destination; it’s the beginning of the journey where, as time passes, the court is likely to customise legal orders and approaches, keeping in mind the evolving cyber security standards and frameworks on the horizon. It is a call for the nation to wake up to the menace of cyber attacks and surveillance and come up with a dedicated, comprehensive legislation on cyber security. At a time when countries like China, Singapore and Australia are moving miles ahead in this direction, India is a nation that is lagging behind. The Supreme Court has risen to the occasion and has, indeed, eminently played its role as the protector and torchbearer of individual rights and liberties.However, going forward, a more holistic approach will have to be adopted. Governmental interests will have to be protected while individuals’ enjoyment of civil liberties and fundamental rights need to be also safeguarded. Hopefully, the SC judgment could act as a catalyst for the further evolution of cyber security legal jurisprudence in India in the coming times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pegasus-ruling-a-call-for-law-on-cyber-security-331729
30-10-2021||Senior Economic Analyst||Why BJP is here to stay||Prashant ‘PK’ KISHOR has upset his greatest supporters, India’s English-speaking liberals, by saying that the BJP is going to be the ‘centre of Indian polity’ for decades to come, and that one should not ‘ever get into the trap that people are getting angry and they will throw away Modi.’ This, to many anti-Modi voices, is the unkindest cut of all, because they were hoping that India’s best-known mercenary electoral-strategist was going to work some magic to oust PM Modi in 2024.The alliance between economically dominant mercantile castes and the ‘Sanskritised’ non-dominant OBCs and Dalits holds the key to BJP’s hegemonic presence. The question is, what has made the BJP the ‘Party of Rule’, which dominates political discourse even when it loses (such as in West Bengal, for instance)? There are two key reasons for this; the change in the composition of India’s ruling elite and the consolidation of non-dominant OBCs and Dalits. The first is a result of a process that began in the mid-1980s, the second is of more recent origin.The first 35 years of India’s post-Independence polity was dominated by policies of dirigisme, where the state controlled the ‘commanding heights’ of the economy. Critics called this ‘state capitalism’ and argued that all that the ‘Nehruvian socialism’ was doing was building a launching pad for India’s homegrown capitalists to be able to take on international capital. While the Congress, which ruled for most of these years, needed support from captains of industry to sustain its rule, it had a love-hate relationship with capital.Much of this can be traced back to the colonial period, and the anti-colonial struggle. As is well-known, the Congress was dominated by the professional classes, English-educated, upper-caste Indians, whose ‘nationalist consciousness’ was derived from western enlightenment discourse. What is less spoken about is the caste-basis of those who were to take over the reins of post-Independent India. It was overwhelmingly dominated by the ‘knowledge castes’ who had apprenticed in modern state-craft within the structures of the Raj. They had a disdain for the ‘mercantile castes’ that had money, but lacked social capital.Nehru was to clearly articulate this attitude in 1936, when he equated capitalism with the ‘bania or money-lender civilisation’, and socialism with ‘the old Brahmin ideal of service’. Although Nehru wrote this at the peak of his momentary flirtation with Marxism, this disdain would continue throughout the period of ‘Nehruvian socialism’ where money-making was seen as dirty and entrepreneurs had to kowtow to ordinary babus. The result was that the share of the richest 1% of Indians in total national income almost halved from 11.8% in 1951 to 6.3% in 1981. The share of the poorest 50%, on the other hand, increased from 18.9% to 21.4%.This was a difficult period for India’s mercantile castes and communities, who dominated trade and enterprise, but had very little representation in government. Their historical ties to anti-Congress trends during the national movement, especially ‘Hindu nationalism’, made it difficult for the mercantile caste communities to find a space in the system of power in Delhi. This would change dramatically from the early 1980s, when first Indira Gandhi, and then Rajiv Gandhi would gradually open up the economy to private capital.The rise of the mercantile caste communities in India coincided with the victory of neoliberalism in the West. As finance capital established its global hegemony and India jumped on the privatisation-globalisation-liberalisation bandwagon, India’s mercantile caste communities were best suited to make the most of it. By the mid-1990s, public discourse had turned turtle; from looking down upon businessmen to worshipping them.The BJP, and its previous avatar Bharatiya Jana Sangh, had always backed the mercantile caste communities, and they, in turn, helped the party’s rise from the late 1980s. As the mercantile caste communities began to dominate the economy, they were bound to gain gradual control over politics, as well. Although, non-English speaking ‘vernacular’ Brahmins from the Hindi belt would man the edifice of power from the late 1990s, it was only in alliance with India Inc, which was dominated by the mercantile caste communities. That economic policy was now firmly in their control can be gauged from the change in the distribution of national income. From 1991 to 2014, the share of national income of the richest 1% rose from 10% to 22%, while that of the bottom 50% dropped from 20% to 13%. Per capita real income of the richest 1% rose at an annual rate of 6% during this period, while that of the poorest 50% rose at just 1.9%. In other words, the poorest 50% of Indians were better-off during the period of ‘Nehruvian socialism’ than they were after the Rao-Manmohan reforms of 1991.This growing inequality that positioned the mercantile caste communities firmly on the throne could only be sustained and reproduced through a wider alliance beyond the elites. It is here that the new BJP, under Modi, played a crucial role. The ground for it was created by two related processes. The first was that the extension of market economy across India created wider ties across geographies. Ironically, this not only did not weaken caste, but also strengthened it, especially as imagined communities based on kinship and a common relationship with the state. Dominant OBC and Dalit groups consolidated across states to be able to win regional elections and form state governments.While these ‘caste’ parties were initially able to attract a wider set of backward castes and Dalits, once in power, they only promoted a small set of dominant castes who managed to get government jobs, including in the police. This created a schism within the OBC and Dalit political movements. This was fertile ground for political Hindutva, to promote the idea amongst the Most Backward Castes and ‘Mahadalits’ that their future lies in asserting their religious identity. Once Modi became Prime Minister, this support was consolidated further through targeted government schemes.It is this alliance between the economically dominant mercantile castes, now led by a handful of all-encompassing business houses, and the newly ‘Sanskritised’ non-dominant OBCs and Dalits that holds the key to the BJP’s hegemonic presence in India’s polity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-bjp-is-here-to-stay-331745
