31-10-2021||THE festive season has started but where once markets used to be teeming with shoppers and bargain hunters||Hello, Chandigarh||To turn to my promise in my last column: our visit to Chandigarh after almost 10 years and the changes that greeted us. This was the first time in almost 15 years that we were going by road and the changes began to register on us as soon as we hit the highway. What used to once take a mere five hours took us much longer, thanks to a detour to avoid the farmers’ blockade. It was also a rainy, slushy day and the highway — still rough in parts due to ongoing work — was a muddy mess. We reached Murthal and started looking out for Zhilmil Dhaba that my husband remembered from a stopover years ago. To call it a dhaba is insulting its smart sitout space, clean loos and prompt service. Sadly, our stomachs are no longer capable of digesting the butter, ghee and masalas that were on offer. The butter we had at that one meal was almost a month’s quota and we proceeded from there in a semi-comatose state. This was the first of many food binges in those two-and-a-half days and we must have come back with dangerously elevated cholesterol levels. I have been surviving on soups and khichdi ever since.Chandigarh is now, perhaps, the cleanest and most beautiful city in India. For this, I think the credit goes to Nehru and Corbusier for having designed a layout that was radically different from the older towns and cities of India in the 1950s. The wide roads that seemed so ghostly and under-utilised 40 years ago are now a blessing. The beautiful public gardens and roundabouts, the neat pavements, the cycle paths — all these now make so much sense. The lake and the beautiful background of the Shivaliks are stunning. Moreover, the sense of pride and ownership that its residents have makes sure that no one violates the building bye-laws. This is in stark contrast to almost every other city I have visited in recent times, where the land and building mafia work in tandem with greedy and corrupt governments to destroy the essential character of a place. Our driver, having never seen a city like it, turned to us and said, ‘You mean you left this heaven to live in filthy Noida?’ and shook his head at our idiocy.The serenity and peace of the old kothis, with lovely gardens and the local market places, were another eye-opener. All the dusty fields where our children once played cricket and football are now neatly manicured parks with designated play areas for younger children. The old sarkari homes have lost their drab exteriors and look utterly transformed. Rip Van Winkle could not have been more shocked when he awoke after a hundred years!So, was all perfect? Well, yes and no. There was joy at meeting and spending time with friends who we have long histories with, and who are bonded in ways that it is difficult to put into words. Yet, for all the muck and filth of Delhi, I have to say that while I love what we had in Chandigarh once and see its growth into a remarkable city, there is a complacency that sets in when comfort and aesthetics are the major focus of one’s life. I found a curious reluctance to emerge out of the cocoon of familiarity and routine and engage with whatever is wrong in the world outside this Shangri-la. Considering the political upheavals that are rocking Punjab, few seemed seriously upset.I may be wrong but sometimes it is important to take a stand against what is wrong and speak out. This is when I miss our old friends, like Chani — whose memorial we had gone to take part in. How uncaring we were of the fallout the subversive theatre would have on our careers and lives even in the grim days of the Emergency, seems like another age led by daring creativity that flourished despite a suffocating political time. Nek Chand, who created the Rock Garden by stealth and went on to become an internationally celebrated artist, was another example of a simple man who broke the middle-class complacency of a smug city.My great regret is that we were unable to meet all the friends we had planned to. There was just not enough time and it seemed better to spend two or three hours with each friend we could meet rather than say a hi and bye. I apologise for this to all those who we had to forego meeting (they know who I mean) and promise to come again and spend time with each one of them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/hello-chandigarh-332192
31-10-2021||JOSEPH GOEBBELS||Deflating the bogey of a rapidly growing Muslim population||Anyhow, the myth of Muslims multiplying much more than Hindus persists, fuelling communal prejudice. It is sad that Mohan Bhagwat, head of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, has joined the chorus. Recently, while delivering the annual Vijay Dashmi speech at Nagpur, he said that there was a need for a “population policy” based on the “demographic changes and imbalance” in India’s population. What he meant by “imbalance” was that the Hindu population was growing at a slower pace than that of Muslims. He also called for a policy to curb population growth that would apply to all communities.There can be no quarrel about the need to slow down the rise in numbers, and that all should take part in the effort. Even though the country’s population growth rate has indeed come down in the past three decades or so, it is still unsustainable. It has not reached the desirable “zero growth rate”, or fertility replacement level, as has China’s. The United Nations estimates that between 2020 and 2050, there will be 27.3 crore more Indians on the planet, and that by 2027 — in just six years — we will exceed China’s population. Clearly, the Indian government, along with civil society, must do its utmost to slow down the rate of population growth. Otherwise, we face a demographic disaster, not a demographic dividend.The truth of the matter is that after Sanjay Gandhi’s ham-handed and coercive measures to enforce the family planning programme during his mother’s Emergency rule (which was part of the reason the Congress lost the 1977 General Election), all the political parties in power have been scared of pursuing an effective family planning programme. The short-sighted feminist lobby, too, has to share part of the blame. It has consistently opposed the implementation of contraceptive methods approved by the WHO like injectibles for women, by saying that men should also contribute to family planning by undergoing vasectomies. That may be true, but it is unrealistic in India, which is still very much a patriarchal society. As a result, the most common contraceptive method remains female sterilisation, which is irreversible, whereas there should ideally be a spread of reversible methods, including IUDs (intra-uterine devices), injectibles, the pill, and the use of condoms. This is the pattern followed by countries that have been successful in their family planning drive, such as Indonesia, Thailand and Sri Lanka.On the question of Muslims outnumbering Hindus in the near future, former Chief Election Commissioner SY Quraishi, in his authoritative book “The Population Myth: Islam, Family Planning and Politics in India”, exposes the Goebbelsian falsehoods promoted by the likes of Bhagwat, and which are unfortunately also believed by a large number of non-Muslims. Admittedly, the rate of growth of the Indian Muslim population is slightly more than that of Hindus. But the gap between the growth rate of the two communities is getting narrower by the day. There is a predominant reason for this: education. By and large, the literacy rate of Muslims in India is lower than that of Hindus. Proof of the crucial role of education in the population debate is when you compare a highly-literate state like Kerala with states of that have poor literacy, like Uttar Pradesh or Bihar. The Muslims in Kerala have a much lower population growth rate than Hindus in UP or Bihar. As Muslims become more educated, and their healthcare improves, they will have smaller families. It’s as simple as that — except that communally-prejudiced people refuse to believe the linkage.Let me end by highlighting the poor leadership provided by prominent Muslims to their community on this vital issue. They should have a look around them, at the more progressive Islamic countries. In Tunisia, polygamy is banned by law. In Morocco, it is made so difficult for a Muslim to have more than one wife, that in effect very few do so. In Indonesia, the pro-active mullahs have been preaching the benefits of family planning from mosques for decades. In Iran, after the Shah was overthrown, the fundamentalist Islamic rulers tried out a pro-natalist policy. They soon realised their folly. Today, Iran has among the most effective family planning programmes in the world. Ditto Bangladesh. These Islamic countries have actually been more successful in curbing their population growth rates than India. Not just that. Another major benefit is that the women in these countries play a bigger role in public life than Muslim women in India. Better education goes hand in hand with greater participation of women in running their countries.Education empowers women. Azim Premji, a Muslim, is one of the very few enlightened Indian entrepreneurs who understand the importance of education, and its connect with economic progress. He pours hundreds of crores into an educational foundation he has set up. The head of the progressive and wealthy Bohra community, the Syedna, should do the same, as should other Indian business houses.In an earlier column, I criticised two prominent members of the powerful All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) for their public support of the ruling anti-women Taliban in Afghanistan. I had asked if any action had been taken against them. I got no reply. I have another follow-up question: how many women do you have on your Board?— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/deflating-the-bogey-of-a-rapidly-growing-muslim-population-332190
31-10-2021||IN the Army||‘Tiger’ and the ‘Grand Old Man’||Appointed the Intelligence Officer (IO), an understudy to the Adjutant, by the newly promoted Commanding Officer, I would accompany the latter during his visits to the forward posts or stay at the unit base or at the Tactical HQ, from where he exercised more effective command and control during operations. Once, along with another officer, we drove the CO’s jeep all around the post without realising the effect of the rugged, rocky and undulating terrain on its suspension.Late at night, the Adjutant directed us to report to the Battalion HQ by 0700 hours the following day. A two-hour run down the hills, we reached the base huffing and puffing. Dressed up in neatly-ironed uniform, we were marched up to the CO, who balked at us for breaking the shock absorber and ordered to get it repaired from wherever by the evening. “Right sir,” we saluted, and drove to the workshop at Rajouri. The EME CO, too, rebuked us and warned that he would reflect it as ‘unfair wear and tear’ for which we shall have to pay. Having no money in our pockets, we went to the field cashier at the Divisional HQ and drew Rs50 each. We returned and handed over the jeep to the mechanics, who repaired it in no time. When we asked for the bill, we were told it would follow. Feeling elated, we drove back to the unit, reaching late in the afternoon.Imagining that there would be nobody in the Officers’ Mess at that hour, we shouted, “Koi hai”, and as we lifted the curtain, in front was the CO sitting, caressing his moustache. “So my marshals have come, have a beer on me.” We were floored that the CO, who was roaring like a tiger in the morning, could be so affable. It drove home a lesson, that the ‘Old Man’ was there to guide and not punish us for a fault committed in exuberance at an age when it is expected. The bill, too, never came because the CO had rung up the counterpart in EME only to admonish us and not penalise.I was also ADC to the CO’s elder brother. This GOC, leading from the front the same battalion during the 1965 war, had captured Icchhogil canal, imprinting a legacy of leadership, camaraderie and above all, impeccable integrity and character.As a Brigade Commander in Mizoram, his staff presented him a memento inscribed with the words: ‘To a Grand Old Man’. And indeed he was one; a thorough professional and cool-headed, he steered the Division during the 1971 Indo-Pak war in the Chhamb-Jaurian sector. In one instance, the GOC’s group was strafed by Pakistani aircraft — a CO’s jeep was blown off and as we retrieved the bodies, the GOC saluted the martyrs and directed the ‘Last Post’ with full military honours. Ever counselling me — ‘Err on judgment, but never on intention, you damn fellow’ — he rose to become the Vice Chief.Having rubbed shoulders with ‘Old and Grand Old Tigers’, I am sure that whosoever coined these terms would have observed their demeanour, wisdom and sincerity of purpose. At least I did.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tiger-and-the-grand-old-man-332189
31-10-2021||RECENTLY||BSF imbroglio in Punjab||The Punjab government’s reaction has been unfavourable and it has demanded cancellation of this order. Even an all-party meeting, minus the BJP, passed a resolution demanding its recall. The reaction of the people in the border areas and elsewhere is negative but muted. Punjab is a small state geographically and the distance of 50 km covers almost half of it, including the cities of Amritsar, Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Batala, etc. Amritsar is also a city blessed with the presence of Sri Darbar Sahib where lakhs of devotees from India and abroad come to pay obeisance. The unspoken fear is that the BSF would operate in this 50-km belt with impunity — even in the cities and towns. Given that this is an election year for the state, the perception is further heightened that Opposition parties will be targeted.It is a fear arising because of the lack of consultation between the Centre and the Punjab government. There was no need to be so secretive and the state government could have been taken into confidence. Secondly, some more details could have been given as to how these orders would be implemented. Would it mean setting up of pickets or posts in the 50-km hinterland, or would it mean only increasing the powers of the present deployment? There cannot be much objection if the present BSF personnel exercise these powers on the basis of need in emergent situations and in coordination with Punjab Police. We have a strong presence of Punjab Police and police stations in close proximity to the border and they could be associated in these increased activities of the BSF. Even without this extension of jurisdiction, the BSF and Punjab Police have cooperated closely in sharing information and carrying out operations. Ultimately, it all depends on the interaction of the senior leadership and the resultant harmony at the ground level.I’ve served in Punjab Police for a long time, including a four-year stint as Amritsar SSP, and I also had the privilege of being DG of BSF. Both as SSP and DG, I did not come across any instance of major disagreement. Senior officers met frequently and sorted things out. Both as DG of BSF and DG of J&K Police before that, I witnessed excellent cooperation at the border and inside J&K, where the BSF was deployed in the hinterland. If we could have been more open before these orders were passed, such apprehensions would not have arisen. Even now I would suggest that if either the Union Home Secretary or the DG of BSF could generally spell out the scope of these orders, it would end much of the speculation. It is a question of bolstering the confidence of the people in the belt.Political parties have their own agenda and they would act accordingly. We have to ensure that the people are not harassed and can go about their business without fear, especially because there is no insurgency in the state, nor any major infiltration of men and arms from across the border as of now. Further, there could be regular meetings at the senior and local levels and real-time exchange of actionable intelligence. It is in this field that the local police play a major role. It is accepted by all of us who have served that the best actionable intelligence, whether in Punjab or J&K, came from the police because of their local connections and greater confidence of the people in them. If the police provide the intelligence and BSF the manpower, it would be a winning combination. This is why the SOGs became so popular with the Army and PMFs in J&K and Punjab. Even today, the SOGs continue to be the backbone of operations in J&K.It should be remembered that we are a federal state and there is a clear division of areas of work. Law and order is a state subject. Before the creation of the BSF, it was Punjab Police which looked after the border in Punjab. With the raising of the BSF, the border up to 15 km came to be looked after by the BSF. Punjab set up a separate border range, which included the border police stations of Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Ferozepur districts. There has been close coordination between the BSF and Punjab Police and there appears to be no valid reason for the extension of jurisdiction of the BSF. Now the state and Central governments should work towards better coordination between the MHA, BSF and state authorities. On their part, the MHA should not spring more surprises — consulting always helps. For the time being, it is strongly suggested that the MHA and the BSF should spell out the contours of this order. The one thing that worries people is the likelihood of BSF posts in the hinterland and large-scale searches in the countryside and towns and cities. But the elucidation by the Central authorities on the orders and close liaison on the ground between the BSF and Punjab Police would result in a cordial working relationship. The Centre should take care not to be seen as encroaching on the rights of the states and especially a border state like Punjab, which has seen peace after a long time. In fact, the Centre should bestow greater developmental largesse on Punjab to undo the damage caused by the decades-long terrorism and the many wars.Over the years and especially during the last few years, the Central agencies have been seen to be interfering increasingly on issues of crime and law and order in states. Consultation on most matters is not taking place, with the result that the states are often taken by surprise. There used to be a National Integration Council which met at least once a year under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister, and was attended by all Chief Ministers. This was the forum where Centre-state relations were discussed, which resulted in better coordination. I have not heard recently of any meeting of this forum. If it is still in existence, it should be resuscitated and regular meetings should be held, even biennial meetings can be held as a lot of Centre-state issues are cropping up. Even otherwise, whenever an important decision is to be taken regarding states, prior consultations should be held.This is most important in matters relating to the security of India, where we should all be on the same page. We are surrounded by threats along our vast borders. China disputes territories along the long mountainous border in the North and North-East, our perennially troublesome neighbour Pakistan continues to foment trouble by supporting terrorists and disputing territories and borders. Along our long coastline, we have a flood of smuggling and drug-related activities. The security of this nation sits on a knife’s edge, yet our politicians continue to quibble and develop fault lines in our society. It has been the close coordination between the Centre and state forces which has enabled us to keep the terrorists at bay. A large nation with a billion-plus people needs a strong modern security apparatus governed by national and local needs, and not the whims and fancies of political parties given to partisan thoughts. Needless to say, history clearly shows that we were easy pickings for the marauders while we were divided. India, rather Indian leadership, needs to look beyond personal politics and fiefdoms and put the Nation first — that’s easier said than done, given that there is a relationship of conflict between the Centre and the Opposition-ruled states and the country seems to be getting divided along communal and caste lines. This is a battle we cannot afford to lose. Generations will rue this moment in history if our leadership does not rise to the challenge and forges a common front against the enemies on our borders.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bsf-imbroglio-in-punjab-332188
