01-02-2021||Business||Sensex climbs 2,315 points as market cheers Budget 2021||The BSE benchmark Sensex skyrocketed 2,315 points on Monday, propelled by gains in financial stocks, as market participants cheered a growth-oriented Union Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. After touching an intra-day high of 48,764.40, the 30-share Sensex ended 2,314.84 points or 5 per cent higher at 48,600.61. The broader Nifty soared 646.60 points or 4.74 per cent to finish at 14,281.20. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank was the top gainer, rallying over 14 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, L&T and HDFC. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra and HUL were the laggards. Indian markets opened on a positive note tracking positive global bourses. During the afternoon session, the markets reacted positively to the Union Budget, traders said. All the key market indices witnessed a sharp rise as investors welcomed the big infrastructure and healthcare boost provided in the Budget. "This is indeed a bold growth-oriented budget. Absence of the much-feared COVID tax and the surcharges on income tax is a great relief. Privatisation of two nationalised banks and proposal of monetisation of assets like land are clear positives," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "Raising FDI in insurance from 49 per cent to 74 per cent is welcome. Market response to the Budget reflects growth optimism. In brief, the FM has presented a pragmatic, bold and visionary budget in these difficult times," he added. According to Lav Chaturvedi, ED and CEO at Reliance Securities, the single securities market code announced in the Budget speech will bring about ease of doing business in the Indian financial markets. This, along with FDI regime and development financial institution, would be transforming for the financial markets, he added. Sitharaman on Monday proposed more than doubling of healthcare spending while imposing a new agri cess on certain imported goods and raising customs duty on items ranging from cotton to electronics in a bid to pull the economy out of the COVID-induced trough. She also allocated Rs 20,000 crore to recapitalise state-run banks that are saddled with bad loans and have been a drag on growth. The revenue target from privatisation of PSUs was put at Rs 1.75 lakh crore with a planned initial public offering (IPO) of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) among the state-run companies that will be sold in the next fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 1,700 points as Sitharaman presents Budget 2021||The BSE benchmark Sensex zoomed over 1,700 points and the NSE Nifty reclaimed the 14,000-level driven by gains in financial stocks on Monday after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented the Union Budget, which anlaysts believe is a "growth-oriented" effort. After touching an intra-day high of 48,004.71, the 30-share Sensex was trading 1,660.99 points or 3.59 per cent higher at 47,946.76; and the broader Nifty surged 462.15 points or 3.39 per cent at 14,096.75. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank was the top gainer, rallying over 11 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, SBI, HDFC, M&M and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra and TCS were among the laggards. To push growth via infrastructure creation, "This is indeed a bold growth-oriented budget. Absence of the much-feared Covid tax and the surcharges on Income Tax is a great relief. Privatisation of two nationalised banks and proposal of monetisation of assets like land are clear positives," V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said. "Raising FDI in insurance from 49 per cent to 74 per cent is welcome. Market response to the budget reflects growth optimism. In brief, the FM has presented a pragmatic, bold and visionary budget in these difficult times," he added. According to Lav Chaturvedi , ED and CEO, at Reliance Securities, the single securities market code announced in the Budget speech will bring out ease of doing business in Indian financial markets. This, along with FDI regime and development financial institution, would be transforming for financial markets, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open higher ahead of Budget presentation||The BSE benchmark Sensex surged over 443 points and the NSE Nifty advanced 115 points in opening trade on Monday, ahead of the Union Budget 2021-22 presentation in Parliament. The 30-share Sensex was trading higher by 443.06 points or 0.96 per cent at 46,728.83; and the broader Nifty was up 114.85 points or 0.84 per cent at 13,749.45. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC, ONGC, Titan and HDFC Bank were prominent gainers. Of the Sensex constituents, 16 shares were trading in the green. On Friday, the Sensex had closed 588.59 points or 1.26 per cent lower at 46,285.77, and the Nifty had settled 182.95 points or 1.32 per cent down at 13,634.60. Over the previous six sessions, the Sensex has lost 3,506.35 points or 7.04 per cent, and the Nifty has shed 1,010.10 points or 6.89 per cent. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Union Budget 2021-22 in Parliament on Monday. Market experts and economists are of the view that this budget will be critical in terms of picking up the pieces after the economic destruction caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) offloaded shares worth a net Rs 5,930.66 crore on Friday, according to exchange data Elsewhere in Asia on Monday, stock markets were in recovery mode in afternoon session, after four sessions of losses. The global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.32 per cent to USD 55.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Beyond Street Skirmish||It’s a nippy Monday morning, barely hours away from the presentation of the Union Budget 2021. Homes and offices would soon switch on the telly, while mobile phones would light up like Christmas trees with budgetary highlights, news snippets and, afterwards, reactions from all quarters, commoners and industry stalwarts included. A lot of build-up has been evident this time for what would presumably carry the most tell-tale batch of proclamations ever on the present government’s reformist agenda. The investor fraternity, for its part, wants the finance minister to signal clear policy initiatives covering critical areas of the economy. Specific demands raised on various fora have related to various aspects of personal finance, securities regulations, banking, insurance, direct taxes and so on. The individual investor, forever looking at ways to allocate more resources to create a bigger asset base, would want the budget to spell out reforms on all major fronts, especially equity and debt markets. The Average Joe, following what the FM may deliver today, may just feel encouraged to save and invest more doggedly. Perhaps he would opt for more market-driven performance this time and depend less on assured returns. At the same time, with dark visions of Covid-19 still etched in his mind, he would really want to de-risk his exposure, and even direct a bigger share of his portfolio towards life and health insurance. Quo vadis? Never mind the forthcoming budgetary provisions, forget the anticipated reforms, banish all ideas of new initiatives from even the farthest recesses of your brain. Instead, train your mind to consider only the opportunities and the challenges that the rest of 2021 is quite likely to pose. The scope and impact of these would have probably elicited mixed feelings deep inside you already. Let me come to the headwinds first, and reserve the tailwinds for another day. First and foremost, an ordinary investor would have to overcome a set of stiff challenges, including an extremely unstable equity market that lately seems to have entered the overbought zone. I am specifically referring to the relentless advance recorded by the premier indices in recent months. The bellwether BSE Sensex has topped the 50,000 points mark already (Thursday, January 21, 2021, would forever remain in the record books) though it couldn’t sustain at that levels in the subsequent trading sessions. However, the upward trend has added an edge to the view that plenty of fresh money has already come into play. It must be pointed out in this context that the advance is rather one-sided; after all, only a limited number of large-cap stocks have propelled the market to the height it has reached. The mid-cap story is considerably different in comparison. Much to investors’ discomfort, stocks of many smaller yet prominent companies have not kept pace in recent days. The debt market has meanwhile remained uninspiring. Investor sentiments here have turned somewhat cooler. Returns from actively-managed debt are nothing to write home about these days. Deposit rates are far too frigid — a matter of concern for senior citizens who greatly depend on these instruments.Investments in sundry fixed-income paper hardly beat inflation. Further,if you add the burden of income tax to your woes, the tale turns rather sour indeed. Your deliverables Whichever way the market moves, you need to pay consider a few things while working out your financial plan. The last word Remember, every budget is special, each is foreshadowed by unique circumstances. The 2021 edition would be no different, coming at a time the world is still reeling under the effect of a lethal disease. And the economy, where green shoots are just getting evident, is teetering on the brink in more ways than one. Common investors, many of whom have fallen back on household savings during the past few months, have sacrificed a lot in these uncertain times. The fact that a few aspects of the market have been reinforced is a boon for those who kept their faith. Equities, for instance, have advanced markedly — for those who have actively participated in it, there is reason to cheer. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||GST collections in January touch an all-time high of about Rs 1.20 lakh crore||GST collections in January touched an all-time high of about Rs 1.20 lakh crore, the finance ministry said on Sunday. The ministry said in line with the trend of recovery in the GST revenues over the past five months, the revenues for the month of January 2021 are 8 per cent higher than that in the same month last year. ‘‘The gross GST revenue collected in January 2021 till 6pm on January 31, 2021 is Rs 1,19,847 crore, of which CGST is Rs 21,923 crore, SGST is Rs 29,014 crore, IGST is Rs 60,288 crore (including Rs 27,424 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,622 crore (including Rs 883 crore collected on the import of goods),’’ the finance ministry said in a statement. The number could be upped further as more number of GST sales returns get filed. GST revenues had topped Rs 1 lakh crore in nine out of the 12 months of the 2019-20 fiscal. However, in the current fiscal, the revenues have taken a hit because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Revenue in April was Rs 32,172 crore, followed by Rs 62,151 crore in May, Rs 90,917 crore in June, Rs 87,422 crore in July, and Rs 86,449 crore in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Lower taxes, job creation on wish list||All are waiting for Union Budget 2021-22 to be presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday at 11am. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said the budget for 2021-22 will be seen as a continuation of the string of economic packages that the finance minister had announced in the last few months. The finance minister has also indicated that this will be a unique budget to boost the economy of the nation.  Several sectors of the economy have their hopes pinned on the upcoming budget.
Some of the expectations are here as follows: The writer is a tax advocate||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||CEA makes strong case for setting up private sector led bad bank to deal with NPAs||Chief economic adviser K. V. Subramanian has made a strong case for the setting up of a bad bank led by the private sector to deal with the non-performing assets of the financial sector which may see a surge once regulatory forbearance to deal with the impact of Covid-19 is withdrawn. The proposal to set up a bad bank has been under the consideration of the government for long and some steps may be announced in Union Budget 2021-22 to be unveiled by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday in  the Lok Sabha. Bad bank refers to a financial institution which takes over the bad assets of lenders and undertakes resolution. Lenders have been making a case for setting up a bad bank to ease out the pressure of bad loans on them in these difficult times. “The bad bank will certainly help in consolidating some of the non performing assets. It’s important to also think about implementing the bad bank in the private sector that enables (faster) decision making,” he said in an interview. The resolution of bad assets with alacrity is impacted  in the public sector  because of the fear of 3Cs, he said. 3Cs refer to the Central Bureau of Investigation, the Central Vigilance Commission and the Comptroller and Audit General. “So, the bad bank idea itself is actually something which is required at this point in time, but also designing it in the private sector actually has a lot more possibility for it to be effective,” he said. The Economic Survey of 2017 had proposed this idea, suggesting the creation of a bad bank called Public Sector Asset Rehabilitation Agency (PARA) to help tide over the problem of stressed assets. Earlier this month, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das indicated that the central bank can consider the idea of a bad bank to tackle non-performing assets (NPAs). “If there’s a proposal to set up a bad bank, the RBI will look at it. We have regulatory guidelines for asset reconstruction companies,” Das had said. Subramanian, the lead author of Economic Survey 2020-21, has made a case for carrying out a fresh asset quality review once the ongoing forbearances related to Covid-19 come to an end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Centre may give Cairn Energy one of the surrendered oilfields as compensation||The government may give Cairn Energy one of the surrendered oilfields such as Ratna R-Series in lieu of the $1.4 billion it has pay to the British firm, helping prevent the seizure of foreign assets in the case of default as well as get an experienced operator in the struggling E&P sector, sources said. Cairn Energy gave India its biggest onland oil discovery but exited the country after it was slapped with a Rs 10,247-crore tax demand using a legislation that gave the government the powers to tax companies retrospectively. The firm has now won an international arbitration against the tax demand and the government has been ordered to return the value of shares of Cairn it had sold, dividends it had seized and tax refund it had withheld to recover the tax demand. For a government struggling to find revenue to boost a Covid-19 battered economy, options of appeal against the arbitration award are limited and it may not have the financial bandwidth for such a payout, two sources with knowledge of the development said. “One option is to give Cairn one or more of the oil and gasfields that the government now owns after they are surrendered by operators for various reasons,” one of them said. “The government could give the Ratna and R-Series oil and gas fields in the Arabian Sea that were taken away from the Essar Oil-Premier Oil consortium in 2016 because of a change in contractual terms.” The Barmer oilfield in Rajasthan, which was originally discovered by Cairn Energy, could be another option. Vedanta Ltd, which now operates the field after it bought out Cairn’s Indian subsidiary a decade back, has so far not agreed to the government’s conditions to get an extension of the contract beyond its original end date of May 2020. Under Vedanta, which continues to operate the field on monthly extensions till its legal challenge to the government conditions is settled, the Rajasthan oilfields have seen a steady decline in output. “It’s a win-win — the government settles it liability without paying a single penny or upsetting investor sentiments by not honouring the arbitration award through endless legal challenges and at the same time get back an established exploration and production (E&P) firm back,” another source said. No major oil and gas discovery has been made in the past seven years since the retrospective tax demand was raised. If the government chooses not to honour the arbitration award, it risks the prospect of its assets in foreign countries being seized just like US oil firm ConocoPhillips did with Venezuela to recoup multi-billion dollar of compensation awarded in arbitration. Earlier this month, Cairn Energy’s chief executive officer Simon Thomson wrote to the Indian government that the arbitration ruling is final and binding, and failure to comply would breach the international rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
01-02-2021||Business||Healthcare sector likely to get maximum attention in budget: Survey||India’s healthcare sector is likely to get the maximum attention of the government in the budget to be unveiled on Monday as it comes in the face of the country braving a once-in-a-century global pandemic, says a survey. The Assocham-Primus Partners survey covered more than 550 industry participants, and 39.7 per cent of the respondents said healthcare would receive the highest priority in terms of resource allocation and policy support in the budget. Manufacturing emerged as the second key sector expected to be in focus, with 14.7 per cent respondents expecting it to receive the finance minister’s attention, followed by MSMEs (11.4 per cent), real estate (10.7 per cent) and infrastructure (9.6 per cent). “The Covid-19 pandemic tested the limits of the global healthcare system. While the government’s proactive measures and the frontline workers’ tireless efforts have helped tide the way, the pandemic has also brought forth the fragility of the healthcare system,” the survey stated. On measures which can strengthen the healthcare and pharma sector, 67.3 per cent of the respondents expect the allocation of a fund to modernise the existing primary healthcare infrastructure. This was followed by an expectation (by 62.9 per cent) that the government should increase investments in creating new primary healthcare infrastructure. With regard to aspirations of individual taxpayers, 79.3 per cent respondents said they would like to see a cut in personal income tax rates, especially in the wake of pressure on their earnings in the pandemic-hit economy. Rationalising taxes for the individuals is critical as reducing the tax burden on individuals would enable further spending. According to the survey, this much-needed push to demand would help in creating a multiplier effect in the economy. “A significant increase in public expenditure is inevitable. The pandemic has taught us there are no choices other than large-scale public investment in building primary health centres, hospitals at the district, state capital level,” Assocham secretary-general Deepak Sood said. As has been stated in the Economic Survey, there is a strong feeling within the government to raise public expenditure on healthcare three-fold from 1 per cent of GDP to 3 per cent of GDP, he added.   Moreover, Sood said, at the same time, to support the economic health of the nation, amidst the rising green shoots of recovery, the upcoming Budget must frontload infrastructure investments.   "The Budget's allocation towards infrastructure and housing development will create a much-needed multiplier impact in the economy," he observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-02-2021||Business||Centre has room to present high growth figures for the next fiscal||The low base on which the national income projections will be made for the next fiscal provides the Centre some room to present high growth figures for the next fiscal along with lower fiscal deficit but that will hurt the credibility of the budget exercise, analysts said. The economy is expected to contract 7.7 per cent in the current financial year compared with the growth rate of 4.2 per cent in 2019-20, according to the first advance estimates of national income. Nominal gross domestic product (GDP) or GDP at current prices in the year 2020-21 is likely to attain a level of Rs 194.82 lakh crore against the provisional estimate of GDP for the year 2019-20 of Rs 203.40 lakh crore, released on May 31, 2020. The contraction in nominal GDP during 2020-21 is estimated at 4.2 per cent, the statistical ministry said.
Nominal GDP measures a country's gross domestic product using current prices, without adjusting for inflation. Contrast this with real GDP, which measures a country's economic output adjusted for the impact of inflation. Economists have expressed concern over the possibility of an unrealistic assumption of economic growth because of the lower base. “The finance ministry faces a tough balancing act in the Union budget as it aims to stabilise the public finances while avoiding economically and politically-damaging spending cuts,” Shilan Shah, senior India Economist, Capital Economics, said. “The most likely outcome is that it will set ambitious revenue targets and quietly shift some spending off- balance sheet, allowing it to present a smaller headline deficit. This may keep the bond market on the side for the time being. But obfuscation of the true fiscal position risks undermining credibility over the long term,” Shah said. N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of the Bangalore-based Dr B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University said “fiscal deficit as a ratio of GDP will see a significant improvement compared with what is expected in the current year, assuming that next year is going to be a normal year. Though the NSO (National Statistics Office) has projected (-) 4.2 per cent as nominal growth for the current year, but, my own projection is that we may be somewhere close to zero. If the NSO numbers are right, the budget may assume nominal GDP growth of somewhere close to 15 per cent for next year, if you assume zero growth.
“But, if its NSO estimate, then it may go to 16-17 percent. If that is the case, revenue projection is going to be substantially higher next year. Although there may be some slippage on the expenditure side, especially since we may want to spend more on vaccines and other health-related activities, the fiscal deficit could fall by at least 1.0-1.5 percentage points next year from the current year.” “I think most people are projecting a 7 per cent fiscal deficit for the current year, so the next year could be somewhere closer to 5.5-6.0 per cent,” he added. Sonal Varma, chief economist of Nomura, said, “We expect the central government’s fiscal deficit to widen to 6.8 per cent of GDP in 2021021, nearly double the original budget target of 3.5 per cent , but better than previously feared 8 per cent), aided by a sequential improvement in revenues and a muted rise in spending. “With expenditures supported by strong nominal growth, optimism on tax collection and the government’s aggressive estimates for disinvestment and non-tax proceeds, we expect the fiscal deficit target to be set at 5.3 per cent of the gross domestic product in 2021-22.” Shah said “historically, the Finance Ministry has been adept at masking policy looseness in the budget figures when it wants to give an impression of fiscal consolidation. Typically, this is done by adopting ambitious revenue assumptions for the Goods and Services Tax and asset sales. The Finance Ministry is highly likely to use this strategy once again. Another trend over recent years has been for the Finance Ministry to shift some of its expenditure off-balance sheet. Given the conflicting pressures, we suspect that the authorities will continue to ramp up off-budget activities in FY21-22. Taken together, we think that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will announce a central fiscal deficit target of around 5% of GDP for FY21-22, and outline a roadmap to bring the deficit down to 3% of GDP over the next few years. The Finance Ministry will hope that is sufficient to keep bond yields close to their current lows.” The budget document of the past 10 years shows that nominal GDP growth of 14 per cent was projected in fy12 and fy 13. However, fy14 and fy15 including the interim budget projected nominal GDP growth of 13.4 per cent. Since then the finance ministers have been projecting nominal growth between 11 and 12 per cent with the budget for fy21 projecting nominal growth of 10 percent. N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of the Bengaluru-based Dr B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University said “fiscal deficit as a ratio of GDP will see a significant improvement compared with what is expected in the current year, assuming that next year is going to be a normal year. Though the NSO has projected (-)4.2% as nominal growth for the current year, but, my own projection is that we may be somewhere close to zero. If the NSO numbers are right, then the Budget may assume nominal GDP growth of somewhere close to 15.0% for next year, if you assume zero growth. But, if its NSO estimate, then it may go to 16-17 percent.” “If that is the case, revenue projection is going to be substantially higher next year. Although there may be some slippage on the expenditure side, especially since we may want to spend more on vaccines and other health-related activities, the fiscal deficit could fall by at least 1.0-1.5 percentage points next year from the current year. I think most people are projecting a 7.0% fiscal deficit for the current year, so the next year could be somewhere closer to 5.5-6.0%,” he added. Bhanumurthy said “for the next year, I am hoping that the 15th Finance Commission would have provided a clear roadmap so that the government may start from there and suggest how they are going to bring down the fiscal deficit to whatever the targeted level at the end of five years. Hoping that it would have suggested some range targets with every year some leeway clause for the government to work around.” “The prepone-ing of the budget has led to deterioration of fiscal marksmanship. If the first advance estimates undergo significant revision, then nominal GDP growth keeps changing. We go badly in the next year’s GDP forecast, and other projections like revenue collection, which is the core of any budget exercise,” he added. Sonal Varma, chief economist of Nomura said “we expect the central government’s fiscal deficit to widen to 6.8% of GDP in FY21, nearly double the original budget target of 3.5%, but better than previously feared 8%), aided by a sequential improvement in revenues and a muted rise in spending. With expenditures supported by strong nominal growth, optimism on tax collection and the government’s aggressive estimates for disinvestment and non-tax proceeds, we expect the fiscal deficit target to be set at 5.3% of GDP in FY22.” She said “a combination of factors – the lagged impact of easy financial conditions, the ‘vaccine pivot’, and improving global growth prospects should lead to a strong growth outturn in FY22 real GDP growth of 13.5%, on our estimates. Consequently, we expect the government to assume nominal GDP growth of 15% y-o-y inFY22, more conservative relative to our estimate of 17% from -4.2% y-o-y in FY21 (advance estimates).” “The GDP to witness a turnaround in FY2022, with 10.1% growth in real terms, in contrast to the 7.8% contraction expected in FY2021. We expect the Union Budget for FY2022 to assume a nominal GDP growth of 14-15% in FY2022, higher than the 10% assumption that was made in the Budget for FY2021. In this note, we are using our projections for nominal GDP of Rs. 194.2 trillion for FY2021 and Rs. 221.4 trillion for FY2022,” rating agency ICRA in a research note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-02-2021||Business||Budget 2021-22: Stock investors not expecting any market-specific measures||Stock investors are not expecting any market-specific measures in the budget though sectoral reliefs across the economy may perk up specific scrips, the sombre mood reinforced by a more-than-2500 crash in the Sensex last week. The budgets have largely been disappointing to markets during the tenure of the NDA since 2014: they have fallen on five occasions the day of its presentation. Exactly a year ago, the Sensex had crashed 988 points — its steepest fall on a budget day in six years . However, this time around, there may be some relief for investors as the markets have seen a sell-off before the budget presentation. During the week before the key event, the 30-share BSE benchmark crashed 2592.77 points or 5.30 per cent while the Nifty has lost more than 737.30 points and it is now below the psychological 14000 mark at 13634.60. “Two good things have happened before this budget. First there has been a correction in the markets and second we do not have high expectations about this budget. In fact, less than 24 hours before its presentation, we are wondering what it could bring to the table. Therefore, the markets may not see a big fall,’’ says Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS an investment advisory firm. An analyst with a domestic brokerage here added that investors are going into the budget with lighter positions and that expectations are muted as the government has so far desisted from announcing big-bang stimulus measures to boost growth after the Covid-19 pandemic. He, however, added that the markets will also focus on the proposals and that any coronavirus cess on high income individuals or companies may not be taken positively. Brokerages, however, do have sector-specific expectations. For the banking sector, it includes a bad bank, a bank investment company  that will take over the government’s stake in the 12 public sector banks. Some even expect a bold announcement in the form of privatisation of some of these banks apart from continuing their consolidation so as to bring down the number of state-owned lenders to four. They also expect a higher deduction on housing loans and reduction in long term capital gains rate on real estate assets to 10 per cent with their holding period also reduced to 12 months from 24 months. Some optimists are looking forward to some good news on the long-term capital gains (LTCG) on listed shares. “Among the key expectations, the investors will look forward to the abolition of long-term capital gains tax or redefining long term to two years and reducing the taxation to nil, while further allow indexation benefits to equity mutual funds and some relief on dividend distribution tax in hands of investors,’’ says Nitin Aggarwal, CEO, Religare Broking. A note from Centrum says that the budget will prioritise growth-oriented measures so that the momentum of recovery is sustained. The emphasis is likely to be on the revitalisation of durable consumption impulses as the supply side measures have already been implemented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
