02-02-2021||Business||Budget euphoria: Sensex soars nearly 1,200 points to close at 49,797||The BSE benchmark Sensex zoomed nearly 1,200 points while the NSE Nifty reclaimed the 14,600-level on Tuesday as the post-Budget rally continued for the second session. The Sensex ended 1,197.11 points or 2.46 per cent higher at 49,797.72. The BSE gauge topped the 50,000-level briefly and swung 1,554 points during the day. Likewise, the Nifty advanced 366.65 points or 2.57 per cent to end the session at 14,647.85. Together with Budget day gains, the Sensex has amassed 3,511 points or 7.58 per cent in two sessions, and the Nifty has accumulated 1,007.25 points or 7.38 per cent. Tuesday's top gainers included SBI, UltraTech Cement, HDFC Bank, L&T, Bharti Airtel, Maruti Suzuki and Kotak Bank. Of the Sensex constituents, 27 shares closed in the green. Most analysts are of the view that the equity markets reacted positively to the Budget primarily due to higher capital expenditure plans, status quo on direct taxes and no incremental taxes on capital gains. On Monday, foreign institutional investors bought equities worth a net Rs 1,494.23 crore. Economists and market analysts opined that this is a bold growth-oriented Budget and the absence of the much-feared 'COVID tax' and surcharges on income tax is a great relief. Besides, privatisation of two nationalised banks and proposal of monetisation of assets like land are clear positives, according to them. Market response to the Budget reflects growth optimism and the government has presented a pragmatic, bold and visionary Budget in these difficult times, they said. Elsewhere in Asia, stock markets closed with gains on Tuesday amid signs of progress in US stimulus talks. On the forex market front, the rupee ended 6 paise higher at 72.96 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
02-02-2021||Business||RBI appoints external firm to audit HDFC Bank's IT infra||HDFC Bank on Tuesday said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has appointed an external IT firm for carrying out a special audit of its IT infrastructure in the aftermath of repeated service outages at the country's largest private sector lender over the past two years. "RBI has appointed an external professional IT firm for carrying out a special audit of the entire IT infrastructure of the bank under Section 30 (1-B) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949..., at the cost of the Bank under Section 30 (1-C) of the Act. The bank shall accordingly extend its cooperation to the external professional IT firm so appointed by RBI for conducting the special IT audit as above," HDFC Bank said in a regulatory filing. Last month, HDFC Bank had submitted a detailed plan of action to the RBI to address repeated service disruption issues due to outage, saying it was hopeful of improving its technology platform in three months. Progress is being made on the plan of action provided to the RBI and the bank has taken this positively as it will raise the standard, according to a senior official of HDFC Bank. The action plan will take 10-12 weeks for implementation, and further time-frame will depend on the RBI's inspection. Based on the satisfaction level, the regulator will lift the ban, the official said at an analysts' meet. In December, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) temporarily barred HDFC Bank from launching new digital banking initiatives and issuing new credit cards after taking a serious view of service outages at the lender over the last two years. "RBI has issued an order dated December 2, 2020, to HDFC Bank Ltd with regard to certain incidents of outages in the internet banking/ mobile banking/ payment utilities of the bank over the past two years, including the recent outages in the bank's internet banking and payment system on November 21, 2020, due to a power failure in the primary data centre," HDFC Bank had said in a regulatory filing. The bank has been penalised for two major outages, one in November 2018 and the other in December 2019. Taking a stern view of the repeated outages, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had said in December the regulator had some concerns about certain deficiencies and it was necessary that HDFC Bank strengthens its IT system before expanding further. "... we cannot have thousands and lakhs of customers who are using digital banking to be in any kind of difficulty for hours together and especially when we are ourselves giving so much emphasis on digital banking. Public confidence in digital banking has to be maintained," Das had said. HDFC Bank, the largest lender by assets in the private sector, has been classified as a systemically important entity by the RBI in the past. It is also the largest issuer of credit cards and has a significant share in the payment processing segment. The bank is the largest issuer of credit cards and had 1.49 crore customers as of September 2020 while on the debit cards front, it had 3.38 crore customers. Earlier, HDFC Bank's Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Shashidhar Jagdishan had apologised to customers and promised to work on the deficiencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
02-02-2021||Business||Budget impact: Sensex soars over 750 points in early trade||The Sensex zoomed over 750 points and the Nifty crossed the key 14,500-level in the opening session on Tuesday, a day after the Union Budget which outlined a slew of measures to pull the economy out of the pandemic-induced slump. The BSE gauge Sensex was trading at 49,352.27, witnessing a strong rally of 751.66 points or 1.55 per cent in opening deals. Likewise, the NSE barometer Nifty was higher by 222.65 points or 1.56 per cent at 14,503.85 in early trade. In the Sensex pack, all shares were trading in the green barring HUL. Enthused over various measures announced in the Budget on Monday, the Sensex zoomed 2,314.84 points or 5 per cent to finish at 48,600.61; and the Nifty soared 646.60 points or 4.74 per cent to finish at 14,281.20 the biggest single-day gains ever for the benchmarks on Budget day. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) purchased shares worth a net Rs 1,494.23 crore on Monday, according to exchange data. Asian markets were also trading broadly higher in afternoon trade. Economists and market analysts are of the view that this is a bold growth-oriented budget and absence of the much-feared COVID tax and the surcharges on Income Tax is a great relief. Besides, privatisation of two nationalised banks and proposal of monetisation of assets like land are clear positives, according to them. Market response to the budget reflects growth optimism and in brief, the government has presented a pragmatic, bold and visionary budget in these difficult times, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Borrowing ripples for RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) may have to review its move to resume normal liquidity operations or it may have to continue with the accommodative policy with the  Union finance minister announcing higher-than-expected market borrowings for this financial year and the next. In the budget speech, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government would be borrowing another Rs 80,000 crore in the last two months of this fiscal, which would bring the gross market borrowings to Rs 12.8 trillion. For the next year, the gross market borrowings have been set at Rs 12.05 trillion, which is higher than the Rs 11 trillion that the bond markets were expecting. Her announcement sent bond yields rising (they are inversely related to prices) with yields on the benchmark 10-year-bond surpassing 6 per cent to close at 6.06 per cent — a rise of over 15 basis points. However, the focus has now shifted to the RBI and whether it will announce any changes to its recent announcement of resuming normal liquidity operations. Last month, the central bank had said that it would restore normal liquidity management operations and towards this, it came up with a variable reverse repo auction that sucked Rs 2 lakh crore from the system. After the budget announcement by the finance minister, analysts feel that the central bank may take a step back towards commencing normal liquidity operations to facilitate the higher borrowing so that yields do not climb. The six-member monetary policy committee will begin its three-day meeting on Wednesday. “Despite notable positives in the budget as discussed above, the bond market has understandably been disappointed. This is because of the higher-than-expected fiscal deficit numbers leading to higher-than-expected gross borrowing numbers. The Rs 80,000 crore extra borrowing for this year is especially a bolt from the blue for the bond market. Even for the next financial year, the bond market has been broadly working with a gross borrowing number between Rs 10.5–11 lakh crore and the Rs 12 lakh crore  in the budget is certainly higher than expected,” said Suyash Choudhary, head, fixed income, at IDFC AMC. He added that even Rs 11 lakh crore (and states over and above this) was well outside the orderly absorptive capacity of local market participants and would have required active support from either the RBI or foreign portfolio investors or both and that the central bank would be wary of any disorderly unwind to the monetary transmission that has finally started working effectively over the past few quarters. According to Abheek Barua, chief economist at HDFC Bank, over the coming year, high market borrowings, concerns over inflation and a move towards normalising liquidity conditions by the RBI could bring about pressure on yields. “That said, we do see the RBI continuing with its yield management tools (perhaps more of operation twists compared to plain vanilla open market operations because of liquidity concerns) to keep borrowing costs under check,” Barua added. He expects the yields on the 10-year security to rule between 5.95 per cent and 6.10 per cent by the end of the first half of the next financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
02-02-2021||Business||Transactions involving royalty/ technical services fee taxable under income-tax ||The government on Monday clarified transactions involving royalty/technical services fee would be taxable under income tax and not be liable for equalisation levy that is paid by foreign companies to conduct business with Indian parties, while explaining what would construe online sale of goods or services. The budget also clarified that transactions taxable under income-tax are not liable for equalisation levy. In the past, there have been concerns on the interpretation of the equalisation levy rule “It is seen that there is need for some clarification to correctly reflect the intention of various provisions concerning this levy,” according to the explanatory memorandum in the budget 2021-22. It further said: “In order to provide certainty, it is being expressly clarified that transactions taxable under income-tax are not liable for equalisation levy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
02-02-2021||Business||Government proposes setting up Development Finance Institution||The Union government has proposed setting up a Development Finance Institution in a bid to mobilise resources required to fund the ambitious national infrastructure pipeline. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman while presenting the union budget on Monday said that the National Infrastructure Pipeline announced in December 2019 has been expanded to 7,400 projects from 6,835 projects at the time of launch. The cumulative investment is estimated at over Rs 100 lakh crore. “Infrastructure needs long term debt financing. A professionally managed development financial institution is necessary to act as a provider, enabler and catalyst for infrastructure financing. Accordingly, I shall introduce a Bill to set up a DFI,” Sitharaman said in her budget speech. “I have provided a sum of Rs  20,000 crore to capitalise this institution. The ambition is to have a lending portfolio of at least Rs 5 lakh crores for this DFI in three years time,” she said. A DFI finances infrastructure projects and the terms of finance could be different to that of traditional lenders. This is not the first time the government is experimenting with the idea of having a specialised institution. ICICI and IDBI started as DFIs but were later converted to universal banks as these institutions struggled with asset-liability mismatches. They were unable to access long term funds without government guarantee and commercial banks cornered retail deposits. But, today the capital market is more robust and there is access to global funds and multilateral agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
02-02-2021||Business||Finance minister announces big ticket privatisation agenda||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced big-ticket privatisation agenda of the government which included selling two PSU banks, one general insurance company, seven major ports and the mega LIC IPO to hit the market. Although the disinvestment receipts is pegged at only Rs 1.75 lakh crore against Rs 2.10 lakh crore in the budget estimate for 2020-21, the revenue collection would be significantly higher if the budget proposals and those strategic sales like BPCL, Air India gets completed in 2021-22. Disinvestment proceeds collected in 2020-21 has been only Rs 32,000 crore. The Congress party tore into the budget with several party leaders including Rahul Gandhi calling it one that aims to “handover India’s assets” to “crony capitalists”. “Forget putting cash in the hands of the people, Modi govt plans to handover India’s assets to his crony capitalists friends,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Sitharaman hit back at the former Congress chief asking him to first explain why his government in Kerala gave away one seaport to a “crony capitalist” on invitation. She was raising the privatisation of Vizhinjam Port in Kerala by the then Congress government. All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), the largest trade union of bank employees, has threatened to strike work against budget proposals such as privatisation of state-run banks and setting up of bad bank. “Privatising them means handing over people’s money to private hands with vested interests,” AIBEA said in a statement. RSS-aligned Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) expressed disappointment over the government’s budget proposals with regard to disinvestment and foreign direct investment especially in the insurance sector. The privatisation of two PSU banks would be other than IDBI, she said while allocating Rs 20,000 crore for recapitalisation of banks. The government currently holds a majority stake in PSU banks. The government is expected to bring down the stake in the two PSU banks below 51 per cent or sell the entire stake to private ownership. This would be reversal of the bank nationalisation 1969. Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) will go for an initial public offering in 2021-22 as well, she said, even though the proposal had been made originally in last year’s budget, but could not go through due to pandemic and changes in the LIC Act. There are four PSU general insurance companies: New India Assurance, United India Insurance (UII), National Insurance Company (NIC) and Oriental Insurance Company (OIC). Sitharaman also said land assets of PSUs to be monetised either direct or sale or concession agreements after transferring the assets to a special purpose vehicle (SPV). Railways will also hive off the dedicated freight corridors and sports stadia. Lauding the privatisation move, CII president Uday Kotak said “all these are bold move indeed and are expected to buttress the growth recovery process apart from making out financial sector future ready…the move of the government is to fund the pump-priming of the economy through raising of revenues by pursuing an aggressing disinvestment programme and asset monetisation programme in the next fiscal.” As part of the ambitious plan to privatise central public sector enterprises (CPSEs), she said the government will maintain a bare minimum presence in only four strategic sectors -- atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecommunications; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking, insurance and financial services. All CPSEs in other sectors will be privatised, she said, adding that the government has approved the policy that was announced as part of the Atmanirbhar package. “In four areas, a bare minimum number of firms will be retained and the rest will be privatised. In other sectors, all firms will be privatised,” she said, adding that the policy approved by the government provides a clear roadmap for disinvestment in strategic and non-strategic sectors. The firms that will be privatised in 2021-22 include Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, Bharat Earth Movers Ltd, and Pawan Hans, she said. Most of these firms are in various initial stages of stake sale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Govt expands limit of foreign direct investment in insurance sector to 74 per cent||The Union government on Monday expanded the limit of foreign direct investment in the insurance sector to 74 per cent, to attract overseas investors into the sector that has gained importance in Covid-19 pandemic. The existing FDI limit is 49 per cent. A new structure at the board level was also part of the government announcement on Monday. Under this, majority of directors on the board of the insurance company and key management persons would be resident Indians, with at least 50 per cent of directors being independent directors, and specified percentage of profits being retained as general reserve. “I propose to amend the Insurance Act, 1938 to increase the permissible FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent in insurance companies and allow foreign ownership and control with safeguards,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said while presenting the Budget 2021-22. It was in 2015 when the government hiked the FDI cap in the insurance sector from 26 per cent to 49 per cent. Life insurance penetration in the country is around 3 per cent of the GDP, way below the global average of 7.13 per cent, and in case of general insurance, it is even worse at a little less than 1 per cent of GDP, as against the world average of 2.88 per cent. The government has earlier allowed 100 per cent foreign direct investment in insurance intermediaries. Intermediary services include insurance brokers, reinsurance brokers, insurance consultants, corporate agents, third party administrators, surveyors and loss assessors. Besides bringing a new source of funding for the players, this will help in strengthening solvency and improve insurance penetration. There could also be an increase in merger and acquisition activity in the sector according to industry observers. “The sector finally witnessed a long-standing demand being fulfilled in terms of increase in FDI limit to 74 per cent. This should catalyse the long-term development and growth of the industry. At the same time, steps such as privatisation, increased allocation to healthcare and infrastructure, voluntary scrapping of vehicles policy are positive for the sector. What remains to be seen is the timely implementation of these measures,” said Bhargav Dasgupta, MD and CEO of ICICI Lombard. “It will certainly help attract larger foreign investment, technical know-how and strengthen the ability of the insurance sector to become globally competitive. This is also a great move to attract more capital to expand the business and it would also potentially boost the government’s divestment programme,” said Rakesh Jain – ED & CEO, Reliance General Insurance. “It would foster the growth of the insurance industry and take it to the next level by bringing in global products, practices, and sales strategies to India’s insurance market. Insurance is a very efficient form of protection for general public and it is essential that it reaches everyone in India from big cities to small villages, and this move will facilitate the inflow of capital that would be required to accomplish this,” said Roopam Asthana, CEO & whole-time director, Liberty General Insurance. HDFC Life managing director and CEO Vibha Padalkar said FDI increase in insurance, continuation of the disinvestment program and ease of tax compliance are welcome steps. Moody's Investors Service senior analyst (financial institutions) Mohammed Ali Londe said the proposal to increase the FDI limit for insurers to 74 per cent is credit positive for insurers. “The possibility of higher foreign ownership would improve insurers' financial flexibility by offering additional opportunities to bolster solvency. In addition, insurers would benefit from the sharing of risk management best practices, possibly leading to a lowering of exposure to high-risk assets and adoption of risk-based capital management,” he said. These benefits are expected across the insurance market as the government has simultaneously announced that it will take LIC to IPO and privatise one of the government-owned general insurers, which along with the changes in foreign-owned insurers will cumulatively improve the pricing discipline of the market's underwriting performance given their dominant positions, Londe said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
02-02-2021||Business||15th Finance Commission recommends that states be given 42 per cent share in divisible tax pool||The 15th Finance Commission has recommended that states, along with Ladakh and J&K, be given 42 per cent share in the divisible tax pool of the Centre during the period 2021-22 to 2025-26. The share of states is only41 per cent. The panel’s report also provides a range for fiscal deficit and debt path of both the Union and states. It further recommended additional borrowing room to states based on performance in power sector reforms. The Finance Commission is a constitutional body that gives suggestions on Centre-state financial relations. The report of the 15th Finance Commission was tabled in the Lok Sabha by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman when she presented the budget for 2021-22. In order to maintain predictability and stability of resources, especially during the pandemic, the 15th Finance Commission has recommended "maintaining the vertical devolution at 41 per cent – the same as in our report for 2020-21,” an official statement said. It is at the same level of 42 per cent of the divisible pool as recommended by the 14th Finance Commission, the statement said, adding that, however, a required adjustment has been made of “about 1 per cent due to the changed status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into the new union territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir”. As per the glide path, fiscal deficit should be 6 per cent in 2021-22, 5.5 per cent in 2022-23, 5 per cent in 2023-24, 4.5 per cent in 2024-25, and 4 per cent in 2025-26. The panel, headed by former bureaucrat N K Singh, had in November last year submitted its report titled "Finance Commission in COVID Times" to President Ram Nath Kovind. The gross tax revenue for a five-year period is expected to be Rs 135.2 lakh crore. Out of that, divisible pool is estimated to be Rs 103 lakh crore, as per the commission. States' share at 41 per cent of divisible pool comes to 42.2 lakh crore for 2021-26 period. "Including total grants of Rs 10.33 lakh crore and tax devolution of Rs 42.2 lakh crore, aggregate transfers to states is estimated to remain at around 50.9 per cent of the divisible pool during 2021-26 period," it said. Total transfers (devolution + grants) constitutes about 34 per cent of estimated gross revenue receipts of the union leaving adequate fiscal space for the union to meet its resource requirements and spending obligations on national development priorities, the commission added. The commission was asked to give its recommendations on wide-ranging issues. Apart from tax devolution, the commission was asked to recommend performance incentives for states in many areas like power sector, adoption of DBT and solid waste management as well as funding mechanism for defence and internal security. The report provided range for fiscal deficit and debt path of both the Union and states. It also recommended additional borrowing room to states based on performance in power sector reforms. In view of the uncertainty that prevails at the stage that the 15th Finance Commission has done its analysis, as well as the contemporary realities and challenges, "we recognise that the FRBM Act needs a major restructuring and recommend that the time-table for defining and achieving debt sustainability may be examined by a High-powered inter-governmental group," the statement said. This high-powered group can craft the new FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act) framework and oversee its implementation, it added. It suggested that the union and state governments amend their FRBM Acts, based on the recommendations of the group, so as to ensure that their legislations are consistent with the fiscal sustainability framework put in place. This group could also be tasked to oversee the implementation of the 15th Finance Commission’s diverse recommendations. State governments may explore formation of independent public debt management cells which will chart their borrowing programme efficiently, it added||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Health all the way||The pandemic exposed several vulnerabilities in the health sector and recognising the need for an alert and active healthcare system, the Economic Survey argued for improving the health infrastructure. The Union Budget 2021-22 rightly recognises health and wellbeing as one of the six pillars to focus on. Two items stand out in this front. First, the allocation of Rs 35,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccine and the commitment to provide more money for vaccines.  Second, a substantial increase in the allocation to the health sector to the tune of Rs 2.24 lakh crore from Rs 94,000 crore (a 137 per cent growth). At the heart of this is the PM Atma Nirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana that aims to create capacities, including rural and urban wellness centers, setting up labs and hospital at block/district levels. This is a major step to ensure ease of access to the healthcare facility. It is also important to note that the outlay of Rs 64,180 crore for this scheme is spread over a six-year period, suggesting that the focus needs to be for long term. Further, the Mission Poshan 2.0 is directed at improving the nutrition intervention outcomes and integrates the existing schemes. The focus on healthy surroundings finds an updated version in the form of Urban Swatch Bharat Mission 2.0. However, a few things which were highlighted in the Economic Survey were unfortunately not addressed in the budget. There are no concrete steps to reduce the out-of-pocket expenditures (OOPE) in healthcare, which was emphasised in the Economic Survey. Higher investments in telemedicine to enable greater access to the masses, which was another recommendation by the Economic Survey, also didn’t feature in the Budget. Another area that received prominence was the infrastructure segment. The flagship scheme of the government, the National Infrastructure Pipeline, gets another fillip in this budget as well. Apart from creating institutional structures and increasing the share of capital expenditure, the budget focuses on monetising assets in roads, airports, railways, petroleum and natural gases. The National Monetisation Pipeline and a dashboard to track the progress proposed in the budget shows the government’s keenness to give a big push to infrastructure spending. Importantly, the budget stresses on capital expenditure and provides a sum of Rs 5.54 lakh crore, an increase of 34.5 per cent growth, which is mostly allocated to the infrastructure sector. The proposal for dedicated freight corridors namely, East Coast corridor, East-West Corridor and North-South corridor as well as introduction of Vista Dome LHB coaches are some major highlights in the railway infrastructure spending. Better-quality Urban transport system has been a focal point of this government and this continues in this Budget as well where the government has assured a central spending of Rs. 88059 crores to the metro rail networks in five cities. The power sector is set to witness a major disruption where the government indicates multi-player power distribution market and upgradation of existing systems with an outlay of 3.05 lakh crore outlay for the sector.  The thrust given for the Public-Private Partnership projects for infrastructural development in Economic Survey is carried forward in the Budget by involving private players in the major ports of the country. As suggested in the Economic Survey, India needs sustained and calibrated measures in industry and infrastructure for long-term growth and stability. To find funds for the infrastructural growth, the Budget proposes multi-pronged approach such as setting up a new Development Financial Institution (DFI), recapitalisation of banks, setting of ARC & AMC, privatisation of PSBs, relaxation of FDI norms, etc. All these measures are expected to improve the health of citizens as well as the economy.  However, as many have opined, the outcomes of these measures would depend on its effective implementation.  Unlike in the past, this time around, there is optimism as all these measures are implementable. Bipin Sony & N.R. Bhanumurthy are with Bangalore Dr. BR Ambedkar School of Economics (BASE) University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
02-02-2021||Business||Farm left in the lurch||At a time protesting farmers on Delhi’s borders are asking for an assured income by way of an assured price, Budget 2021 was expected to take the wind out of their sails by announcing provisions for enhancing farm incomes. More so at a time economists are calling for measures to prop up rural demand, the finance minister was expected to open up the purse strings for providing more money in the hands of the agitating farmers by way of direct income support. Instead, the budgetary allocation under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme has been reduced to Rs 65,000-crore from Rs 75,000-crore this year. Under this scheme, land owning farmers are given a cash transfer of Rs 6,000 per year in three instalments. Considering that agriculture was the only bright spot in the first two quarters, it was expected the government would enhance the allocations to Rs 18,000 per year, which means making a budgetary allocation for an additional Rs 1.5 lakh crore. However, budget for agricultural sector is almost the same as last year. This year it is Rs 1.48 lakh crore compared to last year’s allocation of Rs 1.45 lakh crore. Although agriculture credit limit has been raised from Rs 15 lakh crore to Rs 16.5-lakh crore in this financial year, the continuing agrarian distress calls for measures to pull farmers out of the debt trap. This requires enhanced public sector investments in agriculture and also providing more income to farmers. The proposal to create an agricultural investment fund by putting a cess on petrol and diesel is a welcome step but the best way forward would have been to make definite provisions for agricultural investment such as the announcements made for rail, road and capital investment. What agriculture needs as a priority is to create adequate marketing infrastructure. There are close to 7,000 APMC regulated mandis in India, and if a mandi needs to be created in a radius of 5km, the country requires 42,000 mandis. Knowing that the promise of upgrading 22,000 village haats and linking them with eNAM hasn’t been very encouraging, the emphasis on creating rural marketing infrastructure cannot be ignored any more. More money in the hands of farmers is the surest way to achieve Prime Minister’s vision of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas. A vibrant agricultural sector has the potential of turning into a powerhouse of economic growth. Budget 2021 coming at a time when huge protests by farmers continues for several months, Finance Minister did mention how the amount of Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops like wheat, paddy, pulses and cotton has gone up in recent years, and also gave the number of beneficiaries. Protesting farmers are however demanding MSP to be made a legal right for farmers, which means no trading to be allowed below the price for all the 23 crops for which MSP is announced every year. The claim that MSP for all crops provides for 50 per cent profit over the cost of production (technically called as A2+FL) has been contested by farmers. As per the Swaminathan Commission recommendations, MSP should comprise 50 per cent profit over the comprehensive cost (C2 cost). To illustrate, Punjab farmers would have gained by an additional Rs 14,296-crores in 2020-21 marketing year if they had received MSP as per Swaminathan Commission. Devinder Sharma is an agricultural expert||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Simple solution to a crisis situation||The Union Budget shows that while there are no perfect solutions to the pandemic, there are some good trade-offs that are possible. When everything goes wrong, choices can actually become simpler. Most of us have experienced this since the Covid-19 virus hit us in March. Routine activities and complexities of life have disappeared and the formula has become simple — just keep yourself safe while keeping work/business going as best as possible. This is evidently true of Sitharaman’s budget too. The formula is simple: spend a lot of money, and just borrow what is needed. For the first time in living memory, there is hardly any need for fiscal balance. Year 2020-21’s revised budget estimate is 9.5 per cent. That’s a number that would have had most analysts splutter and foam in the mouth a year ago. And yet no one has batted an eyelid. Next year’s budget estimate is above 6.8 per cent and the chances of it being exceeded are high and yet that too has generally been met with a ‘What can you do’ shrug by almost everyone. Essentially, the government has got a two to three year free pass on the deficit and can borrow and spend liberally without an excessive reaction. Of course, the economic costs of fiscal deficits will have to be paid. But as the last few months have taught us all, there are no perfect solutions, only trade-offs. At this point, one can carp about this or that detail, but the trade-off that the FM has chosen is the obvious, practical one. Obviously, since this is a spend-spend-spend budget, what happens now is just the beginning. The budget just provides the money and sets the task for all the other parts of the government to execute on the actual actions. Once upon a time, that would have been the big question mark on it but given the all-round improvement in execution that has been evident since 2014, this could well be an opportunity that gets realised. As for savings and investments-related changes, there is a significant shift in the attitude towards ULIPs. As most knowledgeable savers have known for many years now, ULIPs are essentially a subterfuge whereby the insurance industry fools people into buying expensive, opaque and poorly performing investment products that are disguised as insurance to derive benefits from of the tax advantage that has been allowed for genuine insurance products. In this year’s budget, there are a number of small changes which shows that at long last, the finance ministry has seen through this fakery. The tax exemption on purchase of ULIPs is now limited to a total of Rs 2.5 lakh per annum across all ULIPs a person may invest in. In my view that’s still Rs 2.5 lakh too much but this is at least some improvement. Additionally, upon redemption of a ULIP, it shall now be treated in the same way as an equity mutual fund. Essentially, this means that the tax laws are now less skewed against competing investment products like mutual funds. All-in-all, this is a satisfactory budget which shows that the government has got the right ideas about not letting this crisis go to waste. Dhirendra Kumar is CEO of Value Research Online||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
02-02-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman announces amendments to Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act||In what should come as a relief to depositors of stressed or weak banks facing Reserve Bank of India (RBI) action, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced amendments to the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act (DICGC), 1961. The key feature of the proposed amendment is that depositors will not have to wait for the bank to be liquidated to claim their deposits with the lender up to Rs 5 lakh. They can do so, even if the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) imposes certain curbs on these banks. In the last Budget, the finance minister had raised the bank deposit insurance limit to Rs 5 lakh from Rs 1 lakh per depositor. The deposit insurance premium paid by the banks to the DICGC is borne entirely by the insured lender. The DICGC insures all bank deposits, that includes savings, fixed, current and recurring deposits. Earlier, if a bank went into liquidation, the DICGC was liable to pay to each depositor through the liquidator up to the insured amount within two months from the date of receipt of the claim list from the liquidator. However, this will now change. “I shall be moving amendments to the DICGC Act, 1961 in this session itself to streamline the provisions, so that if a bank is temporarily unable to fulfil its obligations, the depositors of such a bank can get easy and time-bound access to their deposits to the extent of the deposit insurance cover,” Sitharaman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
02-02-2021||Business||Finance minister announces much awaited bad bank||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced the much awaited bad bank that would acquire the toxic assets of lenders. The entity will be in the form of an asset reconstruction company (ARC) and an asset management company (AMC). Announcing the Union budget for 2021-22, the finance minister said that the high level of provisioning by public sector banks of their stressed assets calls for measures to clean up the bank books. “An Asset Reconstruction Company and Asset Management Company would be set up to consolidate and take over the existing stressed debt and then manage and dispose of the assets to Alternate Investment Funds (AIFs) and other potential investors for eventual value realisation,” she said. While details are awaited on its structure and whether there will be government support for such an entity, the announcement did lead to questions on whether AIFs will be interested in acquiring the bad loans of banks. Moreover, what is the need for another ARC when there already are more than 28 ARCs in the country. At a press conference after the presentation of the budget, the finance minister said that bad loans has been one of the major problem faced by banks and the government has repeatedly been providing capital infusion. She added that the Centre is now looking to clean up their books wherein non-performing assets (NPAs) will be culled out of bank books based on “some formulation”. This will go to a holding company like structure and post that the bad loans will be sold (to AIFs or others) after some haircut. Analysts fear that bad loans of banks may rise after withdrawal of restrictions on classifying a loan as NPA. The Financial Stability Report (FSR) released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) last month forecast that banks’ gross non-performing assets may rise to 13.5 per cent by September 2021, from 7.5 per cent in September 2020 under the baseline scenario. It added that if the macroeconomic environment worsens into a severe stress scenario, the GNPA ratio may escalate to 14.8 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
02-02-2021||Business||Piqued taxpayers seek big picture||Abhay (47) and Pooja singh (38) live in Calcutta. Their son Archit (13) is in seventh grade. Abhay is a regional sales manager with a company involved in the farm sector, while Pooja is a home-maker. Abhay feels a middle class family needs three basic things -— health, house and child’s education. He hopes the government will focus on these in the budget. Pooja hopes the budget will encourage families to buy a reasonable preventive health insurance by increasing the limit of section 80D. As a family with a substantial home loan and a school-going kid, they would want the deduction limit for tuition fees to be put under a separate section and not be clubbed under 80C. On deduction on home loan interest, Abhay feels that the limit should be increased to Rs 4 lakh considering the amount of interest he pays on his home loan. Budget reaction The budget is a big let-down as it could not meet our expectations directly. We hope that the increased foreign direct investment in the insurance sector will offer more options to citizens in future. This budget has extended support for affordable housing and the farm sector may be benefited in general. The focus on healthcare and infrastructure are indirect benefits. We can only wait and watch to see how it really trickles down to us Devjani Ghosh Shrestha (40) is a consultant ENT and a head-and-neck surgeon in Calcutta. To save on taxes, she buys life insurance plans and health insurance. She has a home loan too. Devjani feels the Covid-19 pandemic has made people realise how important it is to shift the focus to the healthcare system. Devjani wants the FM to increase public healthcare expenditure, improve infrastructure from the primary to tertiary care level and not just focus on making healthcare cheap. Incentives for private investment in healthcare infrastructure, especially in the remote areas, are a must. This can be achieved through a Private-Public Partnership Model. As a doctor, Devjani wants increased budget allocation to promote telemedicine and digital healthcare. The Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana should be extended to the middle class too. On the personal taxation front, she feels the basic income tax exemption limit needs to be increased to Rs 5 lakh. This will reduce the tax burden as the pandemic has affected everyone in some way or the other. Also interest income on Senior Citizen Savings Scheme must be made tax-free. Budget reaction A 137% increase in healthcare budget with a promise to improve infrastructure from the primary to tertiary care level and increased allocation for funding scientific research are both positives. However, no relief for the tax payers on the personal front is a disappointment; Exemption of senior citizens above 75 years from filing I-T returns is quite a confusing move... should have been extended to all seniors...why 75 years and above? The extent of the benefit is also questionable Chandana Dutta (62) retired as an administrative superintendent of a leading university in Calcutta. She lives in Calcutta with her husband and daughter. She saves tax by investing in LIC and medical insurance policies and mutual funds. Her insurance premium covers her 94 year-old mother and is deducted from her pension. The two big concerns for Chandana is rising health costs and dwindling interest income. As much of her ailing mother’s expenses are borne by her, she feels costs incurred on basic necessities of the aged such as protein supplements, molly sheets, oxygen concentrator and wheelchairs should be allowed deduction under 80D along with medicines. She also feels there should be a price cap on life-saving procedures taken regularly like dialysis and chemotherapy. Concessions on air travel for treatment should be made mandatory for seniors. The monthly expenditure on medicines is a big part of the household budget. She feels the amount a senior citizen spends on medicines and investigations on a regular basis should be eligible for deduction. Chandana also feels retired people should be offered some home loan sops so that they can buy a small flat and not be a burden on their children. Budget reaction Exemption of senior citizens above 75 years from filing I-T returns will make life easier for a lot of seniors as compliance is a burden. But I am confused why those above 75 years will get the benefit. Wouldn’t it have helped if all of us were included? Why are we being left out from the one measure announced? More spending on healthcare is a good move But unless we have money in our hands to spend how does it help? Chandani jain (27) is a chartered accountant working as an assistant manager in the finance and accounts section of a multinational company. Chandani invests in mutual fund SIPs, NPS and PPF though she feels the salaried have limited avenues to save tax. She also tries her hands in the equity markets but being risk-averse, she invest in small numbers. Chandani has high hopes from Budget 2021. She expects the government to simplify the tax structure and increase the basic exemption limit to Rs 3.5 lakh per annum. The government may consider reducing the tax rates for incomes up to 12 lakh per annum or increasing standard deduction to Rs 1 lakh. Any of these measures, according to Chandani, will increase the money available with individuals for higher spending. Further, she wants the FM to provide higher deductions on long-term savings to encourage more investments under Section 80C. Chandani wants the FM to offer more deductions on educational loans to incentivise individuals to take their career forward. Budget reaction Hardly any tax saving measure for the salaried. Extending the tax holiday for affordable housing is, however, a positive. The government has also taken steps for faceless, and paperless dispute resolution which will make way for speedy and fair settlements. Salary, tax payments and TDS are already pre-filled. Now, capital gains, dividend income and interest income will also be prefilled. This is another big move towards digitisation and ease of filing returns. On the macro level, the reforms announced under the new National Education Policy are in the right direction. Enlarging the ambit of the One Person Company will surely give a boost to start-ups as the burden of compliance comes down Tapan Roy (39) runs his own travel firm. He invests in ELSS, PPF, LIC and mediclaim to save tax. He also keeps money in fixed deposits, while dabbling in equities too. The tourism sector has been one of the worst-hit by the pandemic because of the restrictions globally on travel and as the owner of a travel company, Tapan is suffering a lot. Sadly, the sector has been given a miss by the government’s relief packages so far. From 2020-21, the government has imposed a 5 per cent TCS (tax collected at source) on individuals travelling abroad with Indian travel companies. Tapan wants GST on tourism to be reduced, while TCS should be scrapped altogether. On the personal tax front, he is looking forward to some more reliefs under Section 80C. Finally, Tapan feels the budget should generate some positivity to enthuse the tourism sector. Budget reaction The budget is a big disappointment. There is no relief for taxpayers as the FM left the income tax slabs unchanged. The relief to senior citizens above 75 years from filing tax returns is probably the only positive feature. There is no relief package for the tourism sector. At least TCS for foreign travellers should have been exempted. Overall, the measures will not encourage entrepreneurs, who were forced to close their travel businesses because of Covid-19, to come back Sudhir Ahuja (39) is an entrepreneur in the F&B and hospitality space. He is partner at a popular restaurant-cum-pub in Calcutta and managing director at his hotel chain. Sudhir feels every penny saved is a penny earned! He invests his surplus in digital marketing and advertising. All the expense involved in marketing is tax-deductible. For the hotel a huge tax saving benefit comes in the form of depreciation of F&F, of the kitchen and bar machinery and all fixed assets. He also donates a good amount to Round Table India to build schools for the under privileged. Covid-19 has hit the hospitality and F&B industry hard. The sector has seen huge salary cuts and job losses. To encourage guest occupancy, GST on room bookings should be reduced from 12 per cent to 10 per cent. Since liquor is one of the biggest income contributors to the hotel business, he hopes the budget will bring liquor under GST, remove multiple state duties, waive licence fees and increase licence timelines. Sudhir feels a more flexible and tolerant financial environment can really give small hospitality players a chance to grow. Budget reaction Nothing in the budget for hospitality and F&B. Focus on infrastructure and specific mention of Bengal gives us a long term assurance of development to boost investments and tourism. But nothing promising for now. Thankfully no Covid cess. No change in corporate tax is a relief Uddipto Dutta (28) is a data scientist with an e-commerce major in Bangalore. Uddipto invests in LIC, PPF and ELSS to save tax. He has recurring deposits and invests in mutual funds. At present, Uddipto lives on rent in Bangalore and wishes to take a home loan that would give him tax relief and help him build an asset of his own. Uddipto wants the finance minister to raise the basic exemption limit as well as increase the Rs 1.5 lakh limit under Section 80C. This he feels is too low as despite making long-term investments, he is unable to get the tax benefit on them. Also, Uddipto feels the Rs 10,000 limit for tax relief on interest income under Section 80TTA should be relaxed. Further, in these post-pandemic times, Uddipto wants the FM to enhance medical insurance benefits for senior citizens for whom the premium is too high. Budget reaction The budget is a no-show for individual taxpayers. Tax reliefs would have been welcome at a time salaries have been cut and increments held back. Higher exemptions would have left more money in the hands of individuals struggling with expenses and EMIs. The move to exempt senior citizens from filing returns is no doubt welcome but mostly the salaried have been left in the cold. The FM also did nothing to offer higher benefits in insurance, something which would have been very crucial now as we battle a health crisis. However, the Rs 2.24-lakh-crore allocation in healthcare and the Rs 35,000-crore outlay for Covid vaccines would go a long way in covering the huge healthcare costs that not all can afford||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Ulips, provident funds lose edge||Two announcements concerning taxation of investments is going to pinch high-end investors. It is the taxation of gains from Unit Linked Insurance Policies (ULIPs) and interest income from provident fund investments. Ulips now taxable Announcement: If you have purchased a Ulip on or before February 1, 2021 with an annual premium exceeding Rs 2.5 lakh, its long-term returns will be taxable in a manner similar to equity mutual funds. Death benefits, regardless, will remain exempt without limitation in the hands of your nominees. Ulips purchased before this date are exempt as are Ulips with annual premiums under Rs 2.5 lakh. Analysis: In 2018, the introduction of a 10% tax on long-term capital gains (LTCG) from equity had immediately made Ulips attractive in comparison to equity mutual funds. Up to that point, there was no tax on LTCG from equity. Now, both investment options are on a par, at least where taxation is concerned. Approach: If you were about to invest in a Ulip only to avoid LTCG, your moment has passed. You may now consider investing in open-ended equity funds where you’ll enjoy similar returns without the lock-ins. If you had purchased a Ulip on February 1 and are ruing the decision, you could return the policy in the free-look period and claim a refund. Second, if you are in the market for your first life insurance policy, you should strongly consider purchasing term insurance. Provident fund interest taxable Announcement: From April 1, 2021, tax-free interest will be paid only on provident fund contributions that are under Rs 2.5 lakh in a year. If contributions exceed this mark, taxes will apply as per the investor’s tax slab. Analysis: This will impact high-value investors who contribute upwards of Rs 20,000 a month into their PF account. EPF offers assured returns of 8.5% per annum, well above other fixed income investment options. Naturally, this attracts investors looking for guaranteed returns. The FM in her speech pointed out that there are investors contributing as much as a crore every month. Approach: If your PF investments exceeded this limit, you may have to consider alternatives. You could of course settle for taxable interest income. Basis the numbers today, a 30% tax on 8.5% returns get you 5.95% post-tax, which is still higher than what a fixed deposit in many large banks would pay. Or you could remain within the limit and find alternatives such as the NPS, Sukanya Samriddhi, or MFs. What your monthly PF will be from April 2021 also needs to be seen in the light of the new wage code, which says your basic pay must be at least 50% of your total income which would lead to a restructuring of your salary. Adhil Shetty is CEO of BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Debt market poised for change||In a budget that signals far-reaching changes for the debt market, the finance minister has paved the way for newer investment options in the infrastructure space, including zero coupon bonds issued by specified infrastructure debt funds. The government, which has outlined a raft of proposals for infrastructure financing, will effectively usher in fresh investment opportunities for those who seek income along with stability. A debt security bearing an investment-grade rating does offer both elements to its investors. The authorities have lined up a three-pronged strategy on this front-creation of institutional mechanisms, monetisation of assets and ensuring higher capital expenditure in budgets, both state and central. Such an approach is in keeping with the existing policy on creating a viable market for debt securities, aimed at funding infrastructure projects. The government, which has over recent years lined up innovative means of financing, is keen to reinforce the debt market. Its initiatives have included the creation of exchange traded funds with central public sector enterprises (CPSEs). National Infra Pipeline Among the proposals that have captured my attention is the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), which has grown to 7,400 projects at this juncture. More than 200 of these (worth Rs 1.10 lakh crore) have been completed under major ministries so far. NIP, rolled out with 6,835 projects, is the most ambitious exercise of its kind taken up by the policy makers till date. Its success will necessitate a marked increase in funding from both the government and the financial services sector. As for actual debt financing, the FM has referred to the creation of a development financial institution, which will act as a “provider, enabler and catalyst”. In the pipeline is a bill to set up such a DFI, for which Rs 20,000 crore has provided. The idea here  is to arrange a lending portfolio of Rs 5 lakh crore over three years. The other interesting proposal relates to infrastructure investment trusts and real estate investment trusts. Thanks to legislative changes, debt servicing by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) will be allowed here, and FPIs, henceforth, will find it easier to access funds. While the proposed DFI and the two kinds of trusts are really the domain of institutions, it remains to be seen whether smaller and more ordinary investors can take part in the debt market in an organised (and more cost-efficient) manner. All kinds of investors, big and small, should be able to participate in its growth, and no market should be the sole reserve of the big players. Zero Coupon Bonds The budget has cited the issuance of ZCBs by infrastructure debt funds, an instrument that I believe can well pack a lot of punch in today’s investment space. The probability of involving a tax benefit for ZCB holders will make the proposal significant. The use of such bonds will improve the chances of sourcing the right kind of finance. This will also be in sync with the need for innovative financing options. The latter are seen to be particularly necessary in cases involving strategic disinvestment. The government has, as the FM noted, intends to complete disinvestments in a clutch of well-known central undertakings in the months ahead. Among these are Air India, Shipping Corporation, Container Corporation and Neelachal Ispat Nigam. It is working on a similar proposal for IDBI Bank too, but that is likely to be a somewhat different strategy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
02-02-2021||Business||No-show for individuals, status quo for firms||Tax impact (Direct) Proposal: Senior citizens who are of 75 years of age or above and having income from pension and interest are proposed to be exempted from filing of income tax return. Consequently, the paying bank/respective organisation would be required to deduct tax at source. Impact: This will ease compliance burden on seniors. Proposal: Tax incentives for affordable housing and affordable rental housing project. Eligibility period to claim additional deduction for interest of Rs 1.5 lakh against housing loan is extended to 31st March 2022 u/s 80EEA of the Act Impact: This will incentivise the public to purchase an affordable house. Proposal: Exemption for the value in lieu of any travel concession or assistance received by, or due to, an individual. Impact: Due to outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, consumption linked tax incentive has been allowed on expenditure in lieu of leave travel concession. This will increase cash inflow in the hands of the salaried employees. Proposal: Withdrawal of exemption from interest income accrued from contribution to Recognised Provident Funds to the extent it relates to the amount or the aggregate of amounts of contribution made by the person exceeding Rs 2.50 lakh in a previous year in that fund on or after 01 April 2021. Impact: This will impact the compensation structure of employees. Proposal: Withdrawal exemption for Ulip policies issued post 01 February 2021, if the premium for such policies for any of the previous year exceeds Rs 2.5 lakh (except where received on death) Impact: Ulips which are now exempt becomes capital asset and would be taxable as Capital Gains. Corporate Tax Proposal: Increase in threshold of total sales, turnover and gross receipt from Rs 5 crore to Rs 10 crore for tax-audits. Impact: To promote digital economy and to further reduce compliance burden of small and medium sized enterprises. Tax audit would not be required if such enterprises are carrying on business having turnover of less than Rs 10 crore and the aggregate of cash receipts as well as cash payments during the year is less than 5%. Proposal: Employee's contribution towards employee welfare funds to be allowed as deduction to the employer only if the same is deposited within the time-limit provided under relevant welfare labour laws (applicable from financial year 2019-20) Impact: Employee’s contribution towards employee welfare funds is considered as an income of the employer. To ensure timely contribution as well as reduce unjust enrichment by the employer at the cost of employees, the government has clarified that employee's contribution to relevant fund would be considered as admissible deduction, if the same is deposited within the timeline provided under relevant labour laws. Proposal:  Rationalisation of advance tax provisions with respect to dividend income. Henceforth, interest for short-payment of advance tax would only be applicable on dividend income beginning from the period in which dividend is declared / paid. The amendment is applicable retrospectively from FY 2020-21 onwards Impact: Due to the intrinsic nature of the dividend income, it is not possible to determine the advance tax liability on dividend income earned during the year. Relaxation for interest for payment of advance tax instalment has been proposed on dividend income and advance tax considering dividend income shall now be payable beginning from the relevant period in which such dividend is declared / paid. Tax impact (Indirect) Customs duty Proposal: Overhauling the customs duty structure and elimination of outdated exemptions. Revised customs duty structure to be put in place from October 1, 2021 Impact: In order to promote domestic manufacture, ensure ease of availability of raw materials and export of value-added products, comprehensive changes in customs duty structure, exemptions is proposed in consultation with industry. It's a welcome move and would help in streamlining the tax cost for industry and promote local manufacture and exports. Proposal: Reduction in Basic Customs Duty (BCD) for inputs imported by domestic manufacturers in ferrous and non-ferrous metal sector Impact: This will help to reduce the cost of manufacture and correct the inverted duty structure as BCD becomes a cost and set-off of same is not permissible against any output tax. Proposal related to GST: : Increase in BCD for inputs used in electrical and electronic sector like hike in rate for compressor used in AC and refrigerating equipment, certain components of mobile phone Impact: While it would help to promote domestic manufacture of such inputs, components, however, in short term, it may impact the price of final products until imports are substituted by domestic supplies. Proposal: Levy of Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) on import of certain specified goods Impact: This will create a separate fund for improvement of agriculture infrastructure and other development expenditure. However, to ensure that the levy of AIDC does not lead to additional burden on consumer, the corresponding BCD rates have been reduced for most of the items subject to AIDC. Goods and Services Tax Proposal: : Input Tax Credit eligibility is to be made conditional and would depend on the upload of details of invoice or debit note by suppliers Impact: Above proposal will empower revenue authorities to disallow Input Tax Credit where it is found that supplier has not uploaded details of invoice or debit note in statement of outward supplies and communicated to recipient. Proposal: Interest to apply on net cash liability and relevant GST provision has been proposed to be amended with retrospective effect from 1st July 2017 Impact: The above amendment would provide relief to assessee and will curtail unwarranted tax dispute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
02-02-2021||Business||How changes affect a taxpayer||◘ There is no change in the income tax slabs or exemptions in this union budget. The standard deduction remains at Rs 50,000 and exemptions of up to Rs 1.5 lakh available under section 80C. ◘ The optional income tax regime with more income slabs and lower income tax rates is also available for consideration of taxpayers. But the taxpayer has to forgo most exemptions including standard deduction. ◘ Senior citizens, above 75 years, who have pension and interest income are now exempt from filing returns. But, there are caveats. The interest income has to be in the same bank account where pension is received. A declaration has to be furnished to the bank who would compute the income tax ◘ Tax exemption is available on zero coupon infrastructure bonds by notified infrastructure debt funds. These bonds are likely to be long term in respect of which no payment or benefit is received before maturity or redemption. ◘ Additional deduction of Rs 1.5 lakh under section 80EEA on home loan interest on affordable housing extended by one year till March 31, 2022 ◘ Tax exemption on maturity proceeds of unit linked insurance plans (Ulips) having annual premium capped up to Rs 2.5 lakh. This cap is applicable only for policies taken on or after February 1, 2021. ◘ Tax exemptions on interest income earned on employees’ contribution to various provident funds restricted to Rs 2.5 lakh. This is applicable on contributions made on or after April 1, 2021. ◘ The income tax returns will have more components that are already pre-filled. Details such as capital gains, dividend income interest from banks and post offices will be automatically filled in. ◘ As part of the LTC Cash Scheme, amount given to the employee in lieu of LTC shall be exempt from tax subject to incurring of certain specified expenditure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
02-02-2021||Business||Vision for future: The Union Budget focused on nation building, job and demand creation ||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented the first-ever paperless budget with focus on six pillars to strengthen the economy affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The budget focused on nation building, job and demand creation and as promised Sitharaman delivered a budget “like never before”. The finance minister neither raised the tax rates for individuals nor introduced any Covid related cess which was widely expected. But she chose the route of asset monetisation and reinvesting the proceeds in infrastructure and growth. As the Prime Minister rightly said it is a budget of Vikas Ka Vishwas. The budget provides the confidence to all of us to work towards a better India. Housing push Continuing the focus on the government’s vision of “Housing For All”, Sitharaman announced tax exemption, that is additional deduction of interest amounting to Rs 1.5 lakh on loans taken to purchase an affordable house for one additional year, that is till March 2022. Also, developers building affordable houses were provided with a tax holiday till March 2022. With an aim to address the need of affordable housing for migrant workers, the finance minister announced tax exemption for notified affordable rental housing projects. This push for the real estate sector, especially affordable housing, will boost the recent momentum in housing demand and help to create jobs. Housing is one of the largest employment generators in the economy with linkages to nearly 300 industries —both in terms of direct jobs and the jobs it creates in ancillary industries such as cement, steel and power. The finance minister announced a bold and new age budget. A number of new ideas have been suggested and the execution of these ideas is key. With the real GDP growth pegged at 11 per cent in 2021-22, GST collection touching a record high of Rs 1.19 trillion in January 2021 and the distribution of the vaccines happening at a decent pace, I expect the Indian economy to be back on track sooner than later.The proposal to divest two PSU banks and the recapitalisation scheme of Rs 20,000 crore will give a strong boost to PSU banks to improve credit growth. Also,  the proposed privatisation of two PSBs and one general insurance company shows the government’s commitment towards continual reforms and will help in improving the performance of some of the struggling PSUs. Renu Sud Karnad is managing director, HDFC Ltd||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Automobile industry welcomes scrappage policy||The announcement of the much-awaited scrappage policy in Union Budget 2021-22 by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has been welcomed from all quarters of the industry “as a positive start” but most await the fine print that will be spelled out by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). Doubts have been cast on the voluntary nature of the scheme as also the 20 year age stipulation for passenger cars which do not make it a very effective policy. President of industry body Society for Indian Automobile Manufacturers Association (Siam), Kenichi Ayukawa, who is also the CEO of Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL) said:  “While Siam awaits the details of the scrappage scheme, it hopes and requests that fitness testing and certification should be much earlier and at frequent intervals to ensure safety, environment friendliness and fuel saving.” The finance minister, while announcing the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy, said: “Vehicles would undergo fitness tests in automated fitness centres after 20 years in case of personal vehicles and after 15 years in case of commercial vehicles.” “I am glad that the scrappage policy has been acknowledged in the budget and expecting the policy to be announced very soon. Though details are not yet out, when the policy comes out, it should have full incentives for scrapping and not just disincentives for not scrapping,” said Pawan Goenka. Naveen Soni of Toyota Kirloskar Motor said: “The scrappage policy has to be seen in conjunction with the recent green tax announced by the MoRTH which will be levied on vehicles older than eight years. We need to see the details of the policy to understand its impact.” According to Shashank Srivastava, executive director, marketing and sales, MSIL, “One has to see if the fitness certificate to be issued to such old vehicles is based on emissions or fitness or will it be based on both.” Auto analyst Rajeev Singh from Deloitte India, however, feels that the “scrappage policy though voluntary will likely become mandatory as fitness certificate will be made mandatory.  It’s a soft step towards coming up with mandatory norms”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Subsidy bill seen to fall 43%||The subsidy bill of the government is projected to fall 43 per cent in the next fiscal to Rs 3.36 lakh crore from Rs 5.96 lakh crore in 2020-21 as it swelled because of the distribution of free foodgrains to feed about 80 crore people, especially those impacted by job losses and migration because of the pandemic. According to the budget document, food subsidy rose sharply to Rs 422,618.14 crore in the RE (revised estimate) of 2020-21 from Rs 115,569.68 crore in the (BE) budget estimate. For the next fiscal, food subsidy is estimated at Rs 242,836 crore. Under its Aatmanirbhar Bharat packages, the government distributed additional 5 kg food grains per person each month during the April-November period as the economic activities came to a screeching halt following the lockdown in late March. The government’s decision to provide free ration during the lockdown and provisioning for the pre-payment of NSSF loans with FCI of about Rs 1.5 lakh crore were the major reason for the rise in food subsidy, the document said. Fertiliser subsidy has been pegged at Rs 133,947.3 crore in the RE of 2020-21, up from Rs 71,309 crore in the BE of the current fiscal. For the next fiscal, the initial estimate is Rs 79,529.68 crore. The subsidy for petroleum products (LPG and kerosene) is Rs 39,054.79 crore in the RE against Rs 40,915.21 crore in the BE for the current fiscal. However, only Rs 14,073.35 crore has been provided for petroleum subsidy in 2021-22. The Centre provided an additional quota of foodgrains free of cost during the April-November period this fiscal to over 80 crore beneficiaries. Free rations were also given to migrant labourers. In the February 2020 Budget, presented in the pre-Covid scare, the government had estimated the subsidy bill at Rs 227,794 crore. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented revised numbers of major subsidies. As per the revised estimates (RE) for the current financial year, the subsidies are pegged at Rs 595,620.23 crore. The documents revealed that the subsidies on food, fertilisers and petroleum (LPG and kerosene) are estimated to fall by 43 per cent to Rs 3.36 lakh crore in the financial year beginning April 1, 2021. This is lower than the revised estimates for the current fiscal but higher than the original estimates. Fertiliser subsidy has been pegged at Rs 133,947.3 crore in the RE of 2020-21, up from Rs 71,309 crore in the BE of the current fiscal. For the next fiscal, the initial estimate is Rs 79,529.68 crore. The subsidy for petroleum products (LPG and kerosene) is Rs 39,054.79 crore in the RE as against Rs 40,915.21 crore in the BE for the current fiscal. However, only Rs 14,073.35 crore has been provided for petroleum subsidy in the 2021-22 financial year. Food subsidy is provided to meet the difference between economic cost of food grains procured by the government and their sales realisation at the PDS rate called central issue price (CIP) under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other welfare schemes. Similarly, the Centre provides fertiliser subsidy to manufacturers. The government fixes the MRP of urea being sold in the market. The difference between the selling price and production cost is provided as subsidy. The nutrient-based subsidy is also being provided on the non-urea fertilisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Steel users to benefit||The budget proposal to reduce customs duty on certain items of steel and metal scrap has been welcomed by the user industries even as the primary steel producers claimed the measure would have little impact on them. Primary, flat and long products of non-alloy and alloy steel will now attract 7.5 per cent duty instead of 10-12 per cent earlier, making import cheaper and, thereby, putting a leash on the rapid rise of steel prices which have caused discomfort for the user industries. “MSMEs and other user industries have been severely hit by a recent sharp rise in iron and steel prices. Therefore, we are reducing customs duty uniformly to 7.5 per cent on semis, flat, and long products of non-alloy, alloy, and stainless steels,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, said in her speech. “To provide relief to metal re-cyclers, mostly MSMEs, I am exempting duty on steel scrap for a period up to 31st March, 2022. I am also revoking ADD and CVD on certain steel products,” she added. Engineering Export Promotion Council (EEPC) India chairman Mahesh Desai said: “Our pleas with the government for reining in rising iron and steel prices have been heard and reflected in the budget. It is a great move for Aatmanirbhar Bharat and the MSMEs who had been hit hard for an unprecedented increase in the recent months.” Benchmark steel prices have gone up over 50 per cent between June to January, backed by robust domestic demand and buoyant international prices. User industries who depend on spot prices instead of entering into long term contract with steel suppliers were taken in by the swift rise. However, T. V. Narendran, MD and CEO of Tata Steel, said the move would have limited impact. “Exemption of duty on steel scrap and reduction of customs duty on steel products would benefit the MSME sector. However, the reduction of customs duty on steel products will have no significant impact on the steel industry as most of the steel imported into the country today comes from countries with whom we have an FTA (free trade agreement) and hence they enjoy zero import duty,” Narendran said. Sanjay Budhia, MD of Patton, pressed for total duty abolition. “Customs duty on basic raw materials should be brought to nil so that India can be exporter of finished products and be part of the global value chain.” “The revoking of anti-dumping duty and CVD on certain steel products along with relief to the copper recyclers and reducing duty on copper scrap from 5 per cent to 2.5 per cent would make a significant difference to engineering exporters,” Desai said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Mixed bag for real estate||The budget expectedly extended existing tax sops for affordable housing but did not pay heed to the demands made by the real estate sector to abolish GST for under-construction homes or bring back input tax credit. The FM proposed additional deduction of interest up to Rs 1.5 lakh for loan taken to purchase affordable house would be available for homebuyers till March 31, 2022. She also announced that affordable housing projects would continue to avail a tax holiday for one more year, till March 31, 2022. Such exemption is provided under Section 80-IBA of the Income Tax Act. “Calcutta is the city where 60 per cent of the projects are in the affordable segment. I feel we would witness the launch of more such projects,” said Sushil Mohta, chairman of Merlin Group. While the announcements were on expected lines and welcomed by the industry, the industry was disappointed that GST related changes did not find favour. “This year’s budget is a disappointment for the real estate industry..Stock in hand for developers after two years of completion is considered as deemed demand and taxed under section 23(5). A relaxation of the said section would have been a favourable outcome for the real estate industry,” Ketan Sengupta, MD of Bengal Peerless, said. Harsh Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Realty, observed that sectors such as hospitality and tourism — important components of real estate developments — did not find mention in the budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: No income tax breaks, no blows either||Taxpayers, eagerly looking for a fresh set of tax breaks in a Covid-battered year, wore glum faces at the end of Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget speech. There were as many as 79 amendments to the Income Tax Act alone but almost all of these were designed to simplify tax compliance, with the finance minister preferring to stick to the old tax regime. At the same time, the spook was exorcised: there will be no Covid cess that many had feared might be slapped on the rich. The phantom of a tax on billionaires’ wealth — an idea that suddenly sprang into reckoning after Washington became the first state in the US to move such a bill to tax the fat cats —was also laid to rest. One of the major changes in the budget relates to the filing of income-tax returns by senior citizens. The finance minister said in her speech that taxpayers aged 75 years and above will not be required to file their returns. But this relief comes with a set of conditions. The senior citizens should only earn income in the form of pension. They can also have interest income from the same bank in which they receive their pension. The banks in which these incomes are received will have to be “specified banks” — with the government due to notify the list soon. If the senior citizen has any other income, he will be required to file his income-tax return. The specified bank has to compute the taxable income and will have to deduct tax at source after allowing permissible deductions and rebate. At present, under section 80EEA of the Income Tax Act, there is a reduction of Rs 1.5 lakh for interest on home loans if the loan is sanctioned within March 31, 2021. The date has now been extended by one year. This deduction is available only to first-time homebuyers and the stamp duty value of such residential house should not exceed Rs 45 lakh. The taxpayer should not own any other flat on the date of sanction of the loan. The finance minister should have increased the amount of value of the flat to Rs 1 crore considering the pricing realities in the residential housing market. The finance minister has allowed a safe harbour limit of up to 20 per cent if there is a difference in stamp duty value and the sale consideration of immovable property, with the accompanying rider that the transfer should have taken place between November 12, 2020, and June 30, 2021. This is in line with the assurance given earlier. However, the outer date should have been extended by at least five years as the stamp duty valuation is much higher than the prevailing market price. There is no scientific mechanism to fix stamp duty value. The time limits have been decreased for many provisions. The returns can be revised three months before the end of the assessment year or before completion of assessment, whichever is earlier. The existing timeframe is up to the end of the assessment year. The time limit for sending a notice for scrutiny assessment has been reduced to three months from the end of the financial year in which the return has been filed. Earlier, this limit was six months. If a return is filed in FY 2020-21, the notice for scrutiny assessment may be sent by June 30, 2021, and not thereafter. Likewise, the intimation cannot be sent after the expiry of nine months from the end of the financial year in which the return has been made. The finance minister has lowered the time limit for reopening tax assessment for prior periods from six years to three years. But if there is evidence of undisclosed income of Rs 50 lakh or more for a year, the tax department will be permitted to reopen a case dating back 10 years. A Section 206AB has been introduced where there is a higher rate of TDS for non-filers of income-tax returns. The TDS rate will be twice the existing rates in force or 5 per cent, whichever is higher. A proposal has been put in place for a National Faceless Appellate Tribunal along the lines of faceless assessments and appeals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
02-02-2021||Business||Budget moots farm cess, Bengal cries foul||The Narendra Modi government on Monday decided to drop all pretence of fiscal rectitude by seeking to spend its way out of a pandemic-induced economic crisis with a Rs 34.83 lakh crore expenditure programme that failed to impress industry, farmers or investors — and was later heavily panned by political rivals. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s claim that she would cobble together a historic budget rang hollow after the government chose to turn cautious and projected a nominal GDP growth of 14.4 per cent, which assumes that the Indian economy would swell to Rs 222.87 lakh crore by March next year. The estimate fell short of the 15.4 per cent nominal GDP growth that chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian had projected in the Economic Survey for 2020-21, presented just three days ago. The National Statistical Office had estimated nominal GDP in the current fiscal at Rs 194.82 lakh crore in its first advance estimate presented on January 7 — reflecting a 4.2 per cent economic contraction this year in current prices. Real GDP, which strips out the impact of inflation, is expected to contract by 7.7 per cent this fiscal. The Modi government has decided to shake off the straitjacket that the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM) of 2003 places by mandating adherence to a 3 per cent fiscal deficit target by March 2021. The fiscal deficit has ballooned this year to 9.5 per cent, or Rs 18.48 lakh crore, and will stay way above the target at 6.8 per cent next year (Rs 15.06 lakh crore). More important, the government hopes to bring fiscal deficit under 4.5 per cent by 2025-26 — which means that late finance minister Arun Jaitley’s promise in his 2017 budget to strive for fiscal prudence and his refusal to trigger the escape clause from the mandated glide path has now been thrown into the dustbin. Sitharaman has not only activated the escape clause this year — with the pandemic serving as a legitimate ruse — but also promised to amend the FRBM Act itself, clearly falling for the argument spun by certain Right-wing economists who have been urging the government to pump-prime the faltering economy without worrying about the consequences. Result: The gross borrowings of the Centre will swell to Rs 12.05 lakh crore next year, about 5.8 per cent lower than the revised estimate of Rs 12.8 lakh crore this fiscal. Farm cess The big talking point was the imposition of an agriculture infrastructure and development cess (AIDC) on items like apples, peas, lentils, industrial alcohol, chemicals, silver and cotton from which the government hopes to raise Rs 30,000 crore. The fund will be used to build post-harvest infrastructure in the mandis — and is being seen as a feeble attempt to win over farmers who have been outraged by the reforms in the agriculture sector last year which, they believe, will ruin their lives and livelihoods once giant corporate juggernauts roll into their tightly controlled backyard. The government also offered to raise agriculture credit by about 10 per cent to Rs 16.5 lakh crore. But the twin blandishments failed to assuage the restive farmers who remain huddled on the borders of Delhi. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra slammed the agriculture cess as an “anti-federalist measure” with the dice clearly rolled against the interests of the states. The Centre does not share revenue collected under any cess with the states. Mitra said: “The share of cess to gross tax revenue had already reached 16 per cent. With the introduction of the new farm cess, the share is set to go up further. This means that the share of the states to the gross tax revenue will go down.” The states stand to get Rs 6.65 lakh crore as their share of funds from the divisible pool after the 15th Finance Commission retained the old devolution formula under which the states get 41 per cent of the proceeds. But this means the states will receive only slightly more than the Rs 6.5 lakh crore they got in 2019-20, the pre-Covid fiscal. Tall talk, no sops Industry, investors and taxpayers squinted over a stack of documents in a futile attempt to find tax breaks and incentives in a lacklustre budget. The stock markets soared by around 5 per cent, chuffed by the fact that there were no real gremlins in the budget as Sitharaman chose not to make any changes in personal and corporate taxes. The bellwether Sensex rose 2314.84 points to close at 48600.61 while the NSE’s Nifty 50 leapt 646.60 points, or 4.74 per cent, to 14281.20. “We never considered tax changes while preparing the budget,” Sitharaman said in a television interview. “It was never on the table.” The buffet of options that the Modi government chose to fill its plate with included a plan to set up an entity that will take some of the toxic loans off the banks’ balance sheets, a move to raise the foreign direct investment limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from 49 per cent currently, a Rs 20,000 crore plan to recapitalise public sector banks, and another stab at a very ambitious divestment plan from which it hopes to garner Rs 1.75 lakh crore. The government had budgeted for Rs 2.1 lakh crore from disinvestment this year but was able to raise only Rs 32,000 crore. The privatisation plan does not stop there: the government intends to monetise the surplus land assets with public sector units either through a direct sale or concessionaire agreements with the private sector. It also aims to sell off state-owned enterprises that do not fall within the four corners of a very narrowly defined strategic sector comprising four corrals: atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecommunications; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking, insurance and financial services. “In non-strategic sectors, the central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) will be privatised; otherwise (they) shall be closed,” the government said in an annexure to Sitharaman’s speech. There are more than 340 CPSEs and the cavalier announcement in the budget casts a fog of uncertainty over the future of many of them that do not qualify as strategically important for the Modi government. Sitharaman said the 12 major ports in the country would start parcelling out some of their operational services to a private partner that will manage them. To start with, seven projects worth more than Rs 2,000 crore will be offered under the public-private partnership mode next year. This opens the doors for a corporate group that is believed to be close to the Modi government and styles itself the country’s largest operator of ports. The government also announced a voluntary scrappage policy for automobiles that fell way short of what the stressed sector has been demanding in an effort to crank up sales. It raised healthcare spending by Rs 2.2 lakh crore to partly pay for a Covid vaccination drive, and also increased customs duties on certain gems and jewellery, specified auto parts, printed circuit board assemblies, wires and cables, solar inverters and solar lamps. Import duty on naphtha, iron and steel melting scrap, aircraft components, and gold and silver have been reduced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Growth gets priority over deficit||The current year’s budget was announced on the back of very high expectations. It seems to have delivered on those promises and has opened up growth opportunities for the future. In my opinion, the key announcements which would have an impact on the future are as under: Growth seems to be more important than fiscal deficit: This was one of the key positives of the budget and a departure from the government’s earlier focus on containing fiscal deficit even at the cost of growth. The government announced FY21 budget deficit at 9.5 per cent of GDP and target for FY22 at 6.8 per cent of GDP, which is much higher than the consensus expectations. This should bode very well for the future growth given the realisation that growth is paramount. Focus on capex: This was one area where the FM in her speech took a lot more time than most of her earlier budgets. There was clear realisation on her part that this is going to be the core for future growth and hence i) FM announced Rs 5.54 lakh crore of capex and also talked about nudging the state governments to invest more b) start a DFI with initial capex of Rs 20,000 crore with an intention that it should have a loan book of Rs 5 lakh crore in the next five years c) foreign borrowing allowed for REITs and InVITs etc. In my view, the past few budgets have ignored the capital formation a lot which has not only impacted the capex cycle but also employment generation. The government has renewed focus on capital formation and has taken a lead by increasing the allocation as well as asking the state governments to spend more. This may lead to an environment being created where the corporates may move from asset light business models to taking some risk on their own balance sheets. Also, the government’s intentions to create different funding sources for this would bode well in the long term. Bank funded infrastructure assets face a lot of ALM (asset liability) problems and any delay in execution leads to stress to the banks and eventually to the asset owner. The government’s announcement of monetisation of its infrastructure assets and better structures in REITs and InVITs would mean that foreign money can start flowing into this sector which is totally starved of funds. Focus on privatisation with the announcement of privatisation of two PSU banks and one general insurance company. Moreover, the FM said LIC IPO would happen in FY22. Privatisation of these PSU banks and insurance company would need legislative changes and the government’s intention to do that is more important than the privatisation itself. This provides some glide path to the PSU banks that the ultimate end game may be privatisation. This could lead to inflow of money in these banks. This may also have a consequential impact on the efficiency of these PSU banks. Financial sector announcements: There were two key announcements: one around increasing the FDI limit on insurance to 74 per cent from 49 per cent with much lesser restriction on ownership and second around reduction of loan eligibility from Rs 50 lakh to Rs 20 lakh for Sarfaesi. Although I would not expect too many foreign companies coming to India on the insurance side, however it can be very well expected that the foreign participation into existing companies may increase. No increase in taxes:  I would think that this is again a clear departure from earlier policies where rich were getting charged everytime. Also, a big positive for the markets as the expectations were very high of a COVID cess. Hence, in my view more than the announcements in the budget, it is the indication towards the path which the government wants to follow is really encouraging. The government is not looking to fund its shortfalls by charging the rich, it is willing to spend even if it means by increasing borrowings. However, the expenditure would be much more on the capex side and job creation side rather than funding social schemes. All this is indicating towards a much better future growth and we may see the much awaited animal spirits in the economy rising. Motilal Oswal is MD & CEO, Motilal Oswal Financial Services Ltd||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Booster dose to revive economy||The unprecedented impact of Covid-19 globally as well on India has been severe disruption in normal functioning of almost all sectors. As we stand with bated breath amid new hopes and high expectations, there are nascent signs that the economy may be on a better footing than what it was in the year gone by. In this backdrop, the finance minister has laid down several measures to boost the Indian economy by focusing on infrastructure, healthcare, agriculture, rural economy, thus putting it back on the growth trajectory. Real estate According to the existing provisions of the income tax law, tax incentive is provided to companies engaged in the business of developing and building affordable houses subject to the condition that the project shall be approved by 31 March 2021. The period of approval of the project has now been proposed to be extended to March 2022. This move is in alignment to the government’s goal of “Housing for All” and is expected to promote affordable housing projects. This shall provide impetus to developers to further build housing projects for migrant labourers. The sunset date for sanction of home loan to be taken by individuals for acquisition of residential house property under affordable housing projects has been further extended till March 31, 2022, thereby enabling individuals to claim deduction of interest on home loan. This has given a significant push to first-time home buyers. Infrastructure Adequate funds have been allocated towards infrastructure by aiming completion of national highways, planning more economic corridors and development of roads. According to the existing income tax law, deduction of tax at source on payment of dividends to residents, being certain insurance companies or insurers, was not required. However, this benefit has now been extended to income credited or paid to a business trust by a special purpose vehicle. Infrastructure debt fund shall now be eligible to issue zero coupon bonds, thereby enabling inflow of funds for development of infrastructure projects. Earlier, only infrastructure company/infrastructure capital fund/public sector companies/scheduled banks could issue ZCBs. Debt financing of InVITs and REITs by foreign portfolio investors will be enabled by making suitable amendments in the relevant legislations. This will ease the access of finance to InVITS and REITs, augmenting funds for infrastructure and real estate. Automobile The government has introduced the much-awaited vehicle scrappage policy, hoping to phase out the unfit, inefficient and polluting vehicles aged over 20 years in case of private vehicles and 15 years in case of commercial ones. The policy is in line with promoting fuel efficient and environment friendly vehicles which would help lower pollution levels and also lower oil import bills. Cash less economy The current government has been at the forefront of promoting digital economy and has taken various steps to encourage digital transactions and discourage the use of cash, both for large and small value transactions. Continuing with their objective, there has been an increase in the limit for tax audit to Rs 10 crore (from the existing threshold of Rs 5 crores) for those taxpayers who carry out 95 per cent of their transactions digitally. Amidst expectations of proposals to boost the tourism, hospitality and pharma sectors, the same has been untouched by the budget.With the proactive measures taken by the government, industry believes that the economic slowdown will be overcome and a gradual recovery will soon be in place. Start ups Under the current tax regime, start-ups with turnover upto INR 100 crores shall be eligible for 100% tax exemption for three consecutive assessment years out of first ten years.The date of incorporation of eligible start-ups in order to claim exemption from income tax has been further extended to 31 March 2022. Also, similar extension has been made for transfer of residential property, the proceeds of which would be utilised in investment in eligible start-ups. The tax incentives given to start-ups shall facilitate the growth of aspiring entrepreneurs in their initial phase of business. The set-up of new start-ups shall be instrumental in bringing back the sloping Indian economy back on track. Other significant proposals The Central Government has consciously adopted a policy to make the processes under the Act, which require interface with the taxpayer, fully faceless. In this backdrop, new schemes for faceless assessment, for faceless appeal at the level of Commissioner (Appeals) and for faceless imposition of penalty have already been made operational. In addition thereof, steps have now been taken towards making appellate proceedings before income tax appellate tribunal in a digitalised format by reducing the need for unnecessary hard copies of notices, submissions,which shall ensure further transparency. To reduce litigation for small taxpayers, a Dispute Resolution Committee shall be constituted, which shall again be faceless to ensure efficiency, transparency and accountability. Any taxpayer with a taxable returned income of upto INR 50 lakhs and disputed income of upto INR 10 lakhs shall be eligible to approach the Committee. Amidst expectations for proposals boosting the tourism, hospitality and pharma sector, the same has been untouched by the budget.With the proactive measures taken by the Government, industry believes that the economic slowdown will be overcome, and a gradual recovery will soon be in place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Rush of measures to drive economy||Amidst these extraordinary circumstances, the Union government has presented a pragmatic and forward-looking budget that offers avenues for our country to be supported through the current pandemic. The government has adeptly balanced the tightrope walk to increase spending, without going overboard, by focusing on critical sectors such as healthcare and infrastructure. Given the nature of this crisis, the government has substantially increased the investment on health infrastructure by focusing on strengthening three areas: preventive, curative and overall wellbeing. The outlay on health and wellbeing has been increased by 137 per cent to Rs 2,23,846 crore with the government proposing a new scheme — the PM Atma Nirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana — to help with the detection and cure of new and emerging diseases while also developing the capacities of healthcare systems and creating new and strengthening existing national institutions. Besides health, the budget also focused on the overall wellbeing by adequately ensuring programmes for clean water (Urban Jal Jeevan Mission), sanitation (Urban Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0) and clean air (the vehicle scrapping policy and the allocation for tackling air pollution). The infrastructure sector has also received a shot in the arm with a sharp increase of 34.5 per cent in the proposed budget. This would not only provide the much-needed impetus for supporting growth in the medium term but also has the potential for generating millions of jobs. It is heartening to note that one of the CII’s key recommendations — the creation of a Development Financial Institution (DFI) — has been accepted to meet the financing needs of the infrastructure sector. The professional management of this institution as well the initial allocation of Rs 20,000 crore would go a long way in ensuring the proper functioning of this institution. While the pandemic has impacted the healthcare sector directly, there have been indirect ramifications for the banking and financial sectors. The sector had already been dealing with an NPA crisis before the pandemic and additional bad loans in light of the current crisis would only exacerbate the problem. To this effect, it is a welcome sign that another important CII recommendation that found its way in the budget is the proposal to set up Asset Reconstruction Company Limited and Asset Management Company. These companies would consolidate and take over the existing stressed debt and then manage and dispose of the assets to Alternate Investment Funds and other potential investors for eventual value realisation, thereby cleaning up the books of the banks. Overall, the Union government has ticked all the right boxes with Monday’s budget and the announcements will certainly propel the country in becoming an economy of the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Lots of reforms and a sense of purpose||The context of this year’s budget was quite unprecedented and it needed a special focus and effort to present a comprehensive and bold budget focused on capital formation and spending. With the world reeling from the effects of the pandemic and slowing economic indicators, this budget highlights the purpose, resolve and focus to set a new path towards economic resurgence. While critics may well say that the fiscal health of the country is at stake with the deviation from the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act 2003, it is been done under extraordinary circumstances but more importantly the capital that is proposed to be deployed are on infrastructure and real assets that will make the economy productive and efficient for the future. Deployment of capital on healthcare, infrastructure, economic corridors, fishing harbours roadways, water mission and railways to name a few will ensure multi year demand generation of various products and services which should keep the economy strong. The finance minister hopes to fund the fiscal deficit through market borrowings and privatisation proceeds. The intention on the role of private sector in the future journey of the country is very clear and she even made a clear reference to privatisation rather than disinvestment which has been the political soft landing by most finance ministers in the past. One of the biggest announcements she made was on the public sector bank privatisation process which is a definite move to consolidate the banking sector and make the sector more robust. There were lot of policy changes announced for the financial sector, including liberalisation of foreign holding in the insurance sector with safeguards, but the big one was the formation of the Asset Reconstruction Company or the Bad Bank for non-performing loans which will warehouse the loan till the assets are potentially auctioned and the loan assets monetised. The formation of a new development finance institution (DFI) is the need of the hour if India plans to make huge investments in infrastructure as efficient project financing and risk management becomes crucial for these large investments. The national infrastructure investment fund (NIIF) formed a few years back along with the proposed DFI could make a big difference in the availability of capital for the future to fund infrastructure. I also felt that it was a mature approach on the part of the finance minister and the government to not tinker around with the taxation structure after the big changes undertaken last year. Stability of the taxation structure helps in bringing certainty to investors and tax payers. My only health warning is on the ability to execute. Many of the reforms would come unstuck unless we get the execution done well. Most critical among them is the privatisation initiative which is targeted at a staggering Rs 1.7 lakh crore. Many of the assets are not the best in class and that adds significant complexity to the transaction and valuation. There are lots of reforms and a sense of purpose in the budget to drive growth. If as a nation we can execute it well, India has the potential to stand out on its economic performance in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Benchmark indices post biggest absolute points gain||The benchmark indices posted their biggest absolute points gain on the budget day as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman desisted from announcing any Covid tax and unveiled what the market interpreted as a mix of reforms and growth-oriented proposals. Investor wealth skyrocketed to Rs 6.34 trillion with the Sensex jumping 2315 points. Market circles are not ruling out the possibility of the 30-share index again hitting the 50000-mark in the coming days. Although the budget did not contain any measures to lift consumption, experts said investors would now focus on the upcoming monetary policy where the Reserve Bank of India is expected to continue with its accommodative stance. The mood was cautious ahead of the budget owing to concerns that the finance minister could announce some additional cess or a Covid-19 tax to make up for the shortfall in receipts. Expectations were also muted as Sitharaman had so far refrained from announcing big-bang stimulus measures. Last week, the Sensex had crashed 2593 points, giving up all the gains it earned from better-than-expected corporate results, robust FPI (foreign portfolio investment) inflows and a recovery in the economy this year. A key highlight of Monday’s trading was that the benchmark indices were in the green throughout the trading session unlike in the past budget sessions where they turned volatile in line with the proposals made. The Sensex opened in the green at 46617.95 and remained at a higher level as the finance minister announced reforms such as a hike in the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in insurance to 74 per cent from 49 per cent, privatisation of two state-owned banks and a general insurer and the formation of an entity to acquire the toxic loans of banks among others. The Sensex did exhibit some weakness over fears of more taxes, but zoomed to hit an intra-day peak of 48764.40 when the apprehensions were proved to be unfounded after Sitharaman’s speech and ended 2314.84 points, or 5 per cent, higher at 48600.61. The broader Nifty soared 646.60 points, or 4.74 per cent, to finish at 14281.20. “The finance minister has given a budget which is better than market expectations. In line with the stated priority of the government, the budget focuses on an increased thrust on infrastructure and other supply-side measures to accelerate manufacturing in the country. There were no major changes on the direct tax code, which was taken very positively by the market, though the lack of any demand-side push was a disappointment,’’ Gaurav Awasthi, senior partner at IIFL Wealth Management, said. Banking and finance stocks were the star of Monday’s trading with IndusInd Bank leading the list of percentage gainers in the Sensex by gaining 14.75 per cent. It was followed by ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finserv, the SBI, Larsen & Toubro and HDFC which rose up to 12.50 per cent. Only three stocks in the Sensex ended in the red. The Nifty bank index climbed by 8.26 per cent. “A budget with no changes in direct taxes will certainly be remembered for years to come. The equity market will be enthused with no tinkering in capital gains taxes or STT or any form of Covid tax,’’ Krishna Kumar Karwa, managing director of Emkay Global Financial Services said. Market circles said the movement of stocks in the immediate term would be dependent on FPI inflows and the upcoming monetary policy later this week. However, they pointed out that the budget has given a good foundation for the next leg of the rally. “The markets will soon digest the budget and move on to the fundamental factors and global cues. Corporate earnings in the third quarter of this fiscal have been above expectations and is expected to see robust growth of around 30 per cent (for the Nifty index) in 2021-22. Even though market valuations are elevated, the recovery in corporate earnings and the easy liquidity scenario globally may help to support valuations for some time. Overall, 2021-22 will be the year of normalisation (from the Covid-19 pandemic) and will act as a stage for acceleration in future growth,’’ Sampath Reddy, chief investment officer, Bajaj Allianz Life said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Import duty on gold and silver lowered||The Union government on Monday lowered the import duty on gold and silver by 5 per cent in a bid to bring down the price of the precious metals in the domestic market and boost exports of gems and jewellery.
The import duty on gold and silver has been reduced to 7.5 per cent from 12.5 per cent. The import duty on precious metals such as platinum and palladium as well as precious metal coins has been brought down to 10 per cent from 12.5 per cent. Gold and silver dore bars will now attract a customs duty of 6.9 per cent and 6.1 per cent against 11.85 per cent and 11 per cent, respectively. “Gold and silver currently attract a basic customs duty of 12.5 per cent. Since the duty was raised from 10 per cent in July 2019, prices of precious metals have risen sharply. To bring it closer to previous levels, we are rationalising customs duty on gold and silver,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said while presenting the budget for 2021-22. The price of pure gold on Monday stood at Rs 49,750 per 10 gram in Calcutta while that of silver was Rs 73,100 per kilogram. Welcoming the decision, Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) chairman Colin Shah said it would help to promote domestic manufacturing and boost exports. “It was our long-pending demand to cut the import duty on gold and silver. It is a welcome move for the domestic organised sector,” Shah said. Gold imports, which have a bearing on the current account deficit, fell 27.20 per cent to $16.8 billion during April-December 2020-21. Silver imports dipped 67 per cent to around $762.31 million during the same period. In terms of volume, India imports 800,900 tonnes of gold annually. Gems and jewellery exports dropped by around 40 per cent to $17 billion during the nine months of the current fiscal. Commenting on the budget, World Gold Council managing director, India, Somasundaram P.R. said: “The rationalisation of import duty on gold is a welcome and timely move. Hopefully, this is the first of a series of such cuts to make bullion an asset class that operates mainstream.” Jewellers said the reduction in duty augured well for gold buyers. It would also curb smuggling and help the sector become more organised, they said. Sales of gold jewellery took a hit last year because of the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Masses are drowned in the market roar||Thirty-third US President Harry S. Truman, who succeeded Franklin D. Roosevelt and implemented the Marshall Plan to rebuild the economy of Western Europe, had once said: It’s a recession when your neighbour loses his job, it’s a depression when you lose yours. In the year of pandemic, the impact of recession was felt by almost every Indian — both in rural and urban areas — in the last 10 months or so as people suffered because of lower income in the farm sector while job losses and salary cuts wreaked havoc in urban centres. When Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman rose to present her budget proposals for 2021-22 on Monday morning — against the backdrop of expectations that the country’s gross domestic product would shrink 7.7 per cent in the financial year ending March 2021 — she had the challenge to reset the economy. At the very beginning of her speech, she made it clear that she was aware of the task at hand and said: “This budget provides every opportunity for our economy to raise and capture the pace that it needs for sustainable growth.” By the time she ended her proposals in little less than two hours — quicker than what most analysts had expected — the Sensex got buoyed by 5 per cent, the best budget day gain since P. Chidambaram’s dream 1997 budget.  No bad news in the budget, was the sentiment in the equities market, which brought loud cheers from the bourses. While market sentiment is undoubtedly an important indicator of a budget, it cannot be the only yardstick to assess proposals contained in a budget. The government’s commitment to common people — which gets reflected in terms of allocation of resources — is also important in a poor country like India where inequality has been on the rise. Sitharaman may have passed the test of the market, but a closer scrutiny of the numbers reveals that the masses, who had to bear with the fallout of the biggest contraction in the economy post-Independence, were not the priority when the budget proposals were being drawn up in the finance ministry. In the year of pandemic, survival was the priority and ordinary people — from migrant workers in farm sectors to those engaged in the unorganised sector in urban centres — braved the consequences of one of the most stringent lockdowns across the globe. The authorities across the world announced several fiscal measures to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 by doing away with the obligation of complying with deficit targets. Take for instance the case of Brazil, which rolled out temporary income support to vulnerable households like transferring cash to informal and low-income workers, forward the 13th pension payment to retirees, advancing payments of salary bonuses to low-income workers, extending employment support to those losing jobs and even offering temporary tax breaks. More than 8.6 per cent of the GDP was spent on income of workers, bringing these measures, and the Brazil economy is expected to contract by 4.5 per cent. In her budget speech, Sitharaman claimed that the Narendra Modi government, through three tranches of Atmanirbhar Bharat packages, including measures taken by the RBI, offered a stimulus of about Rs 27.1 lakh crore, amounting to 13 per cent of GDP, to give people a better deal in the time of the pandemic. The quantum of the stimulus has been questioned as the government’s attempt at infusing liquidity, through the RBI’s interventions, cannot qualify as fiscal measures. That’s why the IMF Fiscal Monitor Update has pegged the size of the stimulus to barely 4.1 per cent of the GDP — one-third of the government’s claim — which is much lower in comparison to other countries. (See chart) The expenditure side of the budget shows that instead of the budget estimate of Rs 30.4 trillion, the government is likely to spend Rs 34.5 trillion in 2020-21. According to budget documents, the additional Rs 4 lakh crore was spent on food and fertiliser subsidies, medical expenses and on rural employment. Had the government listened to the suggestion of economists and transferred money directly to migrant workers or those losing jobs in the unorganised sector in urban areas, the expenditure would have been more, but it could have had a better effect on the economy and the extent of the contraction could have been lower. While presenting her budget proposals, Sitharaman has projected 14.4 per cent nominal growth in the economy in the next fiscal. The budget proposals are, however, sketchy in explaining how this turnaround — among the highest in the world — would be achieved. The expenditure projections reveal that the government would spend barely Rs 34,000 crore more next fiscal. Will it be enough to reset the economy? Will such modest expansion in expenditure bring back the jobs people lost during the time of the pandemic? It’s clear that the finance minister is banking heavily on the private sector to come forward and play a key role in the economy’s turnaround. In 2019 September, Sitharaman had offered India Inc tax breaks in anticipation that they would invest, which, in turn, would fuel growth in the economy. In the absence of any cues from the government, India Inc chose not to invest. The situation is unlikely to change and the projection of a revival may remain only in the budget papers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Government won’t open purse for China ||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday unveiled a defence allocation of Rs 4.78 lakh crore including pensions, a rise of just 1.4 per cent from last year’s budget, disappointing veterans and officials who emphasised the Chinese threat at the borders. Retired army officers and security experts said the meagre hike could threaten military modernisation at a time the armed forces faced an acute funds shortage. “This increase is negligible considering the growing threat from China and Pakistan. The allocation actually represents a decline if one factors in inflation and currency fluctuations,” a former lieutenant general said. “What happened to the Narendra Modi government’s muscular politics? The Chinese army has been inside our territory since last May and has been threatening to occupy more land. The defence budget is very disappointing to say the least.” The overall defence outlay for 2021-2022 has been increased to Rs 478,195 crore from last year’s budgetary allocation of Rs 471,378 crore. Budget documents show that India spent an additional, unbudgeted Rs 20,776 crore on procuring emergency arms last year amid the standoff with China in Ladakh. “A token rise of 1.4 per cent... a rise of Rs 6,817 crore. I suppose military should be happy budget hasn’t been slashed!” Colonel (retd) Ajai Shukla tweeted. A defence ministry official said: “We were hoping for a substantial increase as this was the first budget after China’s occupation of Indian territory in eastern Ladakh. The paltry increase means our modernisation plans will continue to move at snail’s pace despite the government’s so-called muscular policy and national security pitch.” He outlined the modernisation plans: the air force wants several combat planes and helicopters to replace its Soviet-era aircraft; the navy is seeking a dozen submarines to counter China’s ever-expanding presence in the Indian Ocean; and the army wants assault rifles, surveillance drones and body armour to bolster its combat prowess along the China and Pakistan frontiers. “We are very disappointed at the meagre hike at a time our biggest current enemy, China, has been constantly modernising its weaponry,” an army official said. “China has increased its defence budget, which is four times ours.” Sources said the Chinese army, estimated to be occupying close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory in Ladakh, was constantly increasing its troop strength and bolstering its positions at the friction points. A military veteran said the 15-lakh-strong armed forces continued to suffer from operational deficiencies and needed more funds. “And, this was needed the most now with the threat from China and Pakistan having become more alarming,” he said. Excluding the pension outgo, the allocation for the armed forces stands at Rs 3.62 lakh crore, compared with last year’s Rs 3.37 lakh crore. Of this, Rs 1.35 lakh crore has been earmarked as capital outlay to buy new weapons, aircraft, warships and other military hardware. The capital outlay in defence budget 2020-21 was Rs 1.13 lakh crore. “I specially thank PM& FM for increasing the defence budget to 4.78 lakh cr for FY21-22 which includes capital expenditure worth Rs 1.35 lakh crore,” defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted. “It is (a) nearly 19 per cent increase in defence capital expenditure. This is (the) highest ever increase in capital outlay for defence in 15 yrs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Funds for schools slashed||The education sector witnessed a major cut in outlay in the Union Budget for 2021-22 amid substantial dip in allocation to a scheme that aimed to improve school infrastructure and teaching. The allocation to school and higher education in the budget presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday was Rs 93,224 crore against the budgeted estimate of Rs 99,311 crore in 2020-21, which was revised to Rs 85, 089 crore. This is for the first time that the education ministry’s budget witnessed a cut in the allocated amount in the recent years. Allocation to a scholarship scheme which aims to promote enrolment and reduce dropout of girls belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities in secondary schools also plummeted. The Samagra Shiksha scheme, which is the main vehicle for implementing the Right to Education (RTE) Act, witnessed the maximum cut in allocation. While last year the scheme was allocated Rs 38,750 crore, this year, it has received Rs 31,050 crore. The scheme undertakes infrastructure development of government schools and provides uniform and textbooks to children among several other initiatives. The government collects primary and secondary education cess which are utilised for the Samagra Shiksha scheme. In the 2021-22 financial year, the government has proposed to utilise Rs 30,200 crore levied under both cesses in the scheme. This means the proposed gross budgetary spending for Samagra Shiksha scheme is less than Rs 1,000 crore. Ashok Agrawal, a member of Delhi University Court and president of All India Parents Association, said that the decline in allocation to the Samagra Shiksha scheme suggests the government is not keen on education of poor children. “The class divide is clearly evident from the government policy. The government does not want to spend for the education of poor children. It has already asked the states to close down government schools by merging them. Ultimately, the poor children will drop out and become child labourers,” Agrawal said. The allocation for the National Scheme of Incentive to Girls for Secondary Education, which covers girls belonging to SC and ST communities who pass Class VIII and enrol in Class IX in government and government-aided schools, plummeted from Rs 110 crore last year to just Rs 1 crore this year. Under the scheme, an incentive amount of Rs 3,000 is deposited in the name of the girls as a fixed deposit on enrolment in Class IX. They are entitled to withdraw it along with the interest accrued upon reaching 18 years of age and passing the Class X examination. The allocation to the National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship Scheme, that provides one lakh scholarships of Rs 6,000 annually to students from Classes IX to XII, also declined from Rs 373 crore last year to Rs 350 crore. The scheme aims to award scholarships to meritorious students of economically weaker sections to arrest their dropout at Class VIII. In her budget speech, Sitharaman said more than 15,000 schools will be qualitatively strengthened to include all components of the National Education Policy. They shall emerge as exemplar schools in their regions, handholding and mentoring other schools to achieve the ideals of the NEP. She also announced that 100 new Sainik Schools will be set up in partnership with NGOs and private schools or states. The finance minister proposed to increase the unit cost of Eklavya Model Residential Schools from Rs 20 crores to Rs 38 crore. The government has started work for establishing 750 such schools. In higher education, the Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship for College and University Students also continued to witness lower allocation. The actual expenditure under this scheme was Rs 386 crore in 2019-20. In 2020-21, the allocation declined to Rs 141 crore and was revised to Rs 207 crore. For 2021-22, the allocation stands at Rs 207 crore. The government gives the Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) for those clearing the NET exam with high marks and Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) and a few other scholarship schemes. “The JRF and SRF fellows are not getting scholarships on time. The funds cut will further affect payment time and research work,” said a PhD student in Jawaharlal Nehru University. Sitharaman announced a new central university in Leh. She also said a new initiative would be launched to bring synergy between various research institutions, universities and colleges located in a city. The allocation to the University Grants Commission (UGC) stands at Rs 4,693 crore while the allocation to higher education declined from Rs 39,466 crore to Rs 38,350 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Lion’s share for Covid vaccines||The Centre has announced a 137 per cent increase in the budget on “health and well-being” in the coming year, but four-fifths of this rise will be utilised for Covid-19 vaccines, water and sanitation initiatives. The Union health budget for 2021-22 has proposed multiple new initiatives, including schemes to strengthen primary healthcare and critical care units in government hospitals, but several experts said the increase in allocation for health remains a meagre 9 per cent. The Centre’s increased allocation for health thus remains insufficient towards the target of increasing its spending on health to 3 per cent of the gross domestic product from the current less than 1.5 per cent, experts and industry representatives said. In her budget speech, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the outlay for health and well-being for 2021-22 is Rs 223,846 crore against Rs 94,452 crore in 2020-21, or a 137 per cent increase. However, Rs 108,512 crore (nearly 84 per cent) of that increase of about Rs 129,000 crore will go into Covid-19 vaccines (Rs 35,000 crore), water and sanitation programmes (Rs 73,512 crore). Sitharaman announced an outlay of Rs 64,180 crore for a new scheme called PM AtmaNirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana that will over six years strengthen capacities of government-run primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare institutions across the country. Immunisation with pneumococcal vaccines for children currently offered by the health ministry in five states would be extended across the country. This is expected to avert 50,000 deaths per year, she said. The Swasth Bharat Yojana will support over 17,000 rural and 11,000 urban health and wellness centres, establish public health labs in all districts and in over 3,300 block public health units, and establish critical care hospital blocks in 602 districts and 12 central institutions. Public health experts said the allocations to improve access to drinking water and sanitation would have impacts on health and well-being but are worried that the increase in the overall outlay is low. “The core flagship programmes have received meagre increases. We don’t see the moves required to increase the public spending on health to 3 per cent of the GDP,” said Selvaraj Sakthivel, director for health economics and policy at the Public Health Foundation of India. Indranil Mukhopadhyay, who teaches health economics at the OP Jindal University, said the Centre’s health budget should increase by at least 25 per cent every year over four or five years to achieve the 3 per cent target. “The actual increase this year is about 9 per cent,” he said. The finance ministry’s Economic Survey released last Friday had underlined that increasing government spending on health to 3 per cent of the GDP would reduce out-of-pocket (personal) expenses on healthcare in the country from the current 60 per cent to 30 per cent. “The increase in allocation to health is marginal and the total outlay for health as a percentage of the GDP remains dismal,” said an executive with the Organisation of Pharmaceutical Producers of India, an industry body representing mainly foreign drug and vaccine makers. The Population Foundation of India, an NGO, said it is concerned about a 35 per cent reduction in the outlay for a scheme that funds procurement and distribution of contraceptives — from Rs 600 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 387 crore in 2021-22. The new initiatives in health also include plans to establish regional centres of the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, and the National Institute of Virology, Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: No word on jobs for urban poor ||The Union Budget for 2021-22 gave little assurance to migrant workers and the unemployed. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday reiterated some old schemes like the One Nation One Ration Card to enable the beneficiaries get rations in places where they have migrated for work. She proposed to launch a portal that will collect information on gig, building and construction workers. This will help formulate health, housing, skill, insurance, credit and food schemes for migrant workers. However, Sitharaman was silent on the demand from academia and civil society groups for an employment assurance scheme on the lines of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) for the urban people. The budget document made no allocation for the social security fund that has been provided under the Code on Social Security, 2020, which was passed in the last session of Parliament. The code seeks to provide social security coverage to unorganised workers, including migrant workers. The new law provides for creation of a social security fund to finance schemes like old-age pension, life and disability cover and health and maternity benefits for unorganised workers. The law says the scheme notified by the central government may be wholly or partly funded by the central and state governments or partly funded by the Centre, states and contributions collected from the beneficiaries of the scheme or the employers or funded from any source, including the corporate social responsibility funds paid by companies. Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar, professor at XLRI-Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, disapproved the lack allocation for a social security fund. “The central government is one of the contributors for the social security fund and social security schemes as promised under the Social Security Code. It was expected that the finance minister will allocate some funds for the proposed schemes under the code. But there is no allocation,” Sundar said. He also doubted the proper implementation of the One Nation One Ration Card scheme. If properly implemented, the states by now should have enrolled migrant workers too. However, there is no data on this process. Migrant workers were worst hit when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the nation. Nearly six million salaried workers also lost their jobs in the months of May, June, July and August, according to research group Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy. Academicians and civil society groups have been demanding for an urban employment scheme. “The two labour market outcomes from the Covid-19 hit economy are unemployment and underemployment and diminution in incomes. The Union Budget does not address either,” Sundar said. He said the government should have transferred money to the pockets of needy people for some months to strengthen the aggregate demand in the economy. There is no such announcement either. For MGNREGA, Sitharaman allocated Rs 73,000 crore in 2021-22. In 2020-21, the budget had allocated Rs 61,500 crore to the rural job scheme, which was later revised to Rs 105,500 crore. Debmalya Nandy, a researcher on MGNREGA, said the allocated amount is much less in view of the increased demand for work in rural areas. “This is disappointing that the government is ignoring the current rural employment distress while there is a need for maximising the spend on NREGA for enhancing rural demand. The pandemic has shown that there is heavy dependence on NREGA for employment in the country and the government needed to push the scheme by allocating at least Rs 2 lakh crore for the programme, enhance the wages to match the minimum agriculture wages of the states and increase workdays to at least 150 days in a year,” Nandy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-02-2021||Business||Heard in Parliament during Budget speech: ‘Adani, Adani’ ||India’s first Covid-era budget was delivered from a tablet. The MPs were scattered across the two Houses and the visitors’ galleries to maintain social distancing in a Parliament sprayed with disinfectant before the start of the day’s sitting. Despite fewer MPs in proximity to the Chair, the Opposition’s protests could be heard, particularly when finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman read out proposals to privatise public sector undertakings. When Sitharaman said “major ports will be moving from managing their operational services on their own to a model where a private partner will manage it for them”, Opposition members raised jeers of “Adani, Adani!” Momentarily stalled, Sitharaman stressed: “A scheme to promote flagging of merchant ships in India will be launched by providing subsidy support to Indian shipping companies in global tenders floated by ministries and CPSEs (central public sector undertakings).” Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd operates 10 ports in the country, and its owner Gautam Adani is considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The protests increased as Sitharaman announced that several public sector undertakings would be privatised. She was booed when she said: “Our government is committed to the welfare of farmers.” The Opposition benches chanted “Kale kanoon wapas lo (Withdraw the black laws)”, demanding repeal of the new farm laws. Congress members Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Jasbir Singh Gill and Ravneet Singh Bittu — who have been protesting on Jantar Mantar Road here against the three laws — wore black robes inscribed with slogans in support of the protesting farmers. Police blocked several roads and fortified other routes from the protest sites with concrete barricades and spikes on Monday to pre-empt any march by farmers to Parliament — although the farmers had called off the programme. The restrictions led to traffic snarls across the city. Congress members chanted slogans before Mahatma Gandhi’s statue outside Parliament House before the session began. Shiromani Akali Dal members and Rajasthan MP Hanuman Beniwal of the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party walked out during the budget speech in protest against the farm laws and held up placards outside Parliament. Sitharaman received both cheers and jeers when she announced several highway projects in poll-bound Assam, Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Dressed in a red and white Pochamapally saree, Sitharaman read out her “paperless budget” from an electronic tablet. She posed for the customary photos, along with finance ministry officials, with the tablet in a red case that bore the Lion Capital of Ashoka in gold. In 2019, Sitharaman had replaced the traditional Gladstone Box leather briefcase that held the budget papers with the Bahi Khata, the traditional cloth bag used to carry ledgers of trade. There was speculation on social media that the tablet was an iPad manufactured in Tamil Nadu. However, till late Monday night, there had been no word from the finance ministry on the brand or origin of the tablet. Sitharaman and all her officials removed their face masks for the photo, taken before the budget speech. Speaker Om Birla, who wore a Himachali cap, was without a mask through the day’s session. No visitors are being allowed inside Parliament during the budget session, with the viewers’ galleries being occupied by MPs. There’s restricted seating for the media, with publications taking turns in attending the session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
