03-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 458 points to end above 50,000 for first time||Extending its Budget bull run for the third day, the Sensex rallied 458 points to end above the 50,000 mark for the first time ever on Wednesday, led by broad-based gains amid positive cues from global markets. After touching a record intra-day high of 50,526.39, the 30-share index ended at 50,255.75, up 458.03 points or 0.92 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 142.10 points or 0.97 per cent to its fresh closing record of 14,789.95. It touched an all-time high of 14,868.85 during the day. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, zooming around 8 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, NTPC and Axis Bank. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Maruti, ITC, Kotak Bank and Asian Paints were among the losers. "Domestic equities continued to remain in the grip of bulls and broader indices made fresh record highs today," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Optimism, created after the announcement of bold measures in the Union Budget continued to attract investors. Favourable global cues also supported the market rally. Notably, market cap of Indian market is just fraction away from surpassing Rs 200 trillion levels, he added. Growing optimism among investors after bold and pro-growth Budget helped market to rebound sharply in the last three days, he said, adding that the underlying strength of the domestic market remains intact. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.36 per cent higher at USD 58.01 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty overcome early losses to turn positive in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex pared early losses and turned positive in opening trade on Wednesday amid gains in index-heavyweights Reliance, TCS and Infosys. After shedding over 60 points, the 30-share index made a U-turn and was trading 130.17 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 49,927.89. The benchmark indices turned choppy in the first hour of trade. the broader NSE Nifty gained 53.85 points or 0.37 per cent to 14,701.70. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4.50 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, PowerGrid, Tech Mahindra, M&M, Sun Pharma and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Maruti, Kotak Bank, SBI and UltraTech Cement were among the losers. "The risk-on is back in the market with massive FII inflows. There is huge delivery-based buying in HDFC twins, Tata Motors, RIL, ICICI Bank and many other bluechips," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Vijayakumar further noted that the growth-oriented bold budget, with emphasis on privatization, has facilitated this return of risk-on in the market with the Nifty spiking by 7 per cent in 2 days. "The fundamental support to the market comes from the surprisingly good results from companies. If the present steadily declining COVID incidence trends continue, the economy will bounce back sharply, supporting the rally," he noted. In the previous session, the 30-share BSE index ended 1,197.11 points higher at 49,797.72; and the Nifty advanced 366.65 points to close the session at 14,647.85. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 6,181.56 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Shanghai were trading with losses, while Tokyo was in the green. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.42 per cent higher at USD 57.70 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||Govt mulls next move on Cairn case after examining international tribunal order||The government is “examining” the recent international tribunal order passed against India in the high-profile Cairn Energy plc retrospective tax case even as CBDT chairman P.C. Mody said the law that was extant at that point of time had to be enforced. He said while the government has filed an appeal after a similar verdict was delivered against the country in the Vodafone case, it will soon come out with its decision to go in for an appeal or not in the Cairn case. “We have already taken a decision in the case of Vodafone to go in for a further appeal. So far as Cairn is concerned, we are examining the issue and very soon we will come out with a decision on that,” the CBDT chief said. He was asked if the ground of “taxation being a sovereign function of the government” was used to file an appeal in the Vodafone case. “Apart from sovereign function, that (retrospective taxation) was the law at that point of time... so that has to be carried out or given full effect to,” he said. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) frames policy for the income tax department. India, in December last year, has been ordered to return up to $1.4 billion to Cairn Energy after the government lost an international arbitration over the retrospective taxes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||LIC IPO likely after October this year||LIC’s initial public offering (IPO) is likely after October this year, a top official said on Tuesday, laying out the government’s divestment calendar that includes completing the sale of flag carrier Air India and oil firm BPCL within the first half of the next fiscal. Targeting to raise Rs 1.75 lakh crore from the asset sale to finance projects aimed at reviving the pandemic-battered economy, the government is also looking to sell Shipping Corporation of India (SCI), IDBI Bank and two other public sector lenders in the financial year beginning April 1. Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary in the department of investment and public asset management, said the government has introduced the legislative amendments required for disinvestment of a stake in Life Insurance Corporation of India and IDBI Bank through the Finance Bill, 2021 presented on Monday. The Modi government is targeting record capital expenditure next fiscal to pull the economy out of the trough. Additional resources required for that are to be raised through divestment and monetisation. It has already received the preliminary expression of interest for the sale of stake in BPCL and Air India while the same for SCI is due on February 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India rolls out borrowing timeline||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has issued a revised borrowing calendar of the government for the rest of this fiscal, following an announcement by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to borrow another Rs 80,000 crore in the next two months in the budget. The government raises money from the market to fund its fiscal deficit through dated securities and treasury bills. The fresh issuances will see the gross market borrowing rising to Rs 12.80 lakh crore. The initial estimate was Rs 7.8 lakh crore which was subsequently raised to Rs 12 lakh crore. After the announcement in the budget, the yields on government securities which are inversely related to their prices have risen as the bond markets reacted negatively to the supply of more paper. The yields on Tuesday on the benchmark 10 year paper ended at 6.12 per cent — a gain of over six basis points. In all, the Centre will raise Rs 2,16,000 crore in the two months of February and March. The programme will kick off with bonds worth Rs 31,000 crore to be sold this week. While five, 11 and 14-year tenures dominate the list, the government will be also raising money through 30- and 40-year paper. For the next fiscal, the gross market borrowing is set at Rs 12 lakh crore which is also higher than market expectation. This comes as the government is looking to boost growth leading to higher expenditure. Fiscal deficit for this year has been set at 9.5 per cent of GDP and for the next fiscal, it is expected to come at 6.8 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||Steel companies hike prices by Rs 1500 a tonne||A day after the Union budget slashed customs duties on a gamut of steel products with the aim to rein in escalating domestic prices, steel producers in the country have increased prices by Rs 1,000-1,500 a tonne. Primary producers such as state-run Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) raised prices of benchmark hot rolled coil prices as well as cold rolled items. Private player JSW Steel also raised prices by Rs 1,000 a tonne on certain products. Other large producers are likely to follow suit. While reacting to the budget proposals, primary producers had pointed out on Monday that the duty cut would have limited impact on domestic prices given that steel prices across the globe were firm. Moreover, around 60 per cent of imports come from countries with which India has free trade agreements such as Japan and Korea. In short, these imports can anyway come at zero per cent duty even before the budget move. Steel prices in the domestic market have rallied nearly 50 per cent from the low it fetched in July, backed by a robust domestic demand and buoyant international prices. Benchmark HRC is now hovering around Rs 54,000 a tonne. The budget had cut duties by 2.5-5.5 per cent on a range of products. It also temporarily suspended countervailing duties and anti dumping duties on certain products coming from a few countries, notably China. “There was a general expectation that with reduction of duty in the budget, steel prices should come down considerably, but it is the reverse what happened today,” Sanjay Budhia, managing director of Patton International, an engineering exporter out of Bengal, said. A source close to the steel mills argued that prices in India would not come down unless the prices in the international markets, especially China, come down. “Steel prices in the US are ruling at $680 a tonne. Adding freight charges and the reduced customs duty, the price goes to $758 a tonne or Rs 55,334 tonne, while domestics’ prices are hovering around Rs 53,000-55,000 a tonne,” the source said. User industries also pointed out that the impact of the reduced duty would not be felt here before 2-3 months. “It would at least take that long if someone contracts steel today to reach his factory. Till such time, mill prices in India would rule firm,” a user industry official said. Rising steel prices are putting pressure on the user industries, especially those who have entered into long term contracts with buyers, in India or overseas. “We have been pleading with our customers to raise prices given the unprecedented rise. However, they are not ready to offer more than a low single digit hike. We are really at a bind,” Budhia complained, urging the government to take more steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||HDFC Ltd on reports consolidated profit after tax of Rs 5,177 crore||Mortgage lender HDFC Ltd on Tuesday reported a consolidated profit after tax of Rs 5,177 crore in the December quarter compared with Rs 3,835 crore in the year-ago period. On a standalone basis, net profit for the December quarter stood at Rs 2,926 crore against Rs 8,372 crore a year ago. For the nine-month period ended December 31, 2020, profit after tax was Rs 8,847 crore compared with Rs 15,537.12 crore in the year-ago period. The company’s vice-chairman and CEO Keki Mistry said the profit numbers for the third quarter are not comparable with the last year because of the profit on the sale of a part stake in HDFC Life and dividend, which stood at Rs 159 crore in the reporting quarter compared with Rs 4 crore last year. The merger of GRUH Finance with Bandhan Bank was effective October 17, 2019, it added. “Under IndAS, the Corporation had on derecognition of the investment in GRUH, recorded a fair value gain of Rs 9,020 crore through the statement of profit and loss during the quarter ended December 31, 2019,” HDFC Ltd. In the third quarter of 2020-21, the net gain on fair value changes and income on loans assigned stood at Rs 641 crore against Rs 209 crore a year ago. The lender’s provisioning (including for the impact of Covid-19) stood at Rs 594 crore in the reporting quarter as against Rs 2,995 crore in the previous year. Net interest income rose 26 per cent to Rs 4,068 crore compared with Rs 3,240 crore. HDFC Bank IT audit HDFC Bank on Tuesday said that the RBI has appointed an external firm for carrying out a special audit of its entire IT infrastructure. In December 2020, the banking regulator had temporarily barred HDFC Bank from issuing new credit cards and launching digital banking initiatives becasue of various service outages over the last two years. After that, HDFC Bank had submitted a detailed plan of action to the RBI to address repeated service disruption issues and the lender said that it was hopeful of improving its technology platform in three months. A senior official of the bank had also said at an analysts meet that the action plan will take 10-12 weeks for implementation, and further time-frame will depend on the RBI’s inspection. Based on the satisfaction level, the central bank will lift the ban. The identity of the external firm was not disclosed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
03-02-2021||Business||Narendra Modi to unveil Rs 4,700-crore projects in poll-bound West Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unveil about Rs 4,700-crore projects in poll-bound West Bengal on Sunday, including the Dobhi-Durgapur natural gas pipeline. The 347km pipeline from Dobhi (in Gaya, Bihar) to Durgapur will revive HURL Sindri (Jharkhand) fertiliser plant, supply gas to Matix fertiliser plant at Durgapur and will supply gas to industrial, commercial and automobile sectors and city gas distribution across all major towns in these states, including the cities of Purulia, Asansol and Durgapur of West Bengal. This pipeline is part of the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project. “Conducted an oil industry meet at Haldia ahead of PM Narendra Modi ji’s visit where he will dedicate to the nation oil, gas & road projects worth Rs 4,742 crore,” Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan said. Modi will inaugurate the project virtually from Haldia. Pradhan said the Prime Minister will visit Haldia on February 7 to dedicate several infrastructure projects in the oil and gas sector. He will also dedicate an LPG import terminal at Haldia, built by Bharat Petroleum at a cost of Rs 1,100 crore, to meet the demand of cooking fuel of the region. He will also lay the foundation stone for the second catalytic dewaxing unit of IOC at Haldia refinery and a road- overbridge  at Ranichak. This has been built at the cost of Rs 190 crore. After the launch of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna (PMUY), LPG penetration has witnessed a phenomenal growth in the entire country. West Bengal, along with other eastern states has also witnessed similar growth in LPG consumption. LPG penetration in West Bengal, which was only 41.4 per cent in April 2014 has increased to 99.5 per cent as on date, the release said. He will also lay the foundation stone for the second catalytic dewaxing unit of IOC at Haldia refinery and a road- overbridge (ROB) at Ranichak. This has been built at the cost of Rs 190 crore. The commissioning of this flyover will result in uninterrupted to and fro traffic from Kolaghat to Haldia Dock Complex and other surrounding areas. There will be a substantial saving in travel time and operating cost of heavy vehicles plying in and out of the port. Haldia dock complex is the main gateway for import and export of cargo destined/originating from Eastern and North-Eastern part of country as well as land-locked countries like Nepal and Bhutan. The second catalytic dewaxing unit at the refinery with a capacity of 270 TMTPA is estimated to cost Rs 1019 crores and will produce advanced Group III Lubes Oil Base Stock (LOBS), which will be first of its kind installation in India. Once commissioned, this will lead to import-substitution in the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat.  Currently around 70% of LOBS requirement is being met through imports. With the commissioning of CIDW at Haldia Refinery, LOBS Production of the country will be enhanced and LOBS import dependency will reduce by around 8%. This project is expected to result in saving of foreign exchange to the tune of $185 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
03-02-2021||Business||Delhi high court directs Future Retail not to proceed with Reliance merger||The Delhi high court on Tuesday has directed Future Retail Limited (FRL) not to proceed with its merger with Reliance Retail as it reserved its verdict on US online giant Amazon’s plea against the merger. While ordering status quo on the Rs 24,713-crore deal between Future and Reliance, the court upheld the judgment of the Singapore Emergency Arbitrator (EA) which in October had ruled in favour of Amazon that triggered a bitter feud between Future and Amazon leading to an earlier verdict by the Delhi high court followed by conditional approval of the Future-Reliance deal by Sebi, the BSE and NSE as well by the Competition Commission of India. The court on Tuesday directed Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to maintain status quo in relation to its deal with Reliance Retail. Justice J.R. Midha said the court was satisfied that an immediate interim order was required to be passed to protect the rights of Amazon. “Respondents (FRL) and other respondents are directed to maintain status quo as on today at 4:49pm till pronouncement of the reserved order,” the judge said. Amazon has approached the high court seeking direction to order enforcement of the award by Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) restraining FRL from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. The high court, which heard the matter for four consecutive days, reserved its order on the main petition and also directed all other concerned authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matters which are in violation of the emergency award and to file status report with regard to the present status within 10 days. While pronouncing the interim order, the high court said it was of the prima facie view that the emergency arbitrator is an arbitrator and he has rightly proceeded against FRL and its order was not in nullity. The court said it was clear that the October 25, 2020 order of the emergency arbitrator passing the award was enforceable and appealable under the relevant provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. The high court directed FRL to file an affidavit stating the steps and actions taken by it from October 25, 2020, when the emergency award was passed, till now in connection with the deal with Reliance. The high court had earlier issued notices and sought responses of FRL, Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL), Biyanis and other related parties on the petition by Amazon. Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC, in its plea, also sought detention of the Biyanis, directors of FCPL and FRL and other related parties in civil prison and attaching of their properties for alleged “wilful disobedience” of the emergency arbitrator's order. It also sought to restrain Future Group from taking any steps to transfer or dispose of FRL's retail assets or the shares held in FRL by the Biyanis in any manner without prior written consent of Amazon. The Future Group and Amazon have been locked in a battle after the US-based company took FRL into the emergency arbitration over alleged breach of a contract between them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
03-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Investor wealth zooms over Rs 10.48 lakh crore||Investor wealth zoomed over Rs 10.48 lakh crore in two days as the Budget-driven market euphoria continued to galvanise bulls on Tuesday. The Sensex jumped 1197.11 points, or 2.46 per cent, to close at 49797.72 on Tuesday. During the day, it zoomed 1553.87 points to 50154.48. Tracking the extremely positive investor sentiment, the market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies jumped Rs 10,48,253.99 crore to Rs 1,96,60,898.02 crore in two days of market rally. On Tuesday, the m-cap of BSE-listed companies advanced by Rs 4,14,184.32 crore. Investors became richer by over Rs 6.34 lakh crore on Monday as markets gave a big shout-out to the Budget 2021-22. Cheering the Budget proposals, the Sensex zoomed 2314.84 points, or 5 per cent, to close at 48600.61 on Monday. This was the best Budget-day gain for the markets since 1997, analysts said. “It has been a picture perfect rally in the last two sessions with the broader indices clocking record Budget day gains and extending them today as well. Although some profit-booking can be expected, we expect stock-specific action to continue,” said Rahul Sharma, head technical and derivatives Research, JM Financial Services. On Tuesday, on the BSE 1,755 companies advanced, while 1,184 declined and 175 remained unchanged. “Budget 2021 was a dream Budget which brought with itself a remarkable rise in Nifty-50, the highest in the past 10 years. Such buoyancy might be momentary but this budget truly caters to revive the Indian economy which plunged to the nadir amidst the pandemic. “No new Covid tax/cess or no increase in wealth or other direct taxes also amused investors. Overall, the budget truly hit the mark since there wasn’t anything negative from a consumer or industrial perspective,” Umesh Mehta, head of research, Samco Securities, said. According to Jaideep Hansraj, MD and CEO, Kotak Securities, it has been a great budget in the current pandemic. The market has given a clear thumbs-up. “No tinkering on taxes, including personal tax and a giant leap of divesting two state-run banks and opening up of market by making way for the LIC IPO and foreign ownership in insurance companies has been a welcome move and the primary reason for the rise in the stock market,” he stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
03-02-2021||Business||Budget 2021-22: Rating agencies go soft on deficit spike||Rating agencies have demurred from passing any scathing comments on the greater than expected fiscal deficit announced in the budget just days after the Narendra Modi-government dared them on downgrades in the Economic Survey last week. Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s on Tuesday came out with their initial reaction to the budget and it did not indicate any major concern on their part about the government’s decision to set fiscal deficit at 6.8 per cent of GDP in the next fiscal while keeping the deficit at an awning 9.5 per cent for the current fiscal. The Centre has also decided to throw away any figleaf of fiscal rectitude by jettisoning the mandate to attain the fiscal deficit of 3 per cent of GDP by 2020-21 under FRBM Act even as it committed itself to an aggressive spending exercise that removes the possibility of bringing down the deficit to below 4.5 per cent of GDP in another four years. At present, India’s sovereign rating is one notch above junk, and any downgrade will  increase borrowing costs both for the government and companies. In June last year, Fitch had revised India’s outlook to negative from stable and affirmed the rating at BBB- while Moody’s had downgraded the rating to Baa3 from Baa2, the lowest investment grade. On the other hand, S&P has a BBB- rating. S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday said that the fiscal deficit of 9.5 per cent of GDP in this fiscal was greater than its estimates. It cautioned that the prospect of consolidation from these levels, while maintaining a significant degree of support for the economy, poses a “stout” challenge to India’s policymakers. The rating agency was, however, quick to add that the budget represented a comprehensive effort by the government to shore up the country's nascent economic recovery. “While we currently see no material effect from the budget on India’s key credit factors, the economy’s brightening growth prospects will be critical to maintaining the sustainability of India’s public finances, with general government debt likely to hover at more than 90 per cent of GDP over the next few years,’’ the rating agency noted. On the other hand, Jeremy Zook, director in Fitch Ratings’ Asia-Pacific Sovereigns team, said that the deficit targets presented in the budget are higher even as the medium-term consolidation is more gradual than  expected. “The wider deficits and more gradual pace of consolidation will lift government debt and put more onus on the nominal GDP growth outlook in our assessment of the medium-term debt trajectory, which is core to our view of sovereign rating,” Fitch said. Signs of a weaker-than-anticipated economic recovery or a reassessment of medium-term growth potential would make it more challenging to achieve a downward trend in the debt ratio. “We view the economic and revenue assumptions underpinning the budget to be largely credible, although the disinvestment revenue target appears optimistic at over three times higher than the level achieved in 2019-20.” “This budget also takes further positive steps toward improving fiscal transparency, particularly by bringing the loans from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) onto the budget,” Fitch said. The extended fiscal glide path — in the government’s refusal to keep the deficit high till 2025-26  —  means the present dispensation has given a quite a burial to late finance minister Arun Jaitley’s promise in his budget for 2017 to strive for fiscal prudence even as he refused to trigger the escape clause from the mandated glide path of the deficit. Sitharaman has not only activated the escape clause this year but also promised to amend the FRBM Act. Chief economic advisor K.V. Subramanian in the Economic Survey had set the stage for the ballooning fiscal deficit and the long rope for the glide path when he slammed the methodologies of the rating agencies. “India's sovereign ratings do not reflect the fundamentals of Indian economy. Ratings methodology needs correction. Ratings basically reflect the probability of default which corresponds to willingness to repay or ability to repay. India's willingness to repay is gold standard,” the survey said. India has never defaulted even in 1991. Our ability to repay is also very very high," Subramanian said. Pointing towards India's bulging foreign exchange reserves to make the case for a significant ratings upgrade, he said the reserves currently stand at $585 billion, which is close to all time highs. "To understand whether our reserves cover our debt, we need to take into account private sector debt. Our short term debt, a default by India is a 0.1 percent probability event," he said. "Our total debt obligation in foreign exchange, the amount is less than reserves….which is why India should have the highest rating. And that is one of the reasons why our stock markets do not react to (adverse) credit ratings changes," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
