04-02-2021||Business||Sensex scales 359 points to close at lifetime high||Rallying for the fourth successive session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped 359 points to scale a fresh lifetime high on Thursday, led by gains in ITC, SBI and Kotak Bank. After touching an all-time high of 50,687.51 during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 358.54 points or 0.71 per cent at its new closing record of 50,614.29. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty finished 105.70 points or 0.71 per cent higher at its closing peak of 14,895.65. It touched an intra-day record of 14,913.70. ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 6 per cent, followed by SBI, Bajaj Finance, ONGC, M&M, Kotak Bank, UltraTech Cement, NTPC and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Asian Paints, IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, Tech Mahindra and Titan were among the laggards. "Domestic equities defied weak cues of Asian markets and extended gains for the fourth consecutive day as growing optimism about prospects of Indian economy post the announcement of bold Budget continued to attract investors," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Notably, domestic market crossed Rs 200 trillion market capitalisation mark during the day, he said, adding that strong buying in banks, especially PSBs, and FMCG space supported the market rally. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Hong Kong, Seoul and Shanghai closed with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were, however, largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Sensex rallies 359 ptsMeanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent higher at USD 58.74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 140 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex declined over 140 points in early trade on Thursday as index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC twins witnessed intense selling pressure. The 30-share BSE index was trading 140.79 points or 0.28 per cent lower at 50,114.96. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 31.30 points or 0.21 per cent to 14,758.65. IndusInd Bank the top loser in the Sensex pack, fell around 2.50 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Asian Paints, Tech Mahindra, L&T and HCL Tech. On the other hand, ONGC, M&M, Bajaj Auto, NTPC, Maruti, ITC and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share BSE benchmark ended at 50,255.75, up 458.03 points or 0.92 per cent and the broader NSE Nifty had surged 142.10 points or 0.97 per cent to its fresh closing record of 14,789.95. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,520.92 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Hong Kong, Seoul and Shanghai were trading with losses. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.89 per cent higher at USD 58.98 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Centre bets on LIC, BPCL and Air India IPO to achieve divestment target||The Modi government is banking on the initial public offer of the Life Insurance Corporation and the strategic sales of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and Air India to meet its ambitious disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for the next fiscal. “It is quite an ambitious target, but a realistic target and we believe it is achievable. Last year’s situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic cannot be compared with this year as the environment now is quite different and things are much better,” disinvestment secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey told The Telegraph. “The divestment target includes the LIC initial public offer (IPO) which would be a fairly large transaction, though the size we do not know,” he said. “We are not planning to continue with the ETF strategy and other market transactions will depend on investors’ interest. The offer-for-sale (OFS) would also be limited and we will try not to repeat offerings in the same stock.” However, at this moment, “our whole focus is on the privatisation policy,” which is a directional shift, seen as a big structural reform after 1991. Under the budget’s strategic-sectors policy, the government will put on the block a large number of central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) — including giants such as Bharat Heavy Electricals and Steel Authority of India, boosting the Centre’s non-debt receipts. Pandey said the LIC issue would hit the market “in the second half of next fiscal”. While the valuation of the insurer will be known closer to the listing, it is believed to be worth Rs 8-11.5 lakh crore, meaning a 10 per cent IPO could fetch the government Rs 80,000-1,10,000 crore. On the strategic sale of BPCL and Air India, the disinvestment secretary said he expected the transaction to be completed in the first quarter of 2021-22. Without getting into the names of the bidders for the PSUs, Pandey said “multiple bids have come and the due diligence process is on”. “Parallely, we have engaged our own financial partner, what we call as transactional adviser and asset valuers, who will also value the company independently. This is not known to the bidders.” “Once financial bidding takes place and is locked, then based on our transaction adviser opinion, we will fix a reserve value. Then, when the bids are opened, we will say you match the reserve value and the government will decide,” Pandey said. The Vedanta group has confirmed its bid for BPCL, while US funds Apollo Global and I Squared Capital have reportedly also shown interest. Asked about the lock-in period as concerns have been raised that the institutional investors may be tempted to flip the acquisition for gain at a later date, Pandey said: “In the share purchase agreement, there will be clauses in terms of business continuity, asset stripping, employee protection and so on. Also, there is a $10-billion entry barrier for these bidders.” On the Air India strategic sale, Pandey said, “We were hoping to complete it by March, (but) due diligence process is on… we hope to complete it in the first quarter of the next fiscal. Multiple bids have come.” Strategic selloffs are also planned for Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML and Pawan Hans. On the asset monetisation talked about in the budget, he said: “The government would adopt a different strategy for core and non-core assets. On the non-core side, we could have an SPV where certain kinds of capacity can be built in a faster and methodical way… not everything is auction and sale. It could be a development model, revenue share or concession model.” “I think the sports ministry is already working on how those stadiums can be renovated, maintained and operated upon the PPP arrangements also so that you don’t have to put your money. On the contrary, you might get some revenue share… there are different models that would be looked into,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India announces stricter NBFC audit rules||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday announced a risk-based internal audit (RBIA) system for select non-bank lenders and urban co-operative banks (UCBs) to enhance the quality and effectiveness of their internal audit controls. All deposit-taking non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) and non-deposit taking NBFCs with an asset size of over Rs 5,000 crore apart from urban co-operative banks with assets of over Rs 500 crore will have to migrate to the new system. The RBIA is an audit methodology that links an organisation’s overall risk management framework and provides assurance to the board and its senior management regarding the quality and effectiveness of its internal control, risk management and governance structure. In its statement on developmental and regulatory policies that accompanied the monetary policy statement in December 2020, the banking regulator had said internal audit functions as a line of defence, which needs to strengthened in UCBs and NBFCs. MPC meeting begins The RBI’s rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) began its meeting on Wednesday and is likely to hold interest rates and continue with accommodative policy stance so that necessary monetary action could be taken to push growth. This is the first MPC meeting after the presentation of the Union Budget 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Hero MotoCorp sets up separate vertical for Harley-Davidson business||Hero MotoCorp, the world’s largest manufacturer of motorcycles and scooters, has set up a separate vertical to drive its new business of Harley-Davidson products and merchandise distribution in India. Last year, the US-based premium bike maker exited the country under its restructuring programme and signed a non-equity partnership with Hero MotoCorp which will sell its motorcycles under the Harley Davidson banner. The company has also begun wholesale dispatches of Harley Davidson products to the dealers from January 18. Hero MotoCorp has brought on board 11 existing Harley-Davidson dealers in key geographies across the country. They include dealers from Calcutta, Pune, Bangalore, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kochi, Bhubaneswar, Delhi and Hyderabad. The rest of the 33 Harley dealers are negotiating with the US company for adequate compensation. Global automotive expert Ravi Avalur has been appointed as the head of the new vertical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Moody's projects India's fiscal deficit higher than expected||Rating agency Moody’s on Wednesday said India's fiscal deficit projections were higher than expected and slower consolidation would constrain its fiscal strength over the medium term. India has budgeted a fiscal deficit of 9.5 per cent of GDP for the current fiscal ending March. “We believe the final number could be lower, based on stronger revenue generation during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 (ending March 31, 2021),” Moody’s said in a note. The fiscal deficit for 2021-22 fiscal beginning April 1 has been pegged at 6.8 per cent. Moody’s vice-president and senior credit officer William Foster said while the headline deficit projections were larger than the agency expected, they reflected both credible budgetary assumptions and greater transparency than in past budgets. “The budget’s focus on higher capital spending, financial sector reform and asset sales will help stimulate growth, but implementation risks remain and slower fiscal consolidation will constrain fiscal strength over the medium term,” Foster added. According to the glide path for fiscal consolidation announced in the budget, the government plans to bring down the fiscal deficit to 4.5 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP) by 2025-26 fiscal. The US-based agency further said it expected India’s nominal GDP growth to rise to closer to 17 per cent in fiscal 2021, higher than 14.4 per cent projected in the budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Airtel posts net profit of Rs 854 crore in Q3||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday posted a net profit of Rs 854 crore for the December quarter of 2020 compared with a loss of Rs 1,035 crore a year ago on the back of improved realisations and strong customer addition. Revenue from operations increased 24 per cent to Rs 26,518 crore from Rs 21,343 crore during the same period a year ago. The revenue was Rs 25,060 crore in the September quarter of 2019-20. Revenues for the India business grew 25.1 per cent year-on-year to Rs 19,007 crore. Mobile revenues were up 32.4 per cent year-on-year led by improving realisations coupled with strong customer additions. The overall business revenues increased 9.2 per cent year-on-year on the back of strong demand for connectivity and solutions, the company said in a statement. Mobile average revenue per user (ARPU) — a key metric for telecom companies — jumped to Rs 166 from Rs 135 in the third quarter of 2020-21. The Airtel board approved the raising of funds as and when deemed appropriate, vide issuance of secured/unsecured, listed/unlisted non-convertible debt securities, including debentures and bonds up to Rs 7,500 crore. The fundraising plan comes when the government has set the ball rolling for the spectrum auction in which radio waves valued at Rs 3.92 lakh crore will be put on the block. The auction in seven spectrum bands for mobile services – 700, 800, 900, 1800, 2100, 2300 and 2500MHz bands – is scheduled to start from March 1. Gopal Vittal, MD and CEO, India and South Asia, said: “Despite the unprecedented volatility that we have confronted through the year, we delivered another strong performance this quarter. This consistency in performance was across every part of our portfolio, as reflected in market share growth across all our business segments.” “The main highlight of the quarter was the 13 million 4G customers we added in our wireless business,” the Airtel managing director said. Fund-raising nod The board of Bharti Airtel on Wednesday approved fund-raising plans of up to Rs 7,500 crore via debt instruments such as debentures and bonds, in one or more tranches. The move comes at a time the telecom sector is gearing up for spectrum auctions and roll-out of new-age technologies. Airtel said that the 4G data customers increased 33.8 per cent year-on-year to 165.6 million and over the last 4 quarters, it has added 42 million 4G customers to its network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Dispute Resolution Committee to have multiple benches||The Dispute Resolution Committee proposed to be set up in the Union budget will have multiple benches which will give opportunity to small taxpayers to settle matters without going through the appellate process, a top tax official said on Wednesday. P. C. Mody, chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), said the I-T department would make available all the information it is receiving from various other agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) or the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) in Form 26AS to facilitate taxpayers to file correct tax returns. “Our constant endeavour is to ensure that a taxpayer feels motivated to voluntarily comply with tax laws and honest taxpayer gets all facility to which he is entitled to and at the same time the persons who are trying to game the system or trying to take advantage in unfair and undue manner they will also get taken care of,” Mody said at an Assocham post-budget event. Mody said the thinking behind the setting up of a DRC was that the settlement commission did not really cater to the lower end of the taxpayers. “So we have tried to provide for some alternative dispute resolution mechanism and, since it would have multiple benches and it would cater to the lower end of the taxpayers, I think this would again give them an opportunity to come out and settle their tax matters without going through the rigorous appellate process,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Tax on PF interest above Rs 2.5 lakh to be similar to bank fixed deposits||The finance ministry on Wednesday indicated that the tax treatment on interest income for provident fund contributions above Rs 2.5 lakh will be similar to that of bank fixed deposits. The idea behind this budget move is to restrict the exemption benefit to those individuals who are able to contribute large sum to these funds and avoid tax on interest earned from these funds, which is higher than bank fixed deposits. Accordingly, changes have been introduced through the Finance Bill to clause 11 and clause 12 of section 10 of the income tax act that provides exemption with respect to any payment from a recognised provident fund. Speaking at an Assocham organised event, Kamlesh Varshney, joint secretary, tax policy and legislation (TPL-1), ministry of finance, “Whatever contribution you are making to the provident fund, the amount in excess of Rs 2.5 lakh will be in a separate basket and interest on that particular corpus would be taxable. That will not have exemption under clause 11 or clause 12. It will work exactly the same as interest income on FD is being taxed today.” “There will not be any double taxation because the interest income whether to be included in income on receipt basis or accrual basis would depend on the system of accounting,” he said. In case of accrual method of accounting, income is recorded on the books on outstanding basis, even if the taxpayer has not realised the amount. In the case of receipt method, the taxpayer will record the income when the amount is realised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
04-02-2021||Business||Future Retail files appeal in Delhi high court against status-quo order||Future Retail Ltd (FRL) has filed an appeal in the Delhi high court against the status-quo order passed on Tuesday on its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance. “Further to our letter dated February 2, 2021, please be informed that the company has filed an appeal before Hon’ble High Court of Delhi against the impugned order dated February 2, 2021,” the Future group firm said in a regulatory filing. On Tuesday, Justice J. R. Midha of the Delhi high court had directed FRL to maintain status quo in relation to the transaction with Reliance Retail after the objections raised by Amazon. Following the Tuesday directive, FRL had said it would explore legal recourse. The matter will be heard on Thursday by a division bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh. The company on Wednesday moved a division bench of the Delhi high court appealing against this order. FRL’s scheme of arrangement has already received approval from the CCI, Sebi and conditional nod from the stock exchanges, following which it had approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on January 26. The application is yet to be taken up by the NCLT, FRL had said. Last month, Amazon had filed a petition in the Delhi high court seeking enforcement of the interim order of the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that had restrained FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance. Justice J R Midha, on Tuesday, said the court was satisfied that an immediate interim order was required to be passed to protect the rights of Amazon. “Respondents (FRL) and other respondents are directed to maintain status quo as on today at 4:49pm till the pronouncement of the reserved order,” the judge had said. The high court reserved its order on the main petition. It also directed all the other concerned authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matters which are in violation of the emergency award and to file report with regard to the present status within 10 days. Amazon has sought to restrain Kishore Biyaniled Future group from taking any steps to complete the transaction with entities that are a part of the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (MDA) Group. Earlier, it had dragged the Future group to arbitration at SIAC, arguing that the latter violated their contract by entering into the deal with Reliance. In October last year, an interim award was passed in favour of Amazon with a singlejudge bench barring Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
04-02-2021||Business||SEBI trading ban on Future Group CEO Kishore Biyani||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Wednesday barred Future Group promoter and CEO Kishore Biyani from accessing the securities market for a year and trading in the shares of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) for two years on  the grounds of alleged insider trading in FRL shares between March and April, 2017. Sebi’s order comes after the Delhi high court directed FRL to maintain status quo on the Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. However, the market regulator indicated that its order will not come in the way of the scheme of arrangement between various Future group companies and Reliance Retail. “Debarment/restraint/freeze imposed under this order shall not apply to those existing holding of securities of such debarred entities, in respect of which any scheme of arrangement under Section 230-232 of the Companies Act, 2013, is approved by NCLT, requiring extinguishment of such securities and/or receipt of other securities in lieu of such securities,” Sebi said. Wednesday’s order came after Sebi  conducted an investigation into the scrip of FRL to ascertain whether certain persons or entities had traded in the scrip between March 10 and April 20, 2017, on the basis of unpublished price sensitive information (UPSI), breaking the Sebi Act, 1992 read with the Sebi (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. The market regulator added that FRL had announced on April 20, 2017 during market hours about a composite scheme of arrangement among FRL, Bluerock eServices Pvt Ltd and Praxis Home Retail Pvt Ltd and their respective shareholders. According to Sebi, this scheme of arrangement which resulted in the demerger of certain businesses of FRL qualified as UPSI prior to its announcement on April 2017. Sebi’s investigation showed that the composite scheme had come into existence on March 10, 2017, as preliminary discussions for the scheme were carried out on this date. Subsequently, a team was also created by FRL on March 14, 2017 to work on this scheme. Thus the period of UPSI was identified as March 10- April 20, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
04-02-2021||Business||Sensex closes above 50000-mark for first time||The Sensex on Wednesday closed above the 50000-mark for the first time as the buoyant post-budget mood continued for the third straight session amid strong inflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs). Market experts are now of the view that though the sentiment remains positive, once the impact of the budget is fully absorbed by stocks, the focus will shift to other factors such as corporate earnings, rollout of the vaccine and global developments. For the immediate term, the next key event is the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) monetary policy that will be announced on Friday. The investing community have given a thumbs-up to the growth-oriented proposals of the budget even as they were relieved a Covid cess was not imposed. Investor wealth has jumped over Rs 12.31 lakh crore in three days, taking the market capitalisation of all BSE-listed companies to over Rs 198.43 lakh crore. In Wednesday’s trading, the 30-share index opened at 50231.06 and touched a record intra-day high of 50526.39 — a gain of 728.67 points and thereafter closed at 50255.75, up 458.03 points or 0.92 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 142.10 points, or 0.97 per cent, to its fresh closing record of 14789.95. It touched an all-time high of 14868.85 during the day. Positive global cues also helped the stocks remain in the green even as provisional data showed foreign investors buying equities of over Rs 2,500 crore in Wednesday’s trade. IndusInd Bank led the gainers list on the Sensex, rising 7.65 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, NTPC and Axis Bank. However, UltraTech Cement, Maruti, ITC, Kotak Bank, Asian Paints, Nestle India and TCS were among the losers, slipping up to 0.90 per cent. “Global cues were positive led by progress towards US stimulus and rollout of vaccines in many countries. On the domestic side, Sensex closed above the 50000-mark for the first time led by a growth-oriented bold budget, massive FII buying, and global cues. Even the services PMI data was encouraging, which boosted sentiments. The earnings season is showing tangible momentum and is witnessing upgrades for the second consecutive quarter. Going ahead, we believe once the fineprint of the budget is absorbed, the market focus would return to the fundamentals  —  corporate earnings growth,’’ Siddhartha Khemka, head - retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, said. Khemka added that the earnings drivers are shifting to cyclical, with corporate banks, cement, and metals driving growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
