05-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end at fresh records after RBI policy outcome||Extending its winning run to the fifth session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped 117 points on Friday after the Reserve Bank kept interest rates unchanged but continued its accommodative stance to revive growth. The 30-share BSE benchmark briefly crossed the 51,000-level, before ending 117.34 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its fresh closing record of 50,731.63. Similarly, the 50-share NSE Nifty scaled the 15,000 mark during the day but shed some ground to close at its all-time high of 14,924.25, up 28.60 points or 0.19 per cent. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 10 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Dr Reddy's, UltraTech Cement, ITC and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Bharti Airtel, ICICI Bank, Maruti and HCL Tech were among the laggards. Domestic equities remained buoyant and benchmark Nifty surpassed the psychologically-key 15,000 level before settling lower, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Notably, RBI policy outcome was also broadly on expected line, while announcements about allowing retail participation in bond markets through GILT Account, extension of HTM restoration to 19.5 per cent up to June'23 and availability of funds under on tap TLTRO for NFBCs bolstered investors' confidence," he said. Banking index, especially PSU banks, witnessed sharp rally, followed by pharma and FMCG indices. Earlier in the day, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) kept interest rates on hold while assuring to maintain support for reflating the economy by ensuring ample liquidity to manage the government's near-record borrowing. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to revive growth and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy while ensuring that inflation remains within the target, Governor Shaktikanta Das said. Elsewhere in Asia, indices in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.95 per cent higher at USD 59.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
05-02-2021||Business||Monetary Policy Committee of RBI keeps interest rates on hold||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday kept interest rates on hold while assuring to maintain support for reflating the economy by ensuring ample liquidity to manage the government's near-record borrowing. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted to continue with the accommodative stance as long as it is necessary to revive growth and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy while ensuring that inflation remains within the target, Governor Shaktikanta Das said. While the Union Budget 2021 laid down an expansive fiscal strategy over the medium term to strengthen the growth engine in the economy, the RBI affirmed its support to such a plan through appropriate monetary tools. To absorb higher government borrowings, the central bank provided retail investors a direct option to invest in government securities. It also sapped some funds from banks by raising the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and using the money for more targeted market operations. The MPC, which cut borrowing costs by 115 basis points last year, kept the repurchase or repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent. Consequently, the reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with the RBI. This is the fourth consecutive bi-monthly policy review to keep rates unchanged since they hit the pause mode in mid-2020 over inflation worries. Das said all the six members of MPC were unanimous in their decision to keep rates on hold. With green shoots of recovery clearly visible, the RBI pegged GDP growth in the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2021 at 10.5 per cent, a tad lower than 11 per cent predicted by the government's Economic Survey last week. The growth compares to an estimated 7.7 per cent contraction in the economy during the current fiscal ending March 31. The outlook on growth, he said, has improved significantly with positive growth impulses becoming more broad-based and the rollout of the vaccination programme in the country auguring well for the end of the pandemic. The economy had contracted by 23.9 per cent in the April-June period of last year and by 7.5 per cent in the following three months. "... going forward, the Indian economy is poised to move in only one direction and that is upwards," Das said while unveiling the bi-monthly monetary policy. On prices front, the RBI kept retail inflation target at 5.2 per cent for March 2021 and 4.3 per cent in December 2021. Das announced the restoration of CRR - the amount of deposits lenders must set aside as reserves - to 3.5 per cent in March and 4 per cent in May. The cash returning to the central bank can be used by it for open market operations and other liquidity measures. The developmental measures announced by the RBI included the inclusion of NBFCs in the on tap TLTRO scheme, the incentive to banks to lend to new MSME borrowers through a lower CRR requirement and the further deferment of capital conservation buffer. The RBI Governor said the economy's growth outlook had improved and that inflation was expected to remain less than the central bank's upper target of 6 per cent over the next few quarters. "Given that inflation has returned within the tolerance band, the MPC judged that the need of the hour is to continue to support growth, assuage the impact of Covid-19 and return the economy to a higher growth trajectory," he said. "The RBI stands committed to ensure the availability of ample liquidity in the system and thereby foster congenial financial conditions for the recovery to gain traction." The 27th meeting of the rate-setting MPC with three external members -- Ashima Goyal, Jayanth R Varma and Shashanka Bhide -- began on February 3. This is the first meeting of the panel after the Budget 2021-22 earlier this week projected a nominal GDP growth rate of 14.5 per cent and fiscal deficit of 6.8 per cent for the financial year beginning April 1, 2021. The MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2021, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and lower tolerance of 2 per cent. On inflation, Das said it has eased below the upper tolerance level of 6 per cent for the first time during the Covid-19 period. "Going ahead, factors that could shape the food inflation trajectory in coming months, including the likely bumper Kharif harvest arrivals in markets, rising prospects of a good rabi crop, larger winter supplies of key vegetables and softer poultry demand on fears of avian flu are all indicative of a stable near-term outlook," he said. As far as gross market borrowing of Rs 12 lakh crore in 2021-22 is concerned, he said the Reserve Bank, as the government's debt manager and banker, will ensure the orderly completion of the programme in a non-disruptive manner. "In this context, we look forward to the continuance of the common understanding and cooperative approach between market players and the RBI during 2021-22 also," he said. The RBI has also decided to defer the implementation of the last tranche of the Capital Conservation Buffer (CCB) of 0.625 per cent and also defer the implementation of Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) by another six months from April 1 to October 1, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
05-02-2021||Business||RBI projects GDP growth rate of 10.5 per cent for financial year 2022||In line with the Union Budget, the Reserve Bank of India on Friday projected a GDP growth rate of 10.5 per cent for the financial year beginning April 1, on the back of a recovery in economic activities. With regard to inflation, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said vegetable prices are expected to remain soft in the near term as the central bank projected retail inflation rate to come down to 5.2 per cent in the current quarter and progressively decline to 4.3 per cent by the third quarter of the next fiscal. He said the growth outlook has improved significantly and the vaccination drive will help the economic rebound. Das further said the economy will rebound to 10.5 per cent in the next financial year. After the Budget 2021-22 announcement on Monday, Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj had said that real GDP growth would be 10-10.5 per cent in the next fiscal. "Our revenue figure is under-stated not overstated. We have taken nominal GDP at 14.4 per cent and revenue growth at 16.7 per cent. So, the buoyancy is only 1.16. We are hopeful we will get more than this. We will definitely be within 6.8 per cent and could be lower also," Bajaj had said. The RBI Governor further said that the government will be reviewing the inflation target by March-end. The Monetary Policy Committee headed by the RBI Governor has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2021, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
05-02-2021||Business||RBI keeps policy rate unchanged for fourth consecutive time||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday decided to leave benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance, implying rate cuts in the future if need arises to support the economy hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. The benchmark repurchase (repo) rate has been left unchanged at 4 per cent, Governor Shaktikanta Das said while announcing the decisions taken by the central bank's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC). Consequently, the reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with RBI. He said MPC voted for keeping the interest rate unchanged and decided to continue with its accommodative stance to support growth. The central bank had slashed the repo rate by 115 basis points since late March 2020 to support growth. This is the fourth time in a row that MPC has decided to keep the policy rate unchanged. RBI had last revised its policy rate on May 22 in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. The 27th meeting of the rate-setting MPC with three external members -- Ashima Goyal, Jayanth R Varma and Shashanka Bhide -- began on February 3. This is the first meeting of the rate setting panel after the Budget 2021-22, announced this week, projected a nominal GDP growth rate of 14.5 per cent and a fiscal deficit of 6.8 per cent for the financial year beginning April 1. The government moved the interest rate setting role from the RBI Governor to the six-member MPC in 2016. Half of the panel, headed by the Governor, is made up of external independent members. MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2021, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
05-02-2021||Business||Equity benchmarks spike to new highs ahead of RBI policy decision||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty advanced their record-setting spree in early trade on Friday, ahead of the RBI monetary policy outcome. The 30-share BSE Sensex, briefly touched the 51,000-level, and was trading at 50,830.76, gaining 216.47 points or 0.43 per cent in opening trade. Similarly, the 50-share NSE Nifty was quoted at 14,968.95, moving higher by 73.30 points or 0.49 per cent. SBI, Kotak Bank, IndusInd Bank, HDFC, ONGC and Axis Bank were top gainers in the Sensex pack. Of the Sensex constituents, 22 shares were trading in the green. On Thursday, the Sensex had ended 358.54 points or 0.71 per cent higher at its new closing record of 50,614.29; and the Nifty had settled with 105.70 points or 0.71 per cent gains at its closing peak of 14,895.65. Both indices had touched their all-time highs as well during the session. Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank is scheduled to announce its bi-monthly monetary policy decision in a short while from now. "The market will be keenly watching the monetary policy due today, particularly the nuances of the policy and indications coming from the central bank. The policy rates are likely to remain unchanged but there can be indications on liquidity management, going forward, V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said. The RBI has a crucial role to play in growth recovery by pursuing an accommodative stance for an extended period of time, he said adding that low-interest rates have turned out to be a strong tailwind for sectors like housing and automobiles. Foreign institutional investors bought shares worth Rs 2,520.92 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to exchange data. Asian shares too moved higher during afternoon trade as governments around the globe accelerated vaccine rollout programmes to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.39 per cent higher at USD 59.22 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Reliance Industries Ltd sells US shale gas asset for $250 million||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) has sold its stake in a shale gas asset in the US to Northern Oil and Gas Inc for $250 million. RIL, which was once bullish on shale gas, has been divesting these assets over the past five years as the business has been adversely affected by falling crude prices. “Reliance Marcellus LLC (RMLLC) a wholly owned subsidiary of RIL announced the signing of agreements to divest all of its interest in certain upstream assets in the Marcellus shale play of south-western Pennsylvania,” RIL said in a regulatory filing today. Reliance said the the assets were  operated by various affiliates of EQT Corporation. Besides receiving $250 million in cash, the Mukesh Ambani company has got warrants  to purchase 3.25 million common shares of Northern Oil and Gas  at an exercise price of $14 per common share in the next seven years. “A purchase and sale agreement (PSA) has been signed between RMLLC and Northern Oil and Gas on February 3 for this sale and the transaction is subject to customary terms and conditions of closing,” RIL added. Reliance had invested $8.2 billion in the assets in the last decade. It held stakes in three US shale gas ventures : two at Marcellus and one at Eagle Ford in Texas. Reliance held a 45 per cent stake in a joint venture with Pioneer Natural Resourcesat Eagle Ford. It held 40 per cent in a joint venture with Chevron in one asset at Marcellus, while it held 60 per cent in the other asset there with  Carrizo Oil & Gas  the partner. In 2017, Reliance Marcellus II LLC, a subsidiary of Reliance Holding USA, and RIL closed the stake sale in the Marcellus shale gas asset operated by Carrizo Oil and Gas. Next year, its subsidiary Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP sold certain assets in Eagle Ford shale to Sundance Energy Inc for $100 million. These assets were located at Atascosa, La Salle, Live Oak and McMullen Counties, Texas. During the announcement of its third-quarter results, RIL had said the shale ventures had optimised their costs in the weak macro conditions in the economy that had impacted prices. It had added that due to the adverse changes in market environment, the shale gas arms have impaired their assets totalling Rs 15,691 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Rising oil prices could hurt global economic recovery: Pradhan||Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan warned on Thursday that rising oil prices could hurt global economic recovery in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic that caused most economies to shrink last year. Global crude oil prices rose to their highest in about a year this week as production cuts by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and their allies including Russia tilted the market balance towards a deficit. That has propelled gasoline prices to record levels in the world’s third-biggest oil consuming and importing nation. “Efforts at artificially distorting prices will have a dampening effect on the fragile global economic recovery that is underway,” Dharmendra Pradhan said at the South Asia Commodities Forum of S&P Global Platts. “If the world has to grow as a whole, there has to be a mutually supportive relationship between producers and consumers. It is in the interests of producers that oil-dependent economies keep growing steadily,” Pradhan said. Last month also, the minister blamed Opec+ for high oil prices. India imports about 85 per cent of its oil needs and half of gas demand. "While we do not favour too low prices, we also do not support high prices, which deny energy access to millions in India," he said. India has been diversifying its energy sources to cut dependence on Middle Eastern producers, he said, adding the nation sees 'enormous potential' to strengthen its relations with the U.S., mainly on imports of liquefied natural gas (LNG). The U.S. is one of the top ten oil suppliers to India, he said. To meet its growing energy needs India is also investing $143 billion in domestic projects to boost local outputs and build oil and gas infrastructure including an 80% jump in refining capacity to 9 million barrels per day, he said. Pradhan said the country is adopting cleaner energy sources to fuel its economic expansion but baseload will continue to be met by oil and gas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Government plans to privatise 10 state-run airports in first quarter of next fiscal||The government plans to invite bids to privatise six to 10 state-run airports in the first quarter of the next fiscal, with plans for a “package” offer that clubs profitable and non-profitable airports to realise optimum value. “AAI is examining giving non-profitable airport and profit making airports as a package. We could see six to 10 airports being taken up. The airports will be given to the private sector for 50 years,” Pradeep Kharola, secretary, ministry of civil aviation said on Thursday. The bidding terms for the operation of the airports, their management as well as the development of infrastructure will be structured to encourage long-term leases of the facilities. So far, the government has awarded the airports at Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Thiruvananthapuram, Guwahati, Jaipur and Mangalore to Adani Group under the first round of the divestment process which started in 2018. Kharola said the government would float the preliminary information memorandum for Air India Air Transport Services Ltd to commence its divestment afresh. AIATSL or Air India Air Transport Services is a wholly wned subsidiary of Air India and is involved in managing the ramp operations, cargo handling and passenger management. On the strategic sale of Air India, the civil aviation secretary said the transaction advisors were scrutinising the expressions of interest. “The transaction adviser has received the expression of interest from bidders. The adviser will now seek financial bids from the qualified bidders.” Kharola said. Kharola said the government would do away with fare bands once the situation returns to normality.  “Fare bands are not going to be permanent. As soon as the normal operation starts, the fare bands will go away,” he said. Max return The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is examining the issue of giving approval to Boeing Max 737 planes to fly in India and a decision will be taken after running all sorts of scrutiny “They will be running all sorts of scrutiny that is possible. It is a very major decision DGCA wants to be sure that,” Kharola said. Concor selloff The government plans to soon come out with the expression of interest (EoI) for the strategic sale of Container Corporation of India, a railway PSU, with management control, sources said. While the government plans to offload 30.80 per cent of its 54.80 per cent stake in Concor, it would continue to retain 24 per cent stake post selloff but without any veto powers. The sale The strategic stake sale of the company has been stuck due to the land licence fee policy. The Cabinet approval to the land licence policy will pave way for strategic divestment of the state-owned Container Corp, the official said. Meanwhile, Airbus on Thursday has signed a MoU with GMRGroup to explore collaboration opportunities across aviation services, technologies and innovation. "Under this partnership, GMR and Airbus teams will work together and innovate across areas such as airport operations and air cargo supply chain among others to realize our shared goals," SGK Kishore, Executive Director - South and Chief Innovation Officer, GMR Airports said in a release. The two will team up to explore potential synergies in several strategic areas of aviation services, including maintenance, components, training, digital and airport services, it said. As part of the MoU, Airbus and GMR will collaborate to explore a broad scope of aviation services both for commercial and military aircraft, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Deficit may deter change in cash stance||The spotlight is on the Reserve Bank of India’s assessment of the present liquidity situation when the apex bank announces its next round of bi-monthly monetary policy on Friday — following higher fiscal deficits and borrowings announced in the budget The six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI is also widely expected to leave the policy repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent while retaining an accommodative stance. The central bank’s views on the current liquidity conditions have gained significance after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the budget put the fiscal deficit for the fiscal at 9.5 per cent of GDP and 6.8 per cent for 2021-22. She also announced the government would borrow Rs 80,000 crore more in this fiscal taking its total borrowing to Rs 12.8 lakh crore. For the next year, the gross market borrowing is also higher than expected at Rs 12 lakh crore. Bond market circles fear a higher supply of government paper can lead to rising yields. Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond have risen above 6 per cent since the budget and now stands at 6.07 per cent. The budget announcement on the high fiscal deficit and borrowings came just days after the RBI had said that it would restore normal liquidity operations. The banking system is flush with liquidity and the lenders have been parking Rs 6-7 lakh crore in RBI’s reverse repo window. Following the announcement of higher borrowings, markets are waiting to see whether the RBI tweaks its plan to revert to normal liquidity. Analysts at Edelweiss said the RBI not only reverted to a much easier monetary policy during the pandemic by lowering rates and injecting liquidity but also relaxed the liquidity management framework by widening the policy corridor and allowing inter-bank call money rates to slip below the reverse repo rate. With conditions normalising, the central bank had started the process of restoring the liquidity management framework by announcing a 14-day variable reverse repo auction to push overnight rates back into the corridor, and the effect of this was felt on the 1–5 years segment of the yield curve. “We will keenly watch the RBI’s commentary or guidance on further normalisation of the liquidity management framework and, more generally, liquidity conditions. As a base case, we do not expect the RBI rushing to withdraw liquidity,’’ a note prepared by Edelweiss said. “We will watch out for actions such as defined OMO calendar and secondary market G-sec buying, no increase in variable reverse repo quantum and maintenance of adequate system liquidity as strong policy signals’’, a note from Emkay said. Bond market circles expect the RBI to say that it will come out with open market operations (OMOs) and more Operation Twists to ensure that bond yields do not rise. Some are also of the view that the central bank may announce an OMO calendar. It is also speculated that the central bank may raise the statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) or the percentage of bank deposits that must be invested in Government securities from the current 18 per cent or further raise the held to maturity (HTM) limit. This is a category of banks’ bond investments which do not have to be marked to market with the current rates, thus sparing them from any valuation hits. "We watch out for actions such as defined OMO calendar and secondary market G-sec buying, no increase in variable reverse repo (VRR)quantum and maintenance of adequate system liquidity –as strong policy signals," a note from Emkay said. For the MPC there is one relief that retail inflation at 4.59 per cent in December came back to the medium term target of four per cent with a band of +/-2 per cent. This could open up space for the interest rate setting panel in the next fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||State Bank of India's profit drops 7% but beats estimates||State Bank of India (SBI) topped Street estimates even though it posted  nearly a 7 per cent drop in standalone net profit for the December quarter of 2020 on higher provisions. The country’s largest lender reported a net profit of Rs 5,196 crore compared with Rs 5,583 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting the lender to report profits of Rs 4,500-5,000 crore for the period. While net profit wasahead of expectations, SBI chairman Dinesh Khara exuded confidence when he said that the disruption seen on account of Covid-19 was waning and that there was positivity in the industry and economy. Khara estimates the  SBI will see a double digit credit growth from the second quarter of the next fiscal, though this year it is likely to end with a rise of 7 per cent. During the quarter, there was good news on the asset quality front when the bank saw non-performing assets (NPAs) in absolute terms falling to Rs 1,17,244 crore from Rs 1,25,863 crore in the preceding three months. The gross NPA ratio also declined to 4.77 per cent from 5.28 per cent in the preceding quarter, SBI had a provision coverage ratio of 90 per cent. If the bank had classified the loans in accordance with RBI norms, its NPAs in absolute terms will stand at Rs 1,33,705 crore, while the gross NPA ratio will come at 5.44 per cent. Khara disclosed that the SBI has received requests for restructuring loans worth Rs 18,125 crore, of which Rs 4,506 crore has already been implemented. Of the total amount, close to Rs 3,900 crore are in the retail category, Rs 2,500 crore from its SME customers and Rs 11,000 crore from corporate houses. Total slippages and restructuring up to the third quarter stood at Rs 412,16 crore and SBI expects this number to be around Rs 60,000 crore by the end of this fiscal. SBI disclosed that during the period, credit growth stood at 6.73 per cent over the previous year, mainly driven by retail (personal) advances which was back to pre-Covid levels and showed a growth of 15.47 per cent as compared to the preceding year), SME at 5.62 per cent and corporate advances which rose 2.23 per cent. However, if one were to include corporate bonds and commercial paper, the loan book has grown by 8.16 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Steel prices hit wagon manufacturers||Wagon manufacturers want the government to intervene after primary steel producers raised prices by at least Rs 1,000-1,500 per tonne despite the Centre lowering the import duty on various steel products in the Union budget. Steel is a major raw material to make wagons. High input costs have prompted a few manufacturers to cut back on production and scale up later once prices start going south. While certain contracts of Indian Railways with wagon makers have price variation clauses, these do not cover short-term fluctuations in prices. Moreover, non-government contracts and export orders which are highly competitive may not always have such clauses. As a result, a spike in steel prices directly impacts wagon manufacturing. Officials of city-based wagon manufacturers said they were carefully evaluating tender participation and were hesitant to enter into fixed price contracts. “This frequency of price rise of stainless steel coils and plates is affecting the industry. Steel plants are not in favour of long-term supply contracts,” an official said. “The situation is extremely alarming. The intention of the government to correct the situation is visible in the budget. We are hopeful that the government will step in and address the problem,” said Umesh Chowdhary, vice-chairman and managing director, Titagarh Wagons. “Secondary market prices have softened a bit, but primarily market prices are still firm,” said A.K. Vijay, executive director, Texmaco Rail & Engineering Ltd. At the union budget, customs duty was reduced to 7.5 per cent on certain categories of steel products. Further, anti dumping duty and countervailing duty on certain steel products have also been revoked. But the impact of the move is likely to be limited unless international prices come down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki True Value reaches milestone of selling 4 million pre-owned cars||Maruti Suzuki India’s used car business — Maruti Suzuki True Value — reached the milestone of selling 4 million pre-owned cars since its inception in 2001. Maruti had started the used car vertical to ensure quality, reliability and hassle-free pre-owned car purchase and selling experience. It set up a network of 550 independent True Value outlets across 268 cities and offered both online and offline services. Shashank Srivastava, executive director (marketing & sales), Maruti Suzuki India Limited, said, “The pre-owned car market in India is highly unorganised and there are a very few players providing safe, reliable and transparent buying and selling experience to buyers. True Value was set up to overcome these issues and ensure that buyers of pre-owned cars get the same experience as new car buyers. These outlets are digitally integrated through website and app so that customers can access details of all the cars available at True Value outlets from the comfort of their homes.” With 376 checks, quality evaluation, refurbishment and certification process, True Value Certified cars are offered with up to one-year warranty and three free services. Toyota Fortuner Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Thursday announced that it has received over 5,000 bookings for the new Fortuner and the exclusive Legender since their launch in India. Tata Safari Tata Motors has announced that it will open bookings of the all-new Safari from Thursday. Customers can book this new premium SUV at a refundable amount of Rs 30,000 on the Tata Motors website or visit the nearest authorised dealership and be on the priority delivery list. The Fortuner continues to dominate the SUV segment with over a 53 percent segment shareThe vehicles are now on display and available for test drives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||City gas grid to get Rs 5,000 crore in six southern districts of Bengal||Bengal Gas Company Ltd, a joint venture between central PSU GAIL and state PSU Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corporation Ltd, will plough Rs 5,000 crore over the next five years into a city gas distribution network in six southern districts of Bengal, including Calcutta. GAIL, which holds a 74 per cent stake in the JV, will arrange Rs 1,500 crore equity, while about Rs 500 crore would be brought in by the Bengal government entity. “The rest would be financed by debt which has already been tied up. We are farming out contracts to execute the project,” E.S. Ranganathan, director (marketing) of GAIL, said. The main trunk pipeline carrying natural gas has already reached Durgapur and it would be flagged off officially by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, along with two other oil industry projects from Haldia. As part of the Urja Ganga project, the main trunk pipeline will come to the north of Calcutta and proceed to Haldia, where it will serve the large industries located at the port town. Ranganathan, who was in Calcutta ahead of the PM’s visit, said the pipeline, being laid by GAIL directly, would reach Calcutta in the next 12 months. BGCL plans to build 130 compressed natural gas (CNG) stations to supply clean fuel to the transport sector in these six districts and at least 30 of them would be ready by the end of the year. It also intends to supply piped natural gas to 12 lakh households, along with small industrial units. The century-old GCGSCL has an underground pipe network in Calcutta that supplied coal gas. to consumers. Bulk of  the investment will go into its upgrade to offer reliable, round-the-clock and safe service. Majority of the investment will go into that. The city gas distribution network, which has the potential to clean up the air quality of the city as it did in Mumbai and Delhi, has been in the works for more than a decade. However, it has gained momentum in the last few years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Haldia port to be LPG hub||Haldia port is going to emerge as one of the largest destinations to import LPG in India after BPCL operationalises a terminal on Sunday. Built at an investment of Rs 1,100 crore, the import terminal has a nameplate capacity to handle 1 million tonnes of LPG a year. This will be the third such facility to come up at Haldia, the other two being operated by the IOC-Petronas JV and Reliance Industries. Arun Kumar Singh, director marketing of BPCL, said Haldia port has a strategic location to import LPG for the entire East and Northeast. “Despite the low river draft which does allow big ships to dock, Haldia is preferred because it is closest to the consumption centres and LPG can be supplied at a lower cost compared with other ports on the east coast,” Singh said. As it is industry practice to operate LPG terminals twice the nameplate capacity by working in double shifts, three terminals can handle 6mt import a year, making Haldia one of the busiest ports for LPG. On Sunday, PM Narendra Modi will kick off the construction of a catalytic de waxing unit at IOC’s Haldia unit. To be ready by 2023 at an investment of Rs 1019 crore, it will produce base oil for lubricants, IOC director marketing Gurmeet Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
05-02-2021||Business||Biyani ban not to affect Rs 24,713 crore-deal with Reliance Retail||Future Retail Ltd (FRL) has said the market regulator’s order to bar group CEO Kishore Biyani and other entities from accessing the securities market for a year will have “no impact’’ on the Rs 24,713 crore-deal with Reliance Retail. It added that Biyani, some other promoters and Future Corporate Resources Pvt Ltd (FCRPL), a promoter entity, plan to appeal against the order passed by Sebi. In a separate statement, FCRPL said the Sebi order “has taken care to exclude dealings in securities under any impending scheme of arrangement”. “Therefore, Sebi would not pose a hurdle to the ongoing scheme of arrangement with the Reliance group,” it added. FCRPL maintained that the Sebi order is “untenable as it treats a well-anticipated and publicly well-known impending re-organisation of the home furnishing businesses that the Future Group effected in 2017 to be unpublished information”. “The order will be challenged in exercise of the statutory right to appeal,” it disclosed. Division bench hearing In an hearing before a division bench of the Delhi High Court, senior advocate for FRL Harish Salve said Amazon was opposing the deal with Reliance as the latter was a competitor. It may be recalled that FRL has appealed against an February 2 interim order given by Justice J R Midha of the Delhi High Court who had directed the company to maintain status quo in relation to the deal with Reliance Retail. It also directed all other authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matters which are in violation of an emergency award given in October last year and to file status report with regard to the present status within 10 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
