06-02-2021||Business|| Sensex extends winning run for the fifth session||The Sensex extended its winning run for the fifth session, finishing at a fresh lifetime peak on Friday after the Reserve Bank kept interest rates unchanged but continued its accommodative stance and announced fresh liquidity measures to revive growth. The 30-share BSE benchmark briefly crossed the 51000-level, before ending 117.34 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its fresh closing record of 50731.63. The 50-share NSE Nifty scaled the 15000-mark during the day but shed some ground to close at its all-time high of 14924.25, up 28.60 points or 0.19 per cent. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying 10.69 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Dr Reddy’s, UltraTech Cement, ITC and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Bharti Airtel, ICICI Bank, Maruti and HCL Tech were among the laggards, tumbling up to 3.30 per cent. India Inc saw the RBI’s first monetary policy review after the budget as its commitment to take the economy on a path of robust recovery. “The direction of the policy statement is positive. It is reassuring to note that the RBI continues with its accommodative stance to accelerate economic growth. The recovery signs are getting stronger, and the guidance provided by the central bank reflects its commitment towards supporting growth,” Ficci president Uday Shankar said. Assocham Secretary General Deepak Sood said the RBI''s monetary policy review has injected a power-packed accelerator to take the Indian economy on a path of robust recovery ensuring stability on inflation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
06-02-2021||Business||Three bids to save Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative ||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday disclosed that three investors have submitted their offers for the reconstruction of the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. Evaluation of these proposals are underway. Last month, PMC Bank administrator A.K. Dixit informed in a letter to customers and stakeholders that three prospective investors were given time till February 1, 2021 for the submission of their final offers. “I have been informed that three final offers have been received. I am given to understand that PMC Bank itself is evaluating the offers,” Das told reporters after announcing the monetary policy. While he did not disclose the names, one of the interested party is understood to be Mumbai-based Centrum group which has joined hands with BharatP. The Liberty group is also reportedly keen on reconstructing the bank. Das added that once the evaluation is done, the bank would approach the RBI. In September 2019, the RBI had superseded the board of PMC Bank and placed it under various regulatory restrictions after the detection of certain financial irregularities and misreporting of loans. The central bank is awaiting a formal proposal from the government on the proposed bad bank made in the Union Budget for 2021-22. To a query at the post-policy press conference, Das said that while discussions on such an entity have taken place with the government earlier, the RBI is now waiting for a formal proposal from the Centre. “When that comes, we will examine that and take a view. Till such a time we get a formal proposal, it’s not right to comment,” he said. Das added that the central bank has deepened its supervision and is making an assessment of the true state of non-performing assets in all banks. On whether the RBI will go for an asset quality review (AQR), as suggested by Economic Survey 2020-21, Das said the central bank’s supervision exercise is already doing what an AQR requires, indicating that such a review is not needed for now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
06-02-2021||Business||Mahindra reports 6% fall in consolidated profit after tax||Homegrown farm equipment and utility vehicles major Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd (M&M) on Friday reported a 6 per cent fall in its consolidated profit after tax from continuing and discontinued operations to Rs 159.60 crore for the December 2020 quarter. The company had posted a consolidated profit after tax from continuing and discontinued operations of Rs 170.69 crore in the corresponding period last fiscal, M&M said in a regulatory filing. Its consolidated revenue from operations during October-December 2020 stood at Rs 21,625.95 crore against Rs 19,430.29 crore a year ago. The company named Tech Mahindra’s Manish Bhat as the chief financial officer of the Mahindra group, who will take over from Anish Shah. The latter will take over as the  managing director and chief executive of the company. Hero MotoCorp, the world’s largest two-wheeler manufacturer, on Friday reported its highest-ever revenue for the quarter. The company’s revenue from operations for the October-December quarter of 2020 stood at Rs 9,776 crore against Rs 6,997 crore a year ago. The profit after tax stood at Rs 1,029 crore, a 13.7 per cent rise over Rs 905.13 crore a year ago. This has been possible because of robust sales during the quarter and a combination of key strategic initiatives such as cost reduction efforts to partially offset the impact of the commodity costs and intense operational efficiencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
06-02-2021||Business||Boeing announces addition of new production line at its joint venture with Tata||Boeing on Friday announced the  addition of a new production line at its joint venture Tata Boeing Aerospace Limited to manufacture complex vertical fin structures for the 737 family of airplanes. The expansion reaffirms the commitment towards making India self-reliant in defence manufacturing, a joint press release from the Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) and Boeing said. TASL managing director and chief executive officer Sukaran Singh said the expansion of the aerostructure manufacturing capabilities with the new production line was another landmark in the company’s collaboration with Boeing. The Indian aviation sector is showing positive signs after being completely shut down during the coronavirus-induced lockdown but remains in the “eye of the storm”, Rémi Maillard, president and managing director, Airbus India and South Asia, has said. Indian airlines are carrying 60 per cent of the total pre-Covid domestic passengers and this is better than most countries in the world, he said. “There is a desire in people to fly again... Business travellers have started to come back... We are still facing a lot of headwinds with the virus. But in the midterm, I think there will be an upswing,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
06-02-2021||Business||Govt to reduce compliance burden on senior citizens||The sense of relief that senior citizens above the age of 75 years felt after the Budget speech of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman seems to be short-lived as the devil in the budget details is tumbling out. During her budget speech, Sitharaman said, “In the 75th year of independence of our country, the government shall reduce compliance burden on senior citizens who are 75 years of age and above. For senior citizens who only have pension and interest income, I propose exemption from filing their income tax returns. The paying bank will deduct the necessary tax on their income.” This brought cheers from senior citizens who had to file annual income tax returns even though they did not have to pay or claim a refund. Describing the relief in the cricket season in the game’s terminology, Mayank Mohanka, founder director at TaxAaram India, said the finance minister has bowled “googlies” and the fine print must be read carefully.
“The interest income must be from the same pension paying bank only and that the pension paying bank must also be notified by the government, and for claiming refund, if any, ITR has to be filed,” he said. Tax experts said more clarity is needed from the government and the banks regarding whether senior citizens earning interest income from multiple banks would qualify for the exemption of filing tax returns.
Also there is no clarity whether the declaration to the bank has to be done on an annual basis or one time, they added. The finance bill laid out the conditions that need to be fulfilled — the senior citizen is resident in India and of the age of 75 or more during the previous year; he has pension income and no other income. However, in addition to such pension income the senior citizen may also have interest income from the same bank in which he is receiving his pension income. Further, this bank must be a specified one. The government will be notifying a few banks which will be considered as a specified bank; and the pensioner shall be required to furnish a declaration to this bank. The declaration will contain all particulars in a specified form and will have to be verified in the manner prescribed. “Once the declaration is furnished, the bank would be required to compute the income after giving effect to the deduction allowable under chapter VI-A and rebate allowable under section 87A of the Act, for the relevant assessment year and deduct income tax on the basis of rates in force,” said the Budget document. “Once this is done, there will not be any requirement of furnishing returns  for this assessment year,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
06-02-2021||Business||RBI internal panel taking close look at model of proposed digital currency||An internal panel of the RBI is taking a close look at the model of its proposed digital currency and will come out with its decision “very soon”, deputy governor B.P. Kanungo said on Friday. The RBI had earlier announced its intent to come out with an official digital currency, in the face of the proliferation of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin about which it had raised many concerns. The government last week moved to ban private cryptocurrencies. “With regard to digital currency, I think we have already released our document. Our digital payment document spells out that digital currency is work in progress in the RBI,” governor Shaktikanta Das told reporters on Friday. Here, RBI deputy governor said V.P. Kanungo said, “We had a committee that is still on the drawing board. An internal committee is taking a close look to decide on the model of the central bank digital currency and you will hear from the RBI very soon,” he said. “In India, the regulators and governments have been sceptical about private digital currencies and the associated risks. The RBI is exploring the possibility as to whether there is a need for a digital version of fiat currency and how to operationalise it,” the RBI had said in a report in January.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
06-02-2021||Business||RBI decides to normalise cash reserve ratio in a two-phased manner||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday disappointed the bond markets as it decided to normalise the cash reserve ratio (CRR) in a two-phased manner and extended the relaxation with regard to government securities under the held to maturity (HTM) category. These two measures came as the central bank looked to maintain comfortable liquidity so that the government’s higher-than-expected borrowing programme proceeds in a seamless manner. However, the bond markets were not enthused by the proposals. Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond rose around 8 basis points in intra-day trades. However, it came off these levels to end almost flat. The markets were also disappointed with the RBI for not announcing an open market operation (purchase of government securities) calendar. The RBI had reduced the CRR (which is the portion of bank deposits that must be maintained with the RBI) by 100 basis points to 3 per cent of bank deposits from the reporting fortnight beginning March 28, 2020. The dispensation was available till March 26, 2021. While the optimism in some circles was that this will be extended further (so that liquidity remains abundant), the RBI said it will gradually restore the cut in two phases in a non-disruptive manner. Thus, banks would now be required to maintain the CRR at 3.5 per cent of their deposits effective from the reporting fortnight beginning March 27, which will rise to 4 per cent of deposits from the fortnight beginning May 22, 2021. However, in another step, the central bank extended the time frame for bank statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) holdings in the HTM category by one more year till March 31, 2023. HTM is a category of banks’ bond investments which do not have to be marked to market with the current rates, thus protecting their balance-sheet from any valuation hits. At a press conference, RBI deputy governor Michael Patra allayed fears that the steps would adversely impact the systemic liquidity. He said the withdrawal of CRR relaxation will be replenished in a more durable fashion through other forms that are more market friendly. Patra reiterated that the RBI will ensure that the government borrowing programme will go through in a seamless manner. However, in another step, the central bank extended the time frame for bank statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) holdings in the HTM category by one more year till March 31, 2023. HTM is a category of banks’ bond investments which do not have to be marked to market with the current rates, thus protecting their balance-sheet from any valuation hits. SLR is that portion of bank deposits which must be maintained in the form of Government securities and it now stands at 18 per cent. Of this, 25 per cent can be held in HTM. Earlier, the RBI had said that this limit can rise, provided it is not over 19.5 per cent of bank deposit base. In September last year, this was increased to 22 per cent. The relaxation was available upto March 31, 2022. "In order to provide certainty to the market participants in the context of the borrowing programme of the centre and states for 2021-22, it has now been decided to extend the dispensation of enhanced HTM of 22 per cent up to March 31, 2023 to include securities acquired between April 1, 2021 and March 31, 2022’’, RBI said today. This announcement also left some disappointed as they had expected the central bank to raise the limit further from 22 per cent. Responding to a query on liquidity normalisation, deputy governor Patra said that the RBI will `cross the river by feeling the stone’ indicating that the central bank will proceed in a calibrated manner aligned with market response and sentiment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
06-02-2021||Business||RBI allows retail investors to directly buy government debt or G-Secs||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday allowed retail investors to directly buy government debt or G-Secs, the first in Asia to allow direct purchases and among the very few globally. While the move will broaden the investor base, it remains to be seen if retail investors will take up the option as past attempts have not yielded good results. A G-Sec is an instrument issued by the central government or the states and, therefore, offers maximum safety. They are short term (called treasury bills, with original maturities of less than one year) or long term dated securities. They carry a fixed or floating coupon (interest rate) which is paid on the face value, on a half-yearly basis. Generally, the tenor of dated securities ranges from 5 years to 40 years. At present, banks, mutual funds, provident funds and insurance companies are the major buyers of these instruments. The RBI on Friday said retail investors can directly open an account with it and buy or sell government securities in both the primary and secondary markets. Modalities of the scheme called Retail Direct will be announced in the coming days. At present, the central bank allows retail investors to buy government bonds through the goBID platform on the BSE and the NSE. They could also place non-competitive bids in auctions of government securities. “The Centre and the RBI have taken several measures to encourage retail investment in government securities... it is proposed to provide retail investors with online access to the government securities market,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said on Friday. Deputy governor B.P. Kanungo said the move will pave the way for investors to open accounts in the e-kuber platform. G-Secs are issued through auctions conducted by the RBI and these auctions are conducted on the electronic platform called the e-kuber, which is the Core Banking Solution (CBS) platform of the Reserve Bank. Commercial banks, urban cooperative banks, primary dealers, insurance companies and provident funds are members of this electronic platform. While experts welcomed the proposal, they pointed out that a key challenge was liquidity as retail investors invest small amounts. "The move is likely to broaden investor base and provide retail investors enhanced access to participate in the government securities market’’ Abheek Barua, Chief Economist, HDFC Bank said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
06-02-2021||Business||RBI monetary policy committee keeps policy repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday decided to hold rates and continue with its accommodative stance to help the recovering domestic economy gain more traction but was silent on the timeframe for normalising liquidity conditions after the Centre stunned the markets with a higher-than-expected borrowing programme. After a three-day meeting, the six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI decided unanimously to keep the policy repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent. Though the central bank did announce some measures, bond markets were disappointed in the absence of a specific timetable for borrowings. All the members agreed to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary — at least during the current financial year and into the next fiscal year to revive growth on a durable basis, while ensuring inflation remains within target. The meeting of the MPC started a day after the budget  announced a Rs 12 lakh crore gross borrowing programme for the next fiscal. The panel whose mandate is to keep retail inflation at 4 per cent with a band of +/-2 per cent got a major relief from data which showed retail inflation at 4.59 per cent in December which was below the upper bound of  6 per cent. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said after the MPC meeting systemic liquidity will remain “comfortable” over the coming year. Bond markets were watching the RBI’s stand on liquidity as it had recently said it would normalise systemic liquidity with the economic and financial conditions stabilising gradually. The central bank stopped short of saying when it would do such an unwinding, though it did announce a two-phased restoration of the cash reserve ratio (CRR) that got reduced by 100 basis points last year.
Das said the high-speed indicators tracked by the RBI have shown a growth in demand, an indication the revival in the economy is not solely on account of pent-up demand. Consumer demand has moved from being pent-up to actual and as people’s movements return to normality, there will be sustained demand.
The MPC has forecast real GDP growth at 10.5 per cent in 2021-22: growth in the first half will be in the range of 8.3 per cent to 26.2 per cent and will be around 6 per cent from the third quarter. On inflation, the RBI governor said vegetable prices will remain soft in the near-term, while pressures may continue to persist on certain food items. Petroleum prices have reached historic highs because of a surge in international crude oil rates and high indirect taxes imposed both by the Centre and the states. This along with a sharp increase in industrial raw material prices have resulted in broad-based increase in prices of services and manufacturing. “Going forward, concerted policy action by both Centre and states, is critical to ensure that the ongoing cost build-up does not escalate further,’’ Das said. The panel revised CPI inflation estimates to 5.2 per cent in the current quarter of this fiscal from 5.8 per cent earlier and projected it will come between 5.2 per cent and 5 per cent in the first half of next fiscal and 4.3 per cent in the third quarter with risks broadly balanced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
