07-02-2021||Business||RBI, government to work together on bank privatisation, says FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said the government will work with the Reserve Bank for execution of the bank privatisation plan announced in the budget. Speaking to reporters in the financial capital, Sitharaman also said that the government has no plan to form any bank investment company to house the government stakes in banks. In the union budget presented last week, Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two banks as part of its disinvestment plan. Bank unions have opposed the move. "The details are being worked out. I have made the announcement but we are working together with the RBI," she said, when asked about the proposal. She, however, declined to comment on any specific details about which will be the candidate chosen for privatisation. "We will let you know when the government is ready to announce," she answered when asked about the details. On the bad bank, Sitharaman said the government may have to give some guarantee for the National Asset Reconstruction Company (ARC), but stressed that this is a solution which has come from the banks itself and will also be led by them. Sitharaman alleged that the banks' non-performing assets, which are to be transferred into the National ARC, are a legacy of the mismanagement in the past. There is no phone banking happening now, with favours being sought for anyone from New Delhi. On the Bank Investment Company (BIC), she said no such proposal is on the table and wondered what resulted in the discussion. "There is no such discussion. I don't know where it is coming from. At least it is not before me. I am not discussing that, she said. She said that there is a need for professionalisation of banks and the government is trying to ensure the same. The minister also said that the banks are gradually getting out of the risk aversion, which had set in during the early days of the pandemic. When asked about the ambitious divestment targets and the government's ability to push through necessary reforms to earn the projected revenues, Sitharaman exuded confidence of hitting budgetary estimates of Rs 1.75 lakh crore divestment. Sitharaman said the government stands to get up to Rs 30,000 crore from the newly introduced agricultural infrastructure cess. On the issue of fuel prices, and inflation therein because of the duties, Sitharaman said if the Centre lowers excise, states will increase their taxes to keep the prices at the same level and also earn some revenues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
07-02-2021||Business||Finance ministry additional grant leeway||The finance ministry has granted permission to Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab to borrow an additional Rs 5,034 crore for undertaking ease of doing business reforms. “Thus, these states have become eligible to mobilise additional financial resources and have been granted permission to raise additional Rs 5,034 crore through open market borrowings,” it said. With this, 12 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, have undertaken the stipulated reforms to facilitate ease of doing business. On completion of reforms facilitating ease of doing business, these 12 states have been granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 28,183 crore. In view of the resource requirement to meet the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had in May last year enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their GSDP. Half of this special dispensation was linked to undertaking citizen centric reforms by the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
07-02-2021||Business||Bengal-run Bhel suffers loss||State-run engineering firm Bhel on Saturday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 217.86 crore for the October-December quarter because of lower revenues. The consolidated net profit of the firm was Rs 161.81 crore in the quarter ended December 31, 2019, a BSE filing stated. The total income of the company dipped to Rs 4,532.39 crore in the quarter from Rs 5,827.74 crore in the same period a year ago. On the impact of the pandemic, the company said, “During the quarter, the group operations recovered compared with the second quarter of 2020-21, but the pre-Covid level of operations are yet to be achieved. Based on its assessment of business/economic conditions as on date, the company expects to recover the carrying value of its assets.” JK Cement profit up 74.82% JK Cement Ltd on Saturday reported an increase of 74.82 per cent in its consolidated net profit at Rs 217.28 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020. The company had posted a profit of Rs 124.29 crore in the October-December period a year ago, JK Cement said in a regulatory filing. Birlasoft net at Rs 96 crore Birlasoft, part of the $2.4-billion diversified CK Birla Group, on Saturday reported a 32.6 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 96.3 crore for the December quarter of the ongoing financial year. The IT services company had posted a profit of Rs 72.6 crore in the year-ago period, Birlasoft said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
07-02-2021||Business||Start-up value at $180bn||India’s internet start-ups leaders that operate business ranging from food delivery, e-commerce to online insurance are now on the cusp of listing, a report said putting their combined value at $180 billion by 2025. “The growing scale and maturity of India’s internet economy is starting to create more investment opportunities. More than $60 billion has been invested in India’s internet start-ups in the past five years, with around $12 billion in 2020 alone,” HSBC Global Research said in a report of India’s internet. It put the total sector value (ex-Fintech) at $180 billion by 2025. India has 42 Unicorns and over 45 soonicorns, HSBC said. E-commerce is the largest opportunity, worth an estimated $67 billion by 2025, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
07-02-2021||Business||Case for bad bank ||The proposed bad bank could mitigate the challenge of offloading stressed assets in cases where the lending is done by a consortium of banks. Punjab National Bank managing director and CEO S. S. Mallikarjuna Rao on Saturday said the bad bank could act as an aggregator, giving prospective bidders an estimate of the stressed assets in totality from all the banks in a consortium. “At present, each bank sells its stressed loan portfolio separately to the asset reconstruction company even though the account is supervised by a consortium. This is one of the challenges which could be overcome if the bad bank comes, because it will aggregate all the stressed assets from various banks,” said Rao. He added that the provisioning requirements will go down once the assets are transferred from the books of the banks to that of the bad bank. “The balance sheet will look more clean and we will have a more realistic understanding of capital adequacy,” he said. Fund chase State-owned PNB said it planned to raise Rs 3,200 crore from share sale during the current quarter to enhance its capital base. The bank has raised Rs 3,788.04 crore from qualified institutional placement (QIP) in December following which the government holding in the bank came down to 76.87 per cent from 85.59 per cent. The bank had taken an approval to raise Rs 14,000 crore through a mix of equity and debt. According to the plan, the bank decided to raise Rs 3,000 crore from AT-1 bonds, Rs 4,000 crore from Tier-II bonds and Rs 7,000 crore from QIPs. “We have already taken Rs 4,000 crore from Tier-II and Rs 3,788 crore through QIPs at the end of December. In January, we have taken AT-1 of another Rs 500 crore. So, I am very confident that the remaining Rs 2,500 crore of additional Tier-1 bonds will be garnered before March 31,” Rao said. “We are also looking at going for the QIP again for the remaining Rs 3,200 crore to be acquired from the market at an appropriate time... it could be in this fiscal also,” he added. PNB has reported a standalone net profit of Rs 506.03 crore for the December quarter of 2020. However, he said, the current level of capital adequacy ratio is sufficient to take care of not only the requirement in the month of March 2021 but also during the next financial year. Besides, Rao said, the bank has sold some of the non-core assets, including the sale of its holding in UTI Mutual Fund. PNB on Friday reported a standalone net profit of Rs 506.03 crore for the December quarter on the back of a reduction in bad assets. It had posted a net loss of Rs 492.28 crore in the year-ago period. Total income in the quarter under review rose to Rs 23,298.53 crore against Rs 15,967.49 crore earlier. On the outlook, Rao said, the bank expects to close the current financial year with annual profit of Rs 2,000 crore. He said the bank has received debt restructuring requests worth Rs 12,000 crore. “Out of this Rs 9,000 crore was for corporates, which we have already invoked before December 31," he said, adding that the bank had earlier expected a total amount of Rs 40,000 crore to be restructured. In August, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had allowed banks to restructure some loans to support economic recovery and help businesses survive the covid-19 induced crisis. Rao said that he expected better recoveries in January. “If you remember, the last time we had given the guidance of around Rs 8,000 crore cash recovery… there are big major accounts such as Bhushan Power and in that we are anticipating cash recovery of Rs 3,800 crore," he said, adding that he expects good recovery from the DHFL account as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
07-02-2021||Business||Budget designed for new world order: Finance minister||“The budget was undertaken in circumstances like never before…” The opening statement of the finance minister in her budget speech soon moved into overdrive on her promise of a “budget like never before!” Overall, this budget has been designed for the new world order. What is heartening is that digital has been made the underlying theme of the six pillars of growth. The launch of MCA21 Version 3.0; the government's support for the development of a world-class FinTech hub at the GIFT-IFSC; the Rs 1500-crore boost to digital payments and transactions; and the outlay of Rs 50,000 crore for the National Research Foundation in next five years — these will undeniably strengthen our digital ecosystem. The increase in thresholds for both paid-up capital and turnover, and capital gains tax exemption for start-up investment are welcome steps. The move to incorporate One Person Companies to grow without any restrictions on paid-up capital and turnover, allowing their conversion into any other type of company at any time, and reducing the residency limit are big boosts for entrepreneurs. The extension of tax holiday by one more year, and the provision of Rs 15,700 crore for the MSME sector (more than double of last year) will certainly help small businesses to grow. There is a three-pronged approach to infrastructure development — creating institutional structures, monetising assets and enhancing the share of capital expenditure in central and state budgets. The push to roads, railways, power, ports, shipping and waterways, petroleum and natural gas, and urban infrastructure will create the right backbone for sustained growth and expansion of industries. Increasing the permissible FDI limit to 74 per cent in insurance companies will enthuse foreign investment. The setting up of formal umbrella structures for better synergy between research institutions, universities and colleges is a great step. The amendments to the National Apprenticeship Act will help young workers. A strong emphasis has been laid on diverse employment generation — especially for contractual, gig and platform workers. Ease of compliance is a highlight of this budget, especially the single-window compliance mechanism, simplification of the reconciliation mechanism for dispute resolution, the positive moves on direct and indirect taxes, reduction of the time-limit for re-opening of assessments, exemptions from audit and the relief measures for dividends. Keshav Murugesh is Group CEO, WNS, and former Nasscom chairman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
