08-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 617 points to close above 51,000 mark||Extending its winning streak to the sixth session, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 617 points to end above the 51,000-mark for the first time on Monday, tracking strong gains in Infosys, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 51,523.38 during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 617.14 points or 1.22 per cent higher at its record closing peak of 51,348.77. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 191.55 points or 1.28 per cent to its lifetime closing high of 15,115.80. It touched an intra-day record of 15,159.90. Mahindra and Mahindra (M&M) was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 7 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid, Infosys and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, HUL, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance and ITC were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities remained in the grip of bulls with benchmark indices extending gains for the sixth consecutive day. "Improved prospects of sustained economic recovery on the backdrop of sharp increase in capital expenditures and bold reform measures have emboldened investors. "While global equities remained favourable today, benchmark index Nifty and Sensex recorded fresh all-time highs," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with significant gains, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.76 per cent higher at USD 60.01 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 600 points to hit record high||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 600 points to scale fresh lifetime high in early trade on Monday tracking strong gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and M&M amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 668.36 points or 1.32 per cent higher at its record intra-day peak of 51,399.99. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 192.55 points or 1.29 per cent to its lifetime high of 15,116.80. Mahindra and Mahindra (M&M) was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 10 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, SBI and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, NTPC and Bajaj Auto were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 117.34 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its fresh closing record of 50,731.63, and Nifty closed at its all-time high of 14,924.25, up 28.60 points or 0.19 per cent. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,461.71 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look good at the moment. High CAPEX and bold reforms announced in the Union Budget emboldened investors. It indicates that recent uptick in high-frequency key economic data and rebound in corporate earnings is likely to sustain in subsequent quarters. Additionally, RBI supporting the pro-growth strategy of government by maintaining liquidity at required levels and balancing bond yields bodes well, he said, Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant gains. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.55 per cent higher at USD 59.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Bengal joins national gas grid ||Bengal is set to reap the benefit of a natural gas-led industrial development with the state finally becoming part of the national gas grid, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday. Inaugurating a 348-kilometre trunk pipeline connecting Dhobi (near Gaya) to Durgapur, Modi said the availability of natural gas would help revive old units and set up plants, apart from providing clean fuel to the transport sector and piped gas connection at home. The pipeline has been laid by GAIL India Ltd at an investment of Rs 2,400 crore. The PM urged the Bengal government and GAIL to expedite the remaining part of the work, extending the pipeline from Durgapur to Calcutta and then Haldia. “The Centre has taken one nation, one grid project. This will be a big movement. In this Union budget, we have created a mission to get hydrogen as clean fuel,” Modi said from Haldia. The pipeline will allow the state-run fertiliser plant at Sindri, Jharkhand, and a private plant at Panagarh, Bengal, to function to its full potential. Modi was at Haldia to inaugurate four projects, totalling Rs 4,700 crore, belonging to public sector GAIL, Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation and NHAI. The visit comes a few months before the Assembly polls in the state. The projects include a LPG import terminal set up by BPCL for Rs 1,100 crore, a catalytic de-waxing unit to produce base oil for lubricants by IOC for Rs 1,019 crore and a rail overbridge to ease congestion of port traffic at Ranichak, Haldia. While the BPCL plant and bridge was commissioned on Sunday, along with the GAIL pipeline, the IOC unit will be ready by 2023. “The four projects will help in ease of doing business and living in the east, and make Haldia a major centre for export and import,” Modi said. Modi also weaved the dream of a port-led development for Haldia and Bengal days before the poll dates are announced. “Our efforts will be directed towards making the state a premier one in trading and business activity in the country. For this, port-led development is feasible and Haldia will play an important role in it,” he said. ”Haldia will help the East to become self-reliant in the energy sector. This will in turn help in the aim of a self-reliant India,” Modi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Misgivings over new advance ruling body||The Centre’s move to replace the Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR) with the Board for Advance Rulings comprising revenue department officials has raised qualitative concerns among tax advocates and practitioners. The AAR, which pronounces binding rulings on applications of non-residents and residents, consists of revenue members and members from the judiciary. There are three benches of the authority and the benches cannot function if the post of chairman or vice-chairman is vacant. Retired judges of the Supreme Court, retired chief justice of a high court or retired judges of the high court who have served for at least seven years are eligible for appointment as the chairman of the benches. At the Union budget, the government has decided to dismantle the AAR and has proposed the constitution of one or more Board for Advanced Rulings. Each board is stated to constitute two members, both being an officer not below the rank of chief commissioner. Unlike the AAR, the orders of the board shall not be binding and the applicant, if aggrieved, can appeal against a ruling before the high court. The government's rationale is to impart more efficiency in the system. According to department officials, the posts of chairman and vice-chairman at the benches of the AAR often remain vacant for a long time because of non availability of eligible persons. This delays the passing of orders. However, industry observers point out the lack of balance because of the absence of judicial members in the proposed board and the freedom of an aggrieved applicant to go to the high court against a ruling mean more pile-up of cases at the judiciary level. “When we have somebody from the judicial background, then there is more faith that they will be deciding judiciously. But when everything is with the income tax people who have served their whole life in revenue authorities, what can we expect from them?” tax advocate Narayan Jain said at a panel discussion organised by the Calcutta Club and the Concern for Calcutta on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman rejects charge of 'selling family assets'||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday rejected the Opposition’s charge of “selling family assets” through the budget stress on privatisation, terming it as a “lazy allegation”. All the previous governments have done disinvestment in the past, and the Narendra Modi regime has formulated a clear policy on which companies to be divested and the strategic sectors that are not to be touched rather than doing one company selloff at a time, she said in an address to businesses here. The budget proposals to divest stakes, which includes the sale of two public sector banks and a general insurer, have been panned by the Opposition. “It is not what the Opposition says about selling family silver, it’s not at all,” she said at meeting of business people here. “Family silver should be strengthened, it should be our takat (strength)... because you’ve spread it so thinly, there are many of them (PSUs) who are not able to survive and the few who can perform do not get the due attention. You need them to scale up so that they meet the aspirations of a growing India,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Reliance O2C gets bulk of own gas||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries has picked up two-thirds of its own new gas from the KG-D6 block that was auctioned under the new rules with state-owned GAIL and Royal Dutch Shell getting smaller volumes, sources said. Reliance and its partner UK’s BP Plc on Friday auctioned 7.5 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) of incremental gas from the R-series gas field in the KG-D6 block, benchmarking it to a gas marker for the very first time in the country. The auction was held under the liberalised price discovery rules notified by the government that allowed affiliates of the gas producer to bid and buy natural gas. Reliance O2C, an affiliate of Reliance, picked up 4.8mscmd of gas in Friday’s auction that lasted for seven-and-a-half-hours, sources with direct knowledge of the development said. State gas utility GAIL (India) Ltd won 0.85 mscmd of supplies while Shell picked up 0.7 mmscmd. Adani Total Gas Ltd got 0.1 mmscmd, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) 0.2 mscmd and Torrent Gas 0.02 mscmd. Other buyers include IRM Energy (0.1 mscmd), PIL (0.35 mscmd) and IGS (0.35 mscmd), they said. Sources said the gas was bought at a price of $0.18 per million British thermal unit discount to JKM, that is price of JKM (minus) $0.18 with tenures ranging from three to five years. Reliance did not respond to email sent for comments. Reliance O2C is the new unit that holds the firm’s refinery and petrochemical assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Income tax settlement panel scrapped||The budget has proposed to discontinue the Income-Tax Settlement Commission (ITSC) and set up an interim board to settle pending cases. The government expects the move will simplify tax administration, ease compliance and reduce litigation. However, tax practitioners have expressed serious concerns as any non-compliance would have severe cost and penalty implications. “For reducing litigation and to give an impetus to the dispute resolution for small taxpayers, a Dispute Resolution Committee is proposed to be constituted. A taxpayer having taxable income up to Rs 50 lakh and disputed income up to Rs 10 lakh shall be eligible to approach the Committee,” the budget said. “For ensuring efficiency, transparency and accountability, the procedure of the Committee will be conducted in a faceless manner. Consequently, the Settlement Commission shall be discontinued from 01.02.2021. However, the pending cases shall be decided by an interim board if opted by the applicant,” the document said. Aravind Srivatsan, tax leader & partner, Nangia Andersen LLP, said penalty would fully apply under the faceless mode, in contrast to the current system where the settlement commission can waive penalties. “The proposal also ushers an era where the government is confident of using its tax payer profiling and surveillance mechanisms to collect full taxes on their own,” Srivatsan said. “The move to end the settlement commission signifies the end of an era where a taxpayer is allowed to volunteer and settle disputes which arise in the course of assessment and search. Taxpayers going forward need to be fully onboard tax compliances and fulfil tax obligations knowing that any non compliance would have severe cost and penalty implications,” he added. Ruchesh Sinha and Anmol Batra of Taxmann said issues of prejudice may arise in the case of the interim board, for which the working regulation was yet to be finalised. “It is not known as to which conditions shall be inserted by the legislature, unlike the previous conditions which existed for the functioning of the income tax settlement commission,” Sinha and Batra said. “The alternative given to the assessee which is  to file the application for withdrawal and go before the assessing officer for assessment also prejudices the interest of the assessee. ” “The amendment gives a right to the Assessing Officer to use the material and other information collected irrespective of whether such information was produced before the ITSC by the assessee or by the AO. No clear definition of the word ‘inquiry’ has been given,” Sinha and Batra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Adani acquires additional stake in Mumbai International Airport ||Adani Airport Holdings Ltd (AAHL), the flagship holding company of the Adani group for its airports business, has acquired  an additional 23 per cent stake in Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) from ACSA Global Ltd (ACSA) and Bid Services Division (Mauritius) Ltd or Bidvest for Rs 1,684.25 crore. With this, the Gautam Adani-led group will have a 74 per cent stake in MIAL with the rest being held by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). In August, the group had said it would acquire GVK Airport Developers’ (GVKADL) 50.50 per cent stake in MIAL. The group had then said that it was also looking to buy out the 23.5 per cent stake held by Airports Company of South Africa or ACSA and Bidvest. AAHL had entered into an agreement to acquire the debt of GVK Airport Developers Ltd (GVK ADL). GVKADL is the holding company through which the GVK group held the 50.50 per cent equity stake in MIAL, which in turns holds a 74 per cent equity stake in Navi Mumbai International Airport Ltd (NMIAL). Subsequently, the Competition Commission approved the Adani group’s acquisition of the controlling stake in Mumbai airport from GVK Airport Developers under the green channel route. The green channel route provides for automatic approval of certain deals. In a regulatory filing on Saturday, Adani Enterprises said its wholly owned subsidiary AAHL has acquired a 23.5 per cent stake, translating into 28.20 crore shares, from the two overseas entities. MIAL is engaged in the business of development, construction and operation of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai. It had posted a turnover of Rs 3,489.46 crore in the previous fiscal. With the acquisition of the country’s second busiest airport, the Adani group, which also has six non-metro airports, will become the largest private operator of airports. “The addition of the Mumbai International Airport and the Navi Mumbai International Airport to our existing portfolio of six airports provides us a transformational platform that will help shape and create strategic adjacencies for our other B2B businesses,” Gautam Adani had said in a statement last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||Retrospective tax rocks social clubs||The Narendra Modi- government simply isn’t able to shake off the captivation of a retrospective tax to undermine the effects of an adverse ruling by the Supreme Court — and this time the brunt of the change will fall on the stately, colonial-era social clubs in the country. In a significant amendment to the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act, the government has introduced a new clause in sub-section 1 of Section 7 — which is being inserted with retrospective effect from July 2017 — which makes it mandatory for entities to “ensure levy of tax on activities or transactions involving supply of goods or services by any person, other than an individual, to its members or constituents or vice versa, for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration”. This change effectively rips the cloak of immunity that the social clubs had after a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court ruled in October 2019 that all “showcause notices, demand notices and other action taken to levy and collect service tax from incorporated members’ clubs are declared to be void and of no effect in law”. Despite that order, several top clubs in the city, including the Calcutta Club, have been levying GST on food and refreshments they serve to the members. “We levy GST at the applicable rate on all members. All the top clubs in the city do that. We are collecting the levy since the time it was introduced. As a large organisation, we abide by all rules and regulations,” a senior member of a city club said tonight. Liquor, however, does not fall within the ambit of GST and is subject to state excise duty. It could not immediately be ascertained if the leading clubs were charging the state’s levy on their liquor sales to members. The latest controversial tax amendment is a blow back to the infamous decision of then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee to amend the Income Tax act with a 50-year retroactive effect and undermine a verdict of the Supreme Court that held that Vodafone Plc was not obliged to withhold tax while sealing its deal with Hutchison Whampoa group when it acquired a telecom entity in India for over $11 billion in 2007. That case drags on with the government having decided to challenge an adverse verdict handed down by a court in Singapore. Another arbitration case involving Cairn Energy Plc has also gone against the Centre. The Modi government had promised it would not resort to retrospective changes in law to extract taxes from entities that the courts had declared as a malafide. But it clearly isn’t abiding by the assurance that the late finance minister Arun Jaitley made in his budget speech in 2014 that the government “would not ordinarily bring about any change retrospectively which creates a fresh liability”. Tax on clubs The genesis of the case against social clubs arose from a notice that the assistant commissioner of commercial taxes sent to the Calcutta Club saying that it had “failed to make payment of sales tax on sale of food and drinks to the permanent members during the quarter ending 30th June 2002.” A similar notice was sent by the Chief Commissioner of Central Excise and Service to the Ranchi Club. In their order the Supreme Court bench comprising judges R.F. Nariman, Surya Kant and V. Ramasubramanian said the Calcutta Club, which is an incorporated entity under the Companies Act 1956, charged and paid sales tax whenever it sold products to non-members or guests accompanying permanent members. But when the invoices were raised in respect of supply made in favour of the permanent members, no sales tax was collected. The club had argued that the transactions with its permanent members could not amount to a sale as the doctrine of mutuality would come into play. The doctrine basically states that permanent members form a club and, therefore, there can be no sale transaction between a club and itself (represented by the members). The club had argued that it was not a “dealer” within the meaning of the Act as there was no “sale” of goods in the form of food, refreshments or drinks by the club to its permanent members. The club also contended that it was acting as an agent of its members while supplying food and beverages to its members. The Supreme Court upheld this view — the rationale for the decision founded on the principle that if there are no members, there is no club and vice-versa. As a result, the clubs felt they were safe from the axe of the taxman. The case against the Calcutta Club had been initiated by the Bengal government under the West Bengal Sales Tax Act 1994. The state government’s counsel had argued that the doctrine of mutuality had been blown away by the 46th amendment of the Constitution which inserted Article 266 (29A). The revenue authorities had argued that the doctrine of mutuality was not applicable after the amendment to Article 366(29-A), wherein a deeming fiction was created, holding that the supply of goods by clubs to its members would be treated as a sale for the purpose of levy of sales tax. It argued that the doctrine of mutuality, as applicable to sales tax, was not applicable to service tax, after the introduction of negative list (in 2012) came into force. The apex court refused to accept the proposition put forth by the revenue authorities. The levy of sales tax has since been subsumed under the Goods and Services Act which came into force from July 2017 — which is why the latest Finance Bill has made the retrospective amendment from that date. The Finance Bill 2021 now explicitly says: “For the purposes of this clause, it is hereby clarified that, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or any judgment, decree or order of any Court, tribunal or authority, the person and its members or constituents shall be deemed to be two separate persons and the supply of activities or transactions inter se shall so be deemed to take place from one such person to the other.” The move to treat the permanent member and the club as “two separate persons” cleaves the doctrine of mutuality argument and effectively undermines the apex court order of 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
08-02-2021||Business||New financing options await debt market||“Faith is the bird that feels the light and sings when the dawn is still dark” Rabindranath Tagore (As quoted by the FM in her budget speech last Monday) The budget, which appears as a shot in the arm for infrastructure, has emphatically brought to the fore the government’s reformist stance on the debt market, which is expected to throw up fresh opportunities for investors seeking to allocate in the infra space. In a scenario marked by what the finance minister termed as “asset monetisation”, a host of newer financing options may well await debt market participants. Some of the more benign budgetary pronouncements have actually found resonance in the latest credit policy announced on Friday by the Reserve Bank of India, which has, inter alia, paved the way for a new investment avenue for ordinary debt investors. The latter will now have direct access to government securities (G-Secs) — a structural reform that further unshackles the common man. The RBI, which incidentally has not tinkered with the key policy rates, has allowed retail participants to acquire government bonds, courtesy a specific window. Individuals can open accounts and take part in the g-sec market, both primary and secondary. It remains to be seen how smaller investors can really be dovetailed into the government’s reformist agenda in so far as infra financing is concerned, as this is clearly a domain of heavyweight institutional players. However, there have been a number of sporadic attempts in the past to involve even the retail segment on the infra front. Various development financial institutions (like IDBI) have, for instance, issued infra bonds largely for the ordinary investing public. These did achieve a certain kind of popularity; after all, there was little doubt that interest payments and principal repayments would be jeopardised. These days, when credit risk is an all-round threat, such infrastructure bonds may again serve as a viable alternative for discerning sections. Pointers for investors The investing fraternity, in the context of the budget, needs to remember the following: The future From the standpoint of budgetary provisions, the future looks exciting, although a few roadblocks are visible quite clearly. We would keep the discussion on roadblocks for another day. For starters, the much-discussed “National Monetisation Pipeline” (with potential brownfield infrastructure assets) would surely be expected to throw up interesting cases. The government has ambitious targets for railways, roads, power and the like. These would require copious quantities of money — newer financing avenues are, therefore, simply inevitable. A series of smart debt options for investors, as envisaged by the budget, would thus stem from infra projects. For retail investors to get enthused, perhaps a tax break would be essential too. It remains to be seen whether “zero coupon bonds” can in the coming days figure on the average investor’s radar. Keeping recent developments (including quite a few high-decibel credit defaults) in mind, there seems to be general absence of viable debt options. The best of the breed are typically low-yielding in nature. Their performance actually pales when the impact of inflation is taken into account. Traditional debt investors, therefore, need to re-work their strategies in order to secure superior returns. A shift in allocation pattern can perhaps be recommended. If this is not really possible, a gradual allocation to actively-managed debt can be considered. In many cases, AA-rated paper (or lower rated ones) offer superior returns over certain periods of time. These can prove useful, provided the investors can justify their presence in portfolios from a risk-return point of view. Key debt market dynamics would now be determined by the apex bank’s latest policy. For more cautious investors, I recommend investment in short- to medium-duration debt funds. These can provide unit holders with a steady income. These also add stability to portfolios. With every asset management company offering its own set of products, a wide range of such debt funds is available. Debt fund investors must consider all relevant factors while exercising their choices. In particular, credit rating profiles must be examined thoroughly before investing. For an investor driven by caution, a marked exposure to Triple A-rated securities would be the nearest thing to mental peace. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
