09-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty snap 6-session winning run, end marginally lower||Snapping their six-session winning streak, equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally lower on Tuesday amid profit-booking in IT, FMCG and auto stocks. After rallying 487 points to touch its lifetime intra-day high of 51,835.86, the 30-share BSE Sensex pared all gains to end 19.69 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 51,329.08. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 6.50 points or 0.04 per cent to 15,109.30. It touched a record peak of 15,257.10 during the day. M&M was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, ITC, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finserv and TCS. On the other hand, Asian Paints, ONGC, Titan, L&T and Axis Bank were among the gainers. Domestic equities remained buoyant for most of the session with benchmark indices making fresh highs. However, high volatility was seen towards the end of the session and profit-booking was witnessed in a large number of stocks, experts said. The broad-based rally was not seen and only select large-cap counters supported market, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Midcap and smallcap indices underperformed sharply and barring financials most of the key sectoral indices were in red. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul closed lower. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.40 per cent higher at USD 60.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points to scale fresh lifetime high in early trade on Tuesday, led by gains in index heavyweights Infosys, Reliance Industries and HCL Tech amid positive global cues and unabated foreign fund inflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 233.30 points or 0.45 per cent higher at its record intra-day peak of 51,582.07. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 70.10 points or 0.46 per cent to its lifetime high of 15,185.90. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, Titan, Asian Paints, ONGC, Reliance Industries and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, SBI, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 617.14 points or 1.22 per cent higher at its record closing peak of 51,348.77, and Nifty surged 191.55 points or 1.28 per cent to its lifetime closing high of 15,115.80. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,876.60 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look good at the moment. "Union Budget has given an undisputed reason to investors to cheer, which helped the market to see a northward journey in this month." On the global front, US equities extended gains and recorded fresh highs led by a sharp rebound in energy stocks, strong corporate earnings and emerging prospects of higher fiscal stimulus. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.51 per cent higher at USD 61.01 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business|| IT hub plots adjacent to Eco Park in New Town can now be booked online||Plots located at the 200-acre IT hub in New Town adjacent to Eco Park can now be booked online, an official of the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) said. The online plot and land parcel booking system will start functioning within the next 30 days and the system has been configured in a way to eliminate the need of physical visits to Hidco offices, the official said. The area that has been named Bengal Silicon Valley covers over 200 acres and has 169 acre of allotable space. According to the official, in order to book a plot one has to log in to the Hidco website - www.wbhidcoltd.com. The details of each of the plot are listed and they range from 0.248 acres to 21.752 acre. All the plots can be taken on a 99-year lease and the price per acre has been set at Rs 4.70 crore per acre by Hidco, the official added. Debashis Sen, chairman and managing director of Hidco, said the system will not only help people to book the plots easily and save time but will also give effective protection in the ongoing Covid-19 scenario.
According to Sen, this will be a pilot run of sorts and they wanted to emulate the same procedure of booking and allotment of plots across New Town. On Sunday, 20 organisations, including the Indian Statistical Institute, Webel, Panorama, Vikram Solar and Unified Info Tech, were handed allotment letters in Bengal Silicon Valley. Smita Pandey, managing director of Webel, said the company would build an IT hub as well a centre for excellence for start-ups in the region. "This is an area which has seen remarkable development and we are happy to have a place where we can build an IT hub where companies can rent out space at very affordable rates," said Pandey. Hidco had earlier organised a webinar that discussed the possibility of some big firms in China moving elsewhere. “India is already reaching out to over 300 industries in China, offering them to relocate to India and we want to attract them to move to New Town,” another Hidco official said. Sudip Chatterjee, company secretary of Vikram Solar which builds solar panels and solar powered applications, said that they had taken land at the Bengal Silicon Valley due to its location as well as the fact that it was a smooth process. "We want to set up a research as well as manufacturing centre here and are hoping to generate employment for at least 200 men and women," said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Bengal offers uniform terms for land allotment ||The Bengal government has ushered in a simplified procedure for the allotment of land in industrial parks and the issuance of trade licence to industries to enhance the ease of doing business in the state. The state will do away with separate identities of industrial clusters and streamline them under one banner with uniform rules and regulations to avoid confusion among prospective investors. “There will only be industrial parks and the lease conditions, transfer fee, product line change fee will be standardised. An industrialist can visit our website and find out about all the details of the land available,” WBIDC chairman Rajiva Sinha told a group of local entrepreneurs in a face-to-face discussion to weed out thorny issues affecting industry. There are about 4,000 acres available with the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation and two of its associate companies. Industries — large and small — can take up plots inside the parks according to their appetite. While terms and conditions are being standardised, lease rent will vary with locations. Sinha, along with WBIDC managing director and industry secretary Vandana Yadav and MSME secretary Rajesh Pandey, met industry representatives from five districts of south Bengal and various chambers of commerce under the platform of Bengal Business Conclave & Synergy. The industry was also told that the government would issue and renew trade licence online across the states. Institutional capabilities of gram panchayats are being strengthened to carry out this work. “Do not expect big policy decisions now. They take time and the state is going to enter a phase soon,” Sinha said, referring to the model code of conduct for the upcoming Assembly elections, which is expected to be notified soon. During the meeting at least one industry representative said the lease rent in the industry parks was too high while another representative pointed out that he was unable to agglomerate land for a private industrial park. Sinha agreed to look into the matter. “We can see how lack of mutual discussion creates problems. However, we do not work in that fashion in Bengal,” Sinha, known for plainspeak, said at the end of a 2-hour long meeting co-organised by Ficci, in an obvious reference to farmers’ strife in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Amit Mitra forecasts 1.2% growth in Covid year||Bengal will buck the contraction in the economy and post a modest growth despite the Covid-19 induced deceleration witnessed across the globe, state finance minister Amit Mitra said on Monday. While India’s GDP is apprehended to contract 7.73 per cent in 2020-21, the state is likely to grow 1.2 per cent, he said. “(According to) the latest data on advance estimate.. which is with the government of India, Bengal will not only not shrink, but will grow by at least 1.2 per cent. It may even be higher than that,” Mitra told industry representatives whom he addressed virtually. Bengal has been outperforming the country in terms of growth in the last few years, in part because of the low base. While the national GDP grew 4.2 per cent, state GSDP went up 7.6 per cent in the last fiscal.
While he did not offer an explanation on how this enviable feat would be achieved, Mitra appeared to be heavily banking on the micro, small and medium sector to do the heavy lifting for the state’s economy. An important trading hub for the East and the Northeast, the state has been witnessing growth in bank lending to the MSME sector. Mitra said the target for this year was to lend Rs 90,000 crore before the pandemic roiled the economy. “Banks sanctioned Rs 50,000 crore till December. I would not be surprised if the final figures go up to Rs 70,000 crore by the end of this fiscal,” Mitra said. Mitra informed that the state budget this year increased capital expenditure, which goes into creating assets (infrastructure), by 100 per cent.“Bengal will get the highest revenue deficit grant from the Fifteenth Finance Commission. The state will get Rs 40,000 crore in the next four years, including Rs 17,500 crore alone this year,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Bharat Coking Coal Limited reduces price of coking coal by up to 23 per cent||Bharat Coking Coal Limited, a Coal India subsidiary based in Dhanbad, has reduced the price of coking coal by up to 23 per cent to attract new bulk customers. “BCCL has taken a historic decision to make the price of coking coal competitive to attract new power and non-power customers,” the company said in a statement on Monday. “The discount will be offered till the end of the current fiscal,” Samiran Dutta, director (finance), told The Telegraph, adding the offer was only for bulk customers who would carry the coal via railways. On whether the move was aimed to clear stocks, Dutta said, “Yes,  that’s also true and we are expecting to exhaust the present stock of about 3.5 million tonnes (mt) by the end of March.” “The dispatch stood at around 8 to 10 rakes per day now compared with 20 to 25 rakes per day earlier,” Dutta said when asked whether offloading in BCCL was less compared with the other CIL subsidiaries. Dutta said the reduced rates will be offered during the e-auction that will begin on February 10. Depending on the grade of coking coal, the discount would be in the range of 10-23 per cent of the current price. The price of W-IV grade coking coal that is sold at Rs 3,462 per tonne at present will be offered at Rs 2,675 per tonne during the e-auction, which is a discount of about 23 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Tesla builds $1.5bn Bitcoin reserves||The electric-car maker Tesla is known for bucking convention. That apparently extends to using its own corporate cash to buy Bitcoin. The company disclosed in its annual report on Monday that it had purchased $1.5 billion worth of the cryptocurrency, as part of an initiative begun last month to invest in alternative assets such as digital currencies and gold bullion. It added that it expected to begin accepting Bitcoin as a form of payment “in the near future”.
Tesla said it held $19.4 billion in cash and equivalents as of December 31. Other companies, including the payments processor Square and the business intelligence software provider MicroStrategy, have publicly said they were investing corporate cash in Bitcoin. Tesla is perhaps the most prominent company to do so. The carmaker’s chief executive, Elon Musk, is known for promoting cryptocurrencies on his widely followed Twitter feed. Most recently, he has cheered on Dogecoin, a digital token begun as a joke but whose price has soared after encouragement by Musk. Bitcoin reached a record after Tesla’s announcement, rising more than 10 per cent in Monday morning trading to above $44,000 per coin. Analysts said the announcements could help accelerate a move for bitcoin towards the mainstream that has seen both Paypal, also co-founded by Musk, and huge global money manager BlackRock move to accept the currency. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||S. K. Todi passes away||Shravan Todi, one of the few industrialists who made it big during the two-decade long tenure of Jyoti Basu as the chief minister of Bengal, breathed his last on Monday. He was 77. Like many of his ilk from the Marwari community who made this state their home and seat of business, Todi moved to Bengal during his childhood and studied here and in Dacca where he honed his skill in the family business of glass and enamel. When the war broke out in 1965, Todi left Bangladesh to permanently settle down in Calcutta. During this turbulent time, he came in contact with Basu, which led to a relation of mutual trust and fellowship which remained till the iconic Left leader died in 2010. Even though Todi started his business with Bengal Tools Ltd in the 70s, set up in Dumdum, and expanded the family’s hire purchase business — later sold to Magma — and an engineering company, he was most widely known for his involvement in real estate. Having had the knack of spotting land parcels and getting it converted for the purpose of housing despite the stifling rules and regulations during the Left rule, Todi co-promoted some of the most well known city developments such as South City and Urbana. At the behest of Basu, Todi also took over ailing Niramoy Polyclinic at Dhakuria and set up AMRI Hospital there. He had to spend over four months in custody when a fire killed over 70 patients at the hospital in 2011, angering chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He has left behind a Rs 1,000-crore Shrachi empire which is now looked after by his sons, Ravi and Rahul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||Future can proceed with deal with Reliance: Delhi High Court||A division bench of the Delhi high court on Monday stayed an earlier order of a single judge of the high court that directed Future Retail Ltd (FRL) and other authorities to maintain status quo on its
Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. The bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh passed the interim direction on FRL’s appeal challenging the February 2 order of the single judge. The division bench said  statutory authorities such as  the National Company Law Tribunal, CCI and Sebi cannot be restrained from proceeding  with the deal. The bench also declined Amazon’s request to keep its order in abeyance for a week so that it can explore appropriate remedies. However, the court said its order would not come in the way of the order of a single judge bench of the Delhi high court. It may be recalled that last week, Justice J.R. Midha of the Delhi high court had directed FRL to maintain status quo in relation to the transaction with Reliance Retail which was objected by Amazon.com Inc. “This Court is satisfied that immediate orders are necessary to protect the rights of the petitioner (Amazon) till the pronouncement of the reserved order. In view of the matter, the respondents are directed to maintain status quo as on today at 4:50pm till the pronouncement of the reserved order,” the judge had said in the February 2 order while reserving its order on the main petition. It also directed all other concerned authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matters which are in violation of the emergency award and to file status report with regard to the present status within 10 days. During the hearing on Monday, senior advocate for FRL Harish Salve told the court that  Amazon’s claims to salvage the Indian company was “humbug”. Amazon, represented by senior advocates Gopal Subramanium and Rajiv Nayar, said FRL’s appeal against the single judge order of February 2 was not maintainable. They also argued that the October 25, 2020 Emergency Arbitrator (EA) order by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) was a valid award and enforceable. The EA order had restrained FRL from proceeding with the deal with Reliance Retail. Salve said that if Amazon wanted to salvage FRL, it could have easily invested Rs 25,000 crore which was “peanuts” for the US e-commerce giant. He said that Amazon keeps saying it wanted to and wants to help FRL, but it was all “humbug” as it did not take any steps to do so. He also argued that the EA order was not valid as an earlier single judge order of December last year had held that there was no arbitration agreement between FRL and Amazon. FRL had earlier told the high court that Amazon was opposing the deal with Reliance as the Mukesh Ambani firm was a competitor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||RBI announces Rs 20,000-crore open market operation to buy government securities||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday rushed to cool down bond yields by announcing a Rs 20,000-crore open market operation (OMO) to buy government securities. Yields had climbed above 6 per cent after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a higher than expected government borrowing programme of Rs 12 lakh crore even as the central bank failed to release the borrowing calender of the government in its monetary policy last week. At an auction on Friday, the central bank could sell only Rs 9,000 crore of bonds against Rs 31,000 crore on offer with the primary dealers or underwriters forced to pick up Rs 8,810 crore. The markets were demanding higher yields, which did not find favour with the RBI. It did lead to questions whether the RBI would be able to seamlessly manage the government's mammoth borrowing programme. However, some of the market’s apprehensions were put to rest on Monday as the central bank announced the Rs 20,000-crore OMO to support the government’s additional supply of bonds. The markets expect the apex bank to announce more such auctions. In OMO, the RBI buys government securities and injects liquidity into the markets “On a review of current liquidity and financial conditions, therefore, the Reserve Bank has decided to conduct purchase of Government securities under Open Market Operations (OMO) for an aggregate amount of Rs 20,000 crore on February 10,’’ the central bank said on Monday. The RBI will purchase 6.18 per cent Government Security 2024, 7.17 per cent 2028, 5.77 per cent 2030 and 6.19 per cent 2034 paper.
The announcement led to yields on the benchmark 10 year paper cooling down to 6.03 per cent against the previous close of 6.07 per cent. Speaking to The Telegraph, Ashhish Vaidya, head of treasury at DBS Bank, said there was an appetite for government bonds but only at a particular price. He said even if the RBI was successful in keeping a lid on interest rates for some time, it could bounce back with a vengeance. He said there was a need for an alternative source of demand for government paper. The RBI has allowed retail purchase of government bonds but this should be accompanied by tax breaks as was done elsewhere, he said. Yields had shot up to 6.06 per cent after the budget forecast a 9.5 per cent fiscal deficit for 2021-22 and 6.5 per cent for the next year. On Friday the yields on 10-year paper shot up further to 6.14 per cent intra-day when the RBI announced the normalisation of CRR. The yields later fell to 6.07 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
09-02-2021||Business||BSE benchmark Sensex rallies 617.14 points, closes above 51000-mark||The BSE benchmark Sensex rallied 617.14 points, or 1.22 per cent, to close above the 51000-mark for the first time on Monday as the market capitalisation of BSE listed companies at around Rs 202 lakh crore exceeded the nominal GDP of Rs 194.82 lakh crore forecast for the fiscal by India’s National Statistical Office. The Sensex had closed above 50000 for the first time just four sessions ago on February 3. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 191.55 points, or 1.28 per cent, to its lifetime closing high of 15115.80. It touched an intra-day record of 15159.90. A persistently bullish trend in the global markets further bolstered risk appetite, traders said. After touching a lifetime high of 51523.38 during the day, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 617.14 points, or 1.22 per cent, higher at its record closing peak of 51348.77. Mahindra and Mahindra (M&M) was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring 7.23 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid, Infosys and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, HUL, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, ITC, Bajaj Auto and Sun Pharma closed in the red, dropping up to 1.43 per cent. “Strong global cues supported the domestic rally. PSU Banks, which were on a bull run, paused on Monday with some correction seen in FMCGs. “The overall market is maintaining its buoyancy with a rally in all sectors especially auto, IT and metals. Improved domestic outlook is encouraging sustained FPI inflows,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Sector-wise, BSE auto, metals, industrials, telecom, utilities and tech indices rallied as much as 3.07 per cent, while the FMCG index closed with losses. In the broader markets, the BSE midcap and smallcap indices rose up to 1.53 per cent. Global shares marched to record highs on hopes that US President Joe Biden’s $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief package will be passed by lawmakers soon. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with significant gains, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude crossed the $60 per barrel mark after more than a year on improving demand prospects. The rupee dropped 4 paise to close at 72.97 against the US currency on Monday because of a strong dollar sentiment and dollar buying by importers. However, sustained foreign fund inflows and strong gains in equity markets restricted the rupee’s fall, traders said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
