10-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally lower after choppy trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally lower after a choppy session on Wednesday amid profit-taking in recent gainers, despite a largely positive trend in global markets. After swinging 666.64 points, the 30-share BSE Sensex settled 19.69 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 51,309.39. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 2.80 points or 0.02 per cent to 15,106.50. HDFC Bank, Bharti Airtel, Axis Bank, Nestle India, ONGC, L&T and SBI and were among the laggards in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, M&M, Bajaj Finance, Titan and TCS were among the gainers. According to traders, investors used the higher levels as an opportunity to book profits through the day, keeping the benchmarks volatile. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.23 per cent higher at USD 61.36 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
10-02-2021||Business||SBI research predicts Indian economy to contract by 7 per cent in Financial Year 2021||Pencilling in a GDP growth in third and fourth quarters, SBI Research on Wednesday revised its contraction forecast for the current fiscal year to 7 per cent. The agency had earlier forecast a 7.4 per cent contraction in 2020-21 GDP numbers. In April-September, the economy contracted 15.7 per cent but the second half may see a surprise 2.8 per cent growth, if the SBI analysis turns out to be correct. Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at State Bank of India (SBI) said of the 41 high frequency leading indicators, 51 per cent are showing acceleration which should help the economy turn around to the green from the third quarter with a 0.3 percentage point growth which is likely to surprise positively when the final numbers are out. In April-June, the Indian economy contracted by a record 23.9 per cent, but dramatically improved to -7.5 per cent in the second quarter. In 2019-20, the economy had grown 4 per cent and in the current fiscal year, it is on course to tank by 7 per cent. The consensus is -7.5-8 per cent with the NSO pegging it at -7 per cent and RBI at -7.5 per cent. "We now expect GDP decline for the full year to be around -7 per cent compared to our earlier prediction of 7.4 per cent. Also, Q4 growth will also be in positive territory at around 2.5 per cent, Ghosh said, adding promptly that the projections are conditional to the absence of any rise in infections. "We retain our GDP forecast for FY22 at 11 per cent (RBI has pegged it at 10.5 per cent and the economy survey at 11.5 per cent and the budget did not offer a GDP estimate), but with the caveat that 11 per cent will be the floor below which it cannot fall," he said. Corporate results so far also reinstate the fact that third quarter would be much better than the previous one. The corporate GVA of 1,129 companies has expanded by 14.7 per cent in October-December compared to 8.6 per cent in second quarter (of 3,758 companies ex- telecom) On the fiscal gaps, it said 9.5 per cent may be on the higher side. Excluding off-balance sheet liabilities, fiscal deficit will be 8.7 per cent gross tax collection estimate based on revised 2020-21 numbers and collections till December show tax collections will have a degrowth of 8.9 per cent in March quarter on a sequential basis. But in 2021-22 collection may top the budget estimate of Rs 22.17 lakh crore, or 9.9 per cent of GDP. Meanwhile, cash balances of the Centre has declined from the peak Rs 3.4 lakh crore to around Rs 2.3 lakh crore as on February 8. Given that 85-90 per cent of such cash balances belonged to states that was invested with the Centre, it is possible that states before the closing of accounts of 2020-21 want to spend the cash rather than preserving.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
10-02-2021||Business||Calcutta, Haldia among 12 major ports to get more autonomy ||The Parliament on Wednesday passed a bill that seeks to provide greater autonomy in decision-making to 12 major ports in the country and professionalise their governance by setting up boards. The Major Ports Authority Bill, 2020 was passed through ballot votes with 84 in favour and 44 against it in the Rajya Sabha. The Lok Sabha had on September 23, 2020 passed the bill. Allaying fears of members, Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Mansukh Mandaviya categorically said it was not intended towards privatisation of major ports and rather aimed at boosting their decision-making powers in order to compete with private ports. The bill aims to provide for regulation, operation and planning of major ports in India and to vest the administration, control and management of such ports upon the boards of major port authorities and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto, be taken into consideration. Taking a strong objection to some members remarks that it would result in ruining of the ports, the Minister said rather it would turn them into world-class ports and enable the board to take a decision on their own. In terms of volume, 70 per cent of cargo movement is through ports while 90 per cent in value terms. India has 12 major ports -- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Marmugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V O Chidambarnar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia). These together had handled 705 million tonnes (MT) of cargo in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
10-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in early trade on Wednesday tracking gains in index-heavyweight stocks like Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and TCS, amid largely positive trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund inflow. After opening on a choppy note, the 30-share BSE index was trading 108.91 points or 0.21 per cent higher at 51,437.99. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 39.45 points or 0.26 per cent to 15,148.75. UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finance, HCL Tech and Reliance Industries were among the gainers in the Sensex pack, rising up to 2 per cent. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Axis Bank, L&T, HDFC Bank and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 19.69 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 51,329.08, and Nifty slipped 6.50 points or 0.04 per cent to 15,109.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,300.65 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be good at the moment. A sharp recovery of FPIs flow post the announcement of Union Budget augured well for the markets. On the global front, US equities finished mostly lower after six consecutive sessions of gain. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.28 per cent lower at USD 61.05 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
10-02-2021||Business||Government plans to introduce bill on cryptocurrencies soon||The government plans to come out with a bill to deal with cryptocurrencies as regulatory bodies Reserve Bank of India and Securities and Exchange Board of India do not have the legal framework to deal with them. Minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that the bill on cryptocurrencies is being finalised and will be sent to the cabinet soon. Cryptocurrencies are digital or virtual currencies in which encryption techniques are used to regulate the generation of their units and verify the transfer of funds, operating independently of a central bank. The cryptocurrencies are not currencies, or securities or commodities. The current laws are inadequate to deal with them. Regulators Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Sebi do not have the framework to regulate cryptocurrencies,” he said. Globally, there are different definitions of cryptocurrencies, which have been adopted by international bodies, he said.” “The RBI also took initiative and banned cryptocurrencies. Based on all this, reports were submitted and the government has prepared a bill, which will be tabled in Parliament soon,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Future group files caveat petition in Supreme Court against any Amazon move||The Future group on Tuesday filed a caveat petition before the Supreme Court requesting it be heard if any plea is filed by Amazon. A caveat is filed by a litigant to ensure no adverse order is passed against the party without it being heard. Sources close to the Future group confirmed this development. On Monday, a division bench of the Delhi high court stayed an earlier order of a single judge asking Future Retail Ltd (FRL) and other statutory authorities to maintain status-quo with regard to the Rs 24,713- crore deal between the Future group and Reliance Retail. Following the order, the possibility of Amazon challenging the judgment in the apex court has not been ruled out. The bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh had passed the interim direction on FRL’s appeal challenging the February 2 order of a single judge. It added that statutory authorities, like the National Company Law Tribunal, CCI and Sebi cannot be restrained from proceeding in accordance with the law on the deal. The bench also declined Amazon’s request to keep its order in abeyance for a week so that it can explore appropriate remedies. Shares of FRL on Tuesday settled nearly 10 per cent higher at Rs 80.50 on the BSE. The Future Enterprises scrip was locked in the upper circuit filter at Rs 11.78 while Future Consumer closed 9.63 per cent higher at Rs 8.65. Last month, Amazon had filed a petition in the Delhi High Court seeking enforcement of the interim order of the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that had restrained FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||InterGlobe Aviation settles corporate governance case with Sebi||InterGlobe Aviation, the parent of budget carrier IndiGo, has settled a case with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), which alleged that the company violated corporate governance norms. InterGlobe Aviation paid Rs 2.10 crore without admission or denial of guilt. This came after the company filed a consent application with the market regulator. Rakesh Gangwal, co-founder and director of Interglobe Aviation, had written to Sebi alleging violation of corporate governance norms and related party transactions between the company and IGE Group — comprising co-founder Rahul Bhatia and his affiliates — which holds 38 per cent in IndiGo. Gangwal had also alleged misrepresentation by the company in its red herring prospectus of October 16, 2015. Based on its investigation, Sebi issued a showcasue notice on November 10, 2020. Pending adjudicating proceedings, the company proposed to settle the matter without admitting or denying the findings of fact and conclusions of law through a settlement order and filed a settlement application with Sebi on December 23, 2020. The settlement terms were placed before a panel on January 25, which considered the facts of the case, the settlement terms offered by the applicant and other material made available by Sebi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Government to issue regulations on OTT and digital content: Prakash Javadekar||The government will soon issue guidelines for regulation of OTT (over the top) platforms that will address issues such as sensitive content, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Replying to a Zero Hour mention, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said a lot of suggestions and complaints on the regulation of OTT platforms have been received. “Guidelines and direction are almost ready. It will be soon implemented,” he said in his brief submission. Earlier, raising the issue through a Zero Hour mention, Mahesh Poddar of the BJP said the content and language on OTT platforms was discriminatory and offensive. Controversial content on OTT platforms includes sexual discrimination and abusive language, he said adding that the government should, without delay, implement the internet regulations. There are at least 40 OTT platforms, including global ones such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and HotStar (Disney Plus), and hundreds of news content websites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||iPhone maker Wistron to restart operations at Karnataka plant||Shut since December following violence owing to labour unrest at its Karnataka facility, Wistron, Taiwanese contract manufacturer for Apple Inc, said on Tuesday its operations here will start soon as the state government asserted it was ready to extend all co-operation. “We are looking forward to restarting our operations and welcoming back team members,” David Shen, CEO Wistron Smart Devices, said in a statement. He said since the violent incident at their Narasapura facility in Kolar district in December last year, the company has been working hard on improving across the board to raise standards and fix the issues. “All employees have been promptly and fully paid, and we implemented new hiring and payroll systems to ensure everyone is paid correctly and provided the correct documentation going forward,” Shen added. The company official said Wistron will be delivering enhanced training programmes to all workers. According to him, the management has put in a place a new system for workers to get information and raise any concerns they may have, anonymously. While thanking the employees for their patience and support, Shen said the firm has worked through corrective actions. Karnataka labour minister A. Shivaram Hebbar told PTI company officials were willing to start their operations from February 15. “There may be delay of a day or two in resuming their operations but they are serious about it,” Hebbar said. He assured the company that the Karnataka government was ready to extend all co-operation to ensure that the manufacturing facility starts. “It is not just about Wistron but our support is to everyone who is willing to set up an industry in Karnataka,” Hebbar added. Over 4,000 employees on contract went on a rampage over non-payment of their wages. The company had sacked its vice president overseeing its business in India, as it admitted that some workers were not paid correctly or on time, and offered an apology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Finance minister says markets keep up positive pace for a whole week||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said markets for the first time had kept up the positive pace for a whole week. “Earlier markets being positive and going up for a few hours or a day would itself be a good message. All aspects of the market have seen the budget with positivity and kept the spirit up for a whole week. It’s not just a 1 or 2 per cent increase in performance. I understand there is an 11 per cent increase,” she said. She was speaking at a session organised by Indian Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Govt lowers the period of reopening an assessment case||The government has lowered the period of reopening an assessment case to ensure greater compliance and build an environment of trust with the tax men, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Tuesday. Finance ministry  officials said the budget decision to reduce the reopening of an old assessment case to three years from six despite hesitancy from authorities had been made possible by advances in technology as more information gets collected from third parties. For serious cases of evasion where there is evidence of concealment of Rs 50 lakh or more in a year, the assessment can be reopened after 10 years and that too with the approval of the principal chief commissioner of income tax. Speaking at a session organised by Indian Chamber of Commerce on Tuesday, the finance minister said that the intent of the government has been to simplify the compliance for the tax payers and build trust between the tax authority and assessees. “A step which I must say in the presence of the finance secretary..a step which entire CBDT and CBIC would normally hesitantly say yes to, they have readily said yes to collapse the time for keeping the option open for opening up an assessess’s account. The intent is not to bother the regular taxpayer,” said Sitharaman. According to the finance ministry, due to the advancement of technology, the income tax department is now collecting all relevant information related to transactions of taxpayers from third parties under section 285BA of Income Tax Act. Information is also received from other law enforcement agencies. The department uses this information to verify declaration of tax payers and detect non filers . Sitharaman said the budget had shown the direction in which the government wants to spend. It has also adopted a policy driven approach to stay away from the areas where it does not want to be in the first place. This information driven assessment has brought about the opportunity to rationalise various provisions of the Income Tax Act and make it more friendly for the taxpayers. Sitharaman said the budget had shown the direction in which the government wants to spend. It hs also adopted a policy driven approach to stay away from the areas where it does not want to be in the first place. Members attending the event sought government intervention towards the rising steel prices and employment intensive tourism sector that has been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Investors find time ripe to book profits  ||Benchmark indices on Tuesday took a break after a six session rally as profit booking saw the Sensex and the Nifty ending marginally lower in the day. Profit booking took place in mutual funds also as the segment witnessed outflows for the seventh month running in January. Mutual fund investors withdrew over Rs 9,253 crore last month compared with Rs 10,147 crore in the previous month, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed on Tuesday. “January 2021 saw measured maturity-driven redemptions led by smart, goal-based investing and the desire to book profits with equity indices reaching all-time high,’’N S Venkatesh, chief executive, Amfi said. He, however, added that inflows continued through the SIP route as reflected from the rising number of new registrations coupled with robust monthly SIP contribution. The total number of SIP accounts stood at 3,55,90,736 a rise of 8,78,314 over the previous month. In addition, investors pulled out Rs 33,409 crore from debt mutual funds in January after investing Rs 13,863 crore in December 2020. Overall, the mutual fund industry witnessed a net outflow of Rs 35,586 crore across all segments during the period under review, against inflows of Rs 2,968 crore seen in December on investment from hybrid and other schemes. At the bourses, the 30-share Sensex again touched a record intra-day high of 51835.86. However, profit booking saw the index surrendering all its gains to close 19.69 points lower at 51329.08. At the NSE, the broader NSE Nifty dropped 6.50 points or 0.04 per cent to 15109.30. It touched a record peak of 15257.10 during the day. Experts said  with key events like the Union Budget and the monetary policy out of the way, equities could see volatility amid concerns of expensive valuations. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, falling 3.62 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, ITC, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finserv and TCS. Asian Paints, ONGC, Titan, L&T, Axis Bank and UltraTech Cement gained, by climbing up to 3.70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Tata Steel reports 4.3 times jump in profit after tax||Tata Steel reported a 4.3 times jump in profit after tax and earned its highest ever consolidated EBIDTA in the third quarter on the back of an unprecedented price of the alloy in the domestic market, overshadowing a sustained weak performance of the European business. Taking full advantage of the upside from captive iron ore mines and a strong bounceback in demand after the pandemic-led disruption, the company’s Indian operation performed brilliantly, helping it to reduce net debt by Rs 10,325 crore in the the third quarter alone, topping up on Rs 8,258 crore in the first six months. It has guided to reduce gross debt by Rs 12,000 crore further in the fourth quarter. Profit after tax of the India operation, which includes key subsidiaries Tata Steel BSL and Tata Steel Long Products, was Rs 4,832 crore  compared with Rs 1,194 crore in the same period last fiscal. On a sequential basis, the profit jumped 2.4 per cent from Rs 2,606 crore reported in the second quarter. On a consolidated basis, which includes installed capacity of 10 million tonne in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, profit stood at Rs 3,989 crore compared with a loss of Rs 1,166 crore in the same period last fiscal and profit of Rs 1,635 crore in the second quarter of this fiscal. Turnover of the company, however, went up by 18.3 per cent to Rs 25,211 crore in Q3 compared with Rs 21,299 crore in the same period last year. On a consolidated basis, the turnover went up by 11.4 per cent to Rs 39,594 crore from Rs 35,520 crore a year ago. Deliveries from the India business fell marginally to 4.65 million tonne (mt) from 4.85mt a year ago because of lower inventory at the beginning of the quarter. It stood at 7.2mt compared with 6.99mt in Q3 of 2019-20 on a consolidated basis. The EBIDTA in the third quarter, reflecting the underlying business performance, stood at Rs 8,811 crore, enabling Rs 18,931 EBIDTA per tonne for the India business. The robust performance allowed the company to restart key capital expenditure in Kalinganagar, Odisha. “Given the strong market  conditions and our success with deleveraging, we have restarted work on the pellet plant and the cold rolling mill complex at Kalinganagar which will help in reducing costs and improving revenues,” said T.V. Narendran, managing director and CEO of Tata Steel. The company said it was looking to explore a ‘strategic solution’ after talks with SSAB for sale of the Netherlands business fell through last month. Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO of Tata Steel, said the company’s credit matrix has improved significantly, surpassing the annual deleveraging target of $1 billion. “We continued to aggressively reduce our net debt by Rs 10,325 crore and gross debt by Rs 5,640 crore during the quarter, taking the nine month reduction in net debt by Rs 18,609 crore ($2.55billion) and gross debt by Rs 7,649 crore.” Adani Ports Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) on Tuesday reported a 16.22 per cent increase in its consolidated profit to Rs 1,576.53 crore for the December quarter of 2020. The company had clocked a consolidated profit of Rs 1,356.43 crore a year ago, the company said in a regulatory filing to the BSE. Its total consolidated income increased to Rs 4,274.79 crore in the third quarter from Rs 3,830.43 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
10-02-2021||Business||Retro tax rush blunts court verdicts||The fine print of the budget shows the government resorting to retrospective provisions to overturn judicial pronouncements in the areas of slump sale, goodwill and the income adjustment of charitable trusts. Finance Bill 2021 has widened the scope of slump sale to include all transfers thereby making them taxable even as an appeal is pending in the Supreme Court.  Slump sale is defined as “the transfer of one or more undertakings as a result of sale for lump sum consideration without value being assigned to individual assets and liabilities”. Madras High Court relying on an earlier decision of Bombay High Court had recently held the transfer of an undertaking for a non-monetary consideration is not ‘‘slump sale’’ and not chargeable to tax. If there is no monetary consideration involved in the transaction, the court said, the transaction may be regarded as an ‘‘exchange’’ and not ‘‘sale’’. Accordingly, it would be not possible for the tax department to bring such transactions under the ambit of ‘‘slump sale’’. The Centre believes in several cases ‘‘sale’’ may be disguised as a ‘‘transfer’’ and may be covered under the existing definition of slump sale. As a result, it has widened the definition of transfers covered by the term slump sale to include all transfers from April 1, 2021. “It is proposed to amend the scope of the definition of the term ‘slump sale’ by amending the provision of clause (42c) of section 2 of the Act so that all types of ‘transfer’ as defined in clause (47) of section 2 of the Act are included within its scope,” the memorandum explaining the finance bill said. Goodwill The budget has stopped companies from claiming depreciation on goodwill. Overturning the effect of a Supreme Court judgment, the government has “decided to propose goodwill of a business or profession will not be considered as  depreciable asset and there would not be any depreciation on goodwill of a business or profession in any situation”. This has big implications for mergers and acquisitions where a business is acquired for a sum greater than the value of assets of the business with the excess sum being treated as goodwill. Deepak Joshi, taxation expert, said “there used to be a controversy regarding whether this acquired goodwill is a depreciable asset for tax purposes. This controversy was resolved in favour of taxpayers by the Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs Smifs Securities Ltd. wherein it was held that ‘Goodwill’ is an asset on which the benefit of depreciation can be claimed. “ “With a view to overrule this decision, Budget 2021 now proposes to amend section 32. Hence, goodwill shall no longer be a depreciable asset.” “The amendment seeks to overcome judgements of multiple courts, including the Supreme Court …..impacts not just internal group restructurings but also business acquisitions,” Hitesh Gajaria, senior partner at KPMG India said. Trusts The bill proposes to overturn a Supreme Court verdict which had allowed income by charitable trusts to be carried forward and adjusted against income of the subsequent year. The new explanation proviso in the budget said “clarify in both clause (23C) of section 10 and section 11 that for the computation of income required to be applied or accumulated during the previous year, no set off or deduction or allowance of any excess application, of any of the year preceding the previous year, shall be allowed”. “Supreme Court in the case of CIT(E) vs Subros Educational Society case held that any excess expenditure incurred by the concerned charitable trust in an earlier assessment year could be allowed to be set off against income earned in subsequent years,” Mayank Mohanka, founder director TaxAaram India said. The amendments appear to undermine former finance Arun Jaitley’s assertion in 2014 that the NDA  “would not bring about any change retrospectively which creates a fresh liability”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
