11-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 222 points to fresh closing high||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 222 points to end at its new closing record on Thursday, propelled by gains in index major Reliance Industries amid positive global cues. After trading on a choppy note, the 30-share BSE index settled 222.13 points or 0.43 per cent higher at 51,531.52. In similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 66.80 points or 0.44 per cent to its all-time high of 15,173.30. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, PowerGrid, Bajaj Finance, Nestle India and HCL Tech. On the other hand, Titan, L&T, ONGC, HDFC Bank and ITC were among the laggards. Domestic equities traded in a range bound manner, while benchmark indices managed to record modest gains towards the end of the session mainly supported by sharp up-move in Reliance Industries, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Market looks to be fatigued at current levels after seeing sharp rally post the announcement of union budget," he noted. Most sectoral indices traded sideways and a pullback was seen in PSU Banks. Notably, volatility index softened sharply. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.67 per cent lower at USD 61.06 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in opening trade on Thursday largely tracking gains in index-heavyweight Reliance Industries and a positive trend in global markets. After opening on a negative note, the 30-share BSE index reversed all losses to trade 133.94 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 51,175.45. In a similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 41.55 points or 0.28 per cent to 15,148.05. Bharti Airtel, Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance and SBI were among the top gainers in the Sensex pack, rising up to 2 per cent. On the other hand, Titan, HDFC, Infosys, ONGC, ITC, Maruti and ICICI Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 19.69 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 51,309.39, and Nifty slipped 2.80 points or 0.02 per cent to 15,106.50. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,786.97 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. On the global front, US equities ended mixed with Dow Jones scaling at new highs. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.63 per cent lower at USD 61.08 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||Utsav Parekh joins Eveready Industries Ltd board ||Prominent stock broker and businessman Utsav Parekh has joined the board of Eveready Industries Ltd (EIL) even as the largest shareholder of the company, the Burman family of Dabur, remains outside. Parekh, who holds around 4.08 per cent stake in battery maker EIL, joined the board as a non-executive and non-independent director, along with Sourav Bhagat, a partner with solicitor firm Fox & Mandal, who came in as an independent director. Sources said Parekh was approached by the EIL promoters, the Khaitan family, to join the board. “It is a long association I have with them (Khaitans). I was on the board of McLeod Russel and McNally Bharat earlier,” Parekh said this evening. The board level changes took place at a time promoter holding in the company has slid below 5 per cent on the back of persistent sale of pledged shares. In contrast, the Burman family has around 20 per cent stake in the company but no board representation yet. The Khaitans had borrowed heavily to save engineering firm McNally Bharat by keeping the EIL shares as collateral. When they defaulted in payment and the stock price tumbled, financiers sold the shares to cover their losses. The board rejig also comes at a time Eveready is likely to record the highest profit in a year on the back of a strong demand for alkaline batteries, lower Chinese imports and benign raw material prices. The company’s net profit stood at Rs 50.43 crore in the third quarter compared with Rs 90.60 crore a year ago, which included exceptional gain from the sale of Chennai land for Rs 89.55 crore. Amritanshu Khaitan, managing director of the company, noted that it has so far been the best nine months in the company’s history. “Our operating EBIDTA is at 20.1 per cent compared with 11.3 per cent during Q3 of last fiscal,” he said. While the lighting business turned profitable this quarter, the appliances division halved losses. The solid operational performance along with the presence of the Burman family as the largest shareholder rubbed on the stock of EIL, which touched a 52-week high of Rs 245 on Wednesday before closing at Rs 240.30 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||State Bank of India achieves milestone of Rs 5 lakh crore in home loan segment||State Bank of India (SBI) is eyeing an ambitious growth in its home loan book after having achieved the milestone of Rs 5 lakh crore of such loans. The country’s largest lender is looking to double this number to Rs 10 lakh crore in five years. While the bank had entered the home loan segment in 2004, its real estate and housing business unit (REHBU) had clocked Rs 89,000 crore in assets under management (AUM) in 2011. Since then, the unit has grown five times in the last 10 years to now touch Rs 5 lakh crore. SBI became the market leader in the home loan segment in 2013-14. Despite a massive setback to the real estate sector triggered by the pandemic-induced lockdown, the home loan vertical registered strong growth even in December 2020 with the highest sourcing, sanctions, disbursements and growth. The bank is now targeting a home loan AUM of Rs 7 lakh crore by 2023-24. Bank of India Transmission of policy rates has hit the net interest income of Bank of India which shrunk 9.23 per cent during the October-December quarter of 2020-21 to Rs 3,739 crore from Rs 4,119 crore in the year-ago period. However, lower provisioning for bad loans helped the bank’s bottomline to jump five-fold to Rs 526 crore against Rs 106 crore a year ago. “We passed on about 60 basis points as policy rate transmission, while we passed on only 38 basis points in weighted deposit rates. Because deposit repricing takes longer, that affected the net interest income,” said A.K. Das, MD and CEO of Bank of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||Ambuja Neotia to develop two projects in Batanagar township||Ambuja Neotia Group has taken up a 20 acre- land inside the Batanagar township to develop two projects spread over 4 million square feet, signalling further consolidation in the city’s real estate space. Ambuja will act as the development management partner for the twin projects, one of which will be on the banks of the river Hooghly and the other will be facing a golf course. The land for the project belongs to Highland Group which purchased the 262-acre plot from Bata India Ltd in 2006. In the last one-and-a-half decade, it has been able to build 6 million square feet of residential properties so far. According to the broad contours of the agreement, Ambuja will build and sell the project under its brand name while Highland Group will earn a share of the revenue. Along the golf course, Ambuja will develop 12 residential towers (G+13) comprising 2,000 units in 2 & 3 BHK configurations. Harshavardhan Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Neotia Group, said: “This association will give us an excellent opportunity to do another sizable project in the fast-growing affordable housing segment.’’ The transaction also marked the second such deal for Anarock Property Consultants. “With the flyover operational and the Majherhat bridge ready, connectivity with Calcutta has improved significantly,” Nandu Kishinchand Belani, director of Highland, added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||Exporters raise concerns on certain budget proposals||Exporters on Wednesday raised concerns on certain budget proposals which they called as “harsh and draconian” as they gave the authorities the power to seize goods. A sub-section is proposed to be inserted in Section 113 of the Customs Act, which states that goods would be liable for confiscation if there is a ‘‘wrongful claim’’ of refund of any duty or tax in contravention of the provisions of the Customs Act. ‘‘The word ‘wrongful claim’ is subject to various interpretations and will put exporters at the mercy of field formations,” said S. K. Saraf, president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations. Saraf also said the Finance Bill has withdrawn the facility of payment of Integrated GST for exporters which would affect their working capital. Engineering goods The country’s engineering exports have increased 18.69 per cent in January and demand for such products is expected to be steady in the remaining two months of the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
11-02-2021||Business||Hindalco Industries net profit jumps 77% in Q3||Hindalco Industries on Wednesday reported a 76.74 per cent growth in consolidated profit after tax (PAT) at Rs 1,877 crore during the quarter ended December 2020 compared with Rs 1,062 crore a year ago. The strong third quarter is due to a robust performance by Novelis and the domestic aluminium business, which was supported by higher volumes and a better product mix, Hindalco Industries managing director Satish Pai told reporters. GAIL net up 19% State-owned gas utility GAIL (India) Ltd has reported a 19 per cent rise in December quarter net profit after an uptick in petrochemical margin more than neutralised the losses in gas marketing. The net profit stood at Rs 1,487.33 crore in the October-December quarter against Rs 1,250.65 crore a year back. The petrochemical business swung into black with a pre-tax profit of Rs 434.08 crore even as natural gas marketing went into the red with a loss of Rs 73.70 crore. SpiceJet loss narrows Budget carrier SpiceJet has reported a standalone loss of Rs 56.95 crore for the three months ended December 2020 against a profit of Rs 73.22 crore in the year-ago period. The airline had reported a loss of Rs 112.6 crore in the second quarter of the current fiscal. Kesoram posts profit Kesoram Industries Ltd has posted a profit after tax of Rs 53.41-crore on a consolidated basis in the third quarter, swinging back from the losses of Rs 102.42 crore recorded in the same period last year. The total income of the company also increased to Rs 734.03 crore from Rs 644.72 crore recorded in the third quarter of the last fiscal. The profit represents a one-time gain of Rs 42.24 crore from the reversal of income tax provision. The company said it was in the final stages of debt resolution, which would release pressure on the working capital requirement, once completed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
11-02-2021||Business||Adar Poonawalla to acquire controlling stake in Magma Fincorp Ltd||Vaccine king Adar Poonawalla is acquiring a controlling stake in Magma Fincorp Ltd (MFL). Poonawalla’s Rising Sun Holdings will hold 60 per cent in Magma Fincorp following a preferential issue of Rs 3,206 crore. Magma will also make a preferential issue of 1.7 crore shares each to Sanjay Chamria and Mayank Poddar. Chamria and family and Mayank Poddar and family are the members of the promoters and promoter group of the company. The promoters held 24.39 per cent stake in Magma Fincorp at the end of December. Post the preferential allotment, Rising Sun Holdings will have 60 per cent in Magma Fincorp, while Chamria and Poddar will hold 2.34 per cent each. In a late evening announcement, Magma Fincorp said that it would allot 45.8 crore shares to Rising Sun Holdings and 3.5 crore shares to Chamria and Poddar at a price of Rs 70 per share, aggregating Rs 3,456 crore and subject to shareholders’ and other regulatory approvals. It represents 64.68 per cent of MFL’s enhanced equity share capital. After the allotment, the existing promoter group stake would get reduced to 13.3 per cent. Following the preferential issue, Rising Sun Holdings would be classified as a promoter of Magma Fincorp. MFL and its subsidiaries will be renamed and rebranded under the brand name "Poonawalla Finance", subject to regulatory approvals. The existing financial services business of Poonawalla Finance will be consolidated into Magma Fincorp subject to compliance with current regulations. The board of Magma Fincorp will also be reconstituted with Rising Sun Holdings proposing to nominate Poonawalla as the chairman of the company and Abhay Bhutada,  managing director & CEO of Poonawalla Finance, as managing director. However, Chamria would continue as the executive vice-chairman of the board. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, Magma Fincorp said an open offer would also be undertaken by Rising Sun Holdings, Mayank Poddar and Sanjay Chamria. The company is planning to hold a shareholder meeting to the preferential allotment March 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
11-02-2021||Business||Rajya Sabha passes Major Ports Authority Bill, 2020||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed the Major Ports Authority Bill, 2020, amidst strong opposition. The bill seeks to provide greater autonomy to 12 major ports in the country and make their governance more professional by setting up boards. The bill was passed through ballot votes with 84 in favour and 44 against it in the Rajya Sabha. The Lok Sabha had on September 23, 2020, passed the bill. Allaying the fears of members, the minister of ports, shipping and waterways, Mansukh Mandaviya, said
the passage of the bill was not intended towards privatising the major ports but was rather aimed at boosting their decision-making powers to compete with their private peers. Various opposition parties, including the Congress, TMC, RJD, DMK, AAP, CPI(M) and CPI, raised objections to the bill in the Upper House of Parliament and alleged that it was aimed at privatising the ports and diluting the powers of the states on land use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
11-02-2021||Business||Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) valuation exercise to begin shortly||The much anticipated initial public offering (IPO) of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), which is expected in the third quarter of the next financial year, is making headway with the valuation exercise set to begin shortly. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced an IPO of the country’s largest life insurer in last year’s budget. However,  the Covid-19 pandemic adversely hit these plans. “In 2021-22, we would also bring the IPO of LIC for which I am bringing the requisite amendments in this session itself,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said while announcing the Union Budget for 2021-22. The budget has estimated that the government will rake in Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sales in PSUs.
On Tuesday, LIC managing director Mukesh Gupta reportedly said the valuation exercise by the selected actuary will commence soon. This is a key step before the IPO. Last year, the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) had said  LIC needs to develop an Indian embedded value reporting framework for necessary disclosures for the IPO. It had then issued a request for proposal to seek bids from actuarial firms. Embedded value is a valuation measure used to estimate the consolidated value of shareholders’ interest in an insurance company. While there has been a lot of speculation, conservative estimates say the government could raise upto Rs 1 lakh crore from the offering. The latest development comes amid a huge 45 per cent drop in the insurer’s individual annual premium equivalent (APE) in January, which capped the industry growth at 8 per cent for the month. APE is a measure of new business of a life insurance company. It is computed as the sum of annualised first year premiums on regular premium policies, and 10 per cent of single premium policies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
11-02-2021||Business||Cairn CEO Simon Thomson plans to meet Nirmala Sitharaman||Cairn Energy Plc CEO Simon Thomson plans to meet finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman next week to press the Modi government to honour a $1.4-billion arbitration payout to the Scottish company. Finance ministry officials said Sitharman had not given Thomson any appointment time yet. “Cairn Energy CEO Simon Thomson is looking forward to meeting the Government of India finance minister in Delhi next week,” the company tweeted with a video of the chief executive urging a swift payout of the tax verdict. “The arbitration is now finalised and the award has been given and we would request along with the others, that the Indian government moves swiftly to adhere to the award that has been given,” Thomson said in the video address. He said the payout would send out an  important message to Cairn’s shareholders, “who are global financial institutions and who want to see a positive investment climate in India”. “I’m sure that in working together with the government, we can swiftly draw this to a conclusion, and reassure those investors as to the positive investment climate that India offers,” said Thomson in the video.
Edinburgh-based Cairn had written to the Centre last month  saying it would be forced to seize the Indian government’s assets if New Delhi failed to pay it $1.4 billion after losing a bitter dispute over retrospective taxes. An international tribunal had in December unanimously ruled that India violated its obligations under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty in 2014, when the income tax department slapped a Rs 10,247-crore assessment using legislation that gave it powers to levy taxes retrospectively. The revenue authorities had charged Cairn for not paying tax on alleged capital gains made by the company from a reorganisation of its Indian businesses prior to its listing in 2006-07. The government then proceeded to seize Cairn’s residual 10 per cent stake in Cairn India. In a ruling that Cairn had previously described as “final and binding”, a Dutch tribunal ordered the Indian government to pay $1.2 billion in damages plus interest and costs to compensate Cairn for the shares long sold off by the tax department as well as for confiscating dividends and withholding tax refunds. This totals $1.4 billion. The Cairn CEO is seeking the meeting with the finance minister to understand the Indian government’s response to the arbitration award. Its shareholders have been egging the management to take action to get the money back. The 582-page verdict was handed down a month and a half ago. Even though it was directed to make the payment immediately, the government has given no indication of whether it will honour the award. Earlier this week, minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur had told the Lok Sabha that the Cairn arbitration award was “under consideration” of the government. The government has appealed against a similar awared handed out to Vodafone in a Rs 22,000-crore retrospective tax demand case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
11-02-2021||Business||No excise duty relief plan from Centre to curb fuel prices||The Centre has refused to offer any relief to the public from soaring petrol and diesel prices in the form of an excise duty relief. Analysts said any excise duy cut would reduce the share of states in absolute terms from the central pool of taxes, especially after the budget manoeuvred a cut in the excise duty on petrol and diesel while imposing an agriculture infrastructure cess on them that left unscathed the final price but skewed the share of the fuel levy towards the Centre. “There is no such proposal at present,” oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said in the Rajya Sabha when asked if the government was looking at cutting taxes to cool off prices. Petrol and diesel prices on Wednesday scaled new highs in the country as rates were hiked for the second day in a row. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 25 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. International benchmark rates had plunged to decade lows in April. The government had hiked the excise duty on petrol by a record Rs 13 per litre and diesel Rs 16 a litre to mop up the gains arising from the fall in rates but did not cut taxes when the prices bounced back. Retail petrol price have risen Rs 18.01 per litre since mid-March 2020 and diesel rates have gone up Rs 15.44. “In the last 300 days, there have been around 60 days of increase in price (and) in around 7 days in petrol and 21 days in diesel we have decreased the price. And for almost 250 days we have not increased or decreased prices... So, it’s a misnomer to campaign in that way that it is all-time high,” he told the Rajya Sabha. “When the international price of crude oil is higher, we have to increase the prices and when the international price is lower, we have to decrease the prices here too. This is a market mechanism which is followed by oil marketing companies. We have given the freedom to them," he said during Question Hour.
The current rally in fuel prices is because crude oil prices have touched $61 per barrel mark for the first time in more than a year. NFL selloff The government will sell 20 per cent of its stake in National Fertilizers Ltd (NFL) through an offer for sale and has invited bids from merchant bankers for managing the share sale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
