12-02-2021||Business||Special court grants bail to former ICICI boss Chanda Kochhar||Former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar on Friday appeared before a court here in the alleged ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case, and was granted bail. It was the former banker's first appearance in the court. On January 30, the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) had summoned Chanda Kochhar, her husband Deepak, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot and other accused after taking cognisance of the charge sheet. Chanda Kochhar accordingly appeared before the special Judge A A Nandgaonkar. Her lawyers Vijay Agarwal and Rahul Agarwal sought bail for her, arguing that she had been cooperating with the Enforcement Directorate's probe and had visited the ED office in Delhi whenever summoned. The Central agency has never arrested her in the case, they pointed out. The judge granted her bail on a bond of Rs 5 lakh and directed that she should report to the ED office whenever required and not leave India without the court's permission. The court also asked her to surrender her passport to the ED immediately. "The applicant shall not tamper with the evidence or attempt to influence or contact the complainant, witnesses or any person concerned with the case," the order said. Deepak Kochhar, who is currently in judicial custody, was also produced before the court. Dhoot's lawyers said he did not remain present as he had not received the summons. A prosecution official said they tried to serve the summons to the industrialist, but could not do so as there was no male member present at his house to accept it. The ED arrested Deepak Kochhar in September 2020 after it filed a case for money laundering based on an FIR registered by the CBI against the Kochhar couple, Dhoot and others. The ED alleged that Rs 64 crore out of a loan of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee of ICICI Bank headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Limited was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL) on September 8, 2009, a day after the disbursement of loan. It is alleged that this was a quid-pro-quo for sanctioning the loan as NRPL was owned by Deepak Kochhar. Judge Nandgaonkar, while taking cognisance of the charge sheet, had observed that from the material presented by the ED, it appeared that Chanda Kochhar misused her official position in granting loan to Dhoot and Videocon group firms, and "got illegal gratification" through her husband. The material was sufficient to proceed with trial against the accused, the court had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||FM takes dig at Chidambaram, says budget aims to make India self-reliant||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the Budget is aimed at making India self-reliant and provides strong stimulus for medium to long term sustainable high growth. While replying to the discussion on the Budget 2021-22, the minister also attacked former finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram for suspecting the Budget numbers. She, however, did not mention his name. Stressing that the Budget is for Aatmanirbhar Bharat, she said, "attempt made in this Budget is to provide strong stimulus and provide such a stimulus which can bring in that kind of a multiplier effect...". "We are also looking at medium to long-term sustainable growth to keep India in that kind of growth trajectory which will maintain us as one of the fastest growing economies in the world," she said. With coronavirus pandemic affecting economic activities in the country, India's GDP growth is estimated to contract to a historic low of 7.7 per cent in the financial year ending March 2021. The economy is likely to pick up in the next fiscal and expand by about 11 per cent, as per various estimates. Referring to Chidambaram's remark that major numbers are suspect in the Budget presented by her on February 1, Sitharaman said it was the Congress finance minister who had artificially increased capex numbers during 2007-08 when UPA was ruling the country. She said bonds were issued to oil marketing companies and fertilizer manufacturers in lieu of cash subsidies to "make the balance sheet attractive". "Fake narratives were created... Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not depend on fudging," she said. The finance minister also said that infrastructure creation, continuing reforms, and transparency of accounts are major features of this year's Budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Markets end flat after choppy trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended flat after choppy trade on Friday, tracking weak cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE Sensex gyrated 543.96 points before closing 12.78 points or 0.02 per cent higher at its new closing record of 51,544.30. The broader NSE Nifty, however, slipped 10 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,163.30. ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Infosys, HDFC twins, Bajaj Finserv and SBI. On the other hand, ITC, ONGC, Sun Pharma, Bharti Airtel and Titan were among the laggards. According to Anand James, Chief Market Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, risk appetite trickled down and equities pared gains with several cities across globe entering fresh lockdowns. "Indian equities were in the green in the first half with Bank Nifty rising over 1 per cent, but VIX rose in the second half, and traders opted cut down long bets across sectors, going into the weekend," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, most bourses remained closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.72 per cent lower at USD 60.70 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points in opening trade on Friday tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank amid persistent foreign fund inflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 141.75 points or 0.28 per cent higher at 51,673.27, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 36.50 points or 0.24 per cent to 15,209.80. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech, HDFC Bank, TCS and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, ITC, ONGC, Bharti Airtel, SBI and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 222.13 points or 0.43 per cent higher at its new closing peak of 51,531.52, and Nifty advanced 66.80 points or 0.44 per cent to its all-time high of 15,173.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 944.36 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be soft at the moment. Benchmark indices remained upbeat and continued to ride post the announcement of Union Budget, which was also supported by a sharp recovery in FPIs flow," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US equities finished mostly higher mainly on growing expectations of higher fiscal stimulus after weaker-than-expected Jobless claim data. Elsewhere in Asia, most bourses remained closed on account of the Lunar New Year and other holidays. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.62 per cent lower at USD 60.76 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Data leak worry after Koo’s coup||The founders of homegrown microblogging site Koo spent much of the last couple of days managing two challenges: first burnishing its ‘Indian’ credentials while dispelling any concerns over its Chinese funding links, and second ensuring the platform is robust enough to deal with the influx of new users as ministers and bureaucrats clamber on to it along with their followers after the Modi government’s latest standoff with Twitter. Koo co-founder Aprameya Radhakrishna, who earlier founded online cab booking service TaxiForSure, has revealed that the funding of parent company Bombinate Technologies Pvt Ltd largely came from Indian investors. The $4.1 million series A funding round announced last week was led by former Infosys veteran Mohandas Pai’s 3One4 Capital which joins other investors such as Accel, Kalaari Capital, Blume Ventures and Dream Incubator. According to data from Crunchbase, Bombinate Technologies had raised a series A funding in 2018 for Vokal, an application that allows questions to be asked and answered in Indian languages. That round of funding of $5 million had a Chinese investor: Shunwei Capital, which will now exit the company, says Radhakrishna. “Koo is an India registered company with Indian founders. Raised earlier capital 2.5 years ago. Latest funds for Bombinate Technologies is led by a truly Indian investor 3One4Capital. Shunwei (single digit shareholder) which had invested in our Vokal journey will be exiting fully,” he said in a tweet. But Koo has already become embroiled in controversy after ethical hacker Elliot Anderson revealed on Twitter that the platform was exposing sensitive information of its users including email address, date of birth, marital status, gender etc. There have also been concerns about whether its servers are based out of India. Radhakrishnan has vigorously countered the criticism in a series of tweets. “The data visible is something the user has voluntarily shown on their profile of Koo. It cannot be termed a data leak. If you visit a user profile, you can see it anyway,” he said. Radhakrishna also posted a screenshot of its domain information to assert that the company is registered in India and its servers are located in the country. The company has already built a 3 million user base and is looking to raise it 10-fold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Coal India net profit declines 21% in Q3||State-owned CIL on Thursday reported a 21.3 per cent fall in consolidated net profit at Rs 3,085.39 crore for the quarter ended December 31, 2020.  The company had posted a net profit of Rs 3,923.87 crore in the corresponding period a year ago. Income during October-December 2020-21 slipped marginally to Rs 24,334.62 crore from Rs 24,602.19 crore in the year-ago period. CIL’s production during the quarter under review increased to 156.78 million tonnes (mt) from 147.50mt in the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year. Coal India accounts for over 80 per cent of domestic output. The company said its board has given approval for the incorporation of two wholly owned subsidiaries, one for solar value chain (ingot-wafercell-module) business vertical and another for new and renewable energy. CIL will also pump in over Rs 1.22 lakh crore in projects related to coal evacuation, exploration and clean coal technologies by 2023-24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||ITC posts 11% fall in profit after tax in Q3||ITC has posted an 11.4 per cent decline in profit after tax in the third quarter at Rs 3,587.09 crore, down from Rs 4,050.4 crore recorded in the same period last year. Total income, however, went up 5.1 per cent to Rs 14,670.17 crore from Rs 13,960.5 crore. The company declared an interim dividend of Rs 5 per share of face value Re 1. Sequentially, however, ITC did better in terms of profit and income. Profits were up by 5.1 per cent, while total income was up 6.8 per cent. Cigarette, the mainstay of the company’s business, showed higher revenues both sequentially and year-on-year basis. However, the profit before tax was down year-on-year to Rs 3,658.65 crore but was up on a quarter-on-quarter basis. The non-cigarette FMCG business recorded a revenue and PBT growth year-on-year but they were down quarter-on-quarter. Losses from the hotels business, which were severely affected by the pandemic, came down sequentially.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Air fares set to rise as govt increases cap by up to 30% ||Air fares are set to go up after the Centre on Thursday announced higher minimum and maximum fares by 10-30 per cent. The cap has been extended till March. The increase is in the region of 10 per cent for a one-way fare at the minimum fare level for a flight of less than 40 minutes to about 30 per cent for a maximum fare for a flight of between 180 minutes to 210 minutes. The new fares will take effect from Thursday. Flights between cities that are under 40 minutes have been classified under Section 1, while those under 40-60 minutes are under Section 2. Section 3 consists of destinations 60-90 minutes apart by flight, Section 4 comprises cities 90-120 minutes apart, Section 5 consists of cities 120-150 minutes apart. Destinations between 150-180 minutes and 180-210 minutes have been classified under Section 6 and 7, respectively. The fresh lower and upper limits set by the ministry for these bands were: Rs 2,800 - Rs 9,800; Rs 3,300 – Rs 11,700; Rs 3,900 – Rs 13,000; Rs 5,000 – Rs 16,900; Rs 6,100 – Rs 20,400; Rs 7,200 – Rs 24,200, respectively. So far a flight from Delhi to Calcutta or Delhi to Mumbai for flights, which has duration of 90 to 120 minutes the lower fare cap has been increased to Rs 3,900 from Rs 3,500 whereas the cap on maximum chargeable fare has been increased to Rs 13,000 from Rs 10,000, officials said. They said the actual cost of a one-way ticket will be slightly higher as the passenger will have to bear the cost of User Development Fund, Security fee and GST. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the aviation ministry implemented a restriction on domestic airfare in May, 2020 to help both airlines and passengers from predatory pricing. Airlines have to make available 40 per cent of total seats in an aircraft at less than the mid-point price between the highest and lowest fares, aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola earlier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
12-02-2021||Business||Magma Fincorp to focus on small loans||Adar Poonawalla, set to acquire Magma Fincorp (MFL), on Thursday said the deal had caused a change in his plans for the finance sector: Poonawalla Finance his current non-banking finance company (NBFC) will cease to exist while MFL will focus on small loans . On Wednesday, Rising Sun Holdings Pvt Ltd, a company controlled by Poonawalla and MFL, had announced a preferential issue which will lead to Rising Sun Holdings have a controlling 60 per cent in MFL. Consequent to the allotment, the existing promoter group stake would get reduced to 13.3 per cent even as the net worth of MFL will increase to over Rs 6,300 crore. Magma Fincorp and its subsidiaries will also be renamed and rebranded as Poonawalla Finance, subject to regulatory approvals. Subsequent to the completion of the preferential allotment, the existing financial services business of Poonawalla Finance will be consolidated into Magma Fincorp. The stock markets on Thursday gave a thumbs up to the development, with the Magma Fincorp stock rising almost 10 per cent to end at Rs 93.40 on the BSE. Speaking to a business television channel, Poonawalla said while Poonawalla Finance (which began operations two years ago) provides personal loans and to the SME segments, they plan to surrender the lending license even as MFL will don the Poonawalla Finance brand name. “Post the ILFS crisis, Magma Fincorp had been struggling to raise money from capital markets and their dependence on bank borrowings had been consistently increasing. Moreover, the volatile trends in asset quality (especially in vehicle finance) had kept the profitability under consistent pressure. This transaction would strengthen Magma’s overall capital position and would allow the company to realign its business as desired’’, analysts at Emkay said in a note. The board of Magma Fincorp will also be reconstituted with Rising Sun Holdings proposing to nominate Poonawalla as the Chairman of the company and Abhay Bhutada, presently Managing Director & CEO of Poonawalla Finance, as Managing Director. However, Sanjay Chamria would continue as the Executive Vice Chairman of the Board. An open offer will also be made by Rising Sun Holdings, Mayank Poddar and Sanjay Chamria to whom preferential allotment is being made. Magma Fincorp will allot 45,80,00,000 shares to Rising Sun Holdings, and 3,57,14,286 shares to Chamria and Poddar at a price of Rs 70 per share. The open offer will be made at the same price. Commenting on the development, analysts at ICICI Securities said that Magma Fincorp has been at the receiving end of the liquidity crisis when risk aversion of banks and debt investors was at its peak, though it was gradually coming out of it. Backing of a strong corporate group with substantial fund infusion will likely have a positive impact on its credit ratings and contain the cost of funds, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
12-02-2021||Business||Sun Pharmaceutical settles whistleblower complaint with Sebi||Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd and its founder Dilip Shanghvi have settled a whistleblower complaint with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) alleging diversion of funds through the company’s sole distributor. Sun Pharma has paid a settlement amount of Rs 56.1 lakh, Shanghvi has paid Rs 62.35 lakh. Other top executives of the company that included chief financial officer- Uday Baldota (Rs 24.65 lakh), whole time directors Kalyanasundaram Subramanian (Rs 36.9 lakh), Sailesh T. Desai (Rs 37.41 lakh) and Sudhir V. Valia (Rs 37.41 lakh) have also settled the case without admission or denial of guilt before the capital market regulator. Whistleblower complaints were made against the country’s largest drug maker and its wholly owned subsidiary, Sun Pharmaceutical Laboratories Ltd, alleging that they had been diverting funds through Aditya Medisales Ltd (AML), its sole distributor in India. It was also alleged that transactions with AML were going on for several years. However, AML was disclosed as a related party of Sun Pharma only in 2017-18. Sebi said it observed during the investigation that AML was a related party of Sun Pharma. even before the scheme of amalgamation between two companies. However, the relevant compliance pertaining to related parties, as required under Sebi LODR (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements), were not made by Sun Pharma with regard to AML. According to SEBI, prior approval of the audit committee for transactions with AML, as required under the LODR Regulations, 2015, was not obtained. Further, considering that the transactions with AML would have qualified as material related party transactions, it required approval of shareholders under regulation 23(4) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, which was not obtained. The market regulator also said that disclosure of related party transactions with AML in the Annual Reports for 2015-16 and 2016-17, as required under regulation 34(3) read with schedule V of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, was not made. Due to this, it was observed that Sun Pharma had violated regulation 23(2), 23(4) and 34(3) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 SEBI was satisfied that there are sufficient grounds to inquire into the affairs and adjudicate upon the alleged aforesaid violations. The competent authority,vide order datedMarch 02, 2020. The market regulator added that since a company acts through its board of directors and the directors are responsible for all the acts of omission and commission by the company and therefore Shanghvi and the other key executives were in charge of operations and decision making process, and therefore, they had violated LODR provisions. SEBI however, pointed out that in terms of Regulation 28 of the Settlement Regulations, it has the right to take any enforcement action including restoring or initiating the proceedings with regard to the settlement order if any representation made by the applicants in the settlement proceedings are subsequently discovered to be untrue or they breach any of the clauses or conditions filed during the settlement proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
12-02-2021||Business||Aditya Mittal becomes new chief executive officer of ArcelorMittal||Aditya Mittal has been elevated as the new chief executive officer of ArcelorMittal, signalling a transition at the top leadership of the world’s leading steelmaker. Prior to this position, Mittal was the chief financial officer and the president of the company, while his father Lakshmi Niwas Mittal was the CEO and the chairman. After the reshuffle, L. N. Mittal, who founded the company in 1976, will adorn the role of the executive chairman. ArcelorMittal said he would continue to lead the board of directors and work together with the CEO and the management team. Genuino Christino, who was the head of finance, will succeed Aditya as the CFO. The day-to-day operation of ArcelorMittal, which has a presence in 60 countries, including India, will be run by Aditya, who has been spearheading the company’s mergers and acquisitions, the core strength on which the $53.3-billion empire has been built. Born in 1976, Aditya joined his father at Ispat International in 1997 and oversaw the IPO of Ispat. He subsequently became the head of M&A. As the CFO of LNM Holdings, he led the combination of Ispat International with LNM to form Mittal Steel, of which he became the CFO. He identified the opportunity of combining Arcelor and Mittal Steel and led the merger offer which culminated in the creation of ArcelorMittal in 2006. Aditya also spearheaded the acquisition of Essar Steel in partnership with Nippon Steel of Japan in 2019. He is now the chairman of the company renamed as AM/NS India. “This seems like the right moment to transition to executive chairman and the board unanimously agree that Aditya Mittal is the natural and right choice to be the company’s chief executive. We have worked closely together since he joined the company in 1997, indeed in the recent years we have been managing the company together,” L. N. Mittal, 70, said in a statement. Born in the Churu district of Rajasthan, he studied in St Xavier’s College on Park Street in Calcutta before heading towards Indonesia to build a rolling mill, marking the journey which catapulted LNM to the top of the steel world. Better show ArcelorMittal on Thursday posted a net income of $1.2 billion for the quarter ended December 2020 against a net loss of $1.8 billion in the year-ago quarter. For the whole of 2020, it reported a net loss of $733 million against a net income of $2.4 billion in 2019. ArcelorMittal follows a January to December fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
12-02-2021||Business||Amazon challenges court order staying restriction of Future-Reliance deal||Amazon Inc on Thursday challenged an order of the division bench of the Delhi high court that had stayed an earlier order of the same court directing Future Retail Ltd (FRL) and other statutory authorities to maintain status quo on the Kishore Biyani company’s Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. In its special leave petition, expected to come up for hearing on Monday, Amazon has said the division bench order of February 8 was being passed “hastily” and was “unsustainable in law” since it did not even wait for the verdict of an order from the single judge of the same court that was reserved on February 2. The Delhi high court should not even have entertained the appeal filed by FRL against the single judge’s order, Amazon said. The US online giant argued the appeal was barred under Section 37 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. Pleading if the division bench order was not set aside by the apex court, it would cause “irreparable loss”, Amazon said the bench had “… failed to appreciate that the single judge order was issued… for the limited purpose of preserving the rights of the parties till the pronouncement of the final orders”. But without waiting for the pronouncement of the final order, the division bench had “hastily passed” the status quo order, Amazon has contended. Earlier on February 8, the bench of  Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh had ruled that statutory authorities such as the National Company Law Tribunal, CCI and Sebi cannot be restrained from proceeding with the deal. On February 2, the single judge bench of  Justice J.R. Midha had directed FRL to maintain status quo vis-a-vis  Reliance Retail after Amazon Inc challenged the deal between FRL and Reliance Retail. “This Court is satisfied that immediate orders are necessary to protect the rights of the petitioner (Amazon) till the pronouncement of the reserved order. In view of the matter, the respondents are directed to maintain status quo as on today at 4:50pm till the pronouncement of the reserved order,” the judge had said in the February 2 order while reserving its order on the main petition. It also directed all other concerned authorities to maintain status quo in relation to the matters which are in violation of the emergency award and to file a  report with regard to the present status within 10 days. Aggrieved, FRL filed the appeal before a division bench which stayed the single judge order. Future Retail on Tuesday had filed a caveat in the Supreme Court demanding the company be heard if Amazon files a case in the apex court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
