13-02-2021||Business||Lufthansa lays off 103 Indian flight attendants||Lufthansa has terminated the services of 103 India-based flight attendants after they allegedly sought “job assurance” from the management while the German airlines group had offered them leave without pay option for two years, sources close to the developments said. These employees had been working on a fixed-term contract with the airline and some of them were with the carrier for more than 15 years, the sources added. In a statement to PTI, a Lufthansa spokesperson said that severe financial impact of the coronavirus pandemic leaves it with no choice but to restructure the airline and as part of that “it will not be extending the fixed-term employment contracts of its Delhi-based flight attendants”. The sources, however, alleged that Lufthansa terminated the services of 103 Delhi-based flight attendants on fixed-term contracts overnight, without serving any prior notice to them, citing the coronavirus pandemic. “These terminations happened overnight without giving any prior notice. Some of these terminated people had been employed for nearly 15 years,” according to the sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||SC confirms e-voting validity for winding up of six mutual fund schemes of Franklin Templeton||The Supreme Court on Friday upheld the validity of the e-voting process for the winding up of six mutual fund schemes of Franklin Templeton and said the disbursal of the funds to the unit holders will continue. This came when a division bench of Justice S A Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna rejected the opposition by some unit holders to the e-voting process. The bench said that the disbursal of funds had to be done according to the earlier order of the apex court. It may be recalled that on February 2, the Supreme Court had ordered that Rs 9,121.59 crore be disbursed within three weeks to the unit holders of Franklin Templeton’s six mutual fund schemes. It had said that disbursal of money would be done in proportion to unit holders’ interest in the assets. The apex court had then entrusted SBI Funds Management Pvt Ltd to disburse the money. The six schemes are Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. Following this, Franklin Templeton said in a letter addressed to investors of the six shut debt schemes that payments to all investors whose accounts are KYC compliant with all details available will be made from the week beginning February 15. Of the Rs 9121.59 crore that will be distributed to unit holders in proportion to their holdings, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund will receive Rs 5,075.39 crore while Franklin India Low Duration Fund will get Rs 1,625.36 crore. Similarly, Franklin India Short Term Income Fund will receive Rs 469.24 crore, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund Rs 926.15 crore and Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund fund Rs 1,025.45 crore. Earlier, the apex court had asked the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to appoint an observer for overseeing the e-voting process. The e-voting with regard to the winding up of the fund house’ six mutual fund schemes had taken place in the last week of December and it was approved by a majority of unit holders. On January 25, the apex court had said that it would first deal with the issues related to objection to the e-voting process for winding up of the six mutual fund schemes and distribution of money to the unit holders. Prior to this, it had granted three days for filing of objections to the e-voting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||ArcelorMittal to reduce 20 per cent corporate office employees by 2022||Global steel giant ArcelorMittal has announced a $1-billion fixed cost-reduction programme under which the company would be reducing 20 per cent of its corporate office employees by 2022. ArcelorMittal is the world’s leading steel and mining company, with presence in 60 countries and steel making facilities in 17 countries. It employs around 190,000 people. In an update for the October-December quarter of 2020 and full year 2020, ArcelorMittal said the $1-billion structural fixed cost-reduction plan aims to maintain competitiveness in the post Covid-19 environment. The plan includes 20 per cent reduction in corporate office headcount, reducing contactors, reallocation of resources etc, the company said. At the onset of the pandemic, a fundamental part of the company’s response was to align costs to the lower activity level. The measures taken to “variabilise” fixed costs were critical to protecting profitability and cash flows. Throughout this period, the company sought to identify and develop options for structural cost improvements to appropriately position the fixed cost base for the post-Covid operating environment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Grasim Industries net profit jumps to Rs 2,152.33 cr in Q3||Aditya Birla Group firm Grasim Industries on Friday reported an over two-fold jump in its consolidated net profit to Rs 2,152.33 crore for the third quarter ended December 31. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,039.82 crore during the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal, Grasim Industries said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations during October-December 2020 rose 12.72 per cent to Rs 20,986.35 crore from Rs 18,616.76 crore a year ago. “Key businesses outperform pre-Covid-19 operational levels, leveraging the synergy of a conglomerate and the energy of focused businesses,” said Grasim Industries in its earning statement. The firm’s total expenses were at Rs 18,278.75 crore in the third quarter of 2020-21, up 4.81 per cent against Rs 17,439.19 crore a year ago. Revenue of Grasim Industries from viscose-pulp, viscose staple fibre and filament yarn segments was down 2.20 per cent to Rs 2,145.14 crore, against Rs 2,193.55 crore. Bosch net declines Auto component major Bosch’s consolidated net profit declined by 3.24 per cent to Rs 184.15 crore for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 190.33 crore in the October-December period of 2019-20. Revenue from operations increased to Rs 3,029.64 crore against Rs 2,536.64 crore in the year-ago period. “The sales figure for the festive season in the last quarter was better than anticipated, especially in the tractor and passenger automotive segments. However, the volatilities in the supply chain continued to disrupt growth,” Bosch Ltd managing director Soumitra Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Bengal sets target to double state's textile industry to Rs 70,000 in five years||Bengal finance and industries minister Amit Mitra on Friday estimated Bengal’s textile sector potential at Rs 70,000 crore over the next five years from Rs 35,000 crore now. The minister also estimated the state’s export potential at 10 per cent of national exports, significantly higher than the current level of 2.7 per cent. The growth can be supported through a combination of infrastructure in the form of textile parks — both existing and upcoming projects at Nungi and Budge Budge — and through state support in the form of interest subvention and marketing. Addressing a session on the textile sector supported by industry body Ficci, Mitra said Bengal has core competencies in five areas — hosiery, handloom, ready made garments, powerlooms and silk. He added that the industry department was also exploring whether a continuous polymerisation plant can be set up in Bengal. “Potential in exports is much more than what we have achieved so far. Our export is relatively small at 2.7 per cent share of India’s export. This is because we produce a lot but for the domestic market. Can we set a target of 10 per cent in next 3-5 years?” Mitra said. He added that the textile sector in the state was valued at Rs 35,000 crore. “I am setting a target of a minimum of Rs 65,000 crore to Rs 70,000 crore within the next 3-5 years,” he said. On the hosiery industry, Mitra said that the state has 2,500 knitting machines and employs around 2 lakh people. This can go up to 10,000 knitting machines. “You need to tell us where you want us to invest. You want promotional work, we can do that. You want us to network with the countries, we are ready to do that,” Mitra said. On readymade garments Mitra said that the number of manufacturing hubs can be scaled up from 30 to 60 and production and employment can be doubled. The state has 3 lakh handlooms and employs around 7 lakh people. There was a need for a design centre inclusive of handloom products that can penetrate the global markets. The state has also offered 4 per cent interest subvention for 1 lakh handloom weavers and there is potential to double the numbers, Mitra said. WBIDC chairman Rajiva Sinha said the private sector has to play a crucial role along with the government to achieve the proposed targets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar gets bail in money laundering case||Chanda Kochhar, the former CEO and MD of ICICI Bank, was on Friday granted bail by a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court here in connection with the ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. The special court for PMLA had last month summoned Kochhar, her husband Deepak Kochhar, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot and others accused in the case after taking cognisance of the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) chargesheet. Accordingly, Chanda Kochhar appeared before special court judge A. A. Nandgoankar. After her appearance, her lawyer Vijay Agarwal filed her bail application. A PTI report said the court allowed the same on a bond of Rs 5 lakh. The ED had arrested her husband Deepak Kochhar in September 2020 after it filed a criminal case for money laundering against the Kochhars, Dhoot and others. Earlier this month, the special court had held that the material submitted by the ED is sufficient to proceed with a trial for money laundering against Chanda Kochhar and others. “After going through the submissions, it appears that Chanda Kochhar had misused her official position in granting loan to accused Dhoot and/or Videocon group companies.... And (it appears) she got illegal gratification through her husband through various companies for siphoning off money,” the judge had said. The ED had earlier alleged that Rs 64 crore out of a loan of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee of ICICI Bank headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Ltd was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd by Videocon on September 8, 2009, a day after the disbursement of loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Future moves NCLT for approval to hold shareholders meeting||The Future group has moved an application in the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking its approval to hold a meeting of its shareholders on the proposed deal with Reliance Retail. At a hearing on Monday, the NCLT reserved the order on the application even as it asked the Future group and Amazon to file their submissions. The development comes after a division bench of the Delhi high court stayed the operation, implementation and execution of a February 2 ad interim status quo order given by a single judge bench till the next date of its hearing. Amazon had challenged the order of the division bench in the Supreme Court. In its special leave petition, which is expected to come up for hearing on Monday, Amazon has said the division bench order had been passed “hastily” and was “unsustainable in law” since it did not even wait for the verdict of an order from the single judge of the same court that was reserved on February 2. The Future group has filed the application with the NCLT under Section 230-232 of the Companies Act, 2013 seeking its approval to hold the shareholders meet for a scheme of amalgamation. The Reliance group has also reportedly filed  an application seeking the NCLT’s green signal to the deal. Amazon has objected to the NCLT application and said cases were pending in the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court. Last month, Amazon had approached the Delhi high court seeking the enforcement of an interim order of the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that restrained Future Retail from going ahead with the deal with Reliance. The US e-commerce giant had earlier dragged Future Group to arbitration at the SIAC arguing the latter had violated their contract by entering into a deal with rival Reliance. In August 2020, the Future group had agreed to sell its retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units to Reliance Retail for Rs 24,713 crore. Amazon Pantry Amazon will merge two sections catering to the daily needs of customers in its online ordering platform to provide a seamless offering to customers at a faster clip, intensifying battle with other online grocers such as Bigbasket and Grofers. The Pantry section, catering to dry grocery items and a range of daily need products within the FMCG basket, will be rolled into the Fresh platform, which offers fruits, vegetables, meat and other perishable food items, in four cities to begin with. It will be subsequently rolled out in all the cities where Amazon operates the Fresh segment, including Calcutta. Customers of Bangalore, Delhi, Ahmedabad and Mysore will experience the new merged platform which promises delivery in two hours. Under the Fresh platform, customers can opt for 2-hour delivery or choose a convenient 2-hour slots from 6AM to midnight. All customers get free scheduled 2-hour delivery on all orders over Rs 600. Orders below this threshold attract a delivery fee of Rs 29, which compares favourably with Rs 40 of Bigbasket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Industrial production grows 1 per cent in December ||Industrial production grew 1 per cent in December, entering the positive territory after a month’s gap, mainly because of better performance of the manufacturing sector, official data showed on Friday. The manufacturing sector — which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the index of industrial production (IIP) — recorded a growth of 1.6 per cent in December 2020, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Mining sector output declined by 4.8 per cent in December 2020. However, power generation grew 5.1 per cent. The index had grown by 0.4 per cent in December 2019. The industrial production had plunged 18.7 per cent in March last year following the Covid-19 outbreak and remained in the negative zone till August 2020. With the resumption of economic activities, factory output posted growth of 1 per cent in September. The IIP had grown by 4.2 per cent in October. In November 2020, the factory output contracted by 2.1 per cent, a tad higher than the provisional estimates of 1.9 per cent decline. The government had imposed a lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 infections on March 25, 2020. With the gradual relaxation of restrictions, there has been a relative improvement in the economic activities by varying degrees as well as in data reporting, the ministry of statistics and programme implementation had said in a statement issued in November. The ministry had also given a disclaimer that it may not be appropriate to compare the IIP in the post-pandemic months with the data for the months preceding the Covid-19 outbreak. The manufacturing sector had recorded a contraction of 0.3 per cent in December 2019. Mining sector output increased by 5.7 per cent, but electricity generation shrank by 0.1 per cent in December 2019. The output of capital goods, which is a barometer of investment, rose by 0.6 per cent in December 2020 against a contraction of 18.3 per cent. Consumer durables output surged by 4.9 per cent, compared to 5.6 per cent contraction in December 2019. Consumer non-durable goods production grew by 2 per cent compared with a contraction of 3.2 per cent a year ago. The IIP for the April-December period has contracted by 13.5 per cent, according to the data. It had registered a flat growth of 0.3 per cent during the same period last fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
13-02-2021||Business||Inflation slows to 16-month low of 4.06 per cent in January||Retail inflation eased to a 16-month low of 4.06 per cent in January mainly on account of softening of food and vegetable prices, government data showed on Friday. It is for the second consecutive month that retail inflation based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) has remained within the target range of the RBI, which is 4 per cent (+/-2 per cent). Retail inflation stood at 4.59 per cent in December 2020 and 7.59 per cent in January 2020. The previous low for retail inflation was in September 2019 at 4 per cent. The rate of price rise in the food basket was 1.89 per cent in January this year, significantly down from 3.41 per cent in December, revealed the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). “Driven by a fairly broad-based moderation in the food inflation, the CPI inflation in January 2021 softened appreciably to a 16-month low... “Food prices have displayed a mixed trend so far in February 2021. The rise in onion prices as well as higher crude oil prices and their transmission into retail fuel prices are areas of concern that need to be monitored,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist, ICRA. Vegetable prices declined further during the month with a negative inflation print of 15.84 per cent, while that of pulses and products eased to 13.39 per cent. Inflation in vegetable was (-)10.41 per cent and pulses and products at 15.98 per cent in the preceding month (December 2020). Likewise, protein rich 'meat and fish', eggs and 'milk and products' witnessed softening of inflation at 12.54 per cent, 12.85 per cent and 2.73 per cent, respectively. The rate of price rise in 'fuel and light' category, however, picked up to 3.87 per cent as against 2.99 per cent. Nayar also said in an uncomfortable trend, many of the non-food categories recorded a rise in inflation in January 2021, with inflation expected to resume an uptrend in February-March 2021. “We do not think that today's softer-than-anticipated print creates the room for an imminent rate cut. If the pace of growth in Q4 FY2021 exceeds the prevailing tepid expectations, the stance may be revised to neutral in the June 2021 MPC review,” she opined. Earlier this month, the Reserve Bank lowered the retail inflation projection for the ongoing quarter of this fiscal at 5.2 per cent, saying it has returned within the “tolerance band”. The regulator expects retail inflation to be around 5.2-5 per cent in the first half of next fiscal year before easing further to 4.3 per cent in Q3 FY22. “The inflation rate has come well below the RBI's threshold rate, and this actually gives some relief to the markets on the immediate trajectory of interest rates. However, core inflation is perched at 5.70 per cent, something that may take more time to move down,” said Joseph Thomas, Head of Research - Emkay Wealth Management. Deepak Agarwal, co-founder, Moneyboxx Finance Ltd, said with inflation falling for the second consecutive month and hovering within the RBI range, the softer rate regime would continue in the near future. This will help in faster and sustained economic recovery, he added. Sreejith Balasubramanian, Economist - Fund Management, IDFC AMC, said going forward, the base effect which helped recent lower prints will wane in February and March and the magnitude of disinflation in vegetables would also most likely ease, while the price movement in pulses and vegetable oils needs to be watched closely. The RBI mainly factors in the retail inflation while arriving at its monetary policy. The government has mandated the central bank to ensure the inflation remains at 4 per cent, with a margin of 2 per cent on either side. Price data are collected from selected towns and selected villages by the Field Operations Division of NSO, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
13-02-2021||Business||PM Kisan allocation reduced as one state govt failed to provide beneficiary list to Centre: Nirmala Sitharaman||A nettled finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday launched a blistering attack against the criticism of her budget but threw up some absurd claims during her long-winded expostulations, even suggesting that the Rs 10,000-crore reduction in the PM Kisan Saman Nidhi scheme was because “one state (read Bengal)” failed to provide a list of the beneficiaries to the Centre. “Approximately 69 lakh estimated farmers from West Bengal have not received any benefits under this scheme,” Sitharaman said as she tried to make out that the entire reduction of Rs 10,000 crore was on that account alone. “When the provision could not be utilised because their list was not even given to us, obviously, in the RE (revised estimate) the number will be different and the provisioning that we will make for the next year will also be dependent on it,” Sitharaman said in her reply to the budget discussion in the Rajya Sabha on Friday. She said Bengal had not shared the list of beneficiaries yet, which led to farmers in the state not getting covered under the scheme. The minister said Rs 1.15 lakh crore had been transferred to the bank accounts of 10.75 crore farmer families under the scheme since its inception in 2019-20. However, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has accused the Centre of not disbursing funds under the PM-Kisan scheme to peasants in the state despite the TMC administration having sent the verified names of farmers to it. The chief minister earlier this week informed the Bengal assembly that out of 6 lakh applications of farmers sent by the Centre for verification, the state government has returned 2.5 lakh names following necessary work. Amid tension in the borders with China and the Covid-19 pandemic, the focus was on the allocation to defence and health that came under sharp scrutiny from the Opposition benches. She said spending on defence has increased both on the revenue and capital side and there was a decline only in the provision for pensions under the one-rank-one-pension (OROP) scheme. “The allocation for defence pension is Rs 1,15,850 crore which is a fall from last year. This is because last year's number had a huge addition because of arrears, arising from court cases or queries on pension arrears which had been paid, which is one-time and that has got rationalised now.” Sitharaman justified including water and sanitation under the health budget that led to allocation under the head ballooning more than two-fold. She said the WHO had mandated that sanitisation be brought under healthcare. Actual allocation to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has gone up 9.6 per cent for next year and Ayush (alternative medicine) ministry by 40 per cent. Sitharaman said the budget has provided the highest capex growth of 34.5 per cent by providing more money to railways, roads and defence. Former finance secretary S.C. Garg in his blog has commented that the “increase in the capex provisions for FY20-21 is an optical illusion and for FY21-22 excessively optimistic and proforma.” “A closer scrutiny of capital expenditure of Railways for FY 2020-21 reveals large revenue expenditure disguised as capital expenditure which creates the optical illusion of higher capital expenditure in FY2020-21,”Garg added. The finance minister pointed to the transparency exercise in the budget. “We have brought everything on to the budgetary accounting mechanism. What you get as Budget is what is there in it; no pushing things under the carpet.” She said the fiscal deficit numbers — 6.8 per cent of GDP for the current fiscal and 9.5 per cent for next fiscal — are “what it is”. “We have not even hurried to say, ‘Okay, next year, we will quickly get the deficit number to something which all of us would like to see’. Not at all. We are going to be careful about how we are going to come down that path without affecting or creating any hurdle in the growth path of this country.” MNREGA under Congress was a "mess" with utilisation far less than budget provision, she said. The Modi government "removed ills out of the scheme and effectively utilised it". "I want a less emotional but more factual debate on MNREGA," she said, adding her government spent more than budgeted in the last six years. In the current 2020-21 fiscal that ends on March 31, Rs 61,500 crore was provided in the Budget but the provision was increased to Rs 90,469 crore in view of the support needed to help those in distress during the pandemic. The actual spending till now is Rs 90,469 crore, she said, adding for the next fiscal Rs 73,000 crore has been provided. While replying to the discussion on the Budget 2021-22, the minister also attacked former finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram for suspecting the Budget numbers. She, however, did not mention his name. Referring to Chidambaram's remark that major numbers are suspect in the Budget presented by her on February 1, Sitharaman said it was the Congress finance minister who had artificially increased capex numbers during 2007-08 when UPA was ruling the country. She said bonds were issued to oil marketing companies and fertilizer manufactures in lieu of cash subsidy to "make balance sheet attractive…..Fake narratives were created... Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not depend on fudging." “We have brought everything on to the budgetary accounting mechanism. What you get as Budget is what is there in it; no pushing things under the carpet,”Sitharaman said. Admittedly, the fiscal deficit number (projected at 9.5 per cent in 2020-21 and 6.8 per cent in 2021-22) is what it is. We have not even hurried to say, "Okay, next year, we will quickly get the deficit number to something which all of us would like to see. Not at all. We are going to be careful about how we are going to come down that path without affecting or creating any hurdle in the growth path of this country,” she said. Sitharaman said her Budget for 2021-22 has provided the highest capex growth of 34.5 per cent by providing more money to railways, roads and defence, and not Chidambaram’s. Former finance secretary SC Garg in his blog has commented that the “increase in the capex provisions for FY20-21 is optical illusion and for FY21-22 excessively optimistic and proforma.” Sitharaman in her budget speech, said a massive increase of 34.5 per cent in the capital expenditure budget estimates of year 2021-22 (BE21-22) to Rs. 5.54 lakh crore from Rs. 4.12 lakh crore in the budget estimates of 2020-21 (BE20-21). The revised estimates (RE20-21) of capital expenditure for the FY20-21 have also gone up to Rs. 4.39 lakh crore, recoding an increase of 6.55 per cent. In his detailed analysis he said provision for capital expenditure, in excess of Rs. 500 crore, has been made in the RE20-21 for 18 Ministries and Departments. Provision, in excess of Rs. 5,000 crore, has been made for 10 Ministries and Departments and, in excess of Rs. 50,000 crore for 3 Ministries and Departments. The three demands, Capital Outlay on Defence Services (Rs. 134,510 crore), Ministry of Railways (Rs. 108,398 crore) and Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (Rs. 92,053 crore) account for Rs. 334,961 crore of the capital expenditure, which is 76.3% of the total RE provision of Rs. 439,163 crore. “A closer scrutiny of capital expenditure of Railways for FY 2020-21, however, reveals large revenue expenditure disguised as capital expenditure which creates the optical illusion of higher capital expenditure in FY2020-21,”Garg added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
