14-02-2021||Business||Daimler man to be Tata Motors CEO||Tata Motors has appointed Marc Llistosella as its chief executive officer and managing director. He is the former president and CEO of Fuso Truck and Bus Corporation and head of Daimler Trucks in Asia. Llistosella, whose appointment will be with effect from July 1, 2021, will succeed Guenter Butschek, who has expressed his desire to relocate to Germany at the end of the contract for personal reasons, Tata Motors said. “I am delighted to welcome Marc to Tata Motors. Marc is an experienced automotive business leader with deep knowledge and expertise in commercial vehicles over his illustrious career and has extensive operational experience in India,” Tata Motors chairman N. Chandrasekaran said. Marc will bring this experience to take the Tata Motors’ Indian business to even greater heights, he said. Llistosella said, “Having been bonded to India for so many years, a new exciting chapter is now opened. We would jointly awaken the potential of Tata Motors”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
14-02-2021||Business||Oil and Natural Gas Corporation to form gas subsidiary||State-owned ONGC plans to form a subsidiary for the gas business and pick up a 5 per cent stake in Indian Gas Exchange Ltd (IGX) as strategic investment in a bid to tap the potential in the clean energy space. ‘‘The subsidiary is being formed with the objective of sourcing, marketing and trading of natural gas, LNG business, Hydrogen enriched CNG (HCNG), gas to power business, bio-energy/bio-gas/bio methane and other biofuels business,” the company statement said. ONGC said its board has also approved the acquisition of a 5 per cent equity in Indian Gas Exchange Ltd (IGX) as strategic investment. IGX is a subsidiary of IEX, India’s first and leading power exchange. IGX Ltd is at present India’s first and only authorised gas exchange, which provides an automated platform for the trading of natural gas, covering a wide range of products. ‘‘As an important stakeholder in the gas sector, it would be critical for ONGC to participate in the gas exchange for development of the gas sector. ONGC’s interests towards realising maximum value from its gas marketing efforts may be substantiated through this first gas trading platform in India,” it said. The exploration firm reported an over 67 per cent fall in the December quarter net profit on the back of a drop in oil and gas prices. The standalone net profit in the October-December quarter stood at Rs 1,378 crore compared with Rs 4,226 crore in the same quarter a year ago. Turnover was down 28 per cent at Rs 17,024 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
14-02-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea loss narrows down to Rs 4,532.1 crore in third quarter||Vodafone Idea Ltd saw its losses narrowing down to Rs 4,532.1 crore in the third quarter ended December 2020. This came after a one-time gain from the sale of its stake in Indus Towers. The telco had posted a loss of Rs 7,218.2 crore in the preceding quarter and a loss of Rs 6,438.8 crore in the October-December quarter of the previous year. In August last year, Vodafone Idea, along with other parties (Vodafone Group, Bharti Airtel, Indus Towers and Bharti Infratel) had agreed to proceed with the completion of the Indus-Infratel merger. Subsequently, in November, the scheme became effective and the merger of Indus and Infratel was completed. Vodafone Idea said in its notes to accounts that in November, it sold the 11.15 per cent stake in Indus for Rs 3764.2 crore to Bharti Infratel, thereby reporting a gain on sale of Rs 2,118.9 crore. During the quarter, Vodafone Idea saw its revenues rising to Rs 10,894.1 crore on higher 4G additions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
14-02-2021||Business||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman focuses on reforms agenda||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday told the Lok Sabha that the government has been pursuing reforms for sustained long term growth despite the Covid-19 pandemic . “Covid-19 did not deter the government from taking up reforms, which are going to be necessary to sustain long-term goals for this country… reforms are going to lay a path for India to be one of the top economies of the world in the coming decades,” she said replying to the debate on Budget 2021-22 in the Lok Sabha. The finance minister had presented a Rs 34.5-lakh-crore Budget for 2021-22, in the backdrop of the pandemic. The Budget has laid emphasis on increasing capital expenditure, raising allocation for healthcare and development of agriculture infrastructure, which is expected to have a multiplier effect on the economy. She said her Budget for 2021-22 has provided the highest capex growth of 34.4 per cent by providing more money to railways, roads and defence. Sitharaman said the proposed Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess  (AIDC) will be used to improve mandi infrastructure in the country. She clarified that the proposal to collect Rs 30,000 crore through the new agricultural cess will go to states to upgrade the APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) infrastructure. The AIDC “shall be used to finance the improvement of agriculture infrastructure nd other development expenditure”, the memorandum explaining the Finance Bill said. Amid the ongoing agitation by farmers demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws, the finance minister said not a single APMC has been shut in any state. She added that the budget provides to strengthen such marketplaces for farmers. The finance minister also spoke about the budget allocation for the MGNREGA scheme, which is a rural employment scheme. She said Rs 1.11 lakh crore has been the increased allocation for MGNREGA for the ongoing financial year, but until April it may be utilised only to the extent of Rs 90,000 crore. In the current fiscal that ends on March 31, Rs 61,500 crore was provided in the Budget but the provision was increased to Rs 1.1 lakh crore in view of the support needed to help those in distress during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
