15-02-2021||Business||Sensex soars past 52,000 to close on a record high ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 610 points to finish above the 52,000-mark for the first time on Monday, tracking significant gains in financial stocks amid a positive trend in global markets. After touching a record high of 52,235.97 during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 609.83 points or 1.18 per cent up at 52,154.13. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty soared 151.40 points or 1 per cent to finish at a record high of 15,314.70. It touched an intra-day peak of 15,340.15. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, climbing around 6 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance, SBI, IndusInd Bank, HDFC and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's TCS, Tech Mahindra, HUL and Asian Paints were among the laggards. "Indian market opened on a positive following upbeat peers in Asia as Nikkei 225 crossed 30,000 for first time in more than three decades with Japan's economy growing 12.7 per cent on an annualised basis in October to December last year," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. During the afternoon session, markets continued to trade higher as CPI data released during the weekend added to the positive sentiments, he said. Retail inflation during the month of December 2020 was at 4.59 per cent, the second consecutive month the CPI data has come within the Reserve Bank of India's upper margin of 6 per cent. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul ended with strong gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.30 per cent higher at USD 63.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
15-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points to fresh peak||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points to scale its fresh lifetime high in opening trade on Monday tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 515.40 points or 1 per cent higher at 52,059.70. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 135.90 points or 0.90 per cent up at 15,299.20. It touched a record of 15,314.30 in early trade. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Kotak Bank and SBI. On the other hand, ONGC, Tech Mahindra, NTPC, Sun Pharma and TCS were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 12.78 points or 0.02 per cent higher at its new closing record of 51,544.30, while Nifty slipped 10 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,163.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 37.33 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, CPI inflation for January at 4.06 per cent, and the rebound in IIP are positive news for the market. The Nifty Bank Index is up by 15.5 per cent this year compensating for the relatively poor performance in 2020, he noted. The important takeaway from this and other important data pertaining to credit growth, IIP, electricity consumption, e-way bills, GST collections and sales of commodities like cement and autos is that the growth recovery is gaining momentum. If this trend is sustained, corporate profits will surprise on the upside in FY 22, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.79 per cent higher at USD 63.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
15-02-2021||Business||Pledge to save||We are in the early days of a new year. Many have financial tasks such as tax-saving investments and insurance purchases to complete. Some are still trying to understand where to begin with their money plans and how to get better at savings. Savings are the bedrock of your finances. They pave the way for everything else — be it investments, insurance purchases or the fulfilment of aspirations. Here are some tips to get you thinking. Set budgets Budgeting involves setting your financial priorities for the year and allocating your income towards the financing of those priorities. Budgeting would also help you identify areas where you need to spend more or spend less. You can do this by going through your bank statements to understand where your money went and what changes you’d like to make this year. For example, you may find your food ordering needs to be reined in. Be goal-oriented Pick a target and aim to hit it by the end of 2021. For example, it could be saving three times your monthly income for emergencies, or saving 20 per cent of your income every month without fail. Automate your payments Use digital tools that complete financial tasks on your behalf. A recurring deposit or a mutual fund SIP will divert a fixed amount from your bank every month to a savings plan of your choice. Compulsory monthly savings is one of the best ways to improve savings. Also, automate your bills with netbanking or a payments app. Late payment penalties avoided are also savings. What’s left in your bank after mandatory savings and expenses is yours to enjoy. Look beyond savings account Too little money in your savings account is a problem. So is too much money. If you’re left with too little after your savings and spends, you could dip into your savings. If you’re left with too much, you aren’t saving enough. Use a sweep-in fixed deposit to park excess liquidity and earn higher interest returns. Divert your savings into your provident fund. Start a systematic investment plan. Your options for earning higher returns are many. Exit high-interest debts Loans that attract high interest should be attacked consistently. Credit card dues can spiral into a debt trap. Get rid of unpaid card dues on priority. This will free up your income for higher savings. Pre-payment on large borrowings such as home loans will also help you get out of debt faster, as will refinancing to a loan with lower interest. You could also seek consolidation to merge multiple high-interest loans into a single low-interest loan. Be ruthless Be ruthless when it comes to cutting down discretionary spends. The fewer your spend, the more you’re likely to save. For example, cancel the online streaming services or subscriptions you no longer use. If you’re on a tight budget, buy used goods. Split costs with friends and family. Look beyond brands. Your local chaiwala is cheaper than multinational coffee chains. Check your impulse Use the 30-day rule to avoid impulsive spends. If you fancy something which could stretch your finances, wait for 30 days. After the wait, if you still want it, go ahead. But it’s also likely your impulse will subside, and you’ll avoid wasting your money. Borrow carefully When it comes to lifestyle and consumption, live within your means. Control what you borrow in this regard. Credit card-fuelled consumption will hurt your ability to save. Savouring life is important; to do it within one’s financial capacity, even more so. Also, compare your financing options across different loan products and lenders to find the deal with the best repayment terms. Be strategic with spends Maximise the benefits available to you. Hunt the web for free coupons and vouchers. Redeem the reward points you get against debit or credit card spends. Get a card that provides you the lifestyle you need. For example, if you love shopping online, get a card that provides extra cashback or accelerated reward points on your preferred online spends. Challenge yourself It’s important to not just save but get better at saving. If you’re already saving 10 per cent of your income, push yourself to save 20 per cent. If you’re at 20 per cent, aim for 30 per cent. This would continually require you to rebalance your priorities, which will bring you back to smart budgeting, goal setting and planning. Protect your finances Lastly, throw a protective ring around your savings. You don’t want them to disappear due to unplanned events such as a hospitalisation. Buy health and life insurance so that you and your family’s finances can stay strong against life’s vagaries. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||Tata Steel charts separate road map for UK, Netherlands||Tata Steel will pursue different paths for the two European businesses in the Netherlands and the UK with a focus on making each of them self-sustaining and accountable individually, Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and chief financial officer of Tata Steel Limited, tells the author. Tata Steel would look at the Centre’s privatisation drive closely and take a call as and when it happens, he adds. How do you analyse your latest quarter performance, including managing the debt ? In the December quarter, Tata Steel delivered one of the best financial performances with the highest consolidated EBITDA of Rs 9,540 crore and free cash flows of over Rs 12,000 crore on the back of a strong operating performance of the India business, sharp focus on capital allocation and working capital management. All our operating hubs in India have performed exceptionally well with the stand alone EBIDTA margin at 37.5 per cent. Our key subsidiaries Tata Steel BSL and Tata Steel Long Products have also reported the highest profitability in recent years. Our debt management continues to be on target. After reducing net debt by Rs 8,285 crore in the first half, we continued to aggressively cut the net debt by Rs 10,325 crore and gross debt by Rs 5,640 crore during the quarter, taking the nine-month reduction in net debt by Rs 18,609 crore and gross debt by Rs 7,649 crore. How do you see the way forward for the European business and how to make it sustainable ? There are actions underway at multiple levels. First, the separation of the UK and the Netherlands business is giving us a good sense of the cost takeouts we are targeting to make it a more competitive cost structure. The organisation structure will also be simplified and de-layered which will help in driving higher site accountability. Second, we are working on the transformation of the businesses across many functions all of which is to make the the entity cash flow self sufficient. Finally, we will pursue different strategic paths for the two businesses in the future. For now we are focused on internal transformation actions and execute them well to make the businesses sustainable. Tata Steel has been seeking financial assistance from the UK and the Netherlands government. But we have not seen much progress so far. Can you give us an update? We have been in discussions with the UK government in exploring several options and what it means to the different stakeholders. In the Netherlands, our engagement with the government is on the long-term decarbonisation plan and how to ensure that there is a sustainable pathway for transition to the decarbonisation agenda set by the Dutch government. I think all stakeholders realise that we have to work together in this journey as it involves technology choices for the transition, especially on hydrogen. This is an ongoing dialogue and we have a decarbonisation plan to reduce CO2 in the Netherlands in the next decade. Back home, the Centre has announced a massive disinvestment programme and companies such as SAIL, RINL would be on the block. Will Tata Steel bid for any of them? For us, growth in India has always been a core strategy and we have grown both organically and in organically in the last decade. Once the assets or business fits our strategy and the risk and opportunities are identified, the decision to allocate capital for the acquisition becomes fundamentally clear. So, we will look at the assets that may be available but similar lens will apply. It’s too early to talk about anything specific on the subject now. What is the update on the Kalinganagar expansion ? How much capex will be earmarked for the next fiscal? A substantial part of the enabling work and engineering has been completed and we were pacing the execution in a phased manner with emphasis on two facilities — the pellet plant and the cold rolling mill. The disruptions due to the pandemic slowed down the project and we had also reduced our capital allocation for the project during the first three quarters of the current fiscal. We are now restarting the project and the capex allocation for 2021-22 will be much higher than 2020-21. The 6-million-tonne per annum pellet plant and the cold rolling mill will get completed in about 12-15 months. Will additional debt be required for the capex? Where will the net debt number be at the end of March 31? The future debt levels will primarily depend on the financial framework we have in place. The capital allocation priority is clear — we will continue to de-leverage, allocate capital to complete our planned projects and keep the appetite in the balance sheet for future growth. We will continue to reduce the gross debt in the fourth quarter by more than Rs 12,000 crore and we are on target.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||Bosch ensured healthy balance sheet and cash flow during pandemic: Managing Director||Bosch has ensured a healthy balance sheet and cash flow during the pandemic by following a “very tight working capital and cost management”, said managing director Soumitra Bhattacharya, who is also the president of the Bosch India group. Over 2,000 blue collar workers have taken voluntary retirement from the company in 2020-21. Bosch now has 7,500 associates against 10,000 earlier. The company, Bhattacharya said, has offered the retiring associates the best packages for which it had set aside Rs 1,400 crore. On the third-quarter results, Bhattacharya told The Telegraph: “We are neither in euphoria nor in great depression. It is better to look at how we are getting ready.” He said the mobility market was up 17 per cent during the quarter and Bosch Mobility was up 35 per cent.
Operating profit EBIT at Rs 261 crore is 24 per cent over the previous year, which Bhattacharya said was decent. “We have been doing a 3R strategy of restructuring, reskilling,  and redeployment and other transformational projects. To support this, an additional amount of Rs 146.6 crores has been provided and disclosed as an exceptional item for the quarter ended December 31, 2020. Last quarter was the final tranche of exceptional items of this Rs 147 crore. On the industry recovery, Bhattacharya said: “It’s been a mixed bag. Passenger cars had its peak in 2018-19 at 4 million plus. We thought in May it would be 2 million this fiscal, while it is 2.9 million. So, it’s a good recovery but we are not yet there at 2018-19 figures.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||IBM bullish on growth prospects of enterprise server demand in India||IBM is bullish on the growth prospects of enterprise server demand in India in 2021 with companies and
institutions getting back on track after the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted businesses in 2020. IBM saw a shift in priority among its clients during the pandemic with the focus on strengthening the IT infrastructure to handle core workloads and disaster recovery. “We saw a good amount of spotlight that came into core workloads which run the businesses. Organisations across industries could not always get their people into the data centres because of the lockdown. So a big requirement was the need to have ample capacity to run workloads. We saw many of our clients focus on disaster recovery. Capacity addition also happened because a lot of things have started happening online,” said Ravi Jain, systems leader, India & South Asia, IBM. Jain said the growth of the server market is directly correlated to the growth in workload. “We expect the overall market to grow across industries. Banking and financial services, telecom, retail and healthcare are segments that will see a lot of growth,” he said. “In the regulated industry, such as banks and financial services, they need to have higher availability of capacity and disaster recovery. There will be continued investment in those sectors. Just before the pandemic, there was focus on digital transformation using AI to bring in more efficiency and intelligence in decision making. Some of those digital transformation initiatives is going to drive growth in 2021,” Jain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||Ministry of labour and employment finalises rules under four labour codes||The ministry of labour and employment has finalised rules under the four labour codes, paving the way to make reforms a reality by notifying those for implementation soon. The four broad codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational safety, health and working conditions (OSH) have already been notified after getting the President’s assent. But to implement these four codes, the rules need to be notified. Now the ministry has completed the process of consultation on draft rules on the four codes and firmed up those for notification. Labour secretary Apurva Chandra said, “We have finalised the rules under the four codes which are required to implement the four labour codes. We are ready to notify these rules. The states are doing their work to firm up rules under the four codes.” The four broad codes would ultimately rationalise 44 central labour laws. The Code on Wages was passed by Parliament in 2019 while the three other codes got clearance from both the Houses in 2020. After the firming up of the rules, now four codes can be notified in one go. Earlier, on February 8, 2021, Chandra had said in a press conference, “Rule-making process is already underway and likely to be completed in the coming week. All stakeholders are also consulted in the framing of rules. This ministry would soon be in a position to bring into force the four codes.” As labour is a concurrent subject, certain rules would also be framed by the states under the four codes. The states are also in the process of notifying draft rules and holding tripartite consultations to firm up those for implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||Star Cement plans to expand in the North East||Star Cement plans to expand in the North East with the Centre pushing for the development of infrastructure and affordable housing in the region. The company has recently commissioned a grinding unit in Bengal at an investment of Rs 450 crore, taking its overall capacity to a little over 6 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) with a clinker capacity of 2.8 million tonnes. Assam and Meghalaya are the two states where the company is present along with Bengal. The company’s chairman, Sajjan Bhajanka, said there was a potential for additional clinker capacity of around 2 million tonnes and another grinding unit of similar capacity. The cumulative investment in both the projects could be around Rs 1,400 crore. The expansion of the cement capacity would follow the scaling up of clinker capacity. “By the time we comission another plant, we would be in a surplus position. The demand in North East and Bengal will also grow,” said Bhajanka. “After North East, the next natural expansion for the company was in Bengal and that too north Bengal. For us expansion in North Bengal was a low hanging fruit because it is nearer to our plants and we would be incurring less transportation cost,” said Bhajanka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||AUM of India’s mutual fund industry forecast to increase to Rs 100 lakh crore||The assets under management (AUM) of India’s mutual fund industry are forecast to increase to Rs 100 lakh crore over nine years on the back of greater penetration and the trend of  growing one’s savings beyond conventional modes. While AUM is the total market value of the investments that a fund house is holding on behalf of its investors, data show that it took almost 50 years to add Rs 10 lakh crore. However, after 2014, there has been rapid  growth and the trend is only expected to continue. Analysts at ICICI Securities said in a note that key regulations such as discouraging mis-selling, removal of entry load, introduction of direct schemes and additional commission for distribution in the smaller cities have helped. The brokerage forecasts that AUM is likely to grow to Rs 45 lakh crore  by 2025 and Rs 100 lakh crore by 2030. This is assuming a nominal GDP growth of 9 per cent over the next decade, a net inflow of 1.1 per cent of GDP into mutual funds and an average performance of 8 per cent. “The absolute growth of Rs 24  lakh crore (in AUM between 2011-20) was equally contributed through flows and performance. We expect the theme of financialisation of savings to continue hereon because of lower returns offered by other asset classes such as bank fixed deposits and real estate. Our macro model suggests that the Indian mutual fundAUM is expected to grow at 15 per cent CAGR (compounded annual growth rate)  between 2019-20 and 2029-30,” the brokerage added. It added that the mutual fund penetration ratio (AUM to GDP) is significantly lower at 11 per cent compared with a global average of 55 per cent, which leaves enough opportunity for strong growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
15-02-2021||Business||McNally Sayaji Engineering Ltd to face bankruptcy||McNally Sayaji Engineering Ltd is going to face bankruptcy, the first casualty of the financial turmoil at Williamson Magor Group. The company is an unlisted subsidiary of McNally Bharat Engineering Ltd, which is at the heart of the woes in the group. The Calcutta bench of the National Company Law Tribunal admitted McNally Sayaji for the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) at the behest of ICICI Bank. McNally Bharat managing director Srinivas Singh said the company was examining the order. “The next course of action will be decided based on the legal counsel.” Further, the NCLT appointed an interim resolution process to carry out the CIRP process and declared a moratorium on new cases against the company under Section 14 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. McNally Sayaji owes a little more than Rs 75 crore to ICICI Bank, including principal and interest, court document shows. The company cumulatively owes Rs 213.18 crore in secured and unsecured loans, excluding outstanding interest and default in paying interest, as on March 31, 2020. ICICI Bank had moved an application seeking CIRP before the court in January 2020. However, the matter could not be heard because of the lockdown in March. The matter was listed again in November. The order passed on February 12 noted that the McNally Sayaji counsel sought to impress upon the fact that the promoters had been pursuing several debt restructuring initiatives. An investor named ANGCC Capital Management, Iceland, had submitted a proposal but it was not possible to follow it through because of the pandemic. A revised plan was submitted by the foreign investor in August. However, the consortium of lenders, including ICICI Bank, asked the company to revise the plan further. Rishav Banerjee, who appeared on behalf of ICICI Bank, submitted before the court that the proposed resolution plan did not in any manner curtail or limit the financial creditor in its individual capacity to enforce its rights against the corporate debtor as McNally Sayaji has not disputed either the default or the debt on the same. The court agreed to the submission noting the default has taken place, triggering insolvency. “In these circumstances, we have no hesitation in admitting the application and in ordering initiation of CIRP against the corporate debtor,” the order read. McNally Bharat, which is a listed entity, holds an 81.86 per cent stake in the subsidiary with a part of it pledged with the lenders. ICICI Bank had invoked around 18 per cent of the pledged stake in November 2020. Close ties The parent had a close tie with the subsidiary which supplied machinery for the EPC contract McNally Bharat was executing but dependency has come down substantially. McNally Sayaji has four plants at Kumardubi (Jharkhand), Asansol, Bangalore and Vadodara employing close to 1,000. It manufactures metallurgical machinery such as crushing and screening plants, and material handling and conveyor plants. During the last fiscal, the company had a total income of Rs 186.68 crore and a net loss of Rs 6.51 crore on a consolidated basis compared with a Rs 259.97-crore income and a Rs 37.76-crore net loss in 2018-19. McNally Sayaji has a subsidiary, MBE Coal & Mineral Technology India Pvt Ltd.
Impact on the group At least two group firms, bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd and investment arm Williamson & Magor Co Ltd have been taken to court for loan default but none of them has been admitted for CIRP. To cover the losses in McNally, the promoters borrowed heavily on the balance sheet of stronger companies such as McLeod and battery maker Eveready Industries. In return, they pledged promoters’ shares to creditors as collateral. As McNally defaulted in payment, a cascading ripple effect was witnessed on the two otherwise strong companies. While McLeod also defaulted in debt payment obligation, Eveready witnessed the invocation of promoters’ stake and sale in the market. Singh said he didn’t expect any significant impact on McNally Bharat. “They are two independent companies. It has got a good business, order book is strong. There may be a little confusion in the market place initially because of the McNally name. We have to sensitise the customers,” he explained. He also informed that the proposal by the overseas investor is still in play for both the companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
