16-02-2021||Business||Cairn files case in US to make India pay $1.2 bn in tax dispute case||Cairn Energy has filed a case in a US district court to enforce a $1.2 billion arbitration award it won in a tax dispute against India, a court document showed, ratcheting up pressure on the government to pay its dues. In December, an arbitration body awarded the British firm damages of more than $1.2 billion plus interest and costs. The tribunal ruled India breached an investment treaty with Britain and said New Delhi was liable to pay. Cairn asked the US court to recognise and confirm the award, including payments due since 2014 and interest compounded semi-annually, according to the February 12 filing seen by Reuters. The case marked a first step in Cairn’s efforts towards recovering its dues, potentially by seizing Indian assets, if the government did not pay, a source with knowledge of the arbitration case told Reuters. “If Cairn wins the case, it will be a step towards attaching and seizing Indian assets overseas, especially in the US,” the source said. Reuters reported last month that Cairn was identifying India’s overseas assets, including bank accounts and even Air India planes or Indian ships, that could be seized in the absence of a settlement. Cairn declined to comment but pointed to a February 9 Twitter post where it said chief executive Simon Thomson was looking forward to meeting India’s finance minister in Delhi next week. “We would request, along with others, that the Indian government move swiftly to adhere to the award that has been given,” Thomson said in the video posted on Twitter. “It is important for our shareholders who are global financial institutions and who want to see a positive investment climate in India. I am sure that in working together with the government we can swiftly draw this to conclusion and reassure those investors,” he said. India’s finance and external affairs ministries did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Cairn aims to enforce the award under international arbitration rules, commonly called the New York Convention, and recover losses caused by India’s “unfair and inequitable treatment of their investments”, the filing showed. The firm has registered its claim against India in the Netherlands and France, telling regulators there they may receive court orders to seize Indian assets, and the firm was preparing to do the same in Canada and the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Nirmala explains priorities of government to RBI board in first meeting after Budget||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday explained the government's priorities to the Reserve Bank of India's central board during their first meeting after presentation of the Union Budget 2021-22. As per the tradition, the finance minister holds a customary meeting with the board members of the RBI and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) after Budget presentation every year. The finance minister addressed the 587th RBI central board meeting and informed the members about the key initiatives in the Budget and the priorities of the government, RBI said in a statement. "Complimenting the finance minister on the budget, the board members made various suggestions for consideration of the government," it added. At its first meeting after the presentation of the Budget for 2021-22, the central board of directors also reviewed the current economic situation. "The board in its meeting reviewed the current economic situation, global and domestic challenges and various areas of operations of the Reserve Bank, including ways for strengthening grievance redress mechanisms in banks," it said. The meeting on Tuesday was chaired by RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das through video conferencing. The government's nominee directors on the board -- Financial Services Secretary Debasish Panda and Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj -- also attended the meeting. Apart from Sitharaman, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur, Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey and Department of Investment and Public Asset Management Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey were also present. Earlier this month, the finance minister presented a Rs 34.5 lakh crore-budget for 2021-22 in the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic. The budget has laid emphasis on increasing capital expenditure, raising allocation for healthcare capacity building and development of agriculture infrastructure, among others, which are expected to have a multiplier effect on the economy. Hit hard by the pandemic, fiscal deficit -- the excess of government expenditure over its revenues -- is estimated to hit a record high of 9.5 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the current fiscal ending March 31. For the next 2021-22 fiscal, the deficit has been pegged at 6.8 per cent of GDP, which will be further lowered to 4.5 per cent by the fiscal ending March 31, 2026. Earlier this month, Das said the central bank will be able to manage the high quantum of government borrowings at Rs 12 lakh crore for the next fiscal in a "non-disruptive" manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally lower||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally lower on Tuesday as investors booked profits at higher levels amid a mixed trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 52,516.76 in opening session, the 30-share BSE Sensex settled 49.96 points or 0.10 per cent lower at 52,104.17. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 1.25 points or 0.01 per cent lower to 15,313.45. Axis Bank was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Nestle India, Infosys, SBI and HUL. On the other hand, PowerGrid rallied over 6 per cent. ONGC, NTPC, Kotak Bank and Reliance Industries were also among the gainers. Domestic equities witnessed some amount of pullback after a brisk opening, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "PSU Banks and Metals remained in focus. However, selling pressure in Financials, IT and FMCG dragged index. Volatility index also surged almost 2 per cent. Notably, midcap and smallcap stocks remained in focus as improved earnings visibility has started attracting investors in this space," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent lower at USD 63.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points to scale a new record peak in early trade on Tuesday driven by gains in index majors HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and Reliance Industries amid positive trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 52,516.76 in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 322.33 points or 0.62 per cent higher at 52,476.46. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 108.40 points or 0.71 per cent up at 15,423.10. It touched a record of 15,431.75 in early trade. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, PowerGrid, SBI and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 609.83 points or 1.18 per cent up at its new closing peak of 52,154.13, while Nifty soared 151.40 points or 1 per cent to finish at a record 15,314.70. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,234.15 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, "bull markets have an uncanny ability to climb many walls of worries. And, this bull market, in typical style, is consistently climbing many such walls. The bulls are focussed on growth and earnings recovery and the incredibly improving COVID incidence. FPIs feel that India has the best post-COVID rebound story. In such a favourable setting, investors should remain invested with occasional profit booking, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.62 per cent higher at USD 63.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Burmans of Dabur link board berth to control||The Burmans of Dabur have made it clear that they would take a board berth in Eveready “if and when” they take control of the company. The Burman family is the largest shareholder on the board of the dry cell battery maker with close to a 20 per cent stake compared with the promoters’ 4.92 per cent stake. However, they are not represented on the board yet. On January 28, Eveready inducted two new members on the board, including Utsav Parekh, who is also a significant minority shareholder in the company. Sources said the promoters of Eveready , the Khaitan family of Calcutta, had invited Parekh to sit on the board. The Burmans said they are “neutral”to the new inductions, but noted that having shareholders’ representation on the board is “good”. Asked why the largest shareholder is not on the board, Mohit Burman, vice-chairman of Dabur India, said: “We will get on the board if and when we take control.” He reiterated that such a scenario would only play out if the Khaitans decide to exit. The stand indicates that the Burmans may not force a change in the management but would not jointly manage/control with the existing promoters of Eveready either. As of now, the Burmans said they were happy to be only a financial investor in the company. “We are a significant financial investor in the company and we’re happy with that... we in any case believe companies should be professionally run,” Burman added. The Burman family bought shares in Eveready via investment companies and not through Dabur. The family has investments in multiple sectors and entities, notably Aviva Life Insurance, Taco Bell and Kings XI Punjab IPL franchisee among many others. All of them are professionally managed, with the Burman family members on board. There has been no indication that the Khaitans have any plans to exit the company, which they acquired in 1993 from Union Carbide. The Calcutta family has the right on the brand name Eveready for India, Nepal and Bhutan. Sources said they would look at every opportunity to claw back or beef up holding. Amritanshu Khaitan is the managing director of the company while his uncle, Aditya Khaitan, is the chairman (non-executive). Parekh joined as a non-executive and non-independent shareholder in the company. He is also the co-owner (minority) of ISL Calcutta franchisee ATK Mohun Bagan with Sanjiv Goenka, chairman of RP-SG Group, which also has interests in FMCG. Goenka’s cousin was married to late Deepak Khaitan, Amritanshu’s father. The Burmans bought into Eveready at an average price of Rs 80-100 per share. The stock closed at Rs 233.50 on the NSE on Monday. They started picking up shares when the promoters’ stake, pledged with creditors, were invoked and sold off in the open market as they defaulted in loan payment obligations. The Burmans holding provided stability to the stock as investors hoped that they would eventually take up control. The company’s performance also added to the shine in a broader buoyant market. Asked if the family would look at exiting after making a killing in a short span of time, Burman said that they are a “patient financial investor”. They first bought into Eveready in March 2019 and scaled their stake up to 19.84 per cent in July 2020, where the holding stands now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Hiranandani Group to invest Rs 8,500 crore in Bengal industrial and data centre parks||Mumbai-based Hiranandani Group on Monday said it would invest around Rs 8,500 crore to develop industrial and data centre parks in Bengal. The group has “entered into an MoU in the state of Bengal to set up logistics and hyperscale data center parks in the region”, a company statement said. The Hiranandinis have signed the MoU to acquire an 100-acre land at Uttarpara from Hindustan Motors for an integrated logistics and hyperscale data center park by group companies GreenBase and Yotta. “The combined investment by the group and its customers is estimated to cross Rs 10,000 crore,” the statement said. The spokesperson said the investment by the group would be around Rs 8,500 crore. GreenBase will develop 3 million square feet of industrial and warehousing space, while Yotta, Hiranandani’s data centre division, will build six data centres bringing in 250MW of data centre capacity over the next several years. Darshan Hiranandani, chief executive officer of the group said,“Bengal is the gateway to the East. It is an ideal hub for logistics and industrial development with excellent road, rail and riverine connectivity.” “Simultaneously, the data centre business will benefit from the digitisation revolution, the upcoming Silicon Valley at New Town at Rajarhat and excellent fibre connectivity on land and the new submarine cable coming up at Tajpur.” He said the data centre park would not only serve the customers of the state but also the entire eastern region, including neighbouring countries. “The first facility of the Industrial and Logistics Park will be ready by June 2022 and the First Data Centre building will be ready by 2023,” Hiranandani said. Yotta last year inaugurated a data centre in  Navi Mumbai. It has announced data centres in Greater Noida and Chennai. Blackstone venture Greenbase is a joint venture between Hiranandani Group and global private equity firm Blackstone. It is developing industrial and logistics parks across the Mumbai MMR region, Pune, Nashik, Chennai and Bangalore with a plan to deliver 15 million sq ft of space in the next five years, having an investment outlay of $500 million. As India aims to be a $5 trillion economy by 2025, the logistic sector has an important role to play in connecting producers with consumers. Greenbase Industrial & Logistics Park will not just help manufacturing and warehousing units build last mile connectivity, it will also give a huge boost to development of the logistics sector and create employment opportunities for the region. “This logistics park will be its well-designed infrastructure to support best in class security and facilitate optimisation of logistics and turnaround time by enabling Artificial Intelligence (AI) in customer processes, which is the new norm post the COVID pandemic,” the release added||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
16-02-2021||Business||Jaguar Land Rover’s luxury Jaguar brand will be entirely electric by 2025||Jaguar Land Rover’s luxury Jaguar brand will be entirely electric by 2025 and the car maker will launch e-models of its entire line-up by 2030, it said on Monday. The company will invest £2.5 billion in electrification and connected technologies and will launch six electric vehicles under the Land Rover brand in the next five years. “The first all-electric variant will arrive in 2024,” chief executive officer Thierry Bolloré said. Calling its future programme Reimagine, the Tata-owned company’s strategy comes at a time car groups worldwide accelerate moves towards fleets powered by electric and other green technologies. Jaguar Land Rover’s aim is to achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2039. By the middle of the decade, Jaguar will emerge as a pure electric luxury brand with a new portfolio. Jaguar and Land Rover will offer pure electric power, nameplate by nameplate, by 2030. By this time, in addition to 100 per cent of Jaguar sales, it is anticipated that around 60 per cent of Land Rovers sold will be equipped with zero tailpipe powertrains, said Bollore. N. Chandrasekaran, chairman of Tata Sons, Tata Motors and Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc, said, “The Reimagine strategy takes Jaguar Land Rover on a significant path of acceleration in harmony with the vision and sustainability priorities of the wider Tata Group.” As part of this ambition, the company is also preparing for the expected adoption of clean fuel-cell power in line with a maturing of the hydrogen economy. Development is already underway with prototypes arriving on UK roads within the next 12 months as part of the long-term investment programme. Annual commitments of circa £ 2.5bn will include investments in electrification technologies and the development of connected services to enhance the journey and experiences of customers, alongside data-centric technologies that will further improve their ownership ecosystem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||Telcos may not bid high for spectrum||The spectrum auction set to begin from March 1 may not see much competition given the varied priorities of each player and the weak liquidity position of Vodafone Idea, analysts said. “Given the consolidation in the sector over the last decade, we hope telcos will say goodbye to the old irrational and desperate price bidding to acquire the limited available spectrum. We expect low competition intensity as there is sufficient spectrum and different band use and priorities of each player,” Motilal Oswal Institutional Equities said in a report. The sixth round of auction of 2,251.25 megahertz of spectrum worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore at the base price will be in 7 frequency bands between 700 megahertz and 2,500 megahertz. Bharti’s interest may largely be limited to 900MHz, while Jio’s renewal of 800MHz spectrum may not see much interest from the rest of the players. The 1,800MHz and 2,300MHz spectrum may be of high interest to both Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio, which may eye it for their 4G plans and for their 5G requirements going forward. In the 800MHz band, Reliance Jio will see the expiry of 115MHz, which it acquired/shared from R-Com in 19 circles. The same for Bharti and VIL stands at 57MHz in the 1,800MHz band and 37.8MHz/6.2Mhz in the 1,800MHz/900MHz band, respectively. “This would cost Jio Rs 28 billion, Bharti Airtel Rs 129 billion and VIL Rs 83 billion at the reserve price to renew their existing spectrum. Though this is a mere 5-10 per cent of Bharti and VIL’s spectrum, it is significant in the case of Reliance Jio,” it said. The research report said “the earnest money deposit (EMD) indicates that Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio may be interested in spending 2-3x the renewal requirement in other bands. VIL has limited options given its liquidity position.” According to some reports, Jio deposited the highest earnest money of Rs 90 billion, which would allow it to purchase spectrum worth Rs 450-660 billion. Bharti is said to have deposited Rs 30-33 billion, which would allow it to purchase spectrum worth Rs 150-250billion. VIL has deposited a mere Rs 5 billion to buy spectrum worth Rs 25-35 billion. The high EMD will allow Jio to spend Rs 200-250 billon, beyond the R 280 billion that it requires for renewal of its expiring spectrum at the reserve price. Bharti will require Rs 130 billion at the reserve price to renew its expiring 1,800MHz spectrum. Bharti has a strong portfolio of 1,800MHz spectrum, with an average 15MHz in 15 circles and below 10MHz in four circles. In Delhi, it does not have a high proportion of spectrum in 900MHz and largely relies on 2,300MHz for capacity. So, it could be keen to acquire spectrum in 1,800MHz, which could entail an investment of Rs 22 billion for 5MHz at the reserve price. Jio has an average 7MHz in 1,800MHz, so it could spend wherever sufficient 800MHz spectrum is unavailable. In the 2,300MHz band, both Bharti and RJio could look to top up their spectrum capacity. Bharti may choose to fill gaps in the three circles where it does not hold any spectrum. But, with a healthy 2-4 blocks of 10MHz available in 2,300MHz, there could be lesser competition intensity, it said. Meanwhile, rating agency ICRA said telcos expected to dial in next round of tariff hikes over the next one or two quarters which is likely to drive revenue growth in new financial year (2021-22) beginning April one. Tariff hikes and upgradation of subscribers from 2G to 4G is expected to result in improvement in average revenue per user to around Rs 220 in the medium term which will lead to growth in industry revenue by 11 to 13 per cent over the next two years with operating margins expanding to nearly 38 per cent for FY22. It said improvement in cash flow generation coupled with moderation in capex intensity will limit the dependence on incremental external borrowings for operations. However, the addition of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liabilities to debt and the next round of spectrum auctions will act as a dampener. The total industry debt to remain elevated at Rs. 4.7 lakh crore as on March 31, 2022. The improvement in operating metrics is likely to translate into an expansion of the debt coverage indicators, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||Coal India overall expenditure came down 3.3 per cent between April and December 2020||Coal India on Monday said its overall expenditure has come down 3.3 per cent between April and December 2020 on the back of a reduction in manpower. Overall expenditure during the period was Rs 54,241 crore against Rs 56,079 crore during the same period a year ago. The public sector miner said a major reduction was visible in employee benefit expenses which were down by Rs 735 crore. These include salaries of employees, performance-related pay of executives, performance-linked rewards of non-executives and provident fund contributions. During the nine-month period, CIL’s manpower came down by 13,800. Total manpower stood at 2.72 lakh at the start of 2020-21. This was 3.22 lakh four years ago. Coal India said in a statement that the organisation was becoming leaner through superannuation of around 13,000 employees per year and the trend of reduction is expected to continue for a few more years. Employee benefit expenses comprise around 50 per cent of the company’s overall revenue expenditure. Coal India further said  provisioning of stripping activity was also down by Rs 2,894 crore during the nine month period. Stripping activity is the quantity of overburden removed for the required coal produced. Overburden removal is another significant component of expenditure. Reduction in expenditure however has not affected the output and offtake of the public sector miner which also waived performance incentives for power sector consumers estimated at around Rs 703 crore. This incentive is earned on account of increased supply by the miner above the committed contracted quantity of coal. With cash flows of coal users affected in the pandemic, Coal India also did not press for penalty from its consumers for lifting lower quantities of fuel, the company said in its statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||Vedanta Ltd invites bids for sale of natural gas from its Rajasthan block||Mining magnate Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta Ltd on Monday invited bids for the sale of natural gas from its prolific Rajasthan block at rates equivalent to the price of imported LNG from the spot market or Brent oil price. Cairn Oil & Gas, Vedanta’s oil and gas arm, produces about 3.5 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) of gas from its largely oil-bearing block in Rajasthan, the firm said in a notice. The output is being ramped up to more than 5 mscmd. “The company invites expressions of interest (EoIs) from interested parties with proven capabilities in the natural gas business to participate in the national competitive e-auction process for the purchase of natural gas produced from our flagship block in Barmer, Rajasthan,” it said. It invited bids for 4.5 mscmd of gas for two years from the RJ-ON-90/1 block. The price of gas will be lower of the previous month’s average of DES West India spot liquefied natural gas prices or 14 per cent of the average Brent crude oil price. “The sales gas price for any month shall not be lower than the government of India declared gas price,” the notice said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||SC  issues notices to WhatsApp and Facebook on data protection policy||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to WhatsApp and Facebook which said they shall not apply lower privacy standards on Indian users and apply the same data protection policy applied for users in the European region. The notice was also issued to the ministry of electronics and information technology. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian sought their reply within four weeks while observing “you may be a 2-3 trillion dollar company but people’s privacy is more valuable for them and it is our duty to protect their privacy”. According to the new privacy policy, WhatsApp shares user information globally with various third partners. Such sharing happens internally within the Facebook companies and externally with partners and service providers, besides with all other users who communicate around the world through their medium, an application has alleged. The purported discriminatory policy has been challenged by a Delhi law graduate Karmanya Singh Sareen. Senior counsel Shyam Divan appearing for the petitioner submitted before the bench that WhatsApp was differentiating between Indians and Europeans in terms of privacy standards, which cannot be done by the social media group which has millions of subscribers in India. The CJI pointed out that the media too was regularly reporting about the concerns from various quarters over the latest privacy policy of WhatsApp and Facebook. “We are telling you what we heard and read. People think that if A sends a message to B and B to C. The circuit of messages is revealed to FaceBook,” the CJI said. Arvind Dattar appearing for WhatsApp opposed the petition on the ground that the petitioner had filed an intervention application in the earlier 2016 petition relating to Whatsapp’s privacy policy. It was his argument that the present challenge by the petitioner was to the 2020 privacy policy which can be challenged only by way of a fresh writ petition. “You may be a 2-3 trillion dollar company but people’s privacy is more valuable for them and it is our duty to protect their privacy,” the CJI told senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Further, he argued that since the Delhi High Court was already seized of the matter in another petition, the present application should not be entertained. However, the bench rejected the argument. Sibal argued: “nowadays everything we hear and read may not be right and correct.” According to Sibal, Europe has a special law relating to general data protection regulations which does not apply to India. However, he said the company was willing to comply with any laws made in this regard by Parliament. The CJI the said the companies must say so on oath. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for Union government supported the cause of the petitioner saying “This is the apprehension of the nation.” He submitted that social media companies cannot share data of users and such data must be protected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 610 points, closes above 52000-mark||Benchmark indices were back to setting new  records after a week of consolidation as the Sensex on Monday rallied 610 points to close above the 52000-mark and the Nifty ended above 15300 following positive global cues and optimism of an economic revival back home. Banking and finance stocks led the rally with the Nifty Bank index rising 3.32 per cent to 37306.25, taking its rally to 23 per cent so far this month. Investments from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) also remained strong with net investments of over Rs 1,200 crore in Monday’s trade. The 30-share Sensex began on a higher ground at 51907.75 and breached the 52000-mark to touch a record intra-day high of 52235.97. It later ended ended 609.83 points, or 1.18 per cent, higher at a new closing peak of 52154.13. The broader NSE Nifty also soared 151.40 points, or 1 per cent, to finish at a new high of 15314.70. It had touched an intra-day peak of 1540.15. “Global cues were positive on optimism about the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines and new US fiscal aid. On the domestic side, strong corporate earnings have ignited hopes of a faster economic recovery. Better-than-expected December IIP and January CPI numbers boosted market sentiment,’’ Siddhartha Khemka, head of retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, said. Industrial production recorded a positive growth of 1 per cent in December, while retail inflation cooled to a 16-month low of 4.06 per cent in January, according to data released after market hours on Friday. In the Sensex pack, Axis Bank led the gainers list, climbing 5.88 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance, SBI, IndusInd Bank, HDFC, Bajaj Finserv and HDFC Bank. However, Dr Reddy’s, TCS, Tech Mahindra, HUL, Asian Paints and Titan were among the laggards, sliding up to 1.77 per cent. Sector-wise, BSE bankex, finance, realty, industrials, telecom and healthcare indices rallied up to 3.31 per cent. “The Nifty keeps rising with up-gaps, reflecting pent up buying partly driven by encouraging third-quarter numbers. However, selective buying in sectors means that the overall volumes are measured. The next resistance for the Nifty is 15470 while 15243 could provide support,” said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities. In Asia, bourses in China and Hong Kong were closed for the Lunar New Year holidays, while Tokyo and Seoul ended with strong gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in a positive territory in mid-session deals on optimism over the Covid vaccination and the proposed $1.9-trillion stimulus in the US. The global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.30 per cent higher at $63.24 per barrel. The rupee gained 7 paise to settle at 72.68 against the dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||RBI tightens NBFC funding norms||The RBI has tightened the norms for investments from grey or blacklisted Financial Action Task Force (FATF) jurisdictions into non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) which could limit investments made by Mauritius-based entities in them. In a notification on Friday, the central bank said investors in NBFCs from countries that do not comply with the FATF regulations should not be allowed to hold a direct or indirect stake of more than 20 per cent in the shadow banks. This limit takes into account potential voting power which arises from instruments convertible into equity. The FATF — an intra-governmental organisation headed by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development — puts out black and grey lists of countries that are not fully co-operating on money laundering and the financing of terrorism. While the blacklist has two nations,  the grey list has 15 countries, including Mauritius. Urban co-op banks The RBI has constituted a panel to draw up a vision document to strengthen urban co-operative banks (UCBs) and explore the potential of consolidation in the sector. The committee will be headed by former RBI deputy governor N.S. Vishwanathan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
16-02-2021||Business||RBI announces another 'Operation Twist’||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday announced another “Operation Twist’’ or the simultaneous purchase and sale of government bonds worth Rs 10,000 crore each as it looks to tamp down on the benchmark 10-year paper to feed the Centre’s ravenous appetite for funds. “On a review of current liquidity and financial conditions, the Reserve Bank has decided to conduct simultaneous purchase and sale of Government Securities under Open Market Operations (OMO) for an aggregate amount of Rs 10,000 crore each on February 25, 2021,’’ the apex bank said . The RBI will purchase securities maturing in 2025, 2029 and 2033 — 5.22 per cent Government Security 2025, 6.45 per cent GS 2029 and 6.57 per cent GS 2021 — and sell bonds — 8.79 per cent GS 2021 and 8.20 per cent GS 2022 — maturing in November this year and February 2022. The government will borrow Rs 88,000 crore in the next 45 days and a collosal Rs 12 lakh crore in the next fiscal to help pump-prime an economy felled by the lockdown. Bond yields have climbed after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the government’s massive expenditure plans in the budget. The RBI also did not come up with a calender for open market operations (OMOs) in its monetary policy announced last week, which disappointed the markets. Moreover, the RBI would also restore the cash reserve ratio to 4 per cent in two phases reducing it to 3 per cent during the lockdown to inject liquidity in the system. All these saw yields on the 10-year benchmark bond hitting 6.15 per cent. Since then the RBI has taken steps to soften yields. Market circles said it wanted to keep the benchmark bond below 6 per cent so that the government’s borrowing programme proceeds seamlessly. On Monday, the 10-year bond  closed at 6.02 per cent. It conducted OMO last Wednesday where it left out a bond maturing in 2028 and bought bonds of Rs 2,040 crore (GS 2024) and Rs 3,306 crore (GS 2034). Subsequently, in a special auction, it set a cut-off yield of 5.97 per cent for a 10-year bond. These resulted in yields on the benchmark 10 year bond falling to below 6 per cent. On Monday, it closed at 6.02 per cent. "The RBI is likely to continue with normalising liquidity conditions in line with underlying growth and inflation fundamentals. However, they will make the process as non-disruptive as possible by continuing to keep liquidity in surplus. Yield management by the RBI is likely to continue, however the central bank is likely to be more comfortable with a higher band for yields than 2020, HDFC Bank chief economist Abheek Barua had said in a note following the monetary policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
