17-02-2021||Business||Government approves Rs 12,000 crore scheme for telecom sector||The government on Wednesday approved a Rs 12,195 crore production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for telecom gear manufacturing in India, a move that will position the nation as a global powerhouse for production of such equipment ahead of 5G roll-outs. The PLI scheme for telecom gear manufacturing, will be operational from April 1, 2021. It will lead to incremental production of around Rs 2.4 lakh crores with exports of around Rs 2 lakh crores over five years. The scheme is expected to bring investment of over Rs 3,000 crore and generate huge direct and indirect employment and taxes both, an official release said. Briefing reporters after a meeting of the Cabinet, Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that the government is positioning India as a global powerhouse for manufacturing, and has created a conducive environment for ease of doing business. "Cabinet has approved PLI for telecom sector...to ensure further progress of Make-in-India in telecom equipment space...5G equipment will also come...so it was important to give incentives. We held widespread consultation with stakeholders," Prasad said adding that the scheme also aims to promote MSMEs in "Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. The scheme is expected to offset huge imports of telecom equipment worth more than Rs 50,000 crores and reinforce it with Made in India products both for domestic markets and exports, the release said. The new scheme has an outlay of Rs 12,195 crores over five years, and its eligibility will be subject to achievement of a minimum threshold of cumulative incremental investment and incremental sales of manufactured goods. The incentive structure ranges between 4 and 7 per cent for different categories and years. Financial Year 2019-20 will be treated as the base year for computation of cumulative incremental sales of manufactured goods net of taxes, the release added. Minimum investment threshold for MSMEs has been kept at Rs 10 crores and for others at Rs 100 crores. "Once qualified, the investor will be incentivized up to 20 times of minimum investment threshold enabling them to utilise their unused capacity," the release said. Prasad said that the government will soon come up with a PLI scheme to encourage production of laptops and tablet PCs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 400 points to close at 51,703||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped 400 points on Wednesday tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and TCS amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 400.34 points or 0.77 per cent lower at 51,703.83, and the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 104.55 points or 0.68 per cent to 15,208.90. Nestle India was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Asian Paints, IndusInd Bank, Maruti, HDFC twins and Dr Reddy's. On the other hand, SBI, PowerGrid, NTPC and Reliance Industries were among the gainers. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities witnessed pullback amid weak global cues. Profit-booking was visible in IT, Pharma and FMCG space, while PSU Banks continued to see investors' interest with PSU Bank index rising briskly by over 6 per cent, he said. Rotational trading was seen, where a number of mid cap and small cap stocks witnessed sharp uptick as improving earnings visibility is attracting investors to this space especially in sectors which are considered to be beneficiary of higher capex, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while those in Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.58 per cent higher at USD 63.71 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Cairn Energy moves courts in US, UK, Netherlands to get $1.4 bn from India||Britain's Cairn Energy plc has filed cases in the US, the UK and the Netherlands courts to register a USD 1.4 billion arbitration award it had won in a tax dispute against India, as a preparatory action in case it is not paid by the Indian government. Cairn filed a petition in a Washington DC Federal court on February 12, and followed it up with similar filings in the UK and the Netherlands courts, people with knowledge of the matter said. In a petition, Cairn Energy plc and its UK holding company sought the US district court for the District of Columbia to recognise and confirm the December 21 award by a three-member tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague. It also plans to move a Canadian court soon. Sources said the petitions are primarily to register the December 21 award with the courts prior to taking any enforcement actions such as seeking seizure of Indian assets in those countries to enforce the award in case it is not paid. No enforcement action is planned for now and the company is waiting for a formal response from the Indian government on honouring the award, they said. The company declined comments on the issue. Cairn's hands have been forced by its shareholders who after waiting patiently for seven years for resolution of the tax issue, now wants action to recover the award. The shareholders include big financial institutions such as BlackRock, Fidelity, Franklin Templeton, Schroders and Aviva. Rather than sit and wait for the government response, Cairn has moved to cover for all eventualities, sources said. Registration of an arbitration award is the first step before any entity can file a petition in court for seizure of any asset to recover the amounts awarded. Cairn chief executive Simon Thomson has sought a meeting with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman this week to discuss the arbitration award. While Sitharaman hasn't responded to the request, Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey is likely to meet him. Last month, the Edinburg-based firm had written to the government saying it would be forced to seize Indian government assets if New Delhi fails to pay it USD 1.4 billion after losing a bitter dispute over retrospective taxes. An international tribunal had in December unanimously ruled that India violated its obligations under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty in 2014, when the income tax department slapped a Rs 10,247-crore tax assessment using legislation that gave it powers to levy taxes retrospectively. Soon after seeking Rs 10,247 crore in taxes over alleged capital gains made by the company over a 2006-07 reorganisation of India business before its listing, the tax department seized Cairn's residual 10 per cent stake in Cairn India. In a ruling Cairn had previously described as "final and binding", the tribunal ordered New Delhi to pay USD 1.2 billion in damages, plus interest and costs, to compensate Cairn for the shares long sold off by the tax department as well as confiscated dividends and withheld tax refunds. This totals USD 1.4 billion. Its shareholders have been egging the management to take action to get the money back. But one-and-a-half-month since the 582-page judgment was issued, the government has given no indication whether it intends to honour the verdict, though payment was due immediately. Cairn gave the country its biggest onland oil discovery in Rajasthan. It also developed the Ravva oil and gas field off the Andhra coast and smaller discoveries in Gujarat. In the letter to the Indian government last month, Cairn had said its shareholders "expect an early resolution, failing which they will expect Cairn to pursue the award in conformity with its rights under the treaty". "The award can be enforced against Indian assets in numerous jurisdictions around the world for which the necessary preparations have been put in place," it added. The letter did not specify the assets that might be seized but it is widely speculated that the targets could include bank accounts as well as mobile and immobile property, including the assets of public sector enterprises such as state-owned Air India, but not diplomatic assets. Earlier this month, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur had told Lok Sabha that the Cairn arbitration award was "under consideration of the government." Cairn Energy had in 2011, sold Cairn India to mining billionaire Anil Agarwal's Vedanta Group, barring a minor stake of 9.8 per cent. It wanted to sell the residual stake as well but was barred by the I-T department from doing so. The government also froze the payment of dividends by Cairn India to Cairn Energy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 300 points in early trade on Wednesday tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and TCS amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 310.50 points or 0.60 per cent lower at 51,793.67. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 74.35 points or 0.49 per cent down at 15,239.10. Nestle India was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by ONGC, HDFC, TCS, PowerGrid and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, SBI, Bajaj Finance and Reliance Industries were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex settled 49.96 points or 0.10 per cent lower at 52,104.17, and Nifty inched 1.25 points or 0.01 per cent lower to close at 15,313.45. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,144.09 crore on Tuesday, according to exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic markets do not look to be inspiring at the moment. A continued buying from FPIs has been a major driving force for the market in the recent period. The recent revival in earnings rebound is likely to sustain in subsequent fiscals. However, rise in commodity prices and risk emanating from hardening bold yields could be a medium-term concern. While we remain positive about the outlook of equities for the long-term perspective, markets may witness some amount of pullback in the near term and rotational trading might be visible, he said. Modi noted that US equities finished mostly lower on Tuesday as sharp spike in 10-year treasury yield and energy prices dampened investors' sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while those in Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.21 per cent higher at USD 63.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman holds post-budget meeting with RBI central board||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman outlined the main points of the Union Budget for 2021-22 and discussed the road map to fiscal consolidation and borrowing plan with the Reserve Bank of India’s central board in their first meeting after the presentation of the Union budget. According to tradition, the finance minister holds a customary meeting with the board members of the RBI and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) after the budget presentation every year. The finance minister addressed the 587th RBI central board meeting and informed the members about the key initiatives in the budget and the priorities of the government, the RBI said in a statement. “Complimenting the finance minister on the budget, the board members made various suggestions for consideration of the government,” it added. The board reviewed the current economic situation, global and domestic challenges and various areas of operations of the RBI, including ways for strengthening of grievance redress mechanism in banks. Earlier this month, the finance minister presented a Rs 34.5 lakh crore-budget for 2021-22 in the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic. The budget has laid emphasis on increasing capital expenditure, raising allocation for healthcare capacity building and development of agriculture infrastructure, among others. In the aftermath of the disruptions wrecked by the coronavirus pandemic, the economy is expected to contract 7.7% this financial year ending in March. The RBI has pegged real GDP growth at 10.5% for fiscal 2021-22, based on factors such as improved capacity utilisation at factories and energy demand. Fiscal deficit is expected to hit a record high of 9.5% of GDP in the current fiscal. For fiscal 2021-22, fiscal deficit is pegged at 6.8% of GDP. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das has assured that the central bank will support the Rs12 lakh crore government borrowing program in the next financial year in a non-disruptive manner. In its monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting earlier this month, RBI announced several measures, such as allowing retail investors to open Gilt or G-Sec accounts with the central bank, a move that will help deepen India's bond market. The meeting, held via videoconferencing, was attended by minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Singh Thakur, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey and secretary, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management, Tuhin Kanta Pandey, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Future Group’s creditors mull options to recover loans||Future Group’s creditors are exploring options to recover more than $2.5 billion in loans, amid worries the Indian retailer’s planned sale of assets to Reliance Industries could fail, four bankers with knowledge of the matter said. Future may face liquidation if the deal, already mired in legal wrangling, falls through and banks are actively discussing an alternate one-time restructuring option that could include an easier repayment tenure and fresh capital infusion, the people said on condition of anonymity as the talks are private. “Without Reliance, there is no future for Future,” one of the bankers at a major state-owned lender said. Bankers have discussed a restructuring plan in the past week and are drawing up a blueprint, the sources said. Future’s top financial creditors include India’s largest lender State Bank of India, along with smaller rivals Bank of Baroda and Bank of India. The three banks, Future Group and Reliance did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Future, India’s No.2 retailer with more than 1,700 stores, has been hit hard by the pandemic and agreed to sell most of its retail assets to Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance in a $3.4 billion deal. The transaction, however, has faced legal hurdles with e-commerce giant Amazon.com alleging that Future, by agreeing to sell assets to Reliance, was violating terms of a deal the US firm had struck with a Future Group entity. Future denies any wrongdoing. The deal was temporarily blocked by the Delhi high court but subsequently the order was struck down. Amazon has now taken the matter to the Supreme Court. The Future-Reliance deal will help creditors recover up to 80 per cent of their dues, the four bankers estimate. The troubled retailer’s over $2.5 billion debt includes loans from banks and money owed to operational creditors. SAT relief for Biyani The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has stayed the order passed by market regulator Sebi that had put a one-year ban on Future Retail chairperson Kishore Biyani and some other promoters from the securities market. SAT has also directed the Future Group promoters to deposit a sum of Rs 11 crore as an interim measure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Tata Communications join hands with Google Cloud for cloud computing services||Tata Communications on Tuesday joined hands with Google Cloud to drive cloud adoption among Indian businesses. The announcement of the partnership led to the shares of Tata Communications climbing close to 6 per cent on the BSE to Rs 1,050.90. Tata Communications said the deal had expanded its managed public cloud services portfolio to include the capabilities of Google Cloud. The partnership is expected to enable organisations to deploy and access Google Cloud services through Tata Communications’ “IZO Managed Cloud” platform. Companies will get access to end-to-end services, including cloud architecture planning and workload migration. Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, technology firms have been witnessing a rise in demand for services such as cloud computing. A cloud is where various services can be accessed from the Internet through a provider. Tata Communications said as a Google Cloud India partner, it will support organisations with services across infrastructure modernisation, data centre transformation, application modernisation and smart analytics. According to the company, with the current global scenario, there is wider recognition for business resilience and agility that cloud enables and most businesses are now beginning to explore a cloud-first model. “The current demands on enterprises to manage and optimise their cloud solutions has never been more important, especially in the wake of Covid-19 and our increasing reliance on cloud infrastructure,” Rajesh Awasthi, global head of cloud and managed hosting services at Tata Communications said. As organisations migrate to Google Cloud, they need a partner that will support them across their entire IT ecosystem and deliver a unified cloud management platform that offers greater transparency, control and security of their data and applications, Awasthi said. Tata Communications, erstwhile VSNL was in the news last month when the Government said that it will sell its entire 26.12 per cent stake in the company through offer for sale and strategic sale route in the current fiscal. In a notice, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) had said that a part of the shareholding will be offered through offer for sale (OFS) and the balance, including any leftover portion in the OFS, will be offered to strategic partner Panatone Finvest Ltd.  The transaction is to be completed by March 20, 2021, the DIPAM had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Tata group inks deal to buy 68 per cent stake in BigBasket||The Tata group is reportedly picking up 68 per cent in online grocer BigBasket for Rs 9,500 crore a deal that could see the exit of Alibaba and some other investors. According to a TV report on Tuesday, the enterprise value — market capitalisation plus debt — of BigBasket has been set at Rs 14,500 crore. The top management of the online grocer, led by co-founder Hari Menon, is likely to stay for around three years. The reported negotiations come at a time the Tata group is building a super-app that will offer a wide range of products under one roof. The entry of the Tatas could increase competition in India’s online grocery segment dotted by players such as Flipkart, Amazon’s Fresh and Reliance Retail. There have been reports of the Tatas planning to acquire online pharmacy firm 1mg. “India’s e-commerce market is the largest opportunity in the country’s Internet industry. It was worth close to Rs 22,600 crore ($31 billion) in 2019, after expanding at an impressive five-year CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) of 39 per cent. We expect the industry gross merchandise value (GMV) to be worth $100 billion by 2025,’’ analysts at HSBC said in a recent report. HSBC said online retail makes up just 4.7 per cent of the Rs 48 lakh crore Indian retail market. Apparel, footwear and consumer electronics (primarily mobile phones) account for 44 per cent of e-commerce sales in 2019. The bulk of these sales are made in online marketplaces such as Flipkart and Amazon, aided by their distribution reach, ease of payment, and flexible return policies. The report said other categories were expanding rapidly from a small base. Home care items were growing the fastest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
17-02-2021||Business||Amazon to start manufacturing Fire TV stick devices in India||Amazon.com Inc on Tuesday said it would start manufacturing its devices in the country giving a huge boost to the Modi-government’s Make in India initiative. The e-commerce giant will first make the Fire TV stick, a streaming device. A company blog said production would start later this year at the Chennai facilities of Cloud Network Technology, a contract manufacturer which is a subsidiary of Foxconn. Amazon did not offer any investment details. The company said production would meet the demand in India and it was open to scaling up operations by setting up facilities in the other parts of the country depending upon the demand. The announcement comes at a time the online giant is locked in a legal tussle with the Future group over the Kishore Biyani company’s Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. Amit Agarwal, senior vice-president and country head, Amazon India, on Tuesday discussed the company’s proposals with electronics and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. “Amazon is committed to partner with the Indian government to advance the vision of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. We have pledged to invest $1 billion to digitise 10 million small and medium businesses, help Indian businesses sell worldwide thereby enabling $10 billion in cumulative exports, and create an additional one million jobs by 2025,” Agarwal said. Last year, the company had announced the ‘Local Shops on Amazon’ programme to help retailers and local shops build an online presence. Amazon has registered over 22,000 neighbourhood stores with itself, building their online presence and becoming an additional pickup point, logistics partners and experience centres for e-commerce. “We welcome Amazon’s decision to set up a manufacturing line in Chennai, as it will enhance domestic production capacities, and create jobs as well. This will further our mission of creating a Atmanirbhar Bharat which is digitally empowered,” Prasad said. Prasad later in a tweet said he had asked Amazon India to take products made by India’s artisans and Ayurvedic items to the global markets.  “Amazon is a global company but Amazon India must evolve as a truly Indian company deeply connected with the Indian business community and culture.’’ PLI scheme Last year, the government had announced a Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme to step up manufacturing capacity. Already Apple and Samsung are producing smartphones in India through their partners. Dixon Technologies, a contract manufacturer of electronic goods, on Monday said its wholly owned subsidiary Padget Electronics has entered into an agreement with HMD India to manufacture Nokia phones in Noida. Padget Electronics had entered into a similar deal with Motorola to manufacture its smartphones at the Noida plant. “India is an attractive investment destination and is poised to become a major player in the global supply chain in the electronics and IT products industry. Our government’s decision to launch a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme has received tremendous response globally,” Prasad said. He said Amazon’s decision to set up a manufacturing line in Chennai is a welcome move and it will enhance domestic production capacities and create jobs as well. He also urged the e-commerce major to also select a few villages in India and develop them as fully digital villages. Amazon should also work with small local shops and make them a stakeholder in the larger efforts of Amazon to grow its business, Prasad added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
17-02-2021||Business||EPFO likely to announce rate of interest on PF deposits for 2020-21||Retirement fund body EPFO is likely to announce the rate of interest on provident fund deposits for 2020-21 on March 4 when its Central Board of Trustees will meet at Srinagar. K.E. Raghunathan, an EPFO trustee, said that on Monday he received the intimation that the next CBT meeting is scheduled to be held on March 4, at Srinagar and that the agenda papers are likely to be sent soon. He said that there is no mention about the discussion on interest rate for 2020-21 in the intimation mail. Speculation is rife that the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) may lower interest on provident fund deposits for this fiscal (2020-21) from 8.5 per cent provided for 2019-20 in view of more withdrawals and lesser contribution by members during this fiscal mainly because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year in March, the EPFO had lowered its interest rate on provident fund deposits to a seven-year low of 8.5 per cent for 2019-20 from 8.65 per cent in 2018-19. The EPF interest rate provided for 2019-20 at 8.5 per cent was the lowest since 2012-13. The EPFO had provided an 8.65 per cent interest rate to its subscribers for 2016-17, and 8.55 per cent in 2017-18. The rate of interest was slightly higher at 8.8 per cent in 2015-16. The fund had given an 8.75 per cent rate of interest in 2013-14 as well as in 2014-15, higher than 8.5 per cent for 2012-13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
17-02-2021||Business|| Unacademy announces acquisition of majority stake in TapChief||Edtech major Unacademy on Tuesday announced the acquisition of a majority stake in professional networking platform TapChief. As part of the deal, Unacademy will acquire a majority stake in TapChief and enable the exit of all existing investors, a statement said. Unacademy said post the acquisition, TapChief will join the Unacademy Group with a valuation of Rs 100 crore. It, however, did not provide details about the quantum of stake acquired, the investors exiting. TapChief has more than 1.5 lakh registered professionals, who use the platform to collaborate with a number of experts from their chosen domains and take up short-term professional projects. Founded in 2016 by Shashank Murali, Binay Krishna, and Arjun Krishna, TapChief caters to over 150 enterprise customers across sectors such as education, FMCG, and e-commerce . The company has raised funding from Blume Ventures, Cred founder Kunal Shah, former Flipkart executive Mekin Maheshwari, Aprameya Radhakrishna of TaxiForSure and others. “Our endeavour at Unacademy has always been to democratise education and make learning accessible and affordable . TapChief shares a similar ethos in a different space, as evident from the open community of professionals and learners they've created,” Unacademy Group co-founder and CEO Gaurav Munjal said. Unacademy Group consists of Unacademy, PrepLadder, Mastree, CodeChef, and Graphy. The company is backed by investors like Tiger Global, Dragoneer Investment Group, SoftBank Vision Fund 2, Facebook, General Atlantic, Sequoia India, SAIF Partners, Nexus Venture Partners, Steadview Capital, and Blume Ventures. Shashank Murali, co-founder and CEO of TapChief, said the company's mission has been to empower the modern Indian professional with access to a wide array of opportunities that enhance their career and growth. ”We are excited to learn from the Unacademy team and carry forward our mission at a greater scale and fervour as part of the Unacademy Group,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
17-02-2021||Business||Supreme Court asks govt to clarify on OTT curbs||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to file an affidavit explaining the measures being taken by the government to rein in Over the Top (OTT) platforms such as Amazon Prime, Netflix, Disney + Hotstar and Zee from telecasting uncensored movies and serials on their networks. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian while directing the government to file its response posted the matter for further hearing after four weeks. The court passed the directions while dealing with a petition filed by advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha in October last year when the court had initially issued a notice. The bench on Tuesday wanted the petitioner to withdraw the case and make a representation to the information ministry to prepare the necessary guidelines. Additional solicitor general K.M. Natraj who was present in the court said the government was “contemplating some action” on taking measures to regulate the content over OTTs. “Everybody in this world can contemplate. But you put it in writing what you want to say and what you are going to do…”Justice Bobde told Natraj. The petitioner has complained that there is unbridled telecast of crime, sex and other objectionable portions in the networks which have a tendency to corrupt the minds of the viewers. Unlike feature films, there is no censor certificate or proper regulation of the content. The petitioner had urged the apex court to direct the government to set up a suitable mechanism to deal with the issue. The petitioner had pleaded the court direct the government to set up a proper board/institution /association for the monitoring and management of content on different OTT/Streaming and digital media platforms. “With cinema theatres unlikely to open anytime soon in the country, OTT/Streaming and different digital media platforms have surely given a way out for film makers and artists to release their content without being worried about getting clearance certificates for their films and series from the censor board,” the plea said. The petitioner said lack of legislation governing was becoming evident with each passing day and every new case that was filed on these grounds. The government is facing heat to fill this lacuna with regulations from the public and the Judiciary; still the relevant government departments have not done anything significant to regularise these OTT/Streaming Platforms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
