18-02-2021||Business||Sensex sheds 379 points to close at 51,324||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 379 points on Thursday, tracking losses in index heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 379.14 points or 0.73 per cent lower at 51,324.69. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty dropped 89.95 points or 0.59 per cent to 15,118.95. Bajaj Finance was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, skidding over 2 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Nestle India, HDFC, M&M and ICICI Bank. ONGC was the top gainer, rallying around 8 per cent. NTPC, Asian Paints, Tech Mahindra, PowerGrid and IndusInd Bank were among the other winners. According to analysts, profit-booking in private banks, auto and FMCG dragged the benchmarks. Indian markets could not sustain early gains and started trading in negative zone in the afternoon session as selling pressure was witnessed following weak global cues mainly from western markets as investors awaited key economic data, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. Elsewhere in Asia, Shanghai ended on a positive note, while bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading in the negative terrain in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.48 per cent higher at USD 64.65 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open marginally higher||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a positive note on Thursday tracking gains in index majors Infosys, Reliance Industries and SBI, despite a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 61.08 points or 0.12 per cent higher at 51,764.91. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 18.20 points or 0.12 per cent up at 15,227.10. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, SBI, Infosys, HCL Tech and Asian Paints. On the other hand, M&M, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and Kotak Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex slumped 400.34 points or 0.77 per cent to close at 51,703.83. The broader NSE Nifty tumbled 104.55 points or 0.68 per cent to 15,208.90. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,008.20 crore on Wednesday, according to exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be modestly positive at the moment. 3QFY21 earnings have been quite encouraging and a large number of companies succeeded to top consensus earnings estimate. This along with increased visibility of sustaining corporate earnings rebound after favourable announcements in the Union Budget emboldened investors, he said. Persistent inflows from FPIs, which was the key driving force for markets in recent period, are expected to sustain, he added. US equities finished mostly lower on Wednesday. However, Dow Jones witnessed its third straight record close after minutes from FOMC's January meeting echoed Powell's last week of dovish statements. Fed policy makers reiterated that they need to see sustained inflation before considering the end of the bond buying programme. Hence, situations like taper tantrum are still away, in our view. Investors will be keenly watching out progress on passage of the quantum of fiscal stimulus in the near term, Modi said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while those in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.24 per cent higher at USD 65.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||India considers clearing new investment proposals from China||India is poised to clear some new investment proposals from China in the coming weeks as frosty relations between the two neighbouring countries thawed amid an easing in border tensions, said three government officials with knowledge of the matter. Last week, India and China began disengagement from the Pangong Tso area, in the Ladakh region of the western Himalayas, following a nearly nine-month-long standoff after the worst clash between the neighbouring countries since 1962. At the height of the tensions, India framed various policies targeting China, including blocking the nation from participating in government tenders, compelling any Chinese company investing in India to seek approvals and banning dozens of Chinese apps. The foreign investment rule change by the Indian government said investments from an entity in a country that shares a land border with India would require government approval, markedly slowing investments flows from China. The rule change had put in limbo over 150 proposals from China worth more than $2 billion, hurting the plans of Chinese companies in India. Among the proposals delayed was China’s Great Wall Motors’ acquisition of a General Motors’ plant in India. “We’ll start giving approvals to some greenfield investment proposals, but we will only clear those sectors which are not sensitive to national security,” one of the officials said. The officials, who asked not to be named as the discussions are private, did not give details of the proposals they plan to clear in the coming weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Advertising spend to increase 23.2 per cent in 2021: GroupM||GroupM India on Tuesday announced its advertising expenditure forecasts for 2021. According to the GroupM futures report ‘This Year, Next Year’ (TYNY) 2021, India will see a major advertising recovery in 2021 after the steep fall in 2020 because of the pandemic. TYNY forecasts India’s advertising investment to reach an estimated Rs 80,123 crore this year. This represents an estimated growth of 23.2 per cent for calendar year 2021. India is the second fastest growing market in the top 10 countries and will be the sixth largest contributor to incremental ad spends in 2021 globally. While India was ranked ninth in the global ad spend rank in 2019, it dropped to tenth position in 2020 and is likely to regain its ninth rank this year. Prasanth Kumar, CEO of GroupM South Asia, said, “2020 was an unprecedented year... The ad industry too had its challenges and 2020 witnessed a steep drop in the overall media investments. However, we have witnessed a month-on-month upturn starting the third quarter last year and we are quite optimistic about the revival that 2021 will see.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||GST payout feud likely to resurface||States are expected to raise concerns over inadequate GST compensation once again as the 15th Finance Commission has estimated the shortfall in the payout at Rs 7.1 lakh crore for the period April 2020 to June 2022. The issue is likely to be raised at the GST Council meeting which is expected before the end of March. Discomfort among the states is growing with Covid-19 continuing to wreak havoc on their revenues and the Union budget making no mention of how they will be compensated for the shortfall. As the compensation cess fund will not be sufficient to meet the Centre’s obligation, the GST Council has to decide whether or not to extend the current arrangement to make up for the shortfall of states with debt, officials said. The Council also has to decide on deferring part of the compensation payment for 2021-22 and the June quarter of 2022-23 for a later period as well as offering liquidity support by way of debt for that period, the officials said. The Fifteenth Finance Commission has estimated the shortfall in the collection of state GST vis-a-vis the assured collection at Rs 7.1 lakh crore for the 27 months April 2020 to June 2022. “From our projections of collections from GST compensation cess, it turns out that the compensation cess fund will have an amount of only Rs 2.25 lakh crore by that time, from the collections of 2020-21 to Q1, 2022-23,”it said. The commission indicated that “the shortfall in the requirements of compensation till Q1 2022-23 will be met by extending the levy of GST compensation cess till the year 2025-26”. “In the interim, the transitional requirements of liquidity of the States could be met from borrowings, either by the Union or by the states,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel to acquire 20 per cent stake in DTH from Warburg Pincus||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday said it will acquire a 20 per cent equity stake held by an affiliate of Warburg Pincus in its DTH arm Bharti Telemedia for Rs 3,126 crore. As part of the transaction, Airtel will issue around 3.647 crore shares at a price of Rs 600 per share with Rs 1,037.8 crore paid in cash. It will value the DTH arm at around Rs 15,630 crore. In a regulatory filing, Bharti Airtel said the issuance of shares through preferential allotment is subject to shareholders’ approval. In December 2017, the Warburg Pincus affiliate had agreed to acquire the stake in Bharti Telemedia Ltd, the DTH arm of Bharti Airtel. The preferential allotment represents a premium of one per cent to the closing price of the Bharti Airtel stock on the exchanges on Wednesday. On the BSE, the scrip settled at Rs 594.05, largely unchanged from its previous close of Rs 594. According to the company, the proposed transaction is part of a strategy to align the shareholding of its customer facing products, services and businesses under the same holding group. According to Bharti Airtel, a full control and ownership over Bharti Telemedia would allow it to offer differentiated and converged solutions to customers so as to promote “One Home” strategy. “DTH is an integral part of our homes strategy and this transaction is another step towards simplifying the shareholding of our customer facing businesses providing structural flexibility and ease of implementation,” Harjeet Kohli, group director, Bharti Enterprises, said while commenting on the transaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||PM Modi pitches for liberalised regulations on geospatial data and maps||Thaw in India’s relations with China got reflected in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pitch for liberalised regulations on geospatial data and maps. “Today, India is brimming with confidence. We are seeing it on the borders,” Modi said, without explicitly mentioning the thaw with China. He said in the past, security considerations prevented the government from undertaking the measure to liberalise map making and access to geospatial data. Addressing the annual Nasscom Technology and Leadership Forum, Modi said the decision is not just restricted to the area of technology, nor should it be seen as another administrative reform where the government exits a particular field. Mapping was till now a government preserve, handled by the Survey of India. With the changes, any Indian entity can take part in the process and profit from it. The government estimates that the new guidelines will boost the geospatial data sector to a value of Rs 1 lakh crore by 2030 and create jobs for 2.2 million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Centre clears PLI scheme for telecom equipment ||The production linked incentive scheme for telecom equipment approved by the government is expected to lead to local production worth Rs 2.4 lakh crore, bring in investment of more than Rs 3,000 crore and generate huge direct and indirect employment and taxes. “The Union cabinet has approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme worth Rs 12,195 crore for telecom equipment manufacturing,” Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters after a meeting. The government expects the scheme will lead to Rs 2,44,200 crore incremental production of telecom equipment in the country in the next five years, Prasad said. The minister said soon the government will come up with a PLI scheme to encourage production of laptops and tablet PCs. “This approval comes in the wake of the very encouraging success of PLI related to mobile and component manufacturing, which was announced in April 2020 during the height of the Covid pandemic,” an official statement said. Prasad said this incentive will make the country an important export hub. The PLI scheme is also expected to boost network gear exports and create a robust components ecosystem. Support under the scheme will be provided to companies engaged in manufacturing of specified telecom and networking products in India. Eligibility will be further subject to achievement of a minimum threshold of cumulative incremental investment over a period of four years and incremental sales of manufactured goods net of taxes (as distinct from traded goods) over the base year 2019-20. Mauritius pact The cabinet has also approved the signing of a Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) between India and Mauritius, an official statement said. More than 300 domestic goods from agriculture, textiles, electronics and other sectors will get market access at concessional customs duties in Mauritius. Mauritius will also benefit from preferential market access into India for its 615 products, including frozen fish, speciality sugar, biscuits, fresh fruits, juices, mineral water, beer, alcoholic drinks, soaps, bags and apparel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Hindujas pay premium of 61 per cent to raise stake in IndusInd Bank||The promoter group entities of IndusInd Bank have paid a premium of 61 per cent to raise their stake in the private sector bank through a warrant conversion. To fund the conversion of warrants, IndusInd International Holdings Ltd (IIHL), which is the Hinduja family’s investment vehicle, had come out with a rights issue which was over-subscribed. It may be recalled that the bank had issued convertible warrants to IIHL and IndusInd on July 6, 20I9. Both the entities had paid Rs 495.29 crore and Rs 178.53 crore, respectively, (aggregating Rs 673.81 crore) towards the warrant subscription, which was 25 per cent of the total payment. Market regulator Sebi had given additional time to the promoters of the bank for the conversion of warrants into shares — first by one month till  February 4 and then by two weeks till February 18 for payment of the balance 75 per cent. In all, the bank was issuing 1,57,70,985 warrants aggregating to Rs 2,695.26 crore. In a late evening regulatory filing to the exchanges, IndusInd Bank said IIHL and its subsidiary IndusInd Ltd have now redeemed the balance of 75 per cent of the warrants at a price of Rs 1,709 per share. This is a premium of almost 61 per cent to the closing price of Rs 1,058.65 of the IndusInd Bank share on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the scrip settled 2.46 per cent lower at Rs 1,032.60 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||RBI comes out with slew of directions related housing finance companies||The RBI on Wednesday came out with a slew of directions related to the maintenance of liquidity coverage ratio, risk management, asset classification and loan-to-value ratio for housing finance companies (HFCs). It asked HFCs to maintain a liquidity buffer in terms of liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) to ensure that they have sufficient high-quality liquid asset  to survive any acute liquidity stress scenario lasting for 30 days. All non-deposit taking HFCs with an asset size of Rs 10,000 crore and above, and all deposit taking HFCs will have to achieve a minimum LCR of 50 per cent by December 1, 2021 and gradually to 100 per cent by December 1, 2025. Non-deposit-taking HFCs with asset size of Rs 5,000 crore and above but less than Rs 10,000 crore will have to reach a minimum LCR of 30 per cent by December 1, 2021 and to 100 per cent by December 1, 2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
18-02-2021||Business||Sebi relaxes norms for listing of large initial public offerings||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Wednesday relaxed norms for the listing of large initial public offerings (IPOs). According to the present rules of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (SCRR), issuers with post- issue capital of more than Rs 4,000 crore should offload at least 10 per cent in the IPO. Moreover, they are required to achieve a minimum public shareholding (MPS) of at least 25 per cent within three years from the date of listing. At its board meeting on Wednesday, the Sebi board  decided to recommend changes in the SCRR for issuers with post-issue capital of over Rs 1,00,000 crore. For such issues, Sebi said the requirement of MPS will be reduced from the current 10 per cent to Rs 10,000 crore plus five per cent of the incremental amount beyond Rs 1,00,000 crore. Thus, for example, if a company’s post-issue capital is Rs 1,25,000 crore, the minimum offer will come to Rs 1,250 crore plus Rs 10,000 crore aggregating to Rs 11,250 crore. Sebi added these issuers shall be required to achieve at least 10 per cent public shareholding in two years and at least 25 per cent  within five years from the date of listing. Sebi’s relaxation comes at a time the mammoth IPO of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) is set to hit the capital markets next fiscal. At its meeting, the board also approved the repealing of Sebi (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993, and amendment to Sebi (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1993 and Sebi (Stock Brokers) Regulations, 1992.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
18-02-2021||Business||Modi blames UPA for flare up in petrol and diesel prices||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has resorted to a familiar diversionary tactic of blaming the UPA regime for the dramatic flare up in petrol and diesel prices — cresting above Rs 100 a litre in several parts of the country — while trying to hide his government’s colossal failure in handling a burning issue that could ignite inflation just when it seemed it had been yanked under control. Modi said the middle-class would not have been burdened if the previous governments had focussed on reducing India’s energy import dependence. “Can we be so import dependent? I don’t want to criticise anyone but I want to say (that) had we focussed on this subject earlier, our middle-class would not have been burdened,” he said at a function to inaugurate oil and gas projects in poll-bound Tamil Nadu. The NDA government has failed to put forward a credible plan to reduce import dependence since domestic production of oil and gas meets only about 18 per cent of the country’s energy demand. Data show that demand for crude oil in India reached 4.9 million barrels per day (bpd) compared with less than 1 million bpd of the total domestic liquids production. Without referring to the relentless increase in retail fuel prices, which are linked to international rates, Modi said India imported over 85 per cent of its oil needs in the 2019-20 financial year and nearly 53 per cent of its gas requirement. Petrol and diesel prices have been breaking records almost daily even as Assembly polls loom in four states, including Bengal. Assam, which will also go to the polls with Bengal, has reduced the state levy on petrol and diesel and so have Mizoram and Rajasthan, where petrol crossed the Rs 100-per-litre-mark on Wednesday. Opposition parties, including the Congress, have criticised the price hikes, blaming it on the Modi government for raising taxes to scoop out the benefit that arose from international oil rates plunging to a two-decade low in April-May last year. While global rates have rebounded with a pick-up in demand, the government has not restored the taxes, which are at a record high. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has recently ruled out the possibility of the government intervening by cutting duties and providing some relief to consumers. Since coming to power in May 2014, the Modi government has periodically raised the excise duty on petrol and diesel even when the global crude price plunged to $18-per-barrel levels in April last year. While the duty was Rs 9.48 per litre of petrol and Rs 3.56 per litre of diesel in May 2014, it has increased to Rs 32.90 a litre of petrol and Rs 31.80 for diesel. Taxes make up for over 61 per cent of retail petrol price while they constitute more than 56 per cent of diesel rates. Pradhan on Wednesday urged Saudi Arabia and other global oil producers to ease production cuts, saying rising international oil prices are hurting economic recovery and demand. Demand recovery should take “primacy” over oil prices at least for the next few months, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
