19-02-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 435 points to close below 51,000 mark||Extending its losses for the fourth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex slipped below the 51,000-mark by tumbling 435 points on Friday, tracking losses in ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and SBI. The 30-share BSE index ended 434.93 points or 0.85 per cent lower at 50,889.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty gave up the 15,000 level, dropping 137.20 points or 0.91 per cent to 14,981.75. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 5 per cent, followed by SBI, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Auto and Maruti. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, HUL, Dr Reddy's, NTPC and Reliance Industries were among the gainers. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities fell sharply as profit booking across the sectors dragged the benchmark indices. Bank and auto Indices corrected sharply by 2-3 per cent, while PSU bank index witnessed steeper correction by over 5 per cent after registering back-to-back gains in last five trading days. "A pullback in broad index was quite visible in last three days. However, investors continued to show interest in midcap and smallcap stocks given improved earnings outlook," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, markets in Tokyo ended on a negative note, while Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul closed with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the positive terrain in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.24 per cent lower at USD 63.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 250 points in early trade on Friday tracking losses in banking and financial stocks amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 281.86 points or 0.55 per cent lower at 51,042.83. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 87.25 points or 0.58 per cent down at 15,031.70. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, NTPC, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, Bajaj Finance and SBI. On the other hand, HUL, Reliance Industries, Bharti Airtel, L&T, M&M and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 379.14 points or 0.73 per cent lower at 51,324.69, and Nifty dropped 89.95 points or 0.59 per cent to finish at 15,118.95. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 903.07 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities do not look to be inspiring at the moment. "A pullback in broad indices was quite visible for the last two days. However, investors continued to lap-up midcap and smallcap stocks led by improved earnings outlook." US markets finished lower as weaker jobless claim data and risk of potential rise in inflation amid elevated commodity and energy prices weighed on sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.64 per cent lower at USD 62.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Government intends to bring natural gas under GST: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that his government intended to bring natural gas under the goods and services tax (GST), opening up the fissures in central payouts to states which had been filled up to an extent by the Centre agreeing to borrow on behalf of the states to meet the GST shortfall during the pandemic. The states have a lot at stake if natural gas is brought under the GST especially as the shortfall in payout for the period April 2020 to June 2022 has been estimated at a whopping Rs 7.1 lakh crore by the finance commission. The announcement will put pressure on the GST Council, expected to meet in the middle of March, to hammer out a consensus. The states may drag their feet because of the complications with the GST compensation structure. The Centre has offered to extend the compensation cess by a few years but states want the money now rather than later. The Opposition-ruled states, in particular, are likely to resist any move to widen the ambit of the GST regime. Oil ministry officials said “natural gas can be brought within the GST regime without any significant revenue loss for states and the central government as it is being taxed at relatively low levels, although rates differ across states and between the Centre and states.” The central excise duty on natural gas is 14 per cent, while VAT rates vary from 3 per cent to 24 per cent from state to state. Crude, petrol, high speed diesel, natural gas and aviation turbine fuel is out of the GST at present. Input tax on their procurement is not set off against the output tax liability and is an additional cost to the producers of oil and gas. Tax slab The GST Council is likely to meet by the middle of March and is expected to consider the Finance Commission’s recommendation to have just three tax slabs by merging the 12 and the 18 per cent rates into one along with two other slabs viz. 5 per cent and 28-30 per cent. Meanwhile, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), which is perceived to be close to the ruling BJP, has called for a nationwide strike on February 26, saying the indirect tax regime has become the most complicated piece of legislation. Numaligarh bid A consortium led by state-owned Oil India Limited (OIL) will bid for the 61.65 per cent stake of BPCL in Assam’s Numaligarh Refinery Limited “OIL in consortium with Engineers India Limited (EIL) has decided to bid for acquiring a 61.65 per cent stake of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) in NRL. The bid is to be submitted through a formal process,” Oil India said. After Rajasthan, petrol price on Thursday crossed the Rs 100-per- litre mark in Madhya Pradesh after fuel rates were increased for the tenth day in a row.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Centre and Cairn hold meeting for resolution of tax dispute case||The possibility of a negotiated resolution to the tax dispute between Cairn Energy and the Indian government seems to have brightened with the two sides sending positive signals after a meeting on Thursday. Cairn Energy Plc’s chief executive Simon Thomson on Thursday met finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey, CBDT chairman P.C. Mody and other tax officials in the hope of quickly resolving the issue, nearly two months after an international arbitration tribunal ruled against the Indian government levying taxes retrospectively. “We had a constructive dialogue and the dialogue is ongoing,” Thomson told reporters. He refused to comment on what transpired at the meeting. “I can’t comment more on the meeting.” Finance ministry officials said the government is keen to find an amicable solution to the controversial retrospective tax issue. “While the tax department is in favour of challenging the ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration, many others, including the political leadership, are aware of what it would mean for investor sentiment,” the official said. Cairn Energy has won an arbitration award from ICC Hague which directs the Centre to pay damages of $1.4 billion (about Rs 8,800 crore) for trying to recover tax dues worth over Rs 24,000 crore from Cairn Energy on account of imputed capital gains related to a corporate restructuring exercise in 2006-07. Cairn sold its stake in the company to Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta but has not been able to exit the country because of the tax dispute with the Centre which has stalled payments for the share transfer. Cairn has taken pre-emptive action to force the Indian government to pay the award amount by filing cases in the US, the Netherlands and Britain seeking to confiscate Indian sovereign assets to realise the sum if the Centre fails to pay. The Centre may challenge the award and has time till March 21 to do so. While some reports had speculated that the Centre may offer an out-of-court settlement to Cairn, others said the only option on the table for a settlement for the Indian government is to make use of the Vivad se Vishwas direct tax dispute settlement scheme. Under this, the principal tax demand is to be paid while the interest and penalty are waived. Officials had earlier hinted at filing an appeal against the December 21 ruling. Cairn has threatened to seize Indian government assets overseas if New Delhi fails to return the value of the shares sold, dividend seized and tax refund withheld by the income tax department to recover part of the tax demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||RBI tightens rules for housing finance companies||Exposures of housing finance companies (HFCs) to the capital market and to land and buildings have been capped by the Reserve Bank of India, which has regulated them since 2019. The RBI on Wednesday also strengthened the disclosure standards. Every HFC must disclose details of capital adequacy ratio and exposure to the real estate sector, both direct and indirect, in their notes to the balance sheet. They must disclose the maturity pattern of assets and liabilities and the percentage of outstanding loans against collateral of gold jewellery to their assets. They must also give details of penalty by the RBI or the National Housing Bank or any adverse comments made in writing by the RBI or the NHB on regulatory compliances. A housing finance company is an NBFC whose financial assets in housing loans constitute at least 60 per cent of its total assets. HFCs should have a minimum capital adequacy ratio of 14 per cent by March 31, 2021 which will rise to 15 per cent by March 31, 2022. According to the RBI, the Tier-I or core capital at any point of time should not be less than 10 per cent. Besides, HFCs must ensure that at all times there is full cover available for public deposits accepted by them. In case HFC fails to repay any public deposit or part thereof as per the terms, it shall not grant any loan or other credit facility or make any investment or create any other asset as long as the default exists. The central bank also barred HFCs to lend against their own shares. Capital markets The aggregate exposure of a housing finance company to the capital market in all forms, both fund based and non-fund based should not exceed 40 per cent of its net worth as on March 31 of the previous year. Within this overall ceiling, direct investment in shares, convertible bonds or debentures, units of equity-oriented mutual funds and all exposures to venture capital Funds (VCFs) should not exceed 20 per cent of its net worth. The capital market exposure will also include advances against shares/ bonds/debentures or other securities to individuals for investment in shares, including IPOs and ESOPs, convertible bonds, and secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Cognizant plans to hire more than 23,000 freshers this year in India||Cognizant has stepped up its hiring efforts for both freshers and lateral hires in the country and expects the number of new recruits in the March quarter to be “more than ever before”, Cognizant India chairman and managing director Rajesh Nambiar said. The US-based company, which has over two lakh employees in India, expects to hire more than 23,000 fresh graduates this year in the country. “At nearly 2,04,500, our India headcount at the end of 2020 was Cognizant’s highest ever in the country. We continue to be one of the top recruiters of high-quality engineering, science, management and other talent in India,” Nambiar said. He added that the company hired more than 17,000 fresh graduates from campuses in calendar year 2020, and expects to hire over 23,000 fresh graduates in 2021 — 35 per cent more than in 2020. “Our campus commitment is all about us skilling up and these campus hires will complement our lateral hires. We’re on track to bring in more new hires in Q1 of 2021 than ever before as we ramp our hiring capacity to accommodate our growth plans for 2021 and beyond,” Nambia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Policybazaar anticipates increase in offtake of standard life insurance policies||Insurance aggregator Policybazaar.com anticipates an increase in the offtake of standard life insurance policies despite the higher premium compared with a term policy of similar sum insured. The life insurance companies were mandated by insurance regulator IRDAI to offer standard term insurance policy — Saral Jeevan Bima — from January 2021. The SJB policy, available to all individuals in the age group of 18-65 years, offers a sum insured ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 25 lakh. There is no maturity benefit and only exclusion clause is suicide. The insurers will also not be liable for a payout if the policyholder dies within 45 days of taking the policy except for death in the case of an accident. “Earlier, self-employed people with an annual income of Rs 3-5 lakh were not able to get term insurance because of the unavailability of income proof. Now, with the launch of SJB plans, this segment is more likely to get term insurance. SJB provides the option of income surrogate where you can submit the registration certificate of your car or two-wheeler as a surrogate to your income proof,” said Santosh Agarwal, chief business office-life insurance, Policybazaar.com. “We expect the issuance rate to this segment to go up to 70 per cent which was earlier only 30 per cent. So far, we’ve seen traction around the self-employed people choosing SJB,” said Agarwal. A key concern in the industry was the pricing of the SJB policies which were expected to be higher than a standard term cover for a similar sum assured. Insurers use demography, income category, place of residence, occupation and the education level of the buyers to create and price term products. A 40-year-old person opting for a sum assured of Rs 25 lakh may find that his monthly SJB premia works out to over Rs 1,000 plus whereas he may find options at around Rs 750 for a term cover of a similar sum assured. “In SJB, no filters are allowed. So, the premium is on the higher side due to relaxation in underwriting norms. These plans are filling a need gap as a large chunk of low-income earners are unable to buy term plans. People who were not eligible to buy regular term products due to lack of income proof and required educational qualification can now avail a term insurance plan,” Agarwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||RBI allows Piramal group to acquire DHFL||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has given the green signal to the Piramal group to acquire Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL). The banking regulator is learnt to have given its nod under the “fit and proper criteria”. Lenders to DHFL will now move the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to get its clearance for the resolution plan. Last month, the committee of creditors (CoC) had approved the resolution plan submitted by Piramal group firm Piramal Capital and Housing Finance Ltd. “We understand that the RBI has approved the DHFL resolution plan from Piramal Capital and Housing Finance, submitted by the CoC,” Piramal Group said in a statement. The central bank had referred DHFL to NCLT in November 2019 for insolvency proceedings. DHFL was the first finance company to be referred to the NCLT by the RBI using special powers under Section 227 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. Before that, the company’s board was superseded and R. Subramaniakumar was appointed as the administrator. He is also the resolution professional under IBC. While the bidding process for DHFL began in October 2020, it ended in December 2020 with the CoC voting ending last month. The resolution plan submitted by Piramal Capital and Housing Finance secured 94 per cent votes against the minimum 66 per cent required. The total consideration to be paid by the group stands at Rs 34,250 crore, which includes an upfront cash payment of Rs 14,700 crore and deferred component through non-convertible debentures (NCDs) of Rs 19,550 crore. Though its offer was lower than that of Oaktree, the higher upfront amount by the Piramal group swung the resolution plan in its favour. The acquisition is in line with the group’s strategy to diversify the loan book and increase its granularity. Under the Piramal group’s plan, current shareholders of DHFL will get nothing. It now plans to merge its financial services business with DHFL once all the approvals are in place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
19-02-2021||Business||Traders’ body seeks government ban on Amazon||The retail trade war has intensified with traders’ body CAIT on Thursday demanding that the government impose a ban on Amazon’s e-commerce portal and its operations in India, accusing the global e-tailing giant of indulging in predatory pricing, deep discounting and inventory control. CAIT secretary-general Praveen Khandelwal demanded an “immediate ban on Amazon’s portal and its operations in India” and an investigation against the company in a time-bound manner. He also urged the government to probe the business practices of Amazon and Flipkart. The traders’ body also wrote to commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal in this regard on Thursday. “Our association has been requesting your office to investigate and penalise multinational companies such as Amazon and Flipkart (Walmart) for the blatant violation and/or exploitation of the loopholes of the FDI policy and the Foreign Exchange Management Act/Rules,” CAIT said in the letter to Goyal. CAIT has demanded a ban on Amazon after Reuters reported the e-tailer’s selective and preferential treatment to select sellers on its platform for years. According to the report, Amazon used these select sellers to circumvent India’s foreign direct investment regulations. Khandelwal said these “shocking revelations” are enough to ban the operations of Amazon in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
