20-02-2021||Business||Mamata Banerjee to skip PM Niti meet||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to skip the Niti Aayog’s governing council meeting to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 20, sources said on Friday. The council, the apex body of the government’s think tank, includes all chief ministers, lieutenant governors of Union Territories (UTs), several Union ministers and senior government officials. The meeting will discuss  issues related to agriculture, infrastructure, manufacturing and human resource development. “Mamata Banerjee may not attend the Niti Aayog’s February 20 meeting,” a senior TMC leader said on condition of anonymity. Banerjee in 2019 had skipped the Niti Aayog’s meetings and termed it as a “fruitless” exercise, alleging that the body has “no financial power” and cannot support the state plans. She had stated that the Planning Commission was more effective than the Niti Aayog and sought its return. Banerjee had said that the Planning Commission had a bottom-up approach where the body would hold regular meetings with state governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||WhatsApp sticks with changed privacy rules  ||WhatsApp will display a banner on the app providing users with more information on its privacy policy and terms of use update that has drawn massive criticism over concerns on data sharing with parent Facebook. The contentious policy — whose rollout date was pushed to May 15 from February 8 — however, remains unchanged. In a blogpost on Friday, WhatsApp said: “We’ve also included more information to try and address concerns we’re hearing. Eventually, we’ll start reminding people to review and accept these updates to keep using WhatsApp.” The Facebook-owned company, in an e-mailed response, said the new in-app notification looks different from the one users saw in January and that has been redesigned based on feedback from users. “...but the terms of service and privacy policy remain the same. As a reminder, this update does not change the privacy of people’s personal conversations and does not expand our ability to share data with Facebook,” WhatsApp said. A raging debate erupted last month after WhatsApp said it will update its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant's products. The Indian government had asked WhatsApp to withdraw the changes, saying unilateral changes are unfair and unacceptable, and that not giving users an option to opt out raised “grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens”. It had also questioned why Indian users are being subjected to differential treatment when compared to their European counterparts where the changes do not apply. After the public outcry, WhatsApp had decided to delay the rollout of its new policy update to May 15. “After May 15, people who haven’t accepted the privacy policy can still receive calls and get notifications, but they’ll need to agree to the update to send messages,” it said. It added that in accordance with its policies, user accounts will remain active to allow them to accept the new terms of service and updates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Semiconductor crunch leaves carmakers with stark choice||The semiconductor crunch that has battered the auto sector leaves carmakers with a stark choice: pay up, stock up or risk getting stuck on the sidelines as chipmakers focus on more lucrative business elsewhere. Car manufacturers, including Volkswagen, Ford and General Motors, have cut output as the chip market was swept clean by makers of consumer electronics such as smartphones — the chip industry’s preferred customers because they buy more advanced, higher-margin chips. The semiconductor shortage — over $800 worth of silicon is packed into a modern electric vehicle — has exposed the disconnect between an auto industry spoilt by decades of just-in-time deliveries and an electronics industry supply chain it can no longer bend to its will. “The car sector has been used to the fact that the whole supply chain is centred around cars,” said McKinsey partner Ondrej Burkacky. “What has been overlooked is that semiconductor makers actually do have an alternative.” Automakers are responding to the shortage by lobbying governments to subsidise the construction of more chip-making capacity. In Germany, Volkswagen has pointed the finger at suppliers, saying it gave them timely warning last April - when much global car production was idled due to the coronavirus pandemic — that it expected demand to recover strongly in the second half. That complaint by the world’s No.2 volume carmaker cuts little ice with chipmakers, who say the auto industry is both quick to cancel orders in a slump and to demand investment in new production in a recovery. “Last year we had to furlough staff and bear the cost of carrying idle capacity,” said a source at one European semiconductor maker, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “If the carmakers are asking us to invest in new capacity, can they please tell us who will pay for that idle capacity in the next downturn?” Low-tech customer The auto industry spends around $40 billion a year on chips — about a tenth of the global market. By comparison, Apple spends more on chips just to make its iPhones, Mirabaud tech analyst Neil Campling reckons. Moreover, the chips used in cars tend to be basic products such as micro controllers made under contract at older foundries - hardly the leading-edge production technology in which chipmakers would be willing to invest. “The suppliers are saying: ‘If we continue to produce this stuff there is nowhere else for it to go. Sony isn’t going to use it for a Playstation 5 or Apple for its next iPhone’,” said Asif Anwar at Strategy Analytics. Chipmakers were surprised by the panicked reaction of the German car industry, which persuaded Economy Minister Peter Altmaier to write a letter in January to his counterpart in Taiwan to ask for more chips. No extra supplies were forthcoming, with one German industry source joking that the Americans stood a better chance of getting more chips from Taiwan because they could at least park an aircraft carrier off the coast — referring to the ability of the US to project power in Asia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Bank locker rules to be recast||The Supreme Court on Friday said banks cannot wash off their hands towards customers for the operation of lockers and directed the RBI to lay down regulations within six months, mandating the steps to be taken by banks to manage lockers. A bench comprising Justices M. M. Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran said with the advent of globalisation, banking institutions have acquired a very significant role in the life of the common man as both domestic and international economic transactions within the country have increased multiple folds. The top court said people are hesitant to keep their liquid assets at home as “we are moving towards a cashless economy”. “Thus, as is evident from the rising demand for such services, lockers have become an essential service provided by every banking institution. Such services may be availed of by citizens as well as by foreign nationals,” the bench said. Moreover, due to rapid gains in technology, “we are now transitioning from dual key­operated lockers to electronically operated lockers”, the top court said. In the electronically operated lockers, though the customer may have partial access to the locker through passwords or ATM PIN they are unlikely to possess the technological know­how to control the operation of such lockers, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Gold dips to its lowest in 8 months||Gold prices in India fell to an eight-month low on Friday and dipped below Rs 46,000 per 10 gram, tracking global rates as a rise in US treasury yields and a recovery in the US economy have dimmed the lustre of its appeal as a safe-haven asset in times of crisis. The yellow metal is now cheaper by Rs 10,000 per 10 gram from its August 2020 highs when it was over Rs 56,000. On Friday, prices in the national capital fell Rs 239 to Rs 45,568 per 10 gram, according to HDFC Securities. In the previous trade, it had closed at Rs 45,807 per 10 gram. In the global market, the metal was quoting lower at $1,774 per ounce. At the MCX, gold futures were trading at Rs 46,126 per 10 gram after hitting a low of Rs 45,861 during intra-day trade. Tapan Patel, senior analyst (commodities) at HDFC Securities, said that prices of the precious metal traded weak with Comex spot gold prices trading near $1,774 per ounce. Patel added that gold was under pressure because of the rise in bond yields which dampened demand for the safe-haven investment. Further, the risk-on sentiments have driven investors out of precious metals with gold ETF holdings at SPDR gold shares falling to 1,132 tonnes. After hitting record peaks last year, gold prices have softened in 2021. According to Nish Bhatt, founder and CEO of Millwood Kane International, the rise in the US treasury yields and stronger dollar, optimism of a larger economic stimulus package and the vaccination drive have led to downside pressure on gold prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Ford puts on hold all projects with M&M||Ford Motor Company has reportedly frozen all its ongoing projects with Mahindra & Mahindra as it draws  up a new strategy for India. Ford and Mahindra at the turn of the year had said they had stopped their negotiations on a joint venture citing changes in the global economic and business conditions, partly because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Since then the two companies said they would reassess their capital allocation priorities. Consequently, Ford said it would continue with its Indian operations independently. In October 2019, Mahindra and Ford had announced the signing of a definitive agreement to create a joint venture that will develop, market and distribute Ford brand vehicles in India and Mahindra brand vehicles in high-growth emerging markets around the world. The joint venture, in which Mahindra was to hold a 51 percent controlling stake, would have seen Ford transferring its India operations to this enterprise, including its personnel and assembly plants in Chennai and Sanand in Gujarat. They had also planned to develop at least three sports utility vehicles (SUVs) for India and the emerging markets as well as powertrains and technology. A Reuters report citing sources said that Ford is weighing options which could include working out a new relationship with Mahindra or ending their relationship and related vehicles completely. The report added that a decision could be taken in a month on whether to join hands with Mahindra in a different form or not. This comes at a time Ford’s current CEO Jim Farley wants Indian operations to be more profitable. Among the SUVs which were to be built was a mid-sized vehicle that would be made by Mahindra on its platform and powertrain. This was scheduled to be launched in 2022. Here, the report added that Ford is also negotiating new terms for an engine M&M was to supply for its EcoSport SUV later this year. When they terminated their joint venture on January 1, Ford said that it was actively evaluating its businesses around the world, including in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Centre unveils LNG policy prop for trucks||The government has unveiled a draft LNG policy that seeks to incentivise truck fleets in the country to switch to LNG use. It also aims to raise the LNG regasification terminal capacity to 100 million tonnes (mt) per year by 2040 from 40 mt and build LNG filling terminals across the country’s highways. The policy said LNG as an import substitute of petrol and diesel can save foreign exchange worth $200 million per mt per annum. The policy set a target to increase the country’s LNG re-gasification capacity to 70mt by 2030 and 100mt by 2040. The policy prepared by the petroleum ministry aims to set up a framework for the promotion of gas and find ways for LNG adoption in sectors which currently does not use it as a fuel. The policy targets to convert 10 per cent of long haul heavy duty trucks to ply on LNG. The timeline to achieve the target has not been specified in the draft document. The automotive companies will be incentivised towards manufacturing LNG-based heavy vehicles and creating ancillary manufacturing units through tax exemptions and green certifications, the draft policy said. There is also a plan to create enabling infrastructure to transport LNG through railways and trucks. The policy envisages promotion of dedicated highways with extensive LNG infrastructure. Besides, there are plans to establish 1,000 LNG outlets for long-haul, heavy-duty trucks and other vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||ED to probe Amazon deals for irregularities||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is understood to be examining the reports of Amazon.com Inc giving preferential treatment to a small group of sellers on its India platform for years and using them to evade the country’s foreign investment rules, weeks after the agency initiated a probe against the e-commerce giant. The first one was whether Amazon violated any provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) in a 2019 deal with the Future group. On Wednesday, a Reuters report based on internal Amazon documents between 2012 and 2019 said around 33 sellers made for about a third of the value of all goods sold on its platform in early 2019. The report added that two sellers Cloudtail and Appario in which Amazon held indirect stakes contributed to around 35 per cent to the website’s sales revenue in that same period. Effectively, close to 35 of Amazon’s more than 400,000 sellers in the country made up for two-thirds of its sales. However, Amit Agarwal, Amazon India chief, told its employees in an internal email that the report was factually incorrect. An Amazon India spokesperson also said the company remained compliant with all the Indian laws. But on Thursday, a Reuters report quoting a senior ED official said the enforcement agency would examine the findings of the story and that the matter “was not entirely new’’ to it. Traders body Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has urged the Centre to impose a ban on Amazon’s e-commerce portal and its operations in India even as it accused the company of indulging in predatory pricing, deep discounting and inventory control. CAIT secretary-general Praveen Khandelwal demanded an “immediate ban on Amazon’s portal and its operations in India” and an investigation against the company in a time-bound manner. Amazon at present is engaged in a legal battle with the Future group on the latter’s Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. Last week, Amazon challenged an order of the division bench of the Delhi high court that had stayed an earlier order of the same court directing Future Retail Ltd and other statutory authorities to maintain status quo on the deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
20-02-2021||Business||Centre to contest Cairn Energy award||The Modi government has decided to challenge the international arbitration award that went in favour of Cairn Energy plc even as the finance ministry held talks for the second day with the officials of the exploration company. The government is likely to file an appeal against the Cairn arbitration award insisting on its sovereign right to taxation, sources said. Soon after the second meeting in as many days between Cairn CEO Simon Thomson and finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey ended, official sources said the government intended to defend its sovereign right and would file an appeal against tribunal order asking India to return $1.4 billion to the British company. The government will also strongly contest other suits filed by Cairn Energy at various international courts, they said, adding any dispute resolution by Cairn must be within already existing laws. However, sources said the option of India appealing against the verdict did not figure in the talks between the two sides either on Thursday or Friday. Cairn on its part remained tightlipped on the discussions it had only initiated to recover the sum. “Constructive dialogue is continuing,” Thomson said after the meeting on Friday. He did not elaborate. Sources said the government was aware of the legal consequences and was weighing all its options. “The fact that a second round of meeting was sought by the finance ministry indicates their eagerness to avoid any legal consequences and look for a resolution,” they said. The options discussed at the meeting were not immediately known. An international tribunal in December had unanimously ruled that India violated its obligations under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty in 2014. The income-tax department had slapped a Rs 10,247-crore tax assessment using legislation that gave it powers to levy taxes retrospectively. The verdict meant the Indian government would have to pay an overall $1.4 billion in damages for wrongfully claiming it was entitled to capital gains tax of Rs 24,000 crore on a corporate restructuring exercise conducted in 2006. The payout stems from an initial tax demand of Rs 10,247 crore on Cairn U.K. Holdings Ltd that rose to over Rs 22,000 crore with penalties and interest. The tax department recovered part of the dues via the sale of Cairn assets. Cairn sold its stake in Cairn India to Anil Agarwal's Vedanta in 2011 but retained a rump stake that was impounded by the govt preventing the its exit from India. Cairn Energy has filed suits in the US, UK and the Netherlands in an attempt to get the court to allow it to claim possession of the Indian government’s assets to realise the arbitration which the Centre has shown no sign of paying the money. It had filed a petition in a Washington DC federal court on February 12 and followed that up with filings in the UK and the Netherlands. India had previously lost another major international arbitration case against Vodafone over a $2 billion retrospective tax dispute. The government has challenged the verdict. In a letter to the Indian government last month, Cairn had said its shareholders “expect an early resolution, failing which they will expect Cairn to pursue the award in conformity with its rights under the treaty”. Earlier this month, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur had told the Lok Sabha that the Cairn arbitration award was “under consideration of the government”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
