21-02-2021||Business||Bengal gem workers’ welfare board plea||Jewellery artisans in Bengal are in favour of the creation of an independent welfare board for the benefit of an estimated 15-20 lakh workers from the state engaged in the profession. Members of an industry body — the West Bengal Jewellery Artisan Workers Union — on Saturday said an independent board can help address many of the labour-related issues of the sector such as a wage structure, social security and health benefits, including offering health insurance. The association has also urged the state government to form a database of workers engaged in the sector and issue identity cards to them. Most of the jewellery artisans in the country are from Bengal and many travel to states such as Gujarat and Maharashtra in search of work. “Once a board is set up, a registrar of workers can be formed first in the state and then nationally to determine the exact number of karigars,” said Ranjan Das, general secretary, West Bengal Jewellery Artisan Workers Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
21-02-2021||Business||SBI Payments to launch Yono Merchant app to expand digitisation of merchant payments||State Bank of India (SBI) is taking Yono — its flagship digital offering — to the merchant community. The SBI on Saturday said its subsidiary SBI Payments will launch the Yono Merchant app to expand the digitisation of merchant payments in the country. It is targeting around two crore merchants across the country in both the retail and enterprise segments over the next two years. SBI plans to achieve this by enabling several merchants through mobile-led technology to accept digital payments and deploy low-cost acceptance infrastructure. “The Yono platform now has 35.8 million registered users. In the next 2-3 years, we aim to digitise millions of merchants by upgrading their mobile phones to PoS devices, helping them access value-added services such as loyalty, GST invoicing, inventory management and connecting to an interface to avail other banking products,” SBI chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
21-02-2021||Business||Fuel ball in states’ court||The steep fuel price hike has become a political hot potato with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman deftly trying to share the onus of bringing down the rates with the states. “It’s a vexatious issue in which no answer except for a fall in fuel price will convince anyone. Both the Centre and the states should talk to bring down the retail fuel price to a reasonable level,” she told reporters in Chennai. As much as 60 per cent of the retail price of petrol, which has crossed the Rs 100-mark in several cities, is made up of central and state taxes. “I can do that (cut taxes) if I have a certain guarantee that my revenue foregone will not be an opportunity for somebody else to get into this space and gain that... It is a maha bhayankar dharma sankatam,” she said. “If all of us are talking about consumer prices of fuel and the tax raised by the Centre, the tax raised by the states is not holier than one another.” The taxes by the Centre and states are equal, she said. On bringing petrol and diesel under GST, she said:   “There can be just one tax that can be shared by the Centre and the states rather than the states having their own and the Centre having its own.” This would further usurp states’ revenue and increase their dependence on the Centre, analysts said. Message to India Inc In a separate event, Sitharaman asked India Inc to unleash its animal spirits to put the economy on a sustainable path of recovery and urged credit rating agencies to grade the economies in a relative sense and not in silos.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
21-02-2021||Business||Confusion mars farm law debate at Niti Aayog council meet ||The controversial farm law, which could have held centre stage at the Niti Aayog’s governing council meet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, got drowned in a confusion over whether it was brought up during the meeting following divergent views on the issue. While the Congress-led Punjab government claimed that chief minister Amarinder Singh in a pre-recorded message had raised the issue, the think-tank’s vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar said, “Nobody talked about the farm laws.” Defending the three farm laws introduced last year to open up the agriculture sector for more private participation, Modi said this will help farmers. “Reforms are very important in the farm sector to make sure our farmers get finance, better infrastructure and modern technology,” he said. PTI reported quoting a Punjab government release that chief minister Amarinder Singh had urged the Prime Minister to ensure an urgent resolution to the ongoing farmers’ “unrest” and an early release of the state’s pending GST compensation in his pre-recorded address for the sixth governing council meeting of the Niti Aayog. Singh, who could not attend the meeting as he was unwell, also expressed his concerns over the threat to Punjab’s agriculture sector as a result of the “disruptions caused by the three new farm laws”. Farmers have been protesting against the three new central agricultural laws enacted in September last year and demanding they be repealed. “There was no discussion on the Centre’s farm laws, or the demand for their repeal in the meeting,” Kumar told reporters when asked about the Punjab CM’s statement released ahead of the press conference. Around 26 chief ministers, three lieutenant governors and two administrators participated in the conference. The chief ministers of Bengal, Punjab, Telangana and Gujarat did not attend the meeting. Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani could not attend because of health reasons, Kumar said. Officials said the virtual council meet was that of chief ministers and there was no provision of playing pre-recorded messages nor could  anyone speak on their behalf. Modi said efforts should be made to produce agriculture items such as edible oil and reduce their imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
