22-02-2021||Business||Sensex crashes 1,145 points to finish below 50,000||Extending its losses for the fifth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 1,145 points on Monday, tracking heavy losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC and TCS amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 1,145.44 points or 2.25 per cent lower at 49,744.32. The broader NSE Nifty sank 306.05 points or 2.04 per cent to finish at 14,675.70. Dr Reddy's was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 5 per cent, followed by M&M, Tech Mahindra, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank and TCS. On the other hand, ONGC, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank were the gainers. "India markets opened on a flattish note tracking mixed Asian market peers with China trading in losses as PBoC kept interest rates unchanged while Japan was trading with marginal gains," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. During the afternoon session, markets started to drift lower and traded in red as amid fresh concerns over the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases contributed to the fears that the economic impact will be much larger than earlier estimates, he noted. "Also, the major western markets failed to provide any support as it opened to trade in red with equity investors growing concern about rising bond yields in recent weeks which could hurt high-growth companies reliant on easy borrowing," Solanki added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Tokyo traded with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.66 per cent higher at USD 62.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
22-02-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 200 points in opening trade on Monday tracking losses in index majors HDFC, ITC and L&T amid tepid cues from global markets. After dropping to 50,685.42, the 30-share BSE index pared most losses to trade 65.13 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 50,824.63. After a similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 8.40 points or 0.06 per cent down at 14,973.35. L&T was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by M&M, Dr Reddy's, Maruti, HDFC, TCS and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, ONGC, HDFC Bank, Tech Mahindra and Infosys were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 434.93 points or 0.85 per cent lower at 50,889.76, and Nifty gave up the 15,000 level, dropping 137.20 points or 0.91 per cent to 14,981.75. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 118.75 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. "As the last week of trading in February begins, there are some negative signals and news. The rise in the US 10-year bond yield to 1.36 per cent reflects the markets' concern about a potential rise in inflation, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Back home, the escalation in COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra is emerging as a cause of concern, he said, adding that these concerns have impacted FPI flows to the market which, though positive, appears to be slowing down. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.06 per cent higher at USD 62.80 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
22-02-2021||Business||No guilt in gilt: retail participants in the G-Sec market||The Reserve Bank of India’s latest credit policy has addressed an issue that has nearly escaped the attention of the investing public, while more pressing matters like interest rates and inflation — to borrow words from Dale Carnegie’s acclaimed tome — have won friends and influenced people. Let’s embellish that introductory paragraph with an easy explanation: the central bank has allowed retail investors to open accounts for government securities. That indeed seems simple; however, it may well have a profound impact on the manner in which G-Secs (if you desire a smarter and more popular term, try ‘gilts’) are held and traded by the retail populace. The most recent initiative is a step-forward for the authorities, which have in the past tried a raft of measures to spur retail investments in gilts. Granting non-competitive bidding in primary auctions, allowing bourses to route primary purchases and permitting a distinct retail window in the secondary market have been attempted earlier. In keeping with these measures, it has now proposed to give retail participants specific access to the gilts market, both primary and secondary. The proposed window, billed “Retail Direct”, is expected to create a wider investor base in so far as gilts are concerned. It will also help complete the broad loop — the Indian government’s borrowing programme for fiscal year 2022. The details of the window will be issued separately, the banking regulator has stated. G-Sec reforms As discerning investors will appreciate, the nation’s debt market has seen considerable reforms in recent years. Controls on prices of assets, for example, are no longer the kind of barriers that they were. Liquidity has improved, new players have emerged, and transparency issues have been addressed, thanks to improvements in trading systems. There has been significant product innovation too, a trend buttressed by quicker dissemination of market-related information. In this connection, here are a few points for investors: The debt market has three prime constituents — G-Secs, PSU bonds and corporate securities. It is also marked by other forms of securities, including commercial paper, certificate of deposits, debentures and so on. There is considerable variety in terms of tenure, credit rating and, most certainly, rates of interest. Gilts as a group of securities occupy a unique position, their role in the debt market is absolutely vital for the nation’s economy. That also helps in ascertaining the benchmark for working out the level of interest rates; this represents the so-called “risk-free return” available in the country. The gilts market has been fortified over the years with the emergence of screen-based trading mechanism, dematerialisation of holdings, introduction of a well-organised clearing corporation and so on. The interested parties here include primary dealers, commercial banks, insurance companies, pension funds and mutual funds. Retail, please note Ordinary investors need to remember a few things before they begin to focus on gilts: Choice: Retail participants need to choose carefully from the fair number of options that are available in keeping with their exact needs. Options may include dated government securities which are typically long-term in nature, issued at face value. The coupon (that is, interest rate) is set at the time of their issuance. The constant rate of interest and fixed tenure are built-in features of such instruments. Availability: Gilts are available in the secondary market once they are issued. One may purchase them from primary dealers, several of whom conduct business in the G-Secs space. The interface between such primary dealers and their retail customers must be done in a completely transparent manner. Liquidity: This is a key issue for those who wish to exit earlier than the date of maturity. An instrument that can be easily traded (sold to a buyer at a market-determined price in a well-governed environment) is generally said to be liquid — whether there is abundant liquidity or not will be a differentiating factor for investors. Risk: The unparalleled power of the government is at play here. Gilts, thanks to their sovereign status, are considered free of credit risk. Investors, given their no-default perception, can freely direct their surplus towards this specific market. New instruments It may be mentioned here in this context that ‘zero coupon bonds' (ZCB) are also in the limelight at this juncture, thanks to the latest Union Budget. These are bonds that are issued at a discount to face value, carry a fixed tenure but bear no coupon. In the most typical case, the difference between the ZCB’s issue price (at discount) and the value is the return on this instrument. These securities may add to a diverse fare, including bonds with put and call options, capital indexed securities and so on. The possibility of holding these in a dematerialised form will make the deal even more attractive for the end-user. Investors must further assess whether it is better for them to indulge in the gilts market with the help of mutual funds. A number of gilt funds are available today, courtesy asset management companies that offer them to their unit holders. New investors can allocate small amounts every month or as regularly as possible to build their positions in the gilts arena. Mutual funds pack a certain kind of advantages - convenient entry and exit at ruling NAV (net asset value) being one of them - and those who are not keen on the direct approach can easily resort to funds. The latter also provide instant diversification, which (like assured liquidity) is certainly one of the most compelling factors working in their favour. The writer is director of Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
22-02-2021||Business||Honda waits for college start to revive scooter segment||Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India (HMSI) is waiting for colleges and universities to reopen to revive the automatic scooter segment. While the revival in two-wheelers has been led by the rural economy, particularly entry-level motorcycles, this has been at the cost of automatic scooters. “In the beginning of the unlock in May 2020, the urban economy had been heavily impacted but Covid cases in rural areas was low and the economy was active. Besides, there was a good monsoon and a good crop. So, in the overall two-wheeler market, the maximum consumption was of entry-level motorcycles, which grew at the cost of automatic scooters which has a largely urban market,” HMSI sales and marketing director Yadvinder Singh Guleria told The Telegraph on the heels of the launch of another model in the CB brand, namely the CB 350RS. Guleria, however, added that in the last couple of months, demand is coming back in the urban areas. “As people avoid public transport and personal mobility sees a surge, this is helping us to revive the demand in two-wheelers,” said Guleria. Honda, which has over 50 per cent market share in scooters, is waiting for the education sector to open up with physical classes so that demand for scooters, an essentially urban vehicle, sees a revival. “There is a lot of demand for 125cc scooters after the ABS (anti-lock braking system) regulation became mandatory for 150cc and above scooters, making them more expensive,” said Guleria. Depending on the regions where scooter sales are strong, HMSI is witnessing a demand revival. “The western region has bounced back extremely well, the southern market has been positive. But sales in Uttar Pradesh have been sluggish, so also in Rajasthan. Gujarat has not recovered but Punjab has done well,” said Guleria, giving a region-by-region recovery map even as news of fresh lockdowns from Maharashtra trickled in. While the company waits for the urban economy to be in full gear, it continues its foray in the middle-weight category of motorcycles which used to be the most promising segment. However, the segment has been down for three to four years but the company believes it is a still promising market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Jet Air buyer seeks early NCLT approval||Jalan Kalrock Consortium, the winning bidder for Jet Airways, expects to restart operations of the defunct airline in four to six months after receiving approval from the NCLT for its resolution plan. Jet Airways, the once-storied full-service carrier, was grounded in early 2019 and  is undergoing proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). Against the backdrop of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT)  taking a final call on the resolution plan for the airline, the winning consortium’s lead member Murari Lala Jalan said “everything is on track”as far as the revival efforts for the carrier are concerned. Stressing that he is very positive about the Indian aviation sector, which is recovering from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, Jalan said that initially Jet Airways will resume flying with around 25 aircraft. “After NCLT decision, we will be able to start the airline within four to six months. I am very positive about Indian aviation and the future is bright,” Jalan said during a telephonic interaction. “We are very hopeful that it (NCLT nod) will come,” he said, adding that a delay of one or two months here and there would not make a difference to such a big thing as reviving the airline. In October last year, the consortium comprising UK-based Kalrock Capital and Jalan, a UAE-based entrepreneur, emerged as the winning bidder for Jet Airways, which has not flown since April 17, 2019. According to Jalan, the airline is likely to resume services with roughly 25 planes as per the revival plan submitted to the committee of creditors (CoC) within this year. The fleet is expected to be a mix of narrow-body and wide-body planes. “We will start with passenger services. All options, either it is cargo, or international (services) or anything, are open,” Jalan said. Creditor approval The CoC led by State Bank of India (SBI) has approved the resolution plan and under the IBC, the clearance of the NCLT is required before implementing the plan. Noting that for resuming overseas services, a lot of things needed to be worked out, Jalan made it clear that while there will be hundreds of things, including getting a lot of permissions, the consortium’s “interest is to come (bring Jet Airways) to the sky”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Proposal to sell 50% of captive coal||The Centre plans to permit the sale of 50 per cent of coal/lignite produced by captive blocks, a move aimed at augmenting production and increasing the availability of the dry fuel. The Narendra Modi-government plans to do so through the incorporation of a provision in the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (MMDR). “In the note for consultation of the ministry of mines, it is proposed to incorporate a provision in the Act to allow the sale of 50 per cent of the coal/lignite produced by captive mines on an annual basis. Further, an additional amount will be charged on the merchant sales of coal/lignite by the captive miners,” the coal ministry said in a brief note. The ministry said that it has invited comments from the state governments of coal-bearing states and stakeholders/general public on the said proposals. “The ministry of mines has also sought the comments of the ministry of coal on the said draft proposal. Some of the draft proposals are applicable in the case of coal/lignite also... Before sending the final comments, it is considered appropriate to seek the comments of the state governments of coal bearing states,” the coal ministry said. Import jumps In India, the import of coal is increasing year-on-year. In 2015-16, the country imported 203.95 million tonnes (mt) of coal which increased to 248.54mt in 2019-20 and consequent spending of around Rs 1.58 lakh crore in foreign exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Resumption of operations at Donimalai mine may end crisis||Resumption of mining operations at the Donimalai mine will improve iron ore supply in the country and help to ease prices of the key steel making raw material, experts say. Mining at NMDC’s 7-million-tonne-per-annum (mtpa) Donimalai mine in Karnataka resumed from Thursday. After remaining closed for over two years, the country’s largest iron ore miner was able to resume operations following the necessary permission and clearances from the Karnataka government. Arnab Hazra, deputy secretary-general of the Indian Steel Association (ISA), the country’s apex body that represents the interest of domestic steel industry, said Donimalai is an important mine in the southern region. It will help the mills in southern India with smooth supply of raw material. Anil Kumar Chaudhary, former CMD of SAIL, said, “It has been possible by the efforts taken by the steel ministry to resolve the issue.” Resumption of mine will also help enhance NMDC in meeting its production targets for the current fiscal. “This resumption of mining (at Donimalai) will increase supply of iron ore for steel making. Increased supply will lead to easing of prices of the raw material,” R. K. Sharma, secretary-general of miners’ body, the Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI), told PTI. Iron ore is a key raw material used to produce steel, besides coking coal. To produce every 1 million tonne (mt) of steel, almost double the amount of iron ore is required. NMDC former chairman and managing director N. Baijendra Kumar said another 7mt of iron ore will be back into the supply chain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Cairn Energy upbeat on resolution||After three days of talks with top finance ministry officials, UK’s Cairn Energy plc on Sunday said it was hopeful of reaching an amicable resolution on the $1.4 billion that an arbitration award has ordered India to return, but insisted it will continue to take steps to protect shareholder interest. Cairn CEO Simon Thomson held discussions with finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey and over half a dozen other senior officials, including the CBDT chairman, between February 18 and 20 in an attempt to find a resolution to the issue without having to resort to the extreme step of seizing Indian assets overseas to recover the money the firm has been awarded. “We have had cordial and constructive discussions in Delhi over the last few days with officials from the ministry of finance. Notwithstanding and without prejudice to our rights under the international arbitration award, we have discussed a number of proposals with the aim of finding a swift resolution that could be mutually acceptable to the Government of India and the interests of Cairn’s shareholders,” the firm said in a statement. Cairn, which gave the nation its biggest onland oil discovery, promised to return to India if the issue that arose after the income tax department in 2014 seized its assets after slapping a Rs 10,247-crore tax demand, was resolved. Sources privy to the Indian government thinking have indicated that New Delhi will challenge the arbitration award as taxation is a sovereign right but this did not figure during the three days of talks. The tone of the finance ministry officials was more reconciliatory realising the limited options they have. “We remain hopeful that an acceptable solution can be found, in order to avoid further prolonging and exacerbating this negative issue for all parties,” Cairn said.  “However, we have also been clear that we must continue to take all the necessary steps to protect the interests of our shareholders.” Cairn in a letter to the Indian government last month indicated it could seize overseas assets such as bank accounts, payments to state-owned entities, airplanes and ships if New Delhi fails to comply with the arbitration award and return the value of the shares sold, dividend seized and tax refund withheld by the income tax department to recover part of the tax demand it had raised using retrospective legislation. The firm has already moved courts in various jurisdictions such as the US, UK, Netherlands, Canada and Singapore to register the arbitration award and has started identifying assets it could seize in the event the Indian government did not comply with the tribunal order. In the statement, Cairn said it has enjoyed a long and successful history operating in India, investing billions of dollars, bringing employment and benefiting local communities. The business it created in India has generated more than $20 billion in revenue for the government, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Azim Premji roots for WFH approach||IT czar Azim Premji on Sunday said more than 90 per cent of the workforce in the technology industry of the country continue to work from home, and lauded the hybrid model of work. “Within the first few weeks of the (Covid-19-induced) lockdown, over 90 per cent of the technology industry was working from home and even today over 90 per cent of people continue to work from home,” he said. Addressing an interactive session hosted by the Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce, Premji said the IT industry and the government have appreciated the value of a permanent hybrid model where people would work partly from office and home even after the end of the pandemic. Stating that the hybrid model would have huge comparative advantage, he said, as it would drive inclusive growth, better participation from all parts of the country and greater number of women who would have flexibility to work from home. “Technology is becoming the lifeline for us as individuals and also businesses,” he said. If there was any doubt, the year 2020 showed how fundamental technology has become. Technology played an important role in ensuring that the government’s social schemes and assistance programmes reached the mass population, according to him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Centre tweaks guidelines for strategic disinvestment||The government has tweaked the guidelines for strategic disinvestment, making security clearance mandatory for all bidders who put in price bids to buy a central public sector enterprise (CPSE). Now, financial bids would be opened by the evaluation committee on strategic disinvestment only after potential suitors get security clearance, an official said. The government has lined up the sale of its majority stake along with management control in BPCL, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML, Pawan Hans, Neelachal Ispat Nigam in the next fiscal. The guidance note framed in 2018 on strategic disinvestment by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) said that the core group on disinvestment, headed by the cabinet secretary, would decide on a “case-to-case” basis whether security clearance from the government is required for the “highest bidder” for the sale. If the highest bidder does not get security clearance, the next highest bidder was given the option to match the price offered by the highest bidder. An official said that the guidance note has been tweaked since it has come to notice that there was some ambiguity in the rules. “Once financial bids are opened, the whole process of strategic sale almost reaches its closure. If after that, security clearance is not obtained by the highest bidder, then the whole process goes waste,” the official added. Insurance plans The government may consider privatising Oriental Insurance or the United India Insurance Company as their financial health has improved after a series of capital infusions, people aware of the development said. To strengthen their financial health, the government is expected to infuse Rs 3,000 crore in the public sector general insurance companies during the current quarter. Both Oriental Insurance and Chennai-based United India Insurance may be able to generate interest from the private sector because of their improved financials, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
22-02-2021||Business||Small firms can access bond markets||The Centre has proposed new entry rules in the corporate bond market by relaxing the definition of listed companies, which will ease the compliance burden on the smaller companies. Both the Centre and the regulators are taking various measures to push corporate bond issues because of the limited funding sources of the private sector. India’s corporate debt market has been growing over the past few years in terms of the number of issues, but the market remains undeveloped accounting for just four per cent of the country’s gross domestic product. The investor base is limited and the liquidity of bonds that are not top rated is inadequate. Private placements of debt remain the preferred route to raise debt for companies compared with public bond issues. In 2019-20, companies raised Rs 6.75 lakh crore debt in private placement against Rs 6.10 lakh crore a year ago. They raised just Rs 14,984 crore through public issues of bonds in 2019-20 against Rs 36,679 crore in the previous year. Public issues slowed down during the fiscal because  of liquidity concerns post IL&FS default and the stretched balance sheets of a few companies in 2019-20. Companies have raised Rs 6.32 lakh crore in private placement till January in this ficsal, while the public issue of corporate debt stands at around Rs 9,119 crore. The ministry of corporate affairs on Friday took a major step towards easing the compliance burden on companies planning to issue corporate bonds from April. It inserted Rule 2A in the Companies (specification of definitions details) Rules, 2014. Rule 2A says companies who have not listed their equity shares on the stock exchanges but have listed privately placed non-convertible debt or non-convertible redeemable preference shares in line with Sebi norms will not be considered as listed companies. It will also apply to companies who are not listed in India but listed overseas in specified jurisdictions. Unlisted companies keen to tap the bond market will get a major relief from the amendment. Previously, even if the parent was unlisted, the companies had to follow the same rules as applicable to the listed equity companies in terms of Sebi's Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements Regulations 2015 or the LODR norms. Since these placed various compliance requirements on them, companies particularly the smaller ones were hesitant to approach the debt markets. Speaking to The Telegraph, Madhurima Mukherjee Saha, senior consultant, J. Sagar Associates, said the compliance rules discouraged small companies from accessing the bond markets. This could now change because of  the amendment. “Unlisted public companies, with debt or preference shares listed were counted as listed companies and fell within the rigorous compliance scanner under the Sebi LODR Regulations, 2015, and under the Companies Act. The move to liberalise the definition of listed companies will give the deserved impetus to the bond market, when the economy will be emerging slowly out of the post-Covid era,’’ she said. Requirements less She said small companies and start-ups could access a wider pool of creditors without burdening themselves with greater compliance and costs. Analysts said the compliance rules led to additional costs on smaller companies. For instance, they had to abide by the Securities and Exchange  Board of India (Sebi) rules on the appointment of  directors. “The rules notified relaxes provisions for public/private companies, whose debt was listed (and equity is not listed) on the stock exchange which includes appointment of woman director, independent director, secretarial audit etc which were applicable to every listed entities (debt or equity),” Makarand Joshi, partner, MMJC and Associates LLP — a corporate compliance company said. “In fact, it has gone a step ahead to relax any Indian company which chooses to get its equity listed overseas and absolve them from the regulations as a listed company under Companies Act, 2013. Companies like Jio, if its prefer to list overseas, will also be benefited from this amendment," Joshi said. The MCA's step comes just days after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman revised the definition of small companies under the Companies Act, 2013. In the Union budget, Sitharaman, increased their thresholds for paid-up capital from not exceeding Rs 50 lakh to not exceeding Rs 2 crore and turnover from not exceeding Rs 2 crore to not exceeding Rs 20 crore. The finance minister had said that this would benefit more than two lakh companies by easing their compliance requirements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
