23-02-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally higher||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally higher on Tuesday amid high volatility and tepid cues from global markets. After gyrating 667.46 points during the day, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 7.09 points or 0.01 per cent higher at 49,751.41. After a similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty settled 32.10 points or 0.22 per cent up at 14,707.80. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, L&T, UltraTech Cement, Titan, SBI and NTPC. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank and HCL Tech were among the laggards. Domestic equities witnessed roller coaster ride amid high volatility, with metals and realty indices recording substantial gains, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Concerns pertaining to increase in bond yields and higher commodity prices dented investors' sentiments in last couple of days. However, underlying strength of economy and market remains intact," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Hong Kong settled with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.81 per cent higher at USD 64.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
23-02-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 300 points in the opening session on Tuesday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and L&T. After touching a high of 50,128.85 in early trade, the 30-share BSE index was trading 260.39 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 50,004.71. After a similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 81.50 points or 0.56 per cent up at 14,757.20. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by L&T, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries, Axis Bank and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Auto, Maruti and HDFC were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex tumbled 1,145.44 points or 2.25 per cent to close at 49,744.32, and Nifty sank 306.05 points or 2.04 per cent to finish at 14,675.70. Foreign institutional investors turned net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 893.25 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good at the moment despite mixed cues from global markets, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Concerns pertaining to increase in bond yields and higher commodity prices dented investors' sentiments in the last couple of days. However, the underlying strength of the economy and market remains intact in our view and hence any further correction in the market should be used to buy, he said. He further added that Indian companies are likely to see sustained earnings recovery in subsequent fiscals and therefore premium valuations are likely to sustain. US equities extended losses in overnight trade on Monday as worries over continued rise in bond yields dampened investors' sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.38 per cent higher at USD 65.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
23-02-2021||Business||India, Mauritius sign economic partnership deal||India on Monday signed a strategically significant Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) with Mauritius within weeks of the island nation’s FTA (free trade agreement) with China coming into effect. The CECPA would provide a gateway to the markets of the African continent as Mauritius has several pacts with them which would help investments to be routed through it. The African countries are building a single market through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) which also came into effect last month. The pact is likely to create a single market of 1.2 billion people with a combined market worth of $3 trillion “Given the strategic and geo-political significance in the Indian Ocean region, India has entered the CECPA with Mauritius even though New Delhi has long and historical relations with that nation,” said Biswajit Dhar, trade economist with the JNU. Dhar, however, said the pact would not counter the influence of Beijing which has made huge investments in Mauritius and other African nations. Mauritius is crafting an Africa strategy to position the nation as a fulcrum for investors to tap opportunities that the continent provides. External affairs minister S. Jaishankar said while jointly addressing the media with Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth that “India is privileged to have entered into a CECPA with Mauritius. This agreement is India’s first-such agreement with an African country”. The CECPA will encourage Indian entrepreneurs to invest both in Mauritius and across the region, helping the country to become a strategic regional economic hub and a centre of excellence, Jugnauth said. Mauritius on Monday sought India’s support in facilitating an early exit from the FATF grey list to restore its international reputation, saying it has agreed to address the deficiencies identified in its anti-money laundering and counter terrorism financing regimes. The CECPA provides preferential access to Mauritius for bulk of the trade and also for many aspirational items for the Indian market. These include frozen fish, speciality sugar, biscuits, fresh fruits, juices, mineral water and soaps. Apart from the pact on economic ties and strategic linkages with a trade pact that was expected to help them post covid-19 revival, India also extended a $100 million line of credit for the Indian Ocean island nation to procure defence equipment. More than 300 domestic goods from agriculture, textiles, electronics and other sectors will get market access at concessional customs duties in Mauritius, with the government approving signing of a free trade agreement between the two countries. On the other hand, India has offered around 95 sub-sectors from the 11 broad services sectors, including professional services, R&D, telecommunication, financial, distribution, higher education, environmental, health, tourism, recreational and transport services. Both sides have also agreed to negotiate an Automatic Trigger Safeguard Mechanism (ATSM) for a limited number of highly sensitive products within two years of the signing of the pact. Bilateral trade between India and Mauritius grew 233% from $207 million in 2005-06 to $690 million in FY20. India’s exports to Mauritius jumped 232% from $199 million to $662 million during this period, while imports rose from just over $7 million to almost $28 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
23-02-2021||Business||Calcutta Port Trust and Hiranandani Group partner to allow LNG tankers to Haldia||Calcutta Port Trust has come to an agreement with Hiranandani Group, allowing the company to use the river channel to bring liquefied natural gas (LNG) tankers to Haldia, clearing one more step in building a terminal to transport clean gas to the state. CPT, which is now called Syama Prasad Mukherjee Port, Calcutta, will collect marine charges and port dues to offer port related services such as pilotage and maintenance of the river channel. While the terminal will come up on a 38-acre land parcel provided by the Haldia Development Authority, the port will provide access to the waterfront and allow cargo handling. “This is one of the two LNG terminals being proposed at Haldia. The one by the Hiranandanis will be of 5-million-tonne capacity, while V-LNG is going to build a 1 MT capacity terminal. Put together, it would bring additional cargo for the port,” Vinit Kumar, chairman of the port, said. Hiranandani Group is building multiple LNG terminals in India. The proposed jetty-based terminal at Kukrahati, near Haldia, will call for an investment of Rs 1,400 crore in the first phase with a capacity of 2.5mt. The facility will include a storage and re-gassification unit. Darshan Hiranandani, CEO of Bengal Concession Private Ltd, said the project would start work in a few months. “We are awaiting a few approvals from the state government,” he said. The first phase is likely to be commissioned in July 2024. The terminal will feed into the proposed GAIL pipeline which is being laid from Panagarh to Haldia via Calcutta, linking Bengal with the rest of India by the national gas grid. The Hiranandanis are also proposing to lay a 250-kilometre pipeline from Kukrahati to Bangladesh to feed the neighbouring market. This will call for an investment of Rs 1,500 crore. “We expect 60 per cent of the capacity to be utilised in Bengal, the rest will go to Bangaldesh,” Hiranandani explained. Since the jetty will be on river Hooghly, the shallow water level would not allow large ships to call. A deep drafted terminal at Maharashtra is going to be commissioned by Hiranandani soon where ships of 80,000 tonnes capacity can dock. The Bengal facility will be fed from that terminal by smaller ships of 15,000 tonnes. Plans are afoot to supply LNG mounted on trucks to end users where it will be heated to convert it into gas and be used as fuel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
23-02-2021||Business||Coal India and Centre for Railway Information Systems sign MoU to get real time freight data||Indian Railways has agreed to share real time freight information data with Coal India. The Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS) and Coal India signed a one-year agreement on Monday which will help CIL to tackle the menace of under loading and monitor movement of coal laden rakes. The public sector miner will now have precise details of loading, weight and unloading and logistics details along with turnaround time of rakes. Coal India officials said that the information can be used for faster billing, replacing manual entry of railway receipts with instant online transfer. The information on sanctioned coal and rake programmes, rake demand, rake detention and diversion details will also help Coal India subsidiaries to plan their supplies. “The pact assumes greater significance at a time when CIL is pushing for increased rail evacuation and gradually reducing the road movement of the dry fuel. The real time data helps us in better planning,” said a senior executive of the company. Up to February 20 of the ongoing fiscal, Coal India’s coal movement through the rail mode from its own sidings, goods sheds and private washeries at 302.51 million tonnes (MTs) accounted for 61 per cent of the total off-take quantity. When linked with merry-go-round system, at 92.8 MTs, the share expands even higher to 79 per cent and officials said that there is scope of further raising the share. CIL and CRIS will collaborate for further improvement in data sharing with periodical reviews. The contract period of the memorandum is one year with annual technical support. Coal India has also developed a portal that will help in sharing the Freight Operations Information System (FOIS) data with its subsidiaries. The annual expense of the contract is estimated at Rs 41 lakhs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
23-02-2021||Business||Reliance Jio leads in earnest money deposit for spectrum auction||Three players — Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea — are on the final list of bidders for the spectrum auction set to start from March 1, the department of telecommunication said on Monday. The sixth round of auction of 2,251.25 megahertz of spectrum worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore at the base price will be in seven frequency bands — between 700MHz and 2,500MHz. The auction may not witness stiff competition given the varied priorities of each player and the weak liquidity position of Vodafone Idea, analysts said. Jio has put an earnest money deposit (EMD) of Rs 10,000 crore, with the DoT allocating it 73,007 “eligibility points”. Bharti Airtel’s Rs 3,000 crore EMD means the telco has been allocated with 24,924 eligibility points. Vodafone Idea got just 6,153 eligibility points because of its Rs 475 crore EMD, the DoT data showed. The amount of EMD is indicative of a telco’s bidding strategy as it gives an operator eligibility points based on which it can target a certain amount of airwaves in specific circles. The three telcos can bid in any band in any service area, subject to the availability of spectrum. Analysts said the bidders planned to conserve cash to participate in a potential near-term 5G spectrum sale where airwaves in the 3.3GHz to 3.6GHz bands would be up for sale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||GR Arun Kumar resigns as CFO of Vedanta||Vedanta Ltd, the Anil Agarwal group firm, on Monday said G.R. Arun Kumar has resigned as chief financial officer (CFO) of the company. “The board has taken note of the resignation of G.R. Arun Kumar from the post of whole-time director and chief financial officer of the company to pursue a career outside of the group,” the firm said in a regulatory filing with the bourses. Vedanta added that it will announce the effective date of Kumar’s exit and details of the successor in due course. Shares of Vedanta on Monday settled at Rs 203.75 — a rise of 6.68 per cent, or Rs 12.75, over the last close. The company added that Kumar has made an invaluable contribution towards its growth and the transformation journey during his tenure of close to eight years. According to the company’s website, Arun Kumar has over 22 years of experience at global multinationals such as Hindustan Unilever and General Electric. Prior to joining Vedanta, he was the CFO for General Electric’s Asia-Pacific lighting & appliances businesses based out of Shanghai. He was responsible for overall health of balance sheet, driving performance in profit and cash, treasury, investor relations, credit ratings, tax, secretarial, controllership, recording & reporting and other key strategic matters from time to time. Vedanta Ltd, a subsidiary of Vedanta Resources Ltd, is one of the world's leading diversified natural resource companies with business operations in India, South Africa, Namibia, and Australia. It is a leading producer of oil and gas, zinc, lead, silver, copper, iron ore, steel, aluminium and power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel indicates it may come out with an overseas bond issue||Bharti Airtel on Monday indicated that it may come out with an overseas bond issue. The company will meet global fixed income investors on or after February 23, after which the company will take a final decision on the issuance of foreign currency bonds, subject to market conditions. It may be recalled that the Bharti Airtel board had earlier this month approved fundraising plans of up to Rs 7,500 crore through debt instruments such as debentures and bonds in one or more tranches. “The company will meet global fixed income investors on or after February 23, 2021, following which and subject to market conditions, the company will take a final decision with regard to the issuance of foreign currency bonds/ notes and a deal may or may not follow,” Bharti Airtel said in a filing after market hours. Accordingly, subject to such a final decision, an authorised special committee of directors may meet anytime on or after two working days to consider the issuance and its detailed terms and conditions, it added. Ahead of the announcement, its shares ended at Rs 570.70 which was lower by 1.76 per cent against the last close. In the upcoming spectrum auction that starts on March 1, radio waves valued at Rs 3.92 lakh crore will be put on the block. The auction is for seven spectrum bands for mobile services - 700, 800, 900, 1800, 2100, 2300 and 2500MHz bands. "We expect total bids of Rs 39400 crore ($ 5.3 billion) in the March spectrum auction, predominantly led by Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel. We believe Bharti is likely to try closing its gap versus Jio in the sub-GHz spectrum (good for indoor coverage), while maintaining its leadership versus Jio on overall spectrum footprint’’, analysts at Goldman Sachs said in a note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||RBI monetary policy committee wary of inflation||The minutes of the monetary policy committee meeting of the Reserve Bank of India held earlier this month showed the panel members have reiterated their stand to nurture the country’s patchy economic growth, though they were wary of the inflationary impact of rising commodity prices. At their three-day meeting between February 3 and February 5, the interest rate setting body unanimously retained the policy repo rate at four per cent while maintaining their accommodative stance to support the domestic economy. The RBI released on Monday the minutes which showed the members expressing their relief over retail inflation — 4.6 per cent in December 2020 — falling within its medium term target band after breaching the upper tolerance threshold of 6 per cent for six consecutive months. They also noted the economic growth had turning positive, though it remained uneven across sectors. Yet they were apprehensive about sticky core inflation — which keeps  out fuel and food — and rising commodity prices. According to RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, the macroeconomic environment in terms of both growth and inflation has turned out to be better than anticipated since their December 2020 meeting. “The growth momentum, however, needs to strengthen further for a sustained revival of the economy and for a quick return of the level of output to the pre-Covid trajectory... Given the sharp moderation in inflation along with a stable near-term outlook, monetary policy needs to continue with the accommodative stance to ensure that the recovery gains greater traction and becomes broad-based’’, he added. RBI deputy governor  Michael D Patra said manufacturing activity was gradually limping back, evident in rising capacity utilization. Further, with stronger demand conditions and moderate costs, operating profits are improving across the board. However, he sounded a cautionary note on inflation. “Upside risks to the outlook for inflation persist. First, core inflation remains stubborn and will warrant close monitoring as it has the potential to render the recent fortuitous improvements in the macroeconomic outlook stillborn. For India, the relentless hardening of international crude prices is worrisome.” He was however, quick to add that though the economic growth is recovering and gathering momentum, it is uneven and the outlook has improved significantly with the rollout of the vaccine programme in the country. "The growth momentum, however, needs to strengthen further for a sustained revival of the economy and for a quick return of the level of output to the pre-Covid trajectory... Given the sharp moderation in inflation along with a stable near-term outlook, monetary policy needs to continue with the accommodative stance to ensure that the recovery gains greater traction and becomes broad-based’’, he added. RBI deputy-governor  Michael D Patra said manufacturing activity was gradually limping back to growth and this was also evident in rising capacity utilization. Further, with stronger demand conditions and moderate costs, operating profits are improving across the board. However, he sounded a cautionary note on inflation. "Upside risks to the outlook for inflation persist. First, core inflation remains stubborn and will warrant close monitoring as it has the potential to render the recent fortuitous improvement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||SC restrains NCLT from passing final order on Future-Reliance merger||The Supreme Court on Monday restrained the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) from passing any final order on the Rs 24,713-crore merger deal between Future Retail Limited (FRL) and Reliance Retail, which has been challenged by Amazon Inc as being illegal and liable to be set aside. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai while issuing notices to FRL and RIL on Amazon’s appeal directed that the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) can continue with its proceedings, but it cannot pass any final order on the issue until the top court decides on Amazon’s appeal. Senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for FRL, however, told the bench that the NCLT was only seized with the issue of convening a meeting as he opposed the plea for a stay made by Amazon through senior advocate Gopal Subramanium. “Issue notice… counter affidavit be filed within two weeks. Rejoinder affidavit, if any, be filed within one week thereafter. List after three weeks. In the meantime, the NCLT proceedings will be allowed to go on but will not culminate in any final order of sanction of scheme,” the bench said in its order after briefly hearing senior advocates Harish Salve appearing for FRL and Gopal Subramanium for Amazon. The Reliance Industries scrip fell 3.50 per cent on the BSE on Monday. The court passed the direction while dealing with the appeal filed by Amazon Inc challenging the order of February 8 given by the division bench of the Delhi high court that had stayed an earlier order of a single judge who had directed FRL and other statutory authorities to maintain status quo on its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail. The single judge had directed status quo to an Amazon plea which had sought implementation of the award passed by the Emergency Arbitrator at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restraining FRL and Mukesh Ambani-owned from going ahead with the merger. “The order (division bench) seems to have decided the appeal final at the interim (stage)... we don’t wish to reveal anything . We are not commenting on the merits here ...,” the bench remarked. The Jeff Bezos-led company had challenged the merger on the ground FRL had breached its earlier contract with Amazon. According to Amazon in view of its subsisting contract, the Future group cannot enter into any amalgamation process or any agreement with Reliance without its consent. In its special leave petition against the division bench order, Amazon had contended that the order was  passed “hastily” and was “unsustainable in law” as the order was passed without even waiting for the single judge’s order of February 2. RIL share falls The development had an adverse impact on the Reliance Industries share price which fell Rs 73.15 or 3.52 per cent to close at Rs 2,007.40 on the BSE. The scrip slipped below the Rs 2000 level to hit a low of Rs 1,995.10 in intra-day trade. Future group counters also came under pressure.  Market circles said that the shares were likely to move in tune with developments in the top court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||RBI struggles to put a cap on rising bond yields||The RBI continues to struggle to put a cap on rising bond yields with the rates on the 10-year paper refusing to come down below 6 per cent, a phenomenon that has been compounded by two factors — the Centre’s announcement of a huge borrowing programme and the wave of short-selling by market players. According to a note by the economic research wing of State Bank of India, the average increase in G-Sec yields across three, five and 10 years is around 31 basis points since the budget. The report said one of reasons for the recent surge in yields may be short selling by market players. According to Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, SBI, the strategy of short selling involves the sale of a security which the seller has not yet purchased but borrows the security from others in the market. The banks and the primary dealers resort to short selling when their view is bearish — the prices of the bond will fall and the yield will rise. They make money if the bond prices drop and yields rise, and over a point of time this could become a “self fulfilling prophecy” as such short sellers keep on rolling over their borrowed security till the time they believe that yields will continue to rise. The only way to break this is for the RBI to conduct large scale open market operations to provide necessary steam to the bond market to rally. Ghosh said any further upward movement in G-sec yields even by 10 basis points from the current levels could usher in mark-to-market losses for banks that could be a minor blip in an otherwise exceptional year during which the RBI helped the government raise debt at the lowest possible cost in 16 years. Thereafter, the RBI’s monetary policy also could do little to prevent the fall in bond prices, despite its assurance of ample liquidity and that the borrowing programme will be conducted without any disruption to the Government. More recently, rising US bond yields have also contributed to their rise here in India, despite RBI’s plan to keep them below 6 per cent. They make money if the bond prices drop and yields rise, and over a point of time this could become a `self fulfilling prophecy’ as such short sellers keep on rolling over their borrowed security till the time they believe that yields will continue to rise. He added that the only way to break such self fulfilling expectations is for the central bank to conduct large scale open market operations (OMOs-or the purchase of Government securities) to provide necessary steam to bond market to rally and with increase in price, many short sold position will trigger stop losses and market players will scramble to cover open positions. This will hasten a rapid fall in yields over a short period of time. Ghosh also suggested that the time period for covering short sale be reduced from 90 days to 30 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
23-02-2021||Business||Rising yields spread fear in stocks||The week began on a bad note for investors as rising US treasury  yields and a surge in Covid-19 cases in some states saw the Sensex crashing 1145 points to end below the 50000-mark, while the broader Nifty sank more than 306 points. The Sensex has now fallen for the fifth day running. Analysts fear stocks may have to face headwinds such as rising crude oil prices that could impact inflation and a slowdown in FPI inflows amid incremental Covid cases. In Monday’s trade, the benchmark indices tracked losses in heavyweights amid poor global cues. Apprehensions are that rising US yields could be negative for emerging markets such as India as it could lead to fund outflows. Provisional data from the NSE showed that foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) sold stocks worth Rs 893 crore in Monday’s trade. To add to the market’s woes, rising cases of coronavirus in states such as Maharashtra and the likelihood of a lockdown there has led to concerns that it could affect the modest economic recovery. The Sensex opened in the green at 50910.51 and inched up to a day’s peak of 50986.03. But it failed to sustain the gains and fell below the 50000-mark to a day’s low of 49617.37 after which the gauge ended at 49744.32, a drop of 1145.44 points, or 2.25 per cent. Barring three stocks in the Sensex, the rest ended in the red. Dr Reddy’s was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 5 per cent, followed by M&M, Tech Mahindra, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank and TCS. Siddhartha Khemka, head-retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, said, “The market may continue with its profit booking for some time till the concerns over rising bond yields and inflation recede. Even the spike in virus cases is worrying the market.” He said rising bond yields may cap equity valuations even as the Reserve Bank of India may have to do a balancing act to keep the yields at lower levels while managing the government’s borrowing programme. The market would track rising inflation, increasing Covid cases along with prospective US stimulus in the near term for further direction, Khemka said. The global cues were weak as yields on the benchmark US 10-year treasury notes rose to a one-year high, thus worrying investors that money might move away from the emerging markets. Further, there were concerns over the risk of higher inflation due to sharp jump in commodity prices which tempered optimism around a vaccine-led economic recovery. He added that on the domestic front, after months of steady nationwide decline, Covid-19 cases are witnessing a surge in some parts of the country particularly. Further, the fall in stock prices got intensified by a sharp rise in volatility because of the monthly F&O expiry this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
