24-02-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 1,030 points, Nifty tops 14,950||Equity benchmark Sensex soared 1,030.28 points and the Nifty rallied over 270 points on Wednesday, tracking strong buying in financial stocks, after trading hours were extended following a technical glitch at NSE. After resumption of trade at 3.45 pm, NSE Nifty zoomed 274.20 points or 1.86 per cent to end at 14,982. Similarly, the 30-share BSE index settled 1,030.28 points or 2.07 per cent higher at 50,781.69. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 5 per cent, followed by HDFC twins, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and SBI. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Dr Reddy's, TCS and Asian Paints were among the laggards. Minutes before the scheduled closure of trade at 3.30 pm, leading bourses BSE and NSE said their equity and derivatives markets will remain open till 5 pm. The move came after the National Stock Exchange (NSE) suffered an outage earlier in the day due to technical glitches. Trading across segments came to a halt at 1140 hrs due to connectivity issues. However, the broader Indian markets were not impacted as communication lines at BSE remained operational. "A late surge by bulls across financials post lifting of the embargo on the grant of GOI business to private banks took indices up 2 per cent when trade time was extended till 5.00 pm," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a negative note. Stock exchanges in Europe, however, were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.96 per cent higher at USD 65.10 per barrel. In the forex market, the rupee gained 11 paise to settle at 72.35 against the US dollar supported by positive domestic equities and weakness of the American currency in the overseas market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
24-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 pts; Nifty tops 14,850 after trade resumption||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 500 points and Nifty jumped more than 150 points in late afternoon session on Wednesday after trading hours were extended following a technical glitch at NSE. Minutes before the scheduled closure of trade at 3.30 pm, leading bourses BSE and NSE said their equity and derivatives markets will remain open till 5 pm. The move came after the National Stock Exchange (NSE) suffered an outage earlier in the day due to technical glitches. Trading across segments came to a halt at 1140 hrs due to connectivity issues. However, the broader Indian markets were not impacted as communication lines at BSE remained operational. After resumption of trade at 3.45 pm, NSE Nifty was quoting 152.95 points or 1.04 per cent up at 14,860.75. The 30-share BSE index was trading 551.03 points or 1.11 per cent higher at 50,302.44. HDFC Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, SBI, Axis Bank, HDFC and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, TCS, Dr Reddy's, NTPC, Sun Pharma and Bajaj Auto were among the laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a negative note. Stock exchanges in Europe, however, were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.59 per cent higher at USD 64.86 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
24-02-2021||Business||Trading halts on NSE due to connectivity issues||Largest stock bourse NSE on Wednesday said trading across segments came to a halt at 1140 hrs due to connectivity issues. The bourse said it depends on two telecom service providers for connectivity, and both failed simultaneously resulting in the outage. However, the broader Indian markets were not impacted, as communication lines at BSE continued even as NSE faced troubles. "NSE has multiple telecom links with two service providers to ensure redundancy and we have received communication from both the telecom service providers that there are issues with their links due to which there is an impact on NSE system," a statement from NSE spokesperson said. "We are working on restoring the systems as soon as possible. In view of the above all the segments have been closed at 11.40 and will be restored as soon as the issue is resolved," it added. In June 2020, NSE had suffered a technical glitch. At that time, its bank option segment prices were not reflecting on the terminal linked to the exchange. In September 2019 too, the bourse's system faced a trading outage as investors were unable to place orders in the final minutes of the trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
24-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in the opening session on Wednesday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank, despite weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 207 points or 0.42 per cent higher at 49,958.41. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 69.35 points or 0.47 per cent up at 14,777.15. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, SBI, Reliance Industries, ONGC and UltraTech Cement. On the other hand, TCS, PowerGrid, Infosys, HUL and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 7.09 points or 0.01 per cent higher at 49,751.41, and Nifty settled 32.10 points or 0.22 per cent up at 14,707.80. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,569.04 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good at the moment despite mixed cues from Asian markets, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "FIIs turning net sellers for last two days can be a reason to worry in the near term. However, we continue to believe that FIIs flow should be favourable in the medium to long-term perspective as underlying strength of Indian equities remains intact," he added. US equities witnessed sharp reversal from initial losses and finished mostly higher as Fed Chairman Jerome Powell continued to sound dovish in his testimony. Powell vowed to keep monetary policy accommodative and gave no indication that rising bond yields or possibility of higher inflation would make the Federal Reserve begin reining in its efforts to support the economy, Modi noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.56 per cent lower at USD 64.12 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
24-02-2021||Business||Janakalyan eyes assets of Rs 350 crore||Sidbi Venture Capital-backed non-bank microfinance institution (NBFC-MFI) — Janakalyan Financial Services Private Limited — has set its sights on an asset base of around Rs 350 crore by 2021-22. The Calcutta-based NBFC-MFI is also planning to expand into new markets such as  Chhattisgarh and eastern Uttar Pradesh next fiscal following a dose of capital infusion by Bhubaneswar-based investor Sun Tech City Pvt. Ltd, which picked up a 12 per cent equity stake. Sun Tech becomes the second institutional investor in the microlender after Sidbi Venture Capital. The MFI, which began operations in 2017, has 75 branches in six cities — Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam and Tripura, catering to 1.62 lakh borrowers. “We are planning to expand into Chhattisgarh and eastern UP. In Tripura, there is also scope for further expansion. The equity capital raised will help us leverage more and support the expansion,” said Alok Biswas, managing director and CEO of Janakalyan Financial Services. He is also one of the promoters along with S.K. Mitra, a former banker with experience in SBI and Axis Bank. After the capital infusion, the promoters hold 70 per cent and institutional investors hold the remaining 30 per cent in the microlender. "The capital will also be used for investment in business processes, technology and human capital. This growth capital is critical when debt is also not flowing much into mid-sized MFIs since pandemic," said Biswas. Equity infusion into NBFC MFIs has seen steady growth despite pandemic and from a base of Rs 14,324 crore as of September 2019, it has increased to Rs 17,178 crore as of September 2020, as per data from industry body Microfinance Institution Network (MFIN). Last week, another Calcutta based NBFC-MFI - Arohan Financial Services - had filed for an initial public offer with plans to raise around Rs 1750-1800 crore. According to industry body Sa-Dhan, the combined microcredit portfolio of all lenders as of December 31, 2020, was Rs 2,27,893 crore of which banks held the majority share with 42 per cent followed by NBFC MFIs at 32 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
24-02-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel and Qualcomm Technologies partner to roll out world-class 5G in India||Bharti Airtel and Qualcomm Technologies Inc have announced a collaboration to accelerate the pace of 5G adoption in the country after demonstrating last month in Hyderabad that 5G gigabit speeds could be achieved over existing networks and spectrum bands. Airtel plans to use Qualcomm’s 5G RAN platforms to roll out virtual and Open RAN-based 5G networks. Airtel and Qualcomm Technologies will collaborate to enable a wide array of use cases, including 5G Fixed Wireless Access (FWA) that is designed to deliver broadband connectivity at Gigabit speeds to homes and businesses. Randeep Sekhon, CTO, Bharti Airtel, said, “We are delighted to have Qualcomm Technologies as a key technology provider in our journey to roll out world-class 5G in India. With Airtel’s integrated service portfolio and Qualcomm Technologies’ 5G leadership, we will be well placed to usher India into the next era of hyper-fast and ultra-low latency digital connectivity.” Rajen Vagadia, vice-president of Qualcomm India and president, Qualcomm India, emphasised that there is a compelling case to accelerate the roll-out of 5G networks in India, as it will help fast-track the country’s socio-economic growth and development. This collaboration also aims to allow a faster rollout of broadband services in a cost effective and expeditious manner across India for “last mile” connectivity challenges that are becoming increasingly important in today’s remote, mobile-first society. It promises gigabit size file downloads in seconds and 4K video streaming on the go across smartphones and computing devices, immersive technologies such as Virtual Reality and SMART Homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
24-02-2021||Business||Reliance Industries unveils O2C spinoff plan||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) expects to get all the necessary approvals to hive off its oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business into a separate unit by the second quarter of the next fiscal year, paving the way for the possible arrival of strategic and financial investors in the subsidiary. RIL will spin off Reliance O2C into a wholly owned subsidiary, with the transfer of assets to O2C done on a slump-sale basis that makes the reorganisation tax neutral to Reliance. The company will transfer $40 billion of long-term assets, $2bn of net working capital and $5bn of non-current liabilities to the O2C entity for a consideration of $25bn of a long-dated floating rate loan and $12 billion of equity. Reliance in September last year had kicked off the process to carve out the O2C business into a wholly owned subsidiary. In July, chairman Mukesh Ambani had told the company’s shareholders they expect to complete the process by early 2021. The proposed subsidiary will house Reliance’s refining & petrochemicals business and the 51 per cent stake held by Reliance in its oil marketing joint venture with British Petroleum. The subsidiary will also have the global energy trading businesses, its ethane pipeline in India and its 75 per cent stake in a polymer venture with Russia's Sibur. The Malaysian petchem and polyester subsidiary will also be part of the O2C businesses. However, upstream oil and gas producing fields such as KG-D6 and textiles business will not form part of the new unit. In a presentation made late on Monday, Reliance said it had received approvals from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) and the stock exchanges for the reorganisation. Approvals are awaited from the equity shareholders, creditors, some other regulatory authorities, the income-tax department and the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in Mumbai and Ahmedabad. “The proposed O2C reorganisation may facilitate the participation by strategic as well as financial investors. The company has indicated that the discussions with Saudi Aramco are underway for a strategic transaction, without providing any further details on investment and timeline,” Manish Kaneria, managing director of RBSA Advisors said. Fitch Ratings also said the proposed reorganisation was a step towards facilitating participation by strategic investors in its O2C businesses. “We anticipate the reorganisation will have a neutral impact on RIL’s credit metrics and rating. We do not expect any change in RIL’s consolidated adjusted net leverage, which is approaching zero amid declining capex. We expect RIL’s liquidity at the parent level to remain strong. This would be assisted further by cash upstreaming via interest and debt repayments on long-term loans from O2C in addition to potential dividends from its large subsidiaries,’’ the rating agency added. RIL shares on Monday gained almost one per cent to end at Rs 2,024.25 on the BSE as the street responded positively to its move. Sources said the announcement was meant to inform investors of the progress made in creating the O2C business and the road ahead for the entity. During the announcement of its third quarter results,  RIL had said that it would disclose O2C as a separate business segment. The sources added O2C would be a separate business both at balance-sheet and profit and loss levels. Mayank Maheshwari of Morgan Stanley said with the reorganisation, RIL will have four growth engines — digital, retail, new materials and new energy. “While the market appreciates the value for the first two businesses we see significant upside risk to earnings and multiples for O2C as Reliance invests in new energy/technology,” Maheshwari said. Reliance also announced its aim to work with the O2C business to reduce the carbon footprint of the company and become “net carbon zero” company by 2035. Aramco was earlier expected to pick up 20 per cent stake in the O2C business at an enterprise value (EV) of $ 75 billion. Though this transaction could not be consummated, hopes have revived with Aramco indicating last year that it is doing a due diligence on picking up a stake. RIL said in the presentation that talks are ongoing with Aramco for one of the largest downstream transactions in India, thereby suggesting that it still has hopes of getting the Saudi giant on board after the spin-off. Analysts at CLSA said in a note that using the $ 75 billion EV announced for the non-binding 20 per cent stake sale to Aramco in August 2019, will translate into an equity value of $ 45 billion after deducting the $ 30 billion liabilities at the subsidiary level. Thus a 20 per cent stake sale at $ 75 billion EV, may bring in $ 9 billion cash into Reliance. ``Any new investor may be issued fresh shares and this cash inflow may be utilised to payback the loan from the parent’’, they added. The brokerage has retained its out-perform rating on the RIL stock. Thus after the re-organisation, RIL will have businesses like upstream oil & gas, retail (through Reliance Retail where it holds 85.1 per cent), digital services via Jio Platforms where its shareholding stands at 66.3 per cent and the O2C subsidiary. It will also have other businesses like financial services, international trading division & textiles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
24-02-2021||Business||Residential property sales gaining momentum in Calcutta||The sales of residential property appear to be gaining momentum in Calcutta, with big brands cornering a larger share of the pie in a market where launches continue to remain tepid. Brokerages, developers and people associated with the trade say bookings and transactions have picked up from January for established players, rivalling the situation before Covid-19 sent the economy to deep freeze. Consumer preference towards big brands having the right expertise to deliver good projects in a time bound manner is also leading towards consolidation in the marketplace. “There has been a pick-up in demand from October onwards. Well-known builders are getting good traction,” Harsh Vardhan Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Realty, said. Neotia has recently launched an affordable housing project at Maheshtala on the southern fringes of the city. The owner of the land, Highland Group, entered into a development management contract with Ambuja to develop two 10-acre land parcels each, signalling consolidation in the industry. Sushil Mohta, chairman of Merlin Projects, concurred that reputable developers are getting traction. “Weak hands are slowly exiting the market. With a realty regulator in place and strict monitoring by the banks, delivering a large project on time requires a bandwidth which many would not have,” Mohta argued. Merlin is working on multiple projects, some of which will be launched later this year. Consumers’ preference to buy into projects nearing completion is encouraging the shift towards big branded players. “Buyers are not willing to book a project which would be delivered in 3-4 years unless they are sure about the credentials of the developer,” Neotia observed. This would mean that many developers would have to complete the project first to entice buyers, entailing large scale mobilisation of funds. Previously during the boom period, they had the luxury to build using advances from the buyers. This in turn is impacting fresh supply in the market. “Launches have really come down because builders are really focusing on completing ongoing projects rather than taking up new ones. Since supply has become tight, old inventories are getting sold, which is a good thing,” Jitendra Khaitan, chairman of Pioneer Property Management, said. He has projected better tidings for the industry in a year. Numbers shared by brokerage firm NK Realtors showed a gradual rise in bookings from August onwards with January being the busiest. “Our performance has so far been better compared with the months leading up to the lockdown. Bookings are happening in all projects, top grade or otherwise. This is a sign of buoyancy,” Biplab Kumar, vice-president of NK Realtors, noted. While the Calcutta market is on a comeback trail, other cities have bounced back sharply. Sidhha, which has multiple projects in Mumbai and in Calcutta, says pick up is the slowest here compared with other cities. “Even though we are selling 20 per cent more than pre-Covid levels, it is not yet comparable to other cities like Mumbai. I expect demand coming back stronger post election as many buyers are holding back decisions,” Sanjay Jain, managing director of Siddha, said. It has a portfolio of 3,000 units under construction in six projects across four locations in Calcutta. With home loan rates at a historic low and prices yet to bottom out, consumers have realised that it could be the opportune time to buy a home, Jain added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
24-02-2021||Business||India set to clear 45 investment proposals from China||India is set to clear 45 investment proposals from China, which are likely to include those from Great Wall Motor and SAIC Motor Corp, government and industry sources told Reuters, as military tensions between the two countries ease at the disputed border. The proposals have been held up since last year after India tightened controls on Chinese investment in the country in retaliation against alleged Chinese troop incursions in the western Himalayan region. China blamed Indian troops for the standoff. About 150 investment proposals from China worth more than $2 billion were stuck in the pipeline. Companies from Japan and the U.S. routing investment through Hong Kong were also caught in the cross-fire as an inter-ministerial panel led by the interior ministry increased scrutiny of such proposals. An Indian home ministry spokesman did not respond to a request for comment on the proposals to be cleared. Two government sources who have seen the list said most of the 45 proposals set for early approvals are in the manufacturing sector. Top trading partner China has emerged as the top trading partner of India in 2020 despite the clashes in Galwan region, the ban on apps and restrictions on FDI by New Delhi. The two-way trade between the countries stood at $77.7 billion, which, however, is lower than the previous year’s mark of $85.5 billion, as per the provisional data from the commerce ministry. “The data indicate the quantum of integration the industry has with the Chinese economy,” trade analysts said. China had also emerged as India’s biggest trade partner in the first half of the financial year 2020-21, pipping the US, which had held that position since 2018-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
24-02-2021||Business||Centre, RBI at odds over inflation target||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Union government appear to be on a collision course with regard to the inflation-targeting mechanism which is up for review just when Assembly polls are due in four states, including Bengal. The possibility of an impending face-off was visible from chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian's contention in a media interview about the need to “refine’’ the monetary policy target. Subramanian said the RBI’s tools mainly addressed demand-side factors, while the current inflation target was affected by food prices, which was largely dependent on supply-side measures. He said that core inflation — which strips out the effects of food and fuel prices  — could be a better indicator even as he pointed out that there was a need to update the base year of 2011-12. The chief economic adviser  also suggested the review of household consumption items for the collection of monthly consumer price data to reflect the change in consumption patterns in the country. Krishnamurthy’s remarks may indicate that the government is keen to change the current medium term target of four per cent with a band of two per cent on either sides. There have been reports the Centre is looking to relax the target to five per cent with a band of +/- 2 per cent. This, however, is different from what the RBI wants. Earlier this month, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said that there was no need to change the current target set for the monetary policy committee. “By March 2021, the Government would be reviewing the inflation target for the next five years. The experience with successfully maintaining price stability and the gains in credibility for monetary policy since the institution of the inflation targeting framework, barring the Covid-19 period, needs to be reinforced in the coming years,’’ he had said after the interest rate setting body retained the policy repo rate. Observers, however, said  the Centre takes the opinion of the RBI in fixing the inflation framework. There have been instances of sharp disagreements between the central government and Mint Street in the past. But relations have been cordial after Das assumed office in December, 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
