25-02-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 258 points to close at 51,039||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 258 points and the Nifty reclaimed the 15,000 mark on Thursday, tracking gains in Reliance Industries, Axis Bank and TCS amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 257.62 points or 0.51 per cent higher at 51,039.31. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 115.35 points or 0.77 per cent to 15,097.35. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 5 per cent, followed by NTPC, Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank and PowerGrid. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, Nestle India, L&T, Kotak Bank and Titan were among the laggards. "Domestic equities rebounded for the third consecutive day with Nifty crossing 15,000 levels again. A strong cue from global equities followed by favourable comments from Fed Chairman Powell in his second day testimony supported market rally," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.Barring FMCG, all key sectoral indices ended in green with metal index remaining an outlier. Financials, auto and pharma indices recorded gains to the tune of 1 per cent. Notably, midcap and smallcap stocks outperformed broader indices sharply as improved visibility of earnings recovery attracted investors to this space, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.50 per cent higher at USD 66.51 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||RBI: Centre, states must act together to tackle rising fuel prices||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday said there is a need for coordinated action between the centre and state governments to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel prices. "There is a need for coordinated action between the centre and the states because there are inherent taxes levied by both, the governor said," adding that calibrated reduction of taxes is important. He, however, said both the centre and the state governments have their revenue pressures and they are required to spend high sums of money to enable the country and the people to come out of the COVID-19 pandemic stress. "So the revenue requirement and the compulsion of the governments are fully understood. But having said that the impact on inflation also is something, which comes in from the fact that petrol and diesel prices do have an impact on the cost of manufacturing, production," the Governor said at an event organised by Bombay Chamber of Commerce. On the central bank's digital currency, Das said a lot of work is going on internally in the RBI and some broad guidelines and approach papers will be released on it soon. The governor said RBI has certain concerns on crypto currencies and it has already been communicated to the government. He said RBI is looking into strengthening the regulatory architecture for asset reconstruction companies (ARCs). "(We are) refining and further upgrading the regulatory architecture in respect of the ARCs to ensure that they have a skin in the game, and they are very much in business is receiving a lot of attention from us," Das said. On setting up of ARC for non-performing asset (NPA) management, as announced in the Budget 2021, he said, (in) no way will it jeopardise the activity of the existing ARCs The governor said there is growing realisation and awareness among banks to dealing with bad assets and they are proactively making provision in their books for stressed assets. He said RBI has sharpened and deepened its supervisory methods and is doing deep dive into areas of banking which were not done earlier. "We have a precise idea of build-up of stressed assets in banks and as soon as we see a sign of stress, we immediately enter into a discussion with the banks and proactively deal with the problems," he said. Das also asked public and private sector banks to improve their credit appraisal processes and take measures to stop ever-greening of loans. He emphasised that the country's financial sector currently is in a far much better place than it was earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in the opening session on Thursday tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Infosys amid massive buying by foreign institutional investors. A positive trend in global markets also supported the upmove, traders said. The 30-share BSE index was trading 528.28 points or 1.04 per cent higher at 51,309.97. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 161.45 points or 1.08 per cent up at 15,143.45. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, ONGC, Kotak Bank, SBI, HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Infosys. On the other hand, Nestle India, Asian Paints, HUL and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 1,030.28 points or 2.07 per cent higher at 50,781.69, and Nifty zoomed 274.20 points or 1.86 per cent to end at 14,982. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth a whopping Rs 28,739.17 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. "In this volatile market, where dips and bounce backs are sharp, the directional trend is upwards. The 'higher highs' and 'higher lows' indicate the long-term bullish trend, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The fundamental reason for this trend, which is global, is the abundant liquidity available in the global financial system and the Fed's declared commitment to keep liquidity flowing and maintaining interest rates at historical lows, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.17 per cent higher at USD 66.29 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Bosch to invest 100 million euros in India||Bosch Home Appliances on Wednesday said it would invest 100 million euros in India to scale IoT-based product solutions and generate new employment opportunities. The company will invest the amount over the next 3-4 years towards personalising solutions, brand-building, strengthening its technology centre and setting up a robust refrigerator factory to bring its German technology to India, a press release said. In the coming years, Bosch would focus on connectivity with its IoT-based product solutions, strengthen its entry-level portfolio, introduce relevant global products and new digital business models for customer value (D2C), it said. Appliances hold potential The household appliances market in India is expected to grow at 14.5 per cent annually (CAGR 2018-2022), resulting in a market volume of $2,028 million by 2022, the company said. Bosch India expects its business in this sector to grow significantly. “We’d like to maintain our premium brand imagery and want to remain the consumers’ first choice backed by innovation and technology as our key pillars at BSH Household Appliances and we are constantly working towards simplifying the day- to-day lives of consumers by re-inventing and regionalising solutions, including branded detergents for washing machines and dishwashers,” said Neeraj Bahl, MD and CEO, BSH Household Appliances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Improvement in macroeconomic conditions to alleviate banking sector stress: S&P||S&P Global Ratings on Wednesday said an improvement in the macroeconomic conditions is likely to alleviate the stress on India’s banking sector. It said the Indian government’s strong efforts to shield banks from the Covid-19 pandemic have largely been successful, but a hit from the pandemic is inevitable. “While the Indian economy is on a mend, the permanent GDP loss stemming from the brunt of the coronavirus is huge at 10 per cent. We estimate the banking system's weak loans are at 12 per cent of gross loans,” S&P said in a statement. An improvement in India’s macroeconomic conditions is likely to alleviate stress for the country’s banking sector, said S&P. India’s economic risk trend is stable and credit risk remains very high for Indian banks. “These banks hold elevated levels of stressed corporate assets and, despite new foreclosure laws, progress on their resolution has been slow. The pandemic-induced downcycle has delayed the improvement in asset quality for Indian banks. Small and midsize enterprises (SME) have been hit hardest, followed by retail loans, especially unsecured loans,” S&P added. Steps by the government and the Reserve Bank of India, including an emergency credit guarantee scheme for SMEs, are likely to lessen the stress. The Union budget announcement for fiscal 2022 also includes plans to establish an asset reconstruction company and the strengthening of the National Company Law Tribunal framework. “These measures could benefit banks by ensuring that management resources are not spent on recoveries of weak assets. That said, India’s challenge has always been on the execution front,” it added. S&P expects earnings of Indian banks to gradually recover from the weak base of past few years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 1,030 pts in extended session following technical glitch at NSE||The Sensex on Wednesday soared 1030.28 points on an unprecedented day that saw the trading hours extended till 5 pm after a technical glitch at the National Stock Exchange (NSE) froze activities on the country’s largest bourse for the greater part of the day. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has asked the NSE to probe the halt and submit its report at the earliest. The development left traders high and dry as they had to rush to square off their positions — on the eve of the monthly F&O (forward and options) expiry. There have been such instances in the past as well: in June 2020, the exchange had suffered disruption. At that time, its the prices in the bank option segment were not reflecting on the terminal linked to the exchange. Similarly, in September 2019, its system faced a trading outage as investors were unable to place orders in the final minutes of the trade. Earlier in the day at around 10 am, dealers said that the tickers of indices such as the Nifty were not updating. The exchange halted trading at 11.40am. NSE blamed the glitch on the links of its telecom service providers. “The NSE has multiple telecom links with two service providers ... and we have received communication from both the telecom service providers that there are issues with their links due to which there is an impact on NSE system. We are working on restoring the systems as soon as possible. In view of the above, all the segments have been closed at 11.40am and will be restored as soon as the issue is resolved,’’ it said in a statement in the morning. What intrigued investors and the market regulator was that the NSE did not migrate to its disaster recovery site even after the glitch. Sebi said that it has asked the bourse to explain the reasons for trading not migrating to the disaster recovery site. The market regulator added that while the “trading halt” continued till 3.30pm, given the exceptional situation arising out of this outage, it was decided to extend the trading hours from 3.30pm to 5pm. Due to the glitch, some of the traders settled their positions on the BSE which resulted in its turnover rising. Data from the bourse showed the turnover rising to Rs 40,698 crore compared with Rs 4,520.58 crore on Tuesday. However, after trading resumed in the extended hours, there was a strong rally that saw the Sensex zooming 1030.28 points and the Nifty over 270 points on Wednesday, following strong buying in financial stocks. The NSE Nifty settled 274.20 points or 1.86 per cent higher at 14982. Similarly, the Sensex ended 1030.28 points or 2.07 per cent higher at 50781.69. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 5 per cent, followed by the HDFC twins, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and SBI. “The technical glitch did not impact domestic market sentiment though volatility was high with a positive prejudice, in the first session. During the extra session, the market gathered more strength and hugely outperformed the global peers, triggered by squaring-off F&O positions a day ahead of the pre-fixed monthly expiry date. The global market was mixed, not very convinced that world central banks like the FED will maintain a flexible monetary policy even during rising bond yield & inflation,” Vinod Nair Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Finance ministry permits all private banks to handle govt business ||All private sector banks will be allowed to handle government-related banking transactions such as the collection of taxes, pension payments and small savings schemes, the finance ministry announced on Wednesday. “Embargo lifted on the grant of government business to private banks. All banks can now participate,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a tweet. Earlier all PSU banks and three private sector banks — ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank — were allowed to handle the transactions. Now, all private sector lenders such as Kotak Mahindra Bank, Federal Bank, IndusInd Bank and Yes Bank can offer the services. It is not yet clear if the doors of small savings scheme such as the National Savings Certificate (NSC) have been thrown open to the banks. Officials said the details would be notified by the Reserve Bank of India. The government business includes the payment of pension, collection of taxes (both direct and indirect) , maintaining certain government investment schemes such as Public Provident Fund, Sukanya Samriddhi Account, National Pension Scheme accounts, state treasury accounts as well as maintaining departmental accounts of ministries. According to the Central Pension Accounting Office under the Union finance ministry, all PSU banks and ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank can deal with the pension accounts of civil pensioners (other than railways, post and telecommunication and defence). They can also handle the accounts of MPs and the judges of the high court and Supreme Court. Opening up of the government business will allow more private banks to participate. Ananth Narayan, associate professor, SPJIMR, said the central and state government fund flows were quite substantial — across tax collections, expenditures and businesses of public sector enterprises. “It should open up this business to all banks, and the competition should help give better cash management solutions to the government and PSUs.” “It will lead to competition. However, not sure how remunerative this business is even though volumes are large. Should remember that the same volume will be distributed across more banks… important to see if tenders are used for giving this business,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said. Speaking to The Telegraph, V.G. Kannan, former chief executive of the Indian Banks Association (IBA), said the announcement will also benefit existing customers of these banks in services such as the payment of taxes. At present, they had to route it through other “approved” banks. Harsh Roongta, founder Fee Only Investment Advisers, said such services should not be the stranglehold of a few entities. Opening up will lead to more competition. The All India Bank Employees Association criticised the move. “PSU banks’ social banking obligations have the cost. Lesser rate of interest on agriculture loans, education loans or for MSMEs come at a cost to the banks. The government’s business to these banks helps in cross-subsidisation of the cost.” If the government distributes its business to private banks, the ability of public sector banks to lend to weaker and priority sectors on concessional rates of interest will become difficult, the union said. With inputs from Calcutta & Mumbai Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
25-02-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India allays yield rise fears||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday said there would be sufficient liquidity in the system and the apex bank would conduct the government’s borrowing programme in an orderly fashion as he sought to assuage the bond markets jittery mood over the government’s gargantuan expenditure appetite outlined in the budget. Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond have been well over 6 per cent since the budget. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a greater-than-expected borrowings for the rest of this fiscal and the next financial year. Moreover, the RBI’s move to normalise the cash reserve ratio (CRR) has not gone down well with the markets. However, the central bank has maintained the system liquidity will remain comfortable and the CRR normalisation will open up space for a variety of market operations to inject additional liquidity. The rising bond yields have led to fears that it will lead to mark-to-market losses for banks. On Wednesday, in an interview to a TV channel, Das again tried to look for support from the bond markets. “After the monetary policy committee (MPC) meet, I had very clearly said we will ensure that there is a non-disruptive borrowing, which will take place. I would like to assure the markets that what we are looking at an orderly evolution of the yield curve,” he said. “When it falls off the track, as the central bank and as the debt manager of the government, the RBI will obviously take whatever policy measures are required.” “However, liquidity will continue to be sufficient, we will make available liquidity at the appropriate times and we will see that the borrowing programme goes through in a very orderly manner,’’ he said. OMO role Das pointed out that in this fiscal year the central bank bought Rs 3 lakh crore of bonds through open market operations (OMOs) that has tamped down yields. Considering the government’s borrowing programme of the next financial year, there is no reason why it should curtail its open market operations. He added that other relaxation given by the central bank on the HTM front has effectively opened up space for another Rs 4 lakh crore of liquidity. The RBI has extended the time frame for bank statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) holdings in the HTM (held to maturity) category by one more year till March 31, 2023. HTM is a category of investment by banks in bonds which do not have to be marked to market with the current rates, protecting the balance sheet of banks from any valuation hits. Das said the RBI has certain major concerns about cryptocurrency and this has been communicated to the central government. On the central bank digital currency, he said it was a work in progress. On the Centre’s plan to privatise certain PSU banks, he said the RBI was concerned with the fit and proper criteria that the new owner should meet. The RBI is also keen that the bank after takeover is well capitalised and the new promoter has enough financial strength to significantly capitalise the banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
25-02-2021||Business||Suzuki Motor Corp chairman Osamu Suzuki announces retirement||Suzuki Motor Corp’s 91-year old chairman, Osamu Suzuki, announced he will retire in June, stepping aside for a new leader to navigate the shift to electric cars and fight off competition from tech firms such as Tesla and Apple. The chairman, after heading the company for more than four decades that his wife’s grandfather founded, is leaving his son Toshihiro Suzuki, already president and CEO, to hold the reins of the company. Osamu told reporters on Wednesday he decided to retire after the company welcomed its 100th anniversary last year and the approval of its new management plan. But he said he will “remain active” as an adviser. “I will neither run away nor hide,” the patriarch said, who has repeatedly declared in the past he will be a “lifelong non-retiree”. The company also announced on Wednesday it will invest one trillion yen ($9.45 billion), mostly on electrification technology, over five years. The younger Suzuki said the company needed to respond to a global push towards lower emissions. “Carbon neutral is the focus now. Suzuki must not fall behind this global trend,” he said. The announcement by Japan’s fourth-biggest automaker comes less than a week after rival Honda Motor appointed a new CEO, who said he would consider alliances to make bold decisions. Carmakers, particularly smaller players such as Suzuki, are seen at a disadvantage due to the huge cost of developing EVs and technologies such as autonomous driving. Suzuki, alongside other automakers such as Mazda and Subaru, tied up with Toyota in 2019 to slash development and manufacturing costs. Osamu Suzuki, who joined Suzuki Motor in 1958, became president in 1978 and doubled as chairman in 2000. During his tenure, the company solidified its presence as the top maker of compact cars. He spearheaded the company’s decision to enter its key Indian market in 1983. Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, in which the carmaker owns a majority stake , is the top player in the country, selling every second car in the country. In 2016, Suzuki stepped down as CEO to take responsibility for the firm’s use of incorrect testing methods to calculate vehicle mileage but he remained chairman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
25-02-2021||Business||Govt extends PLI scheme to domestic pharma manufacturing||The government on Wednesday extended the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to the domestic manufacturing of pharmaceuticals and production of laptops, tablets, all-in-one personal computers and servers. This is expected to result in an investment of Rs 15,000 crore in the pharma sector and Rs 7,350 crore in the IT hardware sector. For IT hardware, the scheme is expected to lead to production worth Rs 3.26 lakh crore and exports worth Rs 2.45 lakh crore in four years. In the pharma sector, it would result in total incremental sales of Rs 2.94 lakh crore and incremental exports worth Rs 1.96 lakh crore  in six years, from 2022-23 to 2027-28. “The allocations for the scheme will be divided in three categories. Group A includes applicants with global manufacturing revenue (FY 2019-20) of pharmaceutical goods of Rs 5,000 crore and above. Group B will be those having revenue of Rs 500-5000 crore, while Group C will be those having less than Rs 500 crore revenue,” Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters after the Cabinet meeting. Allocations worth Rs 11,000 crore have been earmarked for Group A, Rs 2,250 crore for Group B and Rs 1,750 crore for the relatively small players in Group C. The PLI scheme is an effort to make the industry globally competitive and geared towards the production of high-value drugs, leveraging  India’s position as a country which already exports low-cost pharma goods to more than 200 nations. Based on the initial success of the PLI scheme for mobile phones and specified electronic components, 10 target sectors along with specific product lines having high growth potential were identified by Niti Aayog for the implementation of PLI schemes. Total incremental sales of Rs 2,94,000 crore and total incremental exports of Rs 1,96,000 crore are estimated during six years from 2022-23 to 2027-28. The scheme is expected to generate 1 lakh jobs both skilled and un-skilled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
25-02-2021||Business||Reliance Industries invites bids from buyers of coal gas ||Reliance Industries on Wednesday sought bids from the buyers of coal gas produced from its CBM blocks in Madhya Pradesh at a minimum price of about $6 at the current oil price. It sought bids for 0.82 million standard cubic metres per day of gas from the Sohagpur coal-bed methane (CBM) block, according to the offer notice. Bids have been sought for the supply of gas for one year beginning April 1, 2021. The gas can be used in industries as as well as by city operators to supply CNG to automobiles and piped cooking gas to households. Users have been asked to quote a percentage of Brent crude oil price they will be willing to pay for the gas. Reliance set 9.5 per cent of Brent rate as the base or minimum price and asked bidders to “enter bids that are higher than or equal to it”. At the current price of Brent crude at $65 per barrel, the price of gas produced from coal seams, called CBM, comes to $6.17 per million British thermal unit (mBtu). “A bidder shall be required to quote the variable denoted as ‘V’ in percentage terms as a positive number” of the dated Brent price, the notice said. Gas price will be “higher of (V per cent) x Dated Brent; or PPAC Price”, it said. PPAC price refers to the rate the government fixes every six months for gas produced mostly by state-owned firms such as ONGC. That price for the six months ending March 31, 2021 is $1.79 per mBtu. Reliance started commercial gas production from the CBM blocks in March 2017 and reached the peak of 3 mmscmd before the end of 2018. CBM is natural gas stored or absorbed in coal seams and contains 90-95 per cent methane.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
25-02-2021||Business||Coal India shares end 5.51 per cent up on BSE||Coal India shares ended 5.51 per cent up on the Bombay Stock Exchange on Wednesday after the public sector miner informed the bourses on Tuesday that a second interim dividend for 2020-21 could be under consideration. A meeting of the board of directors of the company will be held on March 5, 2021 to consider and approve the payment of a second interim dividend for the fiscal. It has fixed March 16, 2021, as the “record date” for the purpose of payment of a second interim dividend on equity shares for the financial year 2020-21. The stock had reached an intraday high of Rs 149.90 on the BSE before closing at Rs 144.75 a piece. The board of Coal India last November had approved the payment of interim dividend at Rs 7.50 per share of face value Rs 10. Coal India’s total paid-up capital is Rs 6,162.73 crore. The government, being the promoter, holds 66.13 per cent as of the quarter ended December 2020 and is a major beneficiary of the dividend payout. In the last five years, the public sector miner has paid a total dividend in excess of Rs 55,000 crore. Several brokerages remain bullish on Coal India despite e-auction realisations and volume growth remaining under pressure. With power demand showing signs of improvement, volumes are expected to recover in 2021-22. “Coal India can tide over the current situation given its large cash position,” Motilal Oswal Research said in a report. Between April 2020 and January 2021, Coal India has produced 453.3 million tonnes (mt) of coal, recording a production growth of 0.4 per cent over the corresponding period of the previous year. Offtake of coal during the period was 462.9mt down 2.2 per cent over the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
