26-02-2021||Business||India records 0.4 per cent growth in Oct-Dec quarter||After contracting for two quarters in a row, the Indian economy entered the positive territory with a growth of 0.4 per cent in the October-December quarter, mainly due to good performance by farm, services and construction sectors, official data showed on Friday. Trade and hotel industry registered a contraction of 7.7 per cent during the third quarter this fiscal, as the sectors continued to suffer on account of the coronavirus pandemic. According to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), the farm sector recorded a growth of 3.9 per cent, and the manufacturing sector output grew by 1.6 per cent in the quarter under review. The construction sector advanced by 6.2 per cent, while electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services clocked a 7.3 per cent growth. The NSO said, "GDP at Constant (2011-12) Prices in Q3 of 2020-21 is estimated at Rs 36.22 lakh crore, as against Rs 36.08 lakh crore in Q3 of 2019-20, showing a growth of 0.4 per cent". The gross domestic product (GDP) had expanded by 3.3 per cent in the corresponding period of 2019-20. In its second advance estimates of national accounts, the NSO has projected 8 per cent contraction in 2020-21, showing the pandemic impact. In its first advance estimates released in January, it had projected a contraction of 7.7 per cent for the current fiscal as against a growth of four per cent in 2019-20. "Real GDP or Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at Constant (2011-12) Prices in the year 2020-21 is estimated to attain a level of Rs 134.09 lakh crore, as against the First Revised Estimate of GDP for the year 2019-20 of Rs 145.69 lakh crore, released on 29th January 2021. The growth in GDP during 2020-21 is estimated at (-) 8.0 per cent as compared to 4.0 per cent in 2019-20," it stated. The economy had shrunk by an unprecedented 24.4 per cent in the first quarter this fiscal following the coronavirus pandemic and resultant lockdowns. In the second quarter, the GDP declined 7.3 per cent amid a perk up in economic activities after the easing of the lockdown. The first and second-quarter GDP growth figures are revised from (-) 24.9 per cent and (-) 7.5 per cent provisional estimates, respectively, released in November 2020. The per capita income in real terms (at 2011-12 prices) during 2020-21 is estimated to attain a level of Rs 85,929 as compared to Rs 94,566 in 2019-20 -- showing a contraction of 9.1 per cent in 2019-20 as against 2.5 per cent growth in the previous fiscal, it stated. The per capita income at current prices during 2020-21 is estimated to be at Rs 1,27,768, a decline of 4.8 per cent as compared to Rs 1,34,186 during 2019-20. "The measures taken by the Government to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic have had an impact on the economic activities as well as on the data collection mechanisms. "The data challenges in the case of other underlying macro-economic indicators like IIP (industrial production) and CPI (retail inflation), used in the estimation of National Accounts aggregates and specific measures, if any, taken by the government in the following months with a view to address the pandemic led economic situation will have implications on the subsequent revision of these estimates," the NSO said. Estimates are, therefore, likely to undergo sharp revisions for the aforesaid causes in due course, as per the release calendar. Users should take this into consideration when interpreting the figures, it added. The 0.4 per cent growth in the December quarter shows that the economy has returned to pre-pandemic times and reflects a further strengthening of V-shaped recovery, the finance ministry said on Friday. "Real GDP growth of 0.4 per cent in Q3 of 2020-21 has returned the economy to the pre-pandemic times of positive growth rates. It is also a reflection of a further strengthening of V-shaped recovery that began in Q2 of 2020-21 after a large GDP contraction in Q1 followed one of the most stringent lockdowns imposed by the Government relative to other countries," the ministry said in a statement. "With a growth re-emerging in both GDP and GVA in Q3 FY2021, the pandemic-induced technical recession in India has ended, in line with our expectations," Icra Principal Economist Aditi Nayar said. The NSO has pegged the pace of growth in Q3 FY2021 at 0.4 per cent for GDP, and a higher 1.0 per cent for the GVA, whereas Icra had projected both at 0.7 per cent, she added. "The YoY (year-on-year) performance of the components of GDP indicates a welcome growth of 2.6 per cent in gross fixed capital formation, juxtaposed with mild de-growth of 1.1 per cent in government consumption expenditure and 2.4 per cent in private consumption expenditure," Nayar said. Recouping of GDP to the positive territory by posting a growth of 0.4 per cent in the third quarter is a promising sign, as it portends the end of the pandemic-induced recessionary phase seen in the first half of the year, CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee said. The growth stimuli available from the Union Budget and the additional measures, including the PLI will lead to a sturdy growth path over the recovery horizon, he added. "The real push will come in the Q4 (January-March) 2021 because lockdowns on many sectors, particularly hospitality and travel eased substantially during this quarter. "It is hoped that it remains that way, given the uptick in Covid19 cases in some pockets and in some states. Important to note that the states coming under uptick constitute a large part of industrial activity, and that is important for Q4 and the next financial year," Deloitte India partner Sanjay Kumar said. China's economy grew by 6.5 per cent in October-December 2020, faster than the 4.9 per cent growth in July-September 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Sensex crashes over 1,900 points to finish below 50,000 mark||The BSE benchmark Sensex nosedived about 1,940 points to settle just above the 49,000-level on Friday, tracking massive sell-offs in world equities after a rout in global bond markets spooked investors. The 30-share BSE index ended with a loss of 1,939.32 points or 3.80 per cent at 49,099.99. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty plunged 568.20 points or 3.76 per cent to close the session at 14,529.15. All 30 Sensex constituents ended in the red. ONGC was the top loser, shedding around 6.50 per cent, followed by M&M, Bajaj Finserv, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, PowerGrid, HDFC Bajaj Finance and ICICI Bank. Sectorally, banking index suffered maximum loss with over 4.8 per cent drop. Financial and telecom indices too fell sharply by 4.9 per cent and 3.85 per cent, respectively. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses closed with heavy losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals. Analysts said that rising bond yields seem to have eroded investor interest in riskier equities, adding the bond market cues often reflect in equity markets. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.16 per cent lower at USD 65.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 1,000 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked over 1,000 points in the opening session on Friday tracking losses in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries amid a negative trend in global markets. After touching a low of 49,950.75, the 30-share BSE index was trading 927.21 points or 1.82 per cent lower at 50,112.10. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was quoting 270.40 points or 1.79 per cent down at 14,826.95. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC, M&M, SBI, HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Nestle India, Maruti, HUL and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex spurted 257.62 points or 0.51 per cent to finish at 51,039.31, and Nifty climbed 115.35 points or 0.77 per cent to 15,097.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 188.08 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. "Recent rise in bond yields globally and concerns with regard to higher commodity prices weighed on investors' sentiments as these two elements reduce the future value of cash flows and earnings," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US equities witnessed steep fall as sharp spike in bond yields dampened investors' sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.62 per cent lower at USD 65.70 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Haldia Petrochemicals mulls 50% capacity hike||Haldia Petrochemicals has proposed to expand its capacity by 50 per cent, entailing an investment of Rs 8,500 crore. The company is embarking on a project which will enable it to produce 345,000 tonnes per annum of additional polymer, making HPL a 1-million-tonne capacity plant. At present, HPL has an installed capacity of 700,000 TPA. HPL, which counts The Chatterjee Group as the major shareholder, is undertaking two more projects totalling an investment of Rs 1,400 crore. They include a coal based power plant for Rs 800 crore for captive consumption and a unit to produce white mineral oil for Rs 600 crore. Put together, they would represent one of the largest investments to be executed in the manufacturing sector in Bengal and strengthen the state’s presence in the petrochemical sector in India. The company has reached an understanding with Syama Prasad Mukherjee, Calcutta (formerly Calcutta Port Trust) to facilitate these ventures, including allotment of land and access to port facilities. Vinit Kumar, chairman of the port, said HPL would import 300,000 tonnes additional naphtha to make polymer. The port has allotted 6 acres for the project. The plant for white mineral oil, used for pharmaceutical and FMCG products, is going to be an import substitute product. The unit will have 0.2 million TPA capacity. This is going to be produced for the first time in India. The coal-based power plant is a project to make HPL more cost competitive. At present, the company burns expensive naphtha to produce power. To begin with, it will import coal using port facilities. Cumulatively, HPL projects represent the largest share of the port based industries CPT is seeking to promote. It has entered into 35 agreements with various stakeholders worth Rs 25,000 crore. When undertaken, this would be the second instance when HPL is expanding capacity. The company started commercial production from 2001 at the port town Haldia with 420,000 TPA capacity. It was later expanded to 700,000 TPA in 2008. In 2015, the company came back from near bankruptcy to become one of the most profitable ventures in Bengal. Subsequently, it acquired a majority stake in US-based Lummus and also acquired Garden Silk Mills in January. An HPL spokesperson did not comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Calcutta Port Trust embarks on projects to enhance cargo handling capacities||Syama Prasad Mukherjee Port, formerly Calcutta Port Trust (CPT), is embarking on multiple projects to enhance cargo handling capacities in Calcutta and Haldia. Most of these ventures are in partnership with the private sector and spans across liquid cargo, container traffic and bulk cargo. When completed, they would enable the port to handle an additional 10 million tonnes of cargo. A large chunk of the jetties will be dedicated to handle liquid cargo. The terminal the port is building at Haldia for Rs 100 crore will be completed by the year end, allowing it to handle 2.5 MT of liquid cargo. Moreover, it has allotted land to a private firm to build an oil terminal at Salukhali, near Haldia. A new terminal will also come up at Budge Budge, near Calcutta, replacing the existing pontoon jetty which limits operations during high tide, curtailing handling volume. “The world is moving towards liquid cargo as we migrate from traditional fuel to clean energy. CPT is building three oil terminals, adding up with the ones we have, to be ready for the future,” Vinit Kumar, chairman of SMP, Calcutta, said. At present, coal is the most significant cargo for the port. Apart from oil jetties, the port is offering private companies the opportunity to build and operate a container terminal and bulk handling berth at Khidderpore Dock in Calcutta on a 30-year lease. Six bidders have shown interest so far and the award may be given after the polls. The port is also offering berth number 3 at Haldia for end to end mechanisation to handle bulk cargo. The Rs 300-crore project has evoked interest from four private parties. Going forward, two more berths would be awarded for similar makeovers. The port on Thursday also entered a slew of agreements for ship repair, storage logistics and inland water movement among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Govt to consider up to 20 times incremental sales value for computing telecom PLI||The government will consider up to 20 times the value of incremental sales of telecom gear makers for doling out production-linked incentive, according to the norms notified on Thursday. The incentive will be given in the range of 4-7 per cent of the incremental sales value to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and 4-6 per cent to the rest of the companies to manufacture telecom equipment under the scheme, which will come into effect from April 1 this year. “The PLI scheme will be implemented within the overall financial limits of Rs 12,195 crores only for the implementation of the scheme over a period of five years,” the notification said. Telecom gear makers will need to achieve at least three times higher value in sales compared with the investment they are required to make in their plant, other than land and building. The investment and incremental sales will be calculated from the financial year 2019-20. The government has set a minimum investment threshold of Rs 10 crore for MSMEs and Rs 100 crore for others, which excluded investment in land and building. The PLI scheme will be applicable on broadband transmission equipment, 4G and 5G wireless equipment, wifi access points, routers, fibre-to-the-home gears, network switches etc. The government expects the PLI scheme to position India as a global hub for the manufacturing of telecom and networking products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel raises $1.25 billion through debt instruments||Telecom major Bharti Airtel on Thursday said it has raised $1.25 billion through the issuance of debt instruments. Airtel said this is the first ever dual-tranche dollar bond issued by the company spread across senior and perpetual issuance. “This is the largest issuance by any Indian investment grade issuer since January 2019,” Airtel said in a statement. The fund raising comes just before the start of spectrum auction valued at Rs 3.92 lakh crore. Meanwhile, Vodafone Idea is also looking to raise $2 billion through a credit line. Talks that were due to conclude at the end of January have been extended till the end of this month. Potential lenders, including a consortium headed by Oak Hill Advisors of the US, are looking for “safeguards and milestones”. US-based GoldenTree Asset Management has reportedly exited the consortium following differences over lending terms and valuations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Axis entities-Max Life Insurance deal gets IRDAI's nod||The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has approved the acquisition of up to a 12 per cent stake in Max Life Insurance by Axis Bank and its subsidiaries Axis Capital and Axis Securities. This was disclosed by Max Financial Services Ltd (MFSL) in a regulatory filing on Wednesday. According to the proposed transaction, the Axis entities have the right to acquire up to 19 per cent stake in Max Life of which Axis Bank proposes to acquire up to 9 per cent. Axis Capital and Axis Securities together propose to acquire up to 3 per cent of the share capital of Max Life in the first leg of the transaction, a statement disclosed. Axis entities have the right to acquire an additional stake of up to 7 per cent in Max Life, in one or more tranches, which they intend to acquire over the course of the next few years, it added. The IRDAI approval was an integral step in this long-awaited joint venture transaction which was first announced in April 2020. “We have been looking forward to bringing Axis Bank in this construct as a joint venture partner in Max Life. Our long and successful business association with them has demonstrated to us their value across customer insights, distribution expertise and other functional benefits which will be highly useful for the business,” said Analjit Singh, chairman of Max Group and Max Financial Services. Max Life is the fourth largest private life insurer in the country while Axis Bank is the third largest private bank. The two firms have shared a successful business relationship for over a decade, providing long-term saving and protection products to nearly 20 lakh customers. The total premium generated through this relationship aggregated to over Rs 40,000 crore. "We hope we will be able to make quick progress in harnessing the synergies and benefits from this joint venture between Max Life and Axis Entities," MFSL Managing Director Mohit Talwar said while commenting on the development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||Centre set to release second advanced estimates of the GDP for this fiscal||The Centre is set to release the second advanced estimates of the gross domestic product (GDP) for this fiscal on Friday along with the third-quarter figures for the economy, on which there is a broad consensus of the nation returning to the growth path after getting whacked by the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the first and the second quarters. The economy had contracted 24 per cent in the first quarter and 7.5 per cent in the second quarter; for the whole year. The government’s first advanced estimate has projected a contraction of 7.7 per cent and a 4.2 per cent contraction in the nominal gross domestic product. Ahead of the forecast by the National Statistics Office (NSO), Moody’s projected a 13.7 growth in India’s real GDP in the next fiscal — up from 10.8 per cent estimated earlier, on the back of normalisation of activity and growing confidence in the market with the rollout of Covid-19 vaccine. For the current financial year, the US-based rating agency expects the Indian economy to contract 7 per cent, lower than its previous estimate of 10.6 per cent contraction. Moody's Investors Service associate managing director (sovereign risk) Gene Fang said reform implementation remains a challenge in India, and expressed uncertainty over revenue generation through CPSE privatisation announced in the Budget saying such “one-off monetisation policies are less durable in terms of supporting fiscal health for long term”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
26-02-2021||Business||RBI governor says Centre and states should coordinate to reduce fuel taxes||Reserve Bank of India governor Shakitkanta Das has on Thursday said there was a need for a co-ordinated action between the Centre and the state governments to reduce the taxes on petrol and diesel and bring down their prices. Fuel prices not only have a direct impact on inflation but also work their way into the pricing of other goods and services to ram up the cost pressures on the economy — with the impact captured by core inflation which is the consumer inflation stripped of their food and fuel components. Later in the day, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the students of IIM Ahemdabad that there should be less burden on consumers and both the Centre and states should talk with each other over reducing taxes on diesel and petrol . Earlier this month, the monetary policy committee of the RBI had flagged core inflation as an area of concern. Core inflation — a creature of rising fuel prices and high indirect taxes — stood at an elevated 5.6 per cent in December against the consumer price inflation of 4.59 per cent. The monetary policy committee (MPC) said in its statement earlier this month that pump prices have reached historical highs and an unwinding of taxes by both the Centre and the states could ease the cost push pressures. At an event organised by the Bombay Chamber of Commerce on Thursday, Das said that there was a need for the co-ordinated action between the Centre and the states “because there are inherent taxes levied by both”. He said a calibrated reduction of taxes was important. The RBI governor admitted both the Centre and the state governments have their revenue pressures and are required to spend large sums to enable the country and the people to come out of the Covid-19 pandemic stress. “So the revenue requirement and the compulsion of the governments are fully understood. But having said that the impact on inflation also is something, which comes in from the fact that petrol and diesel prices do have an impact on the cost of manufacturing, production.” LPG price hike LPG prices were raised on Thursday by another Rs 25 per cylinder — the third increase this month. The previous increases were on February 4 and February 15  —  a clear indication that rising crude prices will soon start mauling kitchen budgets. The Modi government has refused to cut excise duties on petroleum products. As a result, petrol and diesel prices have risen; it is now the turn of LPG producers to join the fray. The new price of a 14.2kg cylinder in Calcutta is Rs 820. Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday said petroleum products in the country were getting costlier because of rising prices of crude by oil-producing nations. “To earn more profit in the interest of their countries, crude-supplying countries are increasing the prices of crude,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
26-02-2021||Business||NSE blames shutdown on unavailability of ‘online risk management system’||The National Stock Exchange on Thursday said the unavailability of an ‘online risk management system’ led to the shutdown of trading on Wednesday. It is also awaiting a detailed root cause analysis from its telecom service providers and vendors, the exchange said. Market regulator Sebi on Thursday affirmed it will take all necessary measures to ensure the underlying causes, including “institutional deficiencies”, are addressed. The regulator said the decision to stop trading in its entirety was taken by the NSE and Sebi was informed of it only 10 minutes before trading screens froze on Wednesday. The Association of National Exchanges Members of India said in a letter to Sebi that the glitch caused huge monetary losses to members and investors. Zerodha faces flak Brokerage Zerodha is facing a backlash from traders who saw their equity positions abruptly closed during a glitch on Wednesday. Hundreds of traders, who bought stocks via Zerodha, voiced their concern on Twitter, with many posting pictures showing portfolio losses due to trades squared off by the broker. Many signed an online petition for action. “My six months salary has gone...I’ll sue you,” said Twitter user Aashish Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
26-02-2021||Business||Nifty reclaims 15000 mark, Sensex gains 258 points||The Nifty on Thursday reclaimed the 15000 mark and the Sensex gained 258 points as positive global cues led to renewed buying in the heavyweight counters. Analysts said that with the expiry of the forward and options (F&O) contract for the month, the stage was set for stocks to resume their climb amid news of the government planning more reform measures and the economy being on the mend. They, however, caution that adverse news on Covid-19 cases could stem the upside. Thursday’s rally came after a tough Wednesday for investors as the NSE stopped trading for four hours because of a technical glitch. In Thursday’s trading, the benchmark indices remained positive as global stocks posted good gains. PSU shares hogged the limelight as the Centre said it was committed to privatising all PSUs barring the bare minimum in four strategic sectors. This led to the NSE CPSE index rallying 4.43 per cent. Gains in this index were led by Coal India followed by NBCC. The Sensex closed 0.51 per cent higher at 51039.31.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 115.35 points or 0.77 per cent to 15097.35. Market-economy gap Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi on Thursday acknowledged the systemic risk concerns raised by the RBI and the Financial Stability Board over a disconnect between the financial markets and the real economy, but said this is a global phenomenon. “Typically, stock markets have been the barometers of the economy and move in the direction in which the economy moves or is expected to move. However, after the onset of pandemic, several institutions have raised concerns of an increasing disconnect of financial markets with the real economy,” Tyagi said. “However, similar trends have been there across many global markets,” Tyagi said, speaking at an NISM event. Explaining the series of events leading to the shutting down of trading, the NSE said it has multiple telecom links with two service providers to ensure redundancy and the two telcos informed it about "instability of all their links", as per a statement. This instability resulted in an impact to the online risk management system, which is configured in a 'high availability' mode, it said, adding that there was no impact to trading. "Domestic markets added strength on yesterday’s rally supported by positive F&O monthly roll-over and robust global market. Small and mid-cap stocks continued its out-performance over the benchmark indices. World equity market rebound after getting assurance from central banks, importantly the Fed, that good liquidity will be maintained, in spite of being under pressure of rising inflation, since the economy is still well below the pre-Covid standpoint’’ Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
