27-02-2021||Business||Telcos will hold their fire till 5G auction: Goldman Sachs analysts||The spectrum auction that will kick off on March 1 will be muted, analysts at Goldman Sachs have said in a report citing Vodafone Idea’s weak balance sheet and a possibility that telcos will hold their fire till the 5G auction. In the upcoming round, the government is not offering 5G in the 3300-3600 Mhz band. It is putting on the block 2309 Mhz of spectrum in seven bands —700 Mhz, 800 Mhz, 900 Mhz, 1800 Mhz, 2100 Mhz, 2300 Mhz and 2500 Mhz. The brokerage expects no bids in the high-priced 700 Mhz band. “Of the seven bands being put up for auction, we expect bidding to stay restricted to 3-4 bands, mostly to meet renewal demand, and to selectively add some coverage spectrum. “About a third of the spectrum being auctioned is in the 700 MHz band, which was unsold during the 2016 auctions, and we expect a similar outcome in 2021 despite a 43 per cent price drop; Operators are unlikely to diversify into a new band that would require investment in equipment, when other bands are available at lower prices,” it said. It forecast that there will be limited incremental impact of the upcoming auction on the balance sheet of telcos. Goldman Sachs expects an upfront payment of Rs 6,100 crore and Rs 5,100 crore from Airtel and Jio, respectively. However, Vodafone Idea’s net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio will restrict its ability to participate. Ahead of the auction, Bharti Airtel had raised $ 1.25 billion through issuance of debt instruments. Vodafone India is also planning to raise funds through a mix of equity and debt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||Output of 8 core industries grows 0.1 per cent in January||The output of eight core infrastructure sectors grew marginally by 0.1 per cent in January, backed by higher production of fertiliser, steel and electricity even as five other sectors contracted. The core sector had expanded by 2.2 per cent in January 2020, according to the provisional data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Friday. “The anaemic core sector growth is a concern as it has a weight of nearly 40 per cent on the IIP and reflects physical production that has now declined 8.8 per cent for the year. Therefore, while the monetary value added number has been positive the same does not hold here,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings. Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra said: “Based on the available data for the core sector, merchandise exports and auto output, we project the growth in IIP to remain subdued at 0.5-1.5 per cent in January 2021.” Coal output contracted 1.8 per cent, crude oil 4.6 per cent, natural gas 2 per cent, refinery products 2.6 per cent and cement 5.9 in January. However, the output of fertiliser, steel and electricity in January grew 2.7 per cent, 2.6 per cent and 5.1 per cent, respectively. Fiscal deficit Fiscal deficit for the 10 months ended January stood at Rs 12.34 lakh crore or 66.8 per cent of the revised budgeted target for the whole fiscal. The government has pegged the fiscal deficit for the current year at Rs 18.48 lakh crore, or 9.5 per cent of GDP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||IATA projects aviation industry to lose about $75-95 billion in 2021||The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has estimated that the aviation industry would continue to experience a contraction and the cash burn in 2021 would balloon to about $75-95 billion from the previously anticipated $48 billion because of the Covid-19 pandemic that has hit travel demand amid restrictions in several countries. “With governments having tightening border restrictions, 2021 is shaping up to be a much tougher year than previously expected. Our best-case scenario sees airlines burning through $75 billion in cash this year. And it could be as bad as $95 billion,” Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s director-general and CEO, said in a release. More emergency relief from governments will be needed. A functioning airline industry can eventually energise the economic recovery from Covid-19, he added. “But that won’t happen if there are massive failures before the crisis ends. If governments are unable to open their borders, we will need them to open their wallets with financial relief to keep airlines viable.” “It is clear that the first half of 2021 will be worse than earlier anticipated. This is because governments have tightened travel restrictions in response to new Covid-19 variants. Forward bookings for summer (July-August) are currently 78 per cent below levels in February 2019 (comparisons to 2020 are distorted owing to Covid-19 impacts),” IATA said in a statement. “With airlines now expected to burn cash throughout 2021 it is vital that governments and the industry are fully prepared to restart the moment governments agree that it is safe to re-open borders,” it added. IATA expects airlines globally to lose more than $38.7 billion in 2021 because of the muted travel appetite and various curbs during the pandemic. Airlines operating in the Asia-Pacific (Apac) region, including India, are expected to report combined losses of $7.5 billion in 2020 because of the adverse impact of the pandemic on travel demand. IATA expects airlines to improve their performance in the second half of 2021 but passenger traffic may rebound to 2019-levels only by 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||RailTel Corporation of India gets listed on the NSE||RailTel Corporation of India on Friday got listed on the NSE with a premium of 16 per cent against its issue price of Rs 94 apiece. Despite the selloff in the broader market, the stock made a debut at Rs 109, a gain of 15.95 per cent compared with the issue price on the NSE. On the BSE, shares of the company got listed at Rs 104.60, a rise of 11.27 per cent. The company’s market valuation stood at Rs 3,846.45 crore. The initial public offer was subscribed over 42 times. The qualified institutional buyer (QIBs) category was subscribed 65.14 times, non-institutional investors 73.25 times and retail individual investors 16.78 times. The mini-ratna PSU is one of the largest neutral telecom infrastructure providers in the country owning an optic fiber network on exclusive right of way along railway track. The company provides broadband telecom and multimedia networks across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||Sensex plummets 1940 points; biggest single-day fall in 10 months||A global selloff driven by panic in the overseas bond markets on Friday ripped apart the renewed vigour in domestic equities as the Sensex plummeted around 1940 points to record its biggest single-day fall in almost 10 months, eroding investor wealth by over Rs 5.37 lakh crore. The sea of red in stock prices came as US treasury bond yields breached 1.50 per cent on rising inflation fears. This has led to apprehensions that fund flows to emerging markets will be adversely affected as central banks could gradually withdraw their accommodative stance. Other developments such as the US carrying out air strikes against Iran-based militia groups in Syria also spooked investors. This came at a time investors were hesitant to build fresh positions ahead of the third-quarter GDP data release. For the domestic markets, Friday’s crash comes when there was optimism of stock prices looking at their next leg of rally with the government set to undertake various reform measures and the economy in a revival mode. However, there are others who point out that the times will be volatile as valuations are expensive and there are headwinds such as the rising number of Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country that could dent economic activities as some form of restrictions could be imposed by the authorities. In Friday’s trading, the Sensex opened down at 50256.71 and continued to be under pressure as it hit a day’s low of 48890.48 — a fall of 2148.83 points. It later ended 1939.32 points, or 3.80 per cent, lower at 49099.99 — its worst one-day fall since May 4 last year. The broader NSE Nifty plunged 568.20 points, or 3.76 per cent, to close at 14529.15 —– its biggest single-day drop since March 23 last year. “The domestic markets gave in to a riot of selloff... a very rare thing in an otherwise booming market. US inflation is expected to rise in the coming months, and therefore, the US yields too. Rising inflationary expectations and the rising yields have a potential to adversely affect the equity sentiment and the equity markets’’, said Joseph Thomas, head of research, Emkay Wealth Management. Provisional data from the bourses showed foreign portfolio investors sold a massive Rs 8,300 crore of stocks on Friday. The rupee also posted its biggest single-day fall in nearly 19 months, tumbling 104 paise to close at 73.47 against the dollar. According to Siddhartha Khemka, head-retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, the markets may continue with its consolidation given the weak global cues. “Investors would closely track bond yields, geopolitical tensions and inflation data for further market direction and would monitor developments around new US stimulus announcement. Even high valuations do not provide much comfort and thus correction was long overdue. Investors should take this opportunity to buy on dips while traders should be cautious with stock-specific action and book profits in regular intervals,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India firm on 4% inflation targeting||The Reserve Bank on Friday lobbied hard once again for persisting with the existing inflation targeting formula that underpins monetary policy making in the country, setting the stage for a showdown with the finance ministry when the entire mechanism comes up for review next month. At present, the inflation target has been fixed at 4 per cent as the median rate with a tolerance band of 2 per cent on either side. The RBI wants this formula to stay for the next five years. The central bank released a 210-page Report on Currency and Finance — resurrecting a publication after a gap of almost eight years — which focuses on the theme of the flexible inflation targeting (FIT) framework that was enacted in 2016 and served as the scaffold for the country’s monetary policy architecture. The five-year tenure for the FIT formula runs out at the end of next month. At the same time, the report argued for greater transparency in the communication of the monetary policy committee’s deliberations and even suggested that the authorities may “consider providing a more explicit forward guidance on the interest rate path at a future date” as the projection process strengthens over time. The report argued that the inflation targeting mechanism has worked well for the most part with inflation hovering within the 2-6 per cent range until the Covid pandemic botched up that record. Transmission of the policy rate to the stack of lending rates in the financial system, especially the weighted average call rate (WACR), had also been better during the FIT regime. “The WACR should continue as the operating target of monetary policy,” the report said while noting that there had been a pronounced downward bias vis-a-vis the policy rate ever since the RBI switched over to the inflation targeting mechanism. The report also suggested that the definition of a “failure” to meet the inflation target — which mandates the MPC to adopt remedial measures and submit a report to Parliament explaining why it could not meet that objective — needed to be relaxed. At present, a failure is defined as an inability to hold the inflation rate between 2 and 6 per cent — the tolerance bands — for three consecutive quarters. The report says that this should be extended to four quarters. None of these suggestions is likely to resonate with the government. Chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian hinted in a recent interview that the government was keen to take a hard look at the formula itself, with the likelihood that the retail inflation rate based on the Consumer Price Index may not be the sole metric that will be used in future. The CPI has weighted heavily in favour of food prices which makes a lopsided inference about the trajectory of inflation in the country. The RBI report has argued that the existing inflation targeting methodology is justified on the ground that the trend inflation from October 2016 to March 2020 fell from a little over 9 per cent to 3.8-4.3 per cent, which validates the formula. The RBI report said growth was unambiguously impaired when inflation crossed 6 per cent which made a strong case for retaining the upper tolerance limit. Bringing inflation below 2 per cent will only disincentivise producers, the report added and suggested that it should be retained as well.
The report said there was  a need for greater flexibility for the monetary policy to see through sharp movements in food prices brought about by transient factors while at the same time be cognizant of relative price shocks that have a bearing on core inflation. “A definition of failure that balances these two objectives would help prevent volatility in output growth brought about by policy responses to frequent food price spikes,”  the report said. Besides, the report recommended staggered terms for members in the six-member MPC to moderate political influence rather than the fixed term at present. It also recommended a “shut period”, where members do not speak publicly, starting three days prior to a policy announcement and extended to seven days after the announcement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
27-02-2021||Business||Indian economy projected to contract by 8 per cent||The Indian economy is projected to contract by 8 per cent this fiscal — a lot worse than the minus 7.7 per cent that the National Statistical Office (NSO) had forecast in its first advance estimate of national income released on January 7. Real GDP growth in 2019-20 was 4 per cent. Nominal GDP — which is measured at current prices and, therefore, factors in the effects of inflation — will contract by 3.8 per cent against the earlier forecast of minus 4.2 per cent. The Narendra Modi government, which is battling mounting criticism for its inability to deal with the runaway increase in petrol, diesel and LPG prices and resolve the mess over farm sector reforms, will, however, want to highlight the 0.4 per cent increase in real GDP growth in the third quarter (October-December). It tried to build a narrative around this recovery — a green shoot suggesting a return to the growth path after two successive quarters when the economy shrank. Analysts in a Reuters poll held ahead of the NSO’s release of the second advance estimates had projected Q3 growth a tad higher at 0.5 per cent. The real bad news is that per capita income in real terms (based on 2011-12 prices) during a Covid-battered year is projected to plunge by 9.1 per cent to Rs 85,929 from Rs 94,566 in 2019-20 — which piles misery on the people at a time when unemployment has crested to its highest levels since the Modi government came to power in 2014. Analysts said the economy faced considerable risks in terms of a spike in Covid cases with the fresh rise impacting several states raising the withering prospect of fresh localised lockdowns. A surge in crude oil prices and volatility in the financial markets amplify concerns about the economy. “India’s advance estimate of FY21 real GDP growth has been surprisingly revised down to a negative 8 per cent from minus 7.7 per cent,” said Sreejith Balasubramanian, economist-fund management at IDFC Asset Management Company. “Nominal GDP is estimated to be slightly better. The worry is that growth in both private and government consumption expenditure will be far more sluggish though investment growth is projected to be slightly better. This also implies that the financial, real estate and professional services segment, and public administration, defence and other services are expected to show tepid growth. But manufacturing recovery could be better.” The government’s statisticians reworked the numbers for the first and the second quarters. The result: the economy contracted in the first quarter by 24.4 per cent against the earlier forecast of minus 23.9 per cent. Contraction in the second quarter was revised to minus 7.3 per cent from a negative 7.5 per cent earlier. In the December quarter, the economy limped back into positive territory by recording growth of 0.4 per cent, signalling the end to the technical recession wrought by the contraction in the first two quarters. In stark contrast, China’s economy grew by 6.5 per cent in October-December 2020, faster than the 4.9 per cent growth in July-September 2020. On Thursday, the American Bureau of Economic Analysis said real GDP in the US economy in the fourth quarter of 2020 (October-December) grew at an annualised rate of 4.1 per cent against a 33.4 per cent growth in the third quarter. These numbers would suggest that the recovery in India is lagging the larger economies of the world. The finance ministry seized on the third quarter growth of 0.4 per cent to suggest that this was a “reflection of a further strengthening of V-shaped recovery that began in the second quarter”. Not everyone was convinced by the government’s assertion of a broad-based recovery. Said Sakshi Gupta, senior economist at HDFC Bank: “The Q3 GDP was slightly lower than expectations even though the economy did move into the green. Going ahead, we are likely to see a continuation of a K-shaped recovery with some sectors growing faster than the others. We expect growth to print at 1.5 per cent in the fourth quarter (January-March) and minus 7.5 per cent for this fiscal. We also expect GDP for FY22 at 11.5 per cent. We expect the economy to reach pre-pandemic output levels by the end of the calendar year 2021.” The agriculture sector remained the big bright spot with the NSO projecting a 3 per cent growth this year against 4.3 per cent in 2019-20. In the first advance estimate in January, the NSO had estimated farm sector growth slightly higher at 3.4 per cent. According to the second advance estimates, the manufacturing sector is estimated to contract by 8.4 per cent during FY21, while electricity and other utilities will likely grow at 1.8 per cent. In the services sector, the trade, hotels and transport segment is projected to contract by 18 per cent. The NSO estimates that output in the mining and quarrying sector will contract by 9.2 per cent. In the third quarter ended December 31, the farm sector recorded a growth of 3.9 per cent while the manufacturing sector output grew by 1.6 per cent. The construction sector advanced by 6.2 per cent while electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services clocked a 7.3 per cent growth. “The measures taken by the government to contain spread of the Covid-19 pandemic have had an impact on the economic activities as well as on the data collection mechanisms. Estimates are, therefore, likely to undergo sharp revisions in due course.… Users should take this into consideration when interpreting the figures,” the government said in an attempt to downplay the dismal data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
