28-02-2021||Business||Due date for filing 2019-20 annual GST returns extended till March 31||The government on Sunday extended the due date for furnishing the annual goods and services tax returns (GST) for the financial year 2019-20 by a month. The new deadline is March 31 instead of February 31. This is the second extension given by the government. The deadline was earlier extended from December 31, 2020, to February 28. In view of the difficulties expressed by the taxpayers in meeting this time limit, Government has decided to further extend the due date for furnishing of GSTR-9 and GSTR-9C for the financial year 2019-20 to March 31, 2021 with the approval of Election Commission of India, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. GSTR 9 is an annual return to be filed yearly by taxpayers registered under the Goods and Services Tax (GST). It consists of details regarding the outward and inward supplies made or received under different tax heads. GSTR-9C is a statement of reconciliation between GSTR-9 and the audited annual financial statement. Speaking about the extension, AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said, even though it is a relatively small extension of 31 days but is sufficient for the tax professionals to complete the requisite filings. EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain said most industry players were struggling to meet this statutory deadline and had represented to the government for an extension. Furnishing of the annual return is mandatory only for taxpayers with aggregate annual turnover above Rs 2 crore while reconciliation statement is to be furnished only by the registered persons having aggregate turnover above Rs 5 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
28-02-2021||Business||Bajaj chides China policy||Bajaj auto managing director Rajiv Bajaj on Saturday said he would like to source supplies from wherever it is available at competitive prices, including China. He was speaking at a session on ‘Building Reliable Supply Chain’ at the second day of the three-day virtual Asia Economic Dialogue 2021, jointly convened by the ministry of external affairs and Pune International Centre. Bajaj said that in terms of ease of doing business, operating something in one of the Asean countries is certainly easier than “what we encounter here in India”. “We like to believe that we are a global company, and therefore, from a cultural and an operational point of view, this demands completeness or inclusiveness not just of employee gender, but also of having dealers, distributors and equally suppliers from all over the world. “And that is why I believe that we must continue to trade with China. Because if we conduct our business at the exclusion of such a large country, such a large market, we will find ourselves incomplete over time, and we will be poorer for the loss of that experience,” Bajaj said. Stating that in supply chain, commitment is important, he said that a sense of mutuality and reciprocity is indispensable to building the kind of very intricate supply chain that the auto industry needs to deliver the final product to customers. Bajaj said, “I say this in the context of what happened in around June or July, when our government for whatever reasons, suddenly came down hard on imports, especially from China.” “Now, to my mind, doing something like that is to cut your nose to spite your face. Because overnight, how can one source components that are not made in the domestic market, that you need to deliver products to customers?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
28-02-2021||Business||Eco-friendly toys key to global play||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked toy manufacturers to use less plastic and more eco-friendly and recyclable materials which would help the country increase its share in the global toy market. Inaugurating the first India Toy Fair, Modi said, “We have to become Aatmanirbhar in the toy sector and also cater to the global market.” Observing that India’s share in the $100-billion global toy market is very small, and 85 per cent of the toys in the country are sourced from abroad, Modi said there was a need to change this situation. India has barely 0.5 per cent market share in the global toy manufacturing sector, while China has 80 per cent. Analysts said one of the reasons why manufacturing of toys in India has not picked up pace is the lack of component makers for toys. Therefore, there is an urgent need to scale up the auxiliary industry in toy manufacturing, said the analysts. “In the field of toys, India has tradition and technology, concepts and competence. We can take the world back towards eco-friendly toys. Through our software engineers, computer games can bring the stories of India to the world,” he said. “Electronic toys & games and Battery operated toys have a huge market in India (almost 50 % market share) that is currently dominated by Chinese toys, hence it is suggested that the Indian toys manufacturers should focus on the development of Electronic toys & games and battery operated toys that could be sold at cheaper costs in India,” a recent study on the toy industry said. While referring to the traditional toy industry, the Prime Minister underlined the need for promoting Handmade in India. If there is a demand for Made in India today, then the demand for Handmade in India is also increasing equally, he said, adding "today people do not only buy toys as a product, but also want to connect with the experience associated with that toy. So, we have to promote Handmade in India as well". The Prime Minister appealed to the manufacturers to make toys that are better for both ecology and psychology, using less plastic and more of such things that can be recycled. Referring to the initiatives of the government, Modi said the country has now graded the toy industry in 24 major sectors. The National Toy Action Plan has also been prepared, he said, adding, "it has included 15 ministries and departments to make these industries competitive, the country to become self-reliant in toys, and India's toys also go into the world. Throughout this campaign, state governments have been made an equal partner in developing the toy clusters". He said along with this, efforts are made to strengthen the possibilities of toy tourism. Toyathon-2021 was also organised to promote Indian sports-based toys and more than 7,000 ideas were brainstormed. The Prime Minister also used the occasion to interact with traditional toymakers from Chennapatnam, Varanasi and Jaipur and impress upon them the need to innovate and make toys more relevant keeping in view the changing taste of children. More than 1,000 exhibitors participated in the Toy Fair 2021, which will continue till March 2. The first toy fair is not just a business or economic event, he said, adding that it seeks to strengthen the country's age-old culture of sports and cheer. This toy fair is one such platform where one can discuss toy design, innovation, technology, marketing and packaging and also share their experiences, he said, adding the world has done research on toys from the era of Indus Valley civilisation, Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
28-02-2021||Business||Jaguar to take a £1.5bn write-off under “Reimagine” strategy||Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), the Tata Motors arm, will take a write-off of £1.5 billion in the March quarter as a one-time restructuring exercise under the “Reimagine” strategy. This was disclosed by Adrian Mardell, the chief financial officer of JLR, to analysts on Friday. In a presentation, he said that this includes an exceptional one-time non-cash write down of £1 billion for “higher previous spending and certain planned products that will not be completed” and £0.5 billion towards cash restructuring costs. JLR had reported a 6.5 per cent decline in revenues for the third quarter ended December 2020 at £5.98 billion compared with £6.40 billion in the same period of the previous year. However, on a sequential basis, it showed an improvement from £4.35 billion in the second quarter. During the third quarter, its profit before tax stood at £439 million. The company now expects its performance to improve further with revenues seen to rise to £30 billion by 2025-26 because of the various initiatives taken. This will be accompanied by improved profits and rising margins and strong cash generation from 2022-23 that will lead to the net debt decreasing from this year. Mardell said in the presentation that the Reimagine strategy will enable JLR to achieve its financial potential and that the company expects to be cash flow positive by 2022-23. JLR will be net cash positive from 2024-25. The expectation is also that its earnings before interest and tax (Ebit) margins will rise to 7 per cent by 2023-24 and at least 10 per cent by 2025-26. He added that because of the company’ efforts so far, it has been able to bring down the breakeven in wholesales to around 400,000 units from 600,000 units in 2018-19. Earlier this month, JLR CEO Thierry Bollore had said that the Reimagine strategy centred around the electrification of both Land Rover and Jaguar brands on separate architecture with two clear and unique personalities. He had disclosed that its annual commitments of £2.5 billion will include investments in electrification technologies and the development of connected services to enhance the journey and experiences of customers. On the performance of the India business of Tata Motors, group CFO P.B. Balaji said that there has been a sequential recovery in revenues amid a bounce-back in margins even as its cost saving plans are on track.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
28-02-2021||Business||Advice for WTO to waive intellectual property obligations||India on Saturday said if members of the WTO fail to deliver on a proposal on waiving certain intellectual property obligations to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, it would impact global growth and livelihood. In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted a proposal suggesting a waiver for all WTO (World Trade Organisation) members on the implementation, application and enforcement of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, or TRIPS, came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. “If we fail in the next one or two quarters or not delivering on that, we are coming in the way of global growth and livelihood,” Indian Ambassador and permanent representative to the WTO, Brajendra Navnit, said at the Asia Economic Dialogue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
