02-05-2021||---||8.52L tonne of wheat procured: Ludhiana DC||Ludhiana, May 1 During the ongoing Rabi season, the district administration claimed to have procured 8,52,270 metric tonnes of wheat in grain markets/mandis of the district till date. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said since the starting of procurement of grains in the district, 8,52,270 MT of wheat had arrived in mandis across the district and the entire stock had been purchased by various agencies. Sharma said in the past 72 hours, 7,90,266 MT had been lifted till date. So far, payment worth Rs 1,479.38 crore had been made to farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-52l-tonne-of-wheat-procured-ludhiana-dc-247198
02-05-2021||Ludhiana||Labour Day celebrations||BCM Kindergarten, Basant AvenueBCM Kindergarten, Basant Avenue, Dugri, celebrated Labour Day to make students aware of the work done by the helping staff of the school. The principal said the day was celebrated to pay gratitude to the people who were the backbone of our society and life would have been difficult without their help. TNSAtam Public Sr Sec SchoolTo commemorate the helping staff of the school, Atam Public Senior Secondary School organised various activities for students during the morning assembly. Principal Bandana Sethi highlighted the importance of workers in her speech. She acknowledged their contribution during the pandemic period and presented ‘thank you’ cards made by students. TNSGreen Land, Jalandhar bypassLabour Day was observed by the students of Green Land Senior Secondary Public School, Jalandhar bypass. Students from Class I to V expressed their gratitude by giving flowers to workers around them and thanked them for making daily lives easier. TNSGreen Land, new subhash nagarGreen Land Convent School, New Subhash Nagar, celebrated Labour Day by organising a fancy dress competition for students of kindergarten and primary wing. To thank the helping staff for making their lives easier, students celebrated the untiring services provided by the corona warriors during the pandemic. TNSSacred Soul Convent Sr Sec SchoolSacred Soul Convent Senior Secondary School, Dugri, organised a speech competition for students to celebrate Labour Day. Students spoke on the importance of the helping staff and were also asked to gift something to their househelp as a gesture of thanks. TNSBCM Kindergarten, Chandigarh RoadTo express gratitude for the selfless service of support staff of the school, BCM Kindergarten, Chandigarh Road, celebrated Labour Day. Teachers distributed masks and sanitisers to students to make them aware about the Covid-19 pandemic. Students were also asked to give sanitisers and masks to their househelp. TNSDelhi Public School, KhannaDelhi Public School, Khanna, conducted an online assembly to celebrate Labour Day and pay tribute to the contribution and achievements of all workers who make our society a better place to live in. Principal S Mukherjee motivated students to lend a supporting hand to workers and other needy persons during the Covid-19 crisis. TNSBVM, Udham Singh NagarLabour Day was celebrated virtually at BVM, Udham Singh Nagar, by paying a token of respect and appreciation for the work done by the helping staff during the Covid pandemic. Tiny toys of primary wing made ‘Thank you’ cards for their househelp. Students of Class VII and VIII thanked the helpers for their dedication by writing letters to them while students of Class IX and X prepared PPTs on the contribution of helpers toward the society. TNSBCM School, Basant CityTo celebrate the contribution of workers and spread awareness about the exploitation they face, Labour Day was celebrated at BCM School, Basant City. Students dressed up as labourers, and made cards and wrote letters to their community helpers. Principal JP Singh appreciated the efforts put in by the students. TNSGreen Grove SchoolGreen Grove Public School honoured the labour staff of the school on the occasion of Labour Day. Students presented a virtual function to entertain the support staff. The senior-most staff member thanked all workers for their help around the school. Labourers were also honoured by school president JPS Jolly, vice-president Navera Jolly, chairperson Satinderjit Jolly and Principal Suzy George. TNSBirth anniversary of Guru Teg BahadurOn occasion of the 440th Parkash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur, teachers of BCM Kindergarten, Chandigarh Road, apprised students about the life and teachings of the ninth Sikh Guru. TNSInt’l Dance Day celebrationsMGM Public School held International Dance Day celebrations on the theme “Purpose of Dance”. Students showcased their creativity artistic skills through various dance forms. Students also participated in a painting actively, in which they painted dance forms. TNSBCM School, Chandigarh RoadTo celebrate International Dance Day, BCM School, Chandigarh Road, organised a dance competition for students. Teachers said it was important to keep students active during the corona times. Students of Class IV and V, and Class XI and XII participated in an inter-class dance competition while an inter-house competition was conducted for students of nursery, LKG, UKG and Class IX and X. TNSVirtual Investiture heldTo imbibe a sense of responsibility and leadership among its students, BCM School Chandigarh Road, conducted first-ever virtual investiture for students of junior and senior wings. Members of the centre and house councils for junior and senior wings were introduced to the attendees. They were explained their role, after which they took their oath. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/labour-day-celebrations-247202
02-05-2021||---||Highest single-day spike; 1,600 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 1A record number of 1,600 persons tested positive within 24 hours in the district today. This is the highest single-day spike in new cases since the outbreak of Covid in March 2020 in Ludhiana.As many as 18 persons succumbed to the virus and total death count from the district reached 1,393. Total confirmed cases in the district now are 56,186.As many as 42 patients — 21 belonging to Ludhiana and 21 to other districts — were admitted to Level-3 bed facility.Those who tested positive today included eight healthcare workers, six undertrials and 92 persons who got infected from positive contacts. The tracing of 360 is still pending.As many as 14 men and four women died today and the common comorbidities among them were hypertension and diabetes.A total of 9,95,857 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 9,95,409 samples have been received. As many as 9,31,149 samples were found negative, while reports of 448 samples are pending.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/highest-single-day-spike-1-600-ve-in-ludhiana-247185
02-05-2021||Harshraj Singh||No development in illegal colonies, residents feel cheated||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 1When many of the illegal colonies were being developed, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) and Municipal Corporation (MC) had not taken any action to stop the violations at the initial stage. Unaware of the difference between legal and illegal colonies, many persons purchased the plots in such unauthorised colonies wherein no development has taken place even after the passing of years. The questions are being raised over the role of the officials concerned who had ignored the violations.A resident on Jassian Road had purchased a plot in a colony about five years ago. As the cost of the plot was low, he had bought the plot but had no information that the colony was not approved by the government. “The basic amenities like water supply, sewerage system and repair of roads have not been ensured in the area as the colony is still unauthorised. We are suffering due to no development in the area,” he said.Like him, a number of people who had purchased plots in unauthorised colonies are feeling cheated due to no development. Even, the authorities concerned have failed to take any concrete action against many of the colonisers who had sold plots in illegal colonies.Even at present, several colonisers and property dealers are selling the plots in unauthorised colonies by making false claims that these colonies are authorised. To sell the plots, such colonisers are also targeting the poor people, including migrants from other states, by offering them loan and instalment options.Satish Malhotra, a Congress leader from Ward 15, said “On the Kakka-Dhaula road, illegal colonies are still being developed under the nose of MC officials. No action is taken against the erring colonisers and officials concerned. Even, the developers of a number of other illegal colonies have not submitted regularisation fee, due to which no development has taken place in these colonies.”Pankaj Sharma, a BJP leader from Ward 31, said, “The water supply connections of some unauthorised colonies were joined with the MC water supply lines in the past. A number of new unauthorised colonies are also being developed around Wards 31 and 29. Also, we have made complaints to the MC in this regard but to no avail.”Karamjit Singh of the Ludhiana Architects Association said, “It is the fact that when many of the illegal colonies were being developed in the areas under the MC and GLADA, the authorities concerned had ignored these violations due to which the people are forced to suffer. There is no development in such colonies. The government had introduced regularisation policy but many of the colonisers have not got their unauthorised colonies regularised. Even the residents had paid regularisation fees of plots in some colonies but development is still missing. At present, new unauthorised colonies are still being developed in GLADA areas by violating the norms. The government should take concrete steps to resolve the issues.”Kuldeep Singh Khaira of Vigilant Citizens’ Forum said, “The departments concerned have not taken a decision on many applications that were filed by the colonisers for regularisation of their illegal colonies for years. More unauthorised colonies are coming up in the jurisdiction of the MC and GLADA. The people who purchase plots in such colonies are forced to suffer. Action should be taken against the erring colonisers.”“The town planning officers of the MC has ignored the violations. Now, the government should take possession of the illegal colonies. Besides, the government should develop new colonies and sell plots at affordable rates,” he added.Following a complaint in January, Municipal Town Planner (MTP) SS Bindra had given directions to all Assistant Town Planners (ATPs) of the Municipal Corporation’s building branch to submit a status report on the illegal colonies in their respective zones. Bindra, however, claimed that no new unauthorised colony had come up in the jurisdiction of the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-development-in-illegal-colonies-residents-feel-cheated-247186
02-05-2021||---||17 booked for lockdown violations in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 1The Ludhiana police continued action against lockdown violators and registered 14 cases against 17 persons.Shopkeepers, roadside vendors, liquor vend owners were among the booked persons.The cases were registered by the police during the day-long drive against violators till late last night.In one of the cases, the police booked Sonu Sonkar, who owns a gym in Shivpuri. The Daresi police in a surprise checking found the gym opened and over 24 persons were present. The case was registered as the district administration has closed gyms in the city due to Covid-19.The Police Division 5 registered a case against the owner of a liquor vend, Panj Tara, as the vend was selling liquor to their customers through a small hole created in its shutter. The police also told customers, who came to buy liquor, to avoid visiting the vend in the future during the lockdown else an FIR will also be registered against them.The Koom Kalan police arrested a couple on the charges of smugging illicit liquor during the night curfew. The arrested accused have been identified as Parvinder Singh and his wife Gurdeep Kaur of Katani Khurd. The police recovered 59 bottles of illicit liquor and also impounded their car. The police said the accused were on the way to deliver the liquor to their clients when the police stopped them and seized the liquor. The couple told the police that they wanted to grab this opportunity during the night curfew but were nabbed.The Police Division 8 also booked a doctor who owns Chawla Clinic at Tagore Nagar, Block A, on the charges of violating the social distancing norms. A large number of people had gathered outside his clinic and during a surprise checking, the police found the violation.Liquor vends’ shutters closed, staff sell liquor from insideThough shutters of liquor vends can be seen lying closed during the lockdown period due to the restrictions, employees remained inside the vends to attend customers. Whenever any person comes to buy liquor, he has to knock the shutter and liquor is delivered through a small hole created in the shutter. Some of the vends are selling liquor at exorbitant rates, citing the strictness of the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/17-booked-for-lockdown-violations-in-ludhiana-247187
02-05-2021||Tibune News Service
||Woman, son commit suicide by jumping into Sirhind canal||Ludhiana, May 1 A mother-son duo committed suicide by jumping into the Sirhind canal. They were suffering from depression as their property was usurped by their relatives. The deceased have been identified as Ramanjit Kaur and her son Gurkaran Singh, residents of Basant Nagar, Gaushala road. Complainant Manjit Singh, husband of Ramanjit Kaur, said in 2009, his father Kunda Singh had prepared the will of his entire property in the name of his brother Jaspal Singh. In 2018, when we objected to the will, my father got the same cancelled. In the same year, my father died.” Recently, his brothers Jaspal and Harvinder Singh transferred the land mutation in their names. After Manjit’s wife and son came to know about the development, they went into depression. “They (wife and son) had also threatened that if my brothers will not give our share of property, they will end their lives. On April 29, the duo left the home without informing me and the next day their bodies were found in the canal. The bodies were noticed by some passers-by who informed the police yesterday,” said the complainant.   ASI Jagdip Singh said a case of abetment to suicide had been registered against Jaspal and Harvinder of Salaudi village. Trader attempts suicide A provisional store owner has allegedly attempted to commit suicide with a knife at Gandhi Nagar. He was admitted to the  CMCH Hospital, where his condition was stated to be serious. ACP (Central) Waryam Singh, said Ravinder Kumar (55) runs a provisional store at Gandhi Nagar. This evening he inflicted serious injuries on himself with a knife at his shop. When people found him lying in a pool of blood, they informed the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-son-commit-suicide-by-jumping-into-sirhind-canal-247188
02-05-2021||---||Dr Kiran Gill is new Civil Surgeon||Ludhiana, May 1 Dr Kiran Gill today took charge of Civil Surgeon here after Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar retired yesterday. Before this posting, Dr Gill was Special Covid in-charge in Ludhiana and prior to that she was the Ludhiana District Immunisation Officer. Dr Gill, after joining, said, “Since we are going through the pandemic, the focus will be on controlling its spread and emerging as winners.” About vaccination, Dr Gill said the stock available was less and they would be following the instructions issued by the government regarding the vaccination of different categories of people. “I request people not to go out of their homes unnecessarily. Stay indoors and stay safe. If going out then don’t forget to wear mask and carry a sanitiser. The first thing that one should do after returning home is wash hands. The department alone cannot contain the spread and need the help of the people for the same. We need to break the chain and people should come forward for vaccination,” she said. Dr Gill joined the services on January 1, 1991, and is MD in anaesthesiology and critical care. She has served as HOD, Anaesthesia, at Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, Senior Medical Officer at ESI number 7. She was the District Immunisation Officer and then Special Covid in-charge before joining as Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dr-kiran-gill-is-new-civil-surgeon-247189
02-05-2021||Tibune News Service||Residents suffer due to choked sewers||Ludhiana, May 1Residents of New Shimla Colony in Ward No. 5 here are forced to suffer due to choked sewers in the area.They said the sewers generally overflow every day but the civic body had failed to resolve the issue.The residents have demanded from the Municipal Corporation to take necessary steps to get the issue resolved at the earliest.They said the sewer lines should be cleaned regularly to avoid the problem of overflowing sewers.A resident said: “Sewers remain choked in the area for a long time. We want the MC authorities to take necessary steps to sort out the problem. We are facing issues due to the unsanitary conditions caused by the overflowing sewers.”Councillor of Ward No.5 Neelam Sharma could not be contacted. However, on behalf of the councillor, her husband Rakesh Sharma said he inspected the area and took steps to get the issue resolved.Municipal Corporation Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said they would make efforts to resolve the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-suffer-due-to-choked-sewers-247190
02-05-2021||---||17-yr-old snatching victim succumbs to his injuries||Ludhiana, May 1 A 17-year-old boy who was attacked by three bike-borne armed snatchers succumbed to his injuries. The incident came to the fore today when the boy breathed his last at a hospital in Patiala this morning. The deceased has been identified as Amandeep Singh, a resident of Giaspura. He was a student of Class X and a native of UP. His father is a daily wager. Assistant Commissioner of Police Sandeep Wadehra said the incident occurred on April 28 when the deceased boy, along with his friend, was standing outside the mini-garden at Giaspura. Three bike-borne miscreants came and asked the boy to hand over his mobile phone else threatened to kill him. When he refused to handover the mobile, the accused attacked him with a knife. Robbers attacked the victim on his stomach with the knife and fled. His friend immediately informed the family and the police. The ACP said the boy was initially shifted to a private hospital here from where he was shifted to Rajindra Medical College and Hospital, Patiala. The deceased was critical and was undergoing treatment for the past three days. Today, he succumbed to his injuries. The police said robbers were captured in CCTV cameras and a police probe was on to identify the miscreants. A case of murder has been registered against the unknown miscreants by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/17-yr-old-snatching-victim-succumbs-to-his-injuries-247191
02-05-2021||Mahesh Sharma
||Despite lockdown, Labour Day celebrated||Mandi Ahmedgarh, May 1 Organisers in the region had to restrict programmes to celebrate Labour Day owing to the weekend lockdown imposed in the city. Despite weekend lockdown imposed in the city, office-bearers and activists of various political and trade organisations hoisted flags of their respective parties at the premises of their establishments. Activists of various leftist outfits, led by Technical Services’ Union convener Sukhcharanjit Sharma, Janwadi Istri Sabha president Gurinder Kaur Gujjarwal, Municipal Council former president Jatinder Bhola, CITU office-bearer Gurdev Raj Bhumla and Palledar Union president Karam Deol, observed Labour Day at their respective establishments at Pohir power grid, paper mill, food supply office, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk and Gujjarwal village. Speakers said the richest tribute to the May Day martyrs would be to constitute a joint front against the owners of the corporate sector who had been exploiting successive governments for attacking the rights of the labour class.  Doraha: Meanwhile, at Doraha, workers and farmers of the region and surrounding areas also observed Labour Day. Organisations condemned the anti-worker and anti-people policies of the state and Central Government. Farmer and trade unions raised their voice against the Centre for favouring the private sector. The rally was addressed by people from BKU Ekta (Ugrahan), Technical Services Union, BKU (Punjab), Government Pensioners’ Association, Bank Employees’ Union, Pensioners’ Union, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, B.Ed Adhyapak Front, Labour Front, Anganwadi workers and Powercom Contractual Employees’ Union. “Privatisation of various sectors is leading to big houses making inroads into the secular character of the nation and gaining an upper hand while workers and farmers continue to reel under the shadow of poverty, starvation and hunger,” said an attendee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/despite-lockdown-labour-day-celebrated-247192
02-05-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana’s Daily infections triple in month||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 1In what appears to be the volatile situation arising out of the devastating second Covid wave, Ludhiana’s average daily case count has crossed the 1,000-mark in the past week.Setting a new record of sorts in the state, the 24-hour tally touched 1,062 between April 23 and 29.The exponential rise could be gauged from the fact that the count of daily infections mounted almost three times in less than a month. The district had recorded an average 341 daily cases between March 10 and April 13, which had risen to 717 between April 15 and 21, and 934 between April 20 and 26.With this, Ludhiana was way ahead from all other districts and has become the epicentre of virus infection in the state.Among other worst-hit districts, Mohali reported 858 average daily cases between April 23 and 29, while Jalandhar logged 571, Bathinda 527, Patiala 519, and Amritsar 500 new infections every day.Similarly, Ludhiana’s average weekly positivity rate, which is a key indicator of virus surge, once again shot up to 11.1 per cent between April 23 and 29 from 10 per cent recorded between April 20 and 26. However, it was less than 11.5 per cent reported between April 15 and 21.With lower than the state’s average weekly positivity rate of 12 per cent, Ludhiana was also better than Mohali, which continued to record the highest positivity rate of 22.9 per cent, followed by Bathinda 18.2 per cent, Amritsar 13.1 per cent and Patiala 11.3 per cent.Jalandhar was the only district among the six worst-hit districts, which reported 10.2 per cent average weekly positivity rate, lower than that of Ludhiana.On the deaths and case fatality rate (CFR) front, Ludhiana reported 12 average daily Covid deaths at 1.1 per cent CFR between April 23 and 29 and was placed at second spot in the state after Amritsar, which recorded the maximum 13 deaths at highest 2.5 per cent CFR during this period.Among other high caseload districts, Mohali reported nine daily deaths at 1 per cent CFR, Jalandhar six at 1 CFR, Bathinda seven at 1.3 and Patiala logged 10 daily virus casualties at the CFR of 2 per cent in the last week.43 beds added, 294 vacantShort of vaccine, 88 sites shut||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhianas-daily-infections-triple-in-month-247193
02-05-2021||Legal Correspondent
||Shun hesitancy for vaccination: Sessions Judge||Ludhiana, May 1 The District and Sessions Judge-cum-chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Munish Singal, today kick-started a Covid inoculation camp for judges and their staff at the District Court Complex here, during which 170 got the jab. He urged people to shun the vaccine hesitancy and accept Covid shots to build vaccine-induced immunity. It was really sad that people were not much coming forward in many numbers for the vaccine despite the surge in Covid cases. He said: “By embracing the vaccine and adhering to Covid protocols, we can win the war against the invisible enemy in the form of the infectious disease.” The CJM termed the vaccine as “great hope” against the pandemic which was spreading aggressively in its fresh wave. “Vaccines had been rolled out after several rounds of trials by scientists and they have burnt the midnight oil for us so now it is the duty of all to get the vaccine by reposing faith in them,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shun-hesitancy-for-vaccination-sessions-judge-247194
02-05-2021||Manav Mander||Isolate if symptoms persist despite testing –ve for Covid: Cardiologist||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 1The second wave of Covid-19 has brought new symptoms along with it. This has led to a few cases going undetected in the test. Under such circumstances, residents need to be more careful of the symptoms they are experiencing and get a retest done in case of any doubt.Since both state and Union governments are also insisting on home isolation of patients, it becomes more imperative that people stay alert about their symptoms and get admitted to a hospital only in emergency cases.Warning signs for home- isolated patients“If a patient has all symptoms of Covid but his/her report comes negative, even then he/she should immediately go in isolation. He/she can again get tested after two-three days if the symptoms persist. One can get the test repeated even thrice as RT-PCR test is considered standard in diagnosis of Covid-19,” said Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, who is also member of the Covid-19 task force formed by the state government.Dr Mohan said: “People going for CT scans without the recommendation of doctors is not a healthy thing to do as RT-PCR is the standard procedure for detecting Covid in the body. A CT scan is done only in serious cases.”“Patients with mild fever and upper respiratory tract infection are suggested to go for home isolation so that the healthcare system is not exhausted amidst the spike in Covid cases,” he added.According to the guidelines of the state government, the patients in home-isolation should adopt contact and droplet precautions and follow strict hand hygiene.“Patients need to have adequate nutrition and hydration, paracetamol, anti-tussives and Vitamin C. Patients with comorbidities should inhale budesonide (MDI/DPI) 800 mcg twice daily for up to 14 days and rinse mouth after use. Pulse oximeter monitoring with one-minute sit up/sit down test should be done twice daily (fall in saturation < 95%),” said Dr Bishav Mohan.Patients with high risk factors should admit to COVID Care Centre (CCC).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/isolate-if-symptoms-persist-despite-testing-%E2%80%93ve-for-covid-cardiologist-247195
02-05-2021||---||Ludhiana MC conducts sanitisation drive in city||Ludhiana, May 1 Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, the Municipal Corporation conducted a sanitisation drive in various parts of the city today, said MC Joint Commissioner Swati Tiwana. The drive was kicked off by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal. Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said 16 jetting machines were deployed to spray sodium hypochlorite as disinfectant in the city. “We are sanitising all religious places, main markets, hospitals, bus stand, railway station, etc. Besides, the drive is being conducted in the cremation grounds.” He said the drive would continue on Sunday also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-conducts-sanitisation-drive-in-city-247196
