03-05-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Vaccine for all, lockdown key to curbing spread||During the pandemic, it is the responsibility of every individual to check false information either through the social media or by making phone calls to others. Also, medical assistance is necessary for Covid patients. Therefore, the administration and volunteers should come forward to provide drugs at minimal cost.Deepi KaurImpose Section 144 in crowded areasTo contain the spread of coronavirus, the government has to take some strict actions. The whole city must be divided into wards. In each ward, one nodal officer must be appointed to check the undesired movement of people. He must challan those who disobey the rules. Section 144 may be implemented in highly risky and crowded areas. Officials must visit door to door, along with their team, to trace and identify patients with symptoms and take them for testing. Those who are fine must be given vaccination street or zone wise. The flow of traffic must be rationed.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiFollow normsThe second Covid wave is deadlier than the first one. We can only curb the problem by following appropriate norms. Wear mask regularly, maintain hygiene and use sanitiser are the three main mantras. Focus must be on sound immunity system. Ensure good quality diet. Go for testing if symptoms arise. The elderly people and children must be given importance. Doctors and hospital authorities should discharge their functions properly without engaging themselves in any types of malpractices. Focus must be shifted on positivity rather than negativity.Ritu PriyaFix residents’ responsibility for each streetWe are in a very sad situation. The government must make it mandatory to get vaccinated and must deal strictly with those not obeying norms. People must not come out of their homes until and unless an emergency. We can break the Covid chain by wearing masks, keeping social distance and washing hands. In each street, one person must have the responsibility to report to the local government about the condition and situation of the street so that quick action may be taken. Each hospital must be equipped with oxygen gas and ventilators to support patients. We all must cooperate to save the lives of others and our own.Farzana KhanObserve guidelines in letter and in spiritThe phenomenal rise in the Covid cases has been alarming. The way the positive case of the dreadful disease increased in the past few days has only indicated that if we do not check this, it will result in a very sordid situation for the existence of humanity. If the grim situation continues, it may prove true the Malthus theory of population. According to the theory, natural calamities such as cyclone, earthquake and diseases happen to create a balance in the population. To eradicate this life-taking disease, we need determination and observe guidelines in letter and in spirit. The safety rules are very simple and cheap and easy to observe. We must use a mask to cover our mouth and nose, maintain distance and wash our hands frequently.JBS NandaNeed for self-disciplineHealth systems in our country have crash landed in many states, whereas they are on the verge of collapse in the remaining. In such a grave situation, there is little hope from the system. The public will have to develop a habit of self-discipline to contain the virus. They must follow the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and unnecessary gatherings and travel should be avoided.Bir Devinder Singh BediImpose curfewThe situation is indeed very alarming and the most shameful thing is that people are still violating the Covid guidelines. To check the spread of the virus, the administrators and the cops must give exemplary punishment to the violators. Curfew should be strictly imposed in containment zones. Crowding should not be allowed anywhere and Vaccination drives should also be held only in spacious and well-ventilated buildings.Dr Sunil ChopraDoor-to-door vaccinationTo contain the spread of Covid, whole population needs to get vaccinated. Now that the government has opened the vaccination for all over 18 years of age, no person should be left without vaccination. People must realise that it is in their own interest for keeping fit, for the continuity of the family and thereby, the nation as a whole. If needed, this vaccination process may be taken up even door to door on the lines of polio vaccination being successfully practiced for the children in the country. Also, all must strictly follow the safety measures. To continuously ensure that everyone obeys the curfew, awareness programmes may be continued on a mass scale in all areas of the city. To ensure that all these guidelines are followed by people, the assistance of the local police must be continuously used and the culprits punished.Gautam DevStay homeThe second wave has hit India like a tsunami. People are suffering and mortality is increasing. The shortage of resources such as oxygen and unavailability of hospital beds is everywhere. But, we can break the chain of corona virus with small steps. We have to follow the guidelines such as wearing masks, social distancing and through hand hygiene. Staying at home is the key to fighting the virus.Karman SharmaHave faith in govtThere is a need for applying new rules such as odd-even rule for vehicles. We may ensure extensive testing, effective contact tracing and strict enforcement of quarantine , with no need for a full lockdown. Then, we can follow the “herd immunity strategy”. We may strictly close the borders of Ludhiana for two weeks. Lastly, we must show faith in government.Jasmeen KaurBe cautiousLudhiana’s most of the areas are considered containment zones so the listed precautions must be taken to stop the spread of the disease. Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitiser that contains at least 60 per cent alcohol if soap and water are not available. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. Avoid close contact with people who are sick. Other guidelines must be strictly followed.Bani KaurLack of faith in policiesAuthorities need to provide vaccination for free to those who cannot afford it. It is a matter of concern that even those vaccinated are contracting infection. People must be educated on boons and benefits of the vaccine. A major reason why most of the people are not getting vaccinated is lack of faith in the government policies. There is a dire need for people to understand that by not getting vaccinated, there putting their own lives in danger.Preeti KansalGet tested at the earliestAt this point, the spread of Covid-19 is increasing by the day. So, we need to take proper precautions for the same. To reduce the spread, the government should test people by moving to their houses, people should also take steps and should go to hospitals and get tested.Harshita KhullarStrict norms neededThe pandemic has not yet ended and the second wave is even more infectious and deadly. Ludhiana is re-merging as the hotspot for virus. Now, the only solution to the problem is to imposing strict rules and curfew. Everyone should wear a mask and follow all precautions. The government may set up more liquid oxygen converting plants to maintain proper supply of O2 and should convert all large school buildings to hospitals for patients.Navjot SinghTake care of yourselfPanic pertaining to the pandemic is on such heights that authorities have become helpless in controlling the circumstances. Nothing more can be done than just being responsible yourself. During this period, it will be highly appreciated if individuals take care of themselves.Srishti BhartiDon’t give in to rumoursIt is the need of the hour to curb the devastating effects of Covid-19. People should not blindly follow the rumours and be aware and follow the instructions carefully.KAMALDEEP KAURNight curfewNight curfew should be imposed until the vaccination process is going on. Vaccination must be made compulsory for all the adults. Moreover, people should continue following the guidelines strictly until everything is normal.Amarpreet KaurImpose lockdownThe Ludhiana administration should impose a complete lockdown of seven days in the city to break the chain of second wave of this deadly virus. Inter-city and intra-city trade should be abolished. Only essential goods and medical shops should be allowed to open. During the lockdown, the administration should provide free meals to the poor through various intermediates. Arrangements for vaccination should be efficiently proceeded with.Miyush TrehanWeekend lockdown uselessThe imposition of the lockdown on weekends seems useless. People have started playing cricket and walking on roads. Lockdown actually means to stay at home away from each other. We should educate people about the reality of Covid. We must all wear a mask at homes too.Simarjot KaurWear quality masksIt is high time we all stayed at home to break the chain. We need to wear good quality masks, use sanitisers, get vaccinated, do yoga and exercises. Make a plan if you get sick as planning helps to us to avoid panic. People should avoid social gatherings and step out of the homes for only very important works. Self-awareness and a voluntary lockdown will help us to get through this pandemic.JastaranOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONThe existing health infrastructure is almost pushed to the brink and hospitals are running out of beds with oxygen supplies running short and essential medicines being sold in black. Even ambulances not available to ferry the dead and many dying before even they get a chance to consult a doctor. This is the tale of widespread devastation being rapidly caused by the deadly coronavirus. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has advised residents to remain indoors and venture out only in cases of genunine needs for at least 14 days to help curb the spread of the virus. How many of you are following this advice or what else needs to be done to conquer the second Covid wave? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccine-for-all-lockdown-key-to-curbing-spread-247516
03-05-2021||Lovleen Bains||Two liquor vend owners booked||Doraha, May 2After the state government ordered fresh restrictions following a surge in Covid-19 cases, the police have begun to act tough against lockdown violators in the district.The Sahnewal police today registered two cases against a lockdown violator of New Ram Nagar of Ludhiana, who kept his liquor vend open after lockdown hours.Investigating officer Karnail Singh said Rinku and another unidentified youth had kept their liquor shops open in New Ram Nagar colony after the lockdown hour. The owners also disregarded social-distancing norms and allowed large gatherings around the shops.SHO Sahnewal Balwinder Singh said the police did not spare any violator.“It is the duty of the public to follow all Covid norms. If they do not do so, they should be ready to face consequences as well. The situation is such that no relaxation on any part will be tolerated. We expect people to cooperate with the police and inform us about any violation around their areas as it is important to stop the second wave,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-liquor-vend-owners-booked-247511
03-05-2021||---||Car of BKU leader’s cavalcade meets with accident, all escape unhurt||Ludhiana, May 2A vehicle in the cavalcade of BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni met with an accident near Jawaddi today.A truck laden with sand rammed into the Ford Endeavour of retired IGP Iqbal Singh, who was in the cavalcade of the BKU leader.Vehicle suffered damages, but occupants, including the retired IGP, didn’t suffer any injuries. BKU leader was in another vehicle.Simran Dhindsa, who manages the IT Cell of the BKU, said several vehicles were heading towards Jawaddi to attend a meeting at a gurdwara. When they reached near the village, a truck loaded with sand coming from the wrong side rammed into the vehicle of the retired IGP.“All occupants of the car are safe. We have also informed the Dugri police about the incident and details of truck have been shared. It was a minor accident,” said Simran.Dugri SHO Surinder Chopra said he was unaware of the matter. ASI Jaswinder Singh of Dugri police station said he had sent a PCR team to the spot and the probe was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/car-of-bku-leaders-cavalcade-meets-with-accident-all-escape-unhurt-247512
03-05-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Northern Railway suspends Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi||Ludhiana, May 2Covid-19 is casting its long shadow over rail traffic in the region as majority of people are staying away from social, religious or other functions and have put off their travel plans. Northern Railway authorities have decided to temporarily suspend several trains, including 02013/14 New Delhi-Amritsar-New Dellhi Shatabdi Express from today.The pair of Shatabdi Express (02013/14) from Amritsar to Delhi was restored only on April 11 this year after a gap of a year. It was temporarily discontinued owing to the Covid-induced lockdown and farmers’ agitation.Railways said the suspension was necessitated due to low occupancy and other operational reasons and the disruption would continue till further notice.In addition to the pair of Shatabdi Express, the Railways have also suspended some more trains. These are 02045/46 New Delhi-Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi Express (from May 1), 09241/42 Indore-Udhampur-Indore Special Express (from May 3), 09307/08 Indore-Chandigarh-Indore Special Express (from May 6), 09325/26 Indore-Amritsar-Indore Special Express (from May 4) and 09025/26 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Covid Special Express.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/northern-railway-suspends-amritsar-new-delhi-shatabdi-247504
03-05-2021||Anil Datt||Rakesh Saini is Punjab Cricket Association selection committee (Jr) chairman||Ludhiana, May 2Former Punjab Ranji player Rakesh Saini from Ludhiana has been appointed the chairman of the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) selection committee (junior).The right-hand batsman has played 10 first-class matches during his cricketing career (1995 to 1999).Another player from Ludhiana, Karan Goel, has also been appointed a member of the senior selection committee.During a span of eight years (2005-2013), the left-arm top-order batsman represented Punjab in 41 first-class matches in addition to playing for Kings IX Punjab in the Indian Premier League.Bhupinder Singh (Jr) from Mohali, who has played 55 first-class matches between 1989 to 1998 besides being a member of the India U-19 squad (1988 to 1990), has been appointed the chairman of the PCA selection committee (senior).The new body for junior category include chairman Rakesh Saini, and RP Singh, Ankur Singh Sondhi, Amit Kakria and Ankit Pursharthy as members.The new body for senior category include chairman Bhupinder Singh (Jr), Karan Goel, Sapan Chopra, Babloo Kumar and Harminder Jugnu as members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rakesh-saini-is-punjab-cricket-association-selection-committee-jr-chairman-247509
03-05-2021||Ludhiana||Gang of thieves busted, 2 held in Ludhiana||The anti-narcotics cell busted a gang of thieves and arrested two of its members.The accused have been identified as Jatinder Kumar Raju of Waheguru Nagar and Kuldeep Singh Deepa of Gobind Singh Nagar. The police recovered two motorcycles from them.In charge of the anti-narcotics cell Rajesh Kumar said a tip-off was received that the accused were operating a gang of vehicle thieves and they had stolen over 12 motorcycles from the city in the recent past.Accordingly, the police laid a naka at some strategic point in the city and after intercepting the duo, they were arrested.During the preliminary questioning, they confessed that they had stolen over 12 motorcycles from city areas and most of them were sold to their customers.Both accused also had a notorious past as seven cases of thefts were already registered against Jatinder in Ludhiana while five cases were registered against Kuldeep.Some motorcycles were also sold at junk shops by the gang. In further probe, junk dealers may also face action.The police said the stolen vehicles sold by the gang would be traced and the same would be handed over to their owners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gang-of-thieves-busted-2-held-in-ludhiana-247505
03-05-2021||---||Man nabbed for gambling during raid in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 2The Police Division 8 conducted a surprise raid at a house in Upkar Nagar here. Several gamblers fled the spot before the arrival of the police. One person was arrested from the spot.The accused has been identified as Rajan of Prem Nagar.ASI Avtar Singh said a tip-off was received that several gamblers had gathered at a house in Upkar Nagar for gambling. The police party conducted a raid and managed to nab only one person.“We are identifying the accused who had escaped from the house. They will also be booked in the case. We will not spare anyone, “ the ASI said.It has been learnt that a senior police officer have told heads of all police stations to keep a tab over cricket betting activity in the city and conduct maximum raids to nab bookies. The police even shared a message on Facebook and Twitter in which clear warning has been given to bookies to stay away from betting else strict action will be taken against them. Several people have commented on the post and also condemned the police for their connivance with bookies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-nabbed-for-gambling-during-raid-in-ludhiana-247502
03-05-2021||---||27-year-old man ends his life in Ludhiana, wife booked||Ludhiana, May 2A man committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Gurmel Park here. He took the extreme step due to alleged harassment by his wife.The deceased has identified as Bhushan Jagra (27), alias Golu.Deceased’s mother Neelam told the police that his son got married to Monica of Mayapuri, here, in 2016. After marriage, they had a daughter who was three-year-old now.The complainant said a few months after marriage, her daughter-in-law started torturing her son due to minor reasons and many a times, compromise was reached between them in the presence of relatives but to no avail.Recently her daughter-in-law along with her granddaughter left their home and started living at her parents’ house in Mayapuri. She wanted to take divorce from her son but he was not in favour of the same.On April 30, in the presence of some relatives, her daughter-in-law again demanded divorce and the next meeting to finalise divorce proceedings was scheduled on May 3.“Since my son was not in favour of divorce, he went into depression. On May 1, he committed suicide in his room. When I went to see my son I was shocked to see his hanging body,” the complainant alleged.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmeet Singh said a case of abetment to suicide had been registered against his wife and raids were on to nab her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/27-year-old-man-ends-his-life-in-ludhiana-wife-booked-247507
03-05-2021||Manav Mander||People struggle to find hospital beds in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 2People in the city are running from pillar to post in search of beds in hospitals for their near and dear ones. As the caseload is increasing, getting a bed in a hospital has become a Herculean task.On Sunday, almost all level 3 beds were occupied in government and private hospitals. Helpline numbers provided by the district administration are proving little help in this hour of need.A Rajguru Nagar resident, Zeena Aggarwal, lost her father to Covid today as she was unable to arrange an ICU bed with ventilator. On Thursday, she got her father admitted to a private hospital at South City and on Saturday, she was told by the hospital to shift her father as his oxygen level was dipping and his condition deteriorating.“I tried every possible hospital but no bed with ventilator was available on Saturday and Sunday. I called up the helpline number of the district administration but instead of sharing with me the status of ventilators available, I was given numbers of various hospitals to enquire about the status. Majority of the numbers given were either busy or went unattended. In this hour of crisis, the family wants verified information and not just phone numbers which we can get from the Internet also,” she said.Another resident, who was in search of an ICU bed with ventilator, also faced a tough time.“I checked the website of the district administration and it was showing that a private hospital near Barewal has 10 level 3 beds and all were vacant. Since the hospital is near my house, I went to enquire about it. But no level 3 bed was available there. They had ICU beds with high-flow oxygen but no ventilators,” he said.Information regarding ventilators should be given separately as level III beds and ICU beds with or without ventilators. “I was assuming that all level III beds had ventilators. People are not aware about this fact and it is better that information about ventilators should be shared separately,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said people could check the status of availability of beds online on the website of the district administration if phone numbers of hospitals are not getting connected. When told that the data available online is updated after 24 hours and many times beds are filled by the time a person checks the status online, the DC said they would try to improve the system so that people were readily given the status about the beds available through phone and online mode.As the beds in the hospitals were almost occupied on Sunday, the Deputy Commissioner directed all private hospitals on board, to increase the bed capacity to at least 25 per cent by today evening to ensure treatment to all patients.Assuring hospitals about the availability of oxygen, the Deputy Commissioner said the administration had already ramped up oxygen capacity by nearly 33 per cent (2,900 cylinders daily).He said earlier Vardhman Steel Plant had been providing 1,500 cylinders of medical oxygen but now, it had increased its capability and filling up around 2,100 cylinders. Weltech Equipment and Infrastructure Limited had also been generating additional oxygen.He also appealed to people not to put pressure on the health infrastructure of the city by inviting their dear ones from other states otherwise it would overburden local hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/people-struggle-to-find-hospital-beds-in-ludhiana-247515
03-05-2021||---||Only 4 sites to administer 2nd dose of Covaxin today in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 2With the district facing a shortage of vaccine, all vaccination sites except four have been suspended for the time being. The district now has only the stock of Covaxin, with hospitals administering only the second dose at the four vaccination centres. Hospitals are turning away people coming to get their first dose.Various private hosipitals in the city have put up the “Vaccine out of stock” boards outside the premises to avoid unnecessary flow of people inside the hospitals.Today, vaccination was held at 12 sites, of which eight administered Covishield and the rest the second dose of Covaxin.“Stock of Covishield has exhausted and no information has been received regarding the next availability of the stock. On Monday, vaccination will be held at only threegovernment-assigned sites,” said Dr Puneet Juneja, District Immunisation Officer.Sites where the second dose of Covishield will be administered are UPHC Sunet, UPHC Model Town, MCH Vardhman and Civil Hospital.On Sunday, only 2,969 persons were vaccinated against the coronavirus in the district.Meanwhile, people, who want to receive their first jab of the vaccine, are facing a tough time.“On one hand, the government has started vaccination for people aged 18 and above but in Ludhiana, we are not even getting the stock for the above-45 category. Equal distribution should be done to the states,” said Santok Singh, a resident of Gurdev Nagar.Another resident said Ludhiana was the worst-hit district and should be provided adequate vaccine stock so that people were vaccinated on time.2,969 vaccinated in dist on SundayOn Sunday, vaccination was held at 12 sites, of which eight administered Covishield and the rest the second dose of Covaxin. Only 2,969 persons were vaccinated against the coronavirus in the district on Sunday. Meanwhile, people, who want to receive their first jab of the vaccine, are facing a tough time. Many Hospitals are turning away people coming to get their first dose due to shortage of vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/only-4-sites-to-administer-2nd-dose-of-covaxin-today-in-ludhiana-247517
03-05-2021||---||17 more fall prey to Covid in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, May 2Today, 1,404 persons tested for Covid and 17 lost their lives to the virus. Total active cases in the district have reached 9,870.Total positive cases in the district since March 2020 are 57,690 while 1,410 have lost their lives so far.Varinder Kumar Sharma, DCAdhere to all safety protocols such as wearing mask, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently to not only save yourselves but also those around you.Those who tested positive today include six healthcare workers, a policeman and two international travellers while 321 are still untraceable.Those who lost their lives include eight men and nine women who belonged to the Tajpur Road, Subhash Nagar, Ram Nagar, Gaushala Road, near Jyoti Model School, Jandiali village, Noorwala Road, Sunder Nagar, Madhopuri, Prem Nagar, Abdullapur Basti, Azad Nagar, Mundian Kalan, Phullanwal, Giaspura, Barewal Road and Tibba Road areas.According to the Health Department, till date, a total of 10,03,033 samples have been taken, of which reports of 10,02,636 samples have been received. Of these, 9,36,771 were found negative while reports of 397 samples were pending.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently of the state government to not only save themselves but keeping everyone around safe||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/17-more-fall-prey-to-covid-in-ludhiana-district-247501
03-05-2021||---||Panel to check hoarding of oxygen cylinders||Ludhiana, May 2Amid a steep rise in the demand for medical oxygen and some industrial units still withholding empty or filled cylinders despite appeal by the district administration, District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today formed an 11-member committee to inspect and collect the cylinders.The District Magistrate said the committee would be headed by GLADA chief administrator Parminder Singh Gill. It members are ADCP Jaskaran Singh Teja, PPCB SE Sandeep Behal, PPCB Executive Engineer Manohar Lal, Deputy Director (Factories) SS Bhatti, Assistant Labour Commissioner Baljeet Singh and five other officials.He said apart from GLADA chief administrator Parminder Singh Gill and ADCP Jaskaran Singh Teja, other members would also work as executive magistrates and would have the power to inspect any industry.He said in case any factory/industrial unit denies to let the committee check its premises, the panel would have the power to open the locks for inspection.The Deputy Commissioner said the committee would take the cylinders seized during checking in their possession and maintain a record of factories indulging in malpractices. He said after issuing the cylinders to distributors, the stock register would also be kept so that whenever the pandemic was over, these cylinders could be returned.Sharma appealed to the owners of all factories/industries to give utmost support to the committee. He said those who would hamper its functioning would face strict legal action.‘GLADA Chief Administrator to head committee’District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the committee would be headed by GLADA chief administrator Parminder Singh Gill. It members are ADCP Jaskaran Singh Teja, PPCB SE Sandeep Behal, PPCB Executive Engineer Manohar Lal, Deputy Director (Factories) SS Bhatti, Assistant Labour Commissioner Baljeet Singh and five other officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/panel-to-check-hoarding-of-oxygen-cylinders-247506
03-05-2021||Manav Mander||Anxiety, depression on the rise amid Covid||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 2We have entered the second year of the Covid-19 pandemic. Its new variants have led to surge in infections. Once again people are facing lockdown and isolation. Death of the loved ones, staying away from family during quarantine and curbs on social interaction are adversely affecting people’s mind.The second wave is stronger than the first one and in the same manner the number of people facing anxiety and depression this year is more as compared to the last year.Pandemic is affecting the mental health of those, who are already facing issues. Besides, fear of infection and isolation have lead to rise in anxiety and depression in majority of individuals.“The number of people, who are grappling with anxiety and depression, has increased by 50 per cent during the second Covid wave. People started believing that coronavirus was over. Then, suddenly the second wave came and dashed hopes of all. People are affected emotionally and facing mental issues. I daily get calls of 15 to 20 patients, who are facing anxiety and stress,” said Dr Rajiv Gupta, a city-based Psyciatrist“There is lot of difference when one goes into quarantine for 14 days and actually has to go through it,” Dr Gupta added.Discussing a case Dr Gupta said, “One of the couples, who are senior citizens, contracted the virus. Since their children are living abroad there is nobody to take care of them. No house maid comes for help. It has become difficult for the couple to cook for themselves and do the entire household work,”“This is the time society should come to their rescue. Neighbours should help such people by delivering meals and medicines on their doorstep,” Dr Gupta added.Regularly monitoring oxygen levels by those, who are not infected, is also causing stress among the people. “It is good that people are measuring their oxygen level, but they are doing it every hour, which makes them anxious. People should not indulge in over doing it,” said Dr Shika, a clinical psychologist.A senior citizen, who is currently under home quarantine, said a call from the loved one is all he needs. “One feels elated to listen to the voice of their near and dear ones. A call makes all the difference. Senior citizens need extra emotional care during the pandemic. Family and society has to knit together to face this difficult situation otherwise it can leave anyone devastated emotionally,” he added. How to stay fit||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/anxiety-depression-on-the-rise-amid-covid-247510
