04-05-2021||Harshraj Singh||Commuters suffer as MC fails to repair potholes||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 3The commuters are a harried lot whenever the potholes are not being repaired timely in the city. As a number of mishaps have taken place on potholed roads, residents ask the civic body to strengthen the roads maintenance wing and ensure the safety of the commuters.After the winter season, the MC has resumed the work of filling potholes, but it is going at a slow pace. The potholes on a number of roads and internal streets in different zones are yet to be repaired.The civic body spends crores of rupees on maintenance of roads every year but there are several areas wherein the roads have not been repaired for a long time. The potholes near the Shastri Nagar railway crossing, Bhadaur House and other areas have been crying for attention for months. Similarly, commuters face inconvenience due to potholes on Ishmeet Singh Road, Focal Point and other areas.Rajesh Gupta, president of the Social Reformers (an NGO) said, “It is commonly seen in the city that the potholes are not repaired timely. If a survey is done today, potholes on roads can be found in many areas. When the people pay taxes, it is the responsibility of the government to ensure the provision of good roads.”“Many mishaps have taken place on the potholed roads. MC officials concerned must keep a check on the roads and internal streets and they must take timely measures to ensure repair of the broken roads to avert mishaps. A helpline service should be launched for the repair of potholes. If any complaint is filed, it should be addressed in a time-bound manner. The potholes must be repaired within 24 hours once any complaint is received”, Gupta added.Meanwhile, a few councillors claimed that the civic body was yet to resume the repair work of potholes in their respective wards. Harwinder Singh, councillor from Ward 36, said MC officials generally contact the councillor concerned before carrying out the repair work of potholes but the drive had not been started in the ward.Similarly, the potholes are yet to be repaired in the areas under Ward 57 as per the councillor concerned.A former councillor, Inder Aggarwal, said, “The MC needs to strengthen the maintenance wing team to ensure timely repair of the potholes in all parts of the city. The civic body needs to buy more roadrollers and recruit more staff for the repair work of potholes.” The MC’s hot mix plant where the material is prepared for the repair work of potholes remains shut during the rainy and winter season. An MC official said, “The repair work of potholes is already underway. Work orders for re-carpeting of many roads and internal streets have already been issued to contractors.” Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/commuters-suffer-as-mc-fails-to-repair-potholes-248011
04-05-2021||---||Highest single-day toll, 21 dead in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, May 3As many as 1,198 persons tested positive for Covid and the total positive cases from the district till now reached 58,788 today.In the district today, 21 persons lost their lives to the virus, which is the highest single-day toll till now.The active cases in the district crossed the 10,000 mark and at present there are 10,309 cases.Those who tested positive included three healthcare workers, while 265 are still untraced.A total of 35 patients — 21 from Ludhiana district, one each from Patiala, Kapurthala and Nawanshahar districts, two from Moga district, one each from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, two from Haryana and five from Delhi — died here.As many as 13 women and eight men from Ludhiana district lost their lives to the virus. The deceased belonged to Saholi village, Khanna, Chapar, Sanhewal, Chaminda, Chander Nagar, Daba Road, Civil Lines, Miller Gunj, Jhammat, Mullanpur, Amarpura, Ghumar Mandi, Tajpur, Bahadurke, Bulara village, Shivpuri and BRS Nagar.As many as 41 patients — 38 belonging to Ludhiana and remaining to other districts — were admitted to the Level-III bed facility.A total of 10,11,618 samples were taken, out of which reports of 10,11,193 samples have been received, As many as 9,44,041 samples were found negative, while reports of 425 samples are pending. No doctor to prescribe medical oxygen to patients in home isolation After it was observed that many doctors were prescribing oxygen to patients in home isolation, the state government today issued orders that henceforth no doctor would prescribe medical oxygen to patients in home isolation, since it was very important to monitor the condition of the patient who required oxygen support. On the other hand, the number of Covid cases is rising every day. Moderate and severe cases are getting admitted to the hospitals requiring oxygen support. The demand for medical oxygen has increased as the number of patients requiring oxygen support at L2 and L3 health facilities is increasing.91 oxygen cylinders returned by industriesThe industries/factories of the city returned 91 oxygen cylinders, including 17 filled ones, to the administration. All 17 filled cylinders were immediately put in Civil Hospital for treatment of ICU patients. Meanwhile, Nodal Officer Harpreet Singh Sekhon said any industry/factory could contact him on his mobile number (83901-00001) for cylinders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/highest-single-day-toll-21-dead-in-ludhiana-district-248012
04-05-2021||Ludhiana||Three nabbed for smuggling liquor||The police have arrested three persons for smuggling liquor in three raids conducted in different parts of the city on Sunday and seized 56 bottles of liquor from the accused. They have been booked under the Excise Act. Nishat Kumar of Ashok Nagar was held from the rear side of the tyre market when he was waiting for his customers. As many as 24 bottles of countrymade liquor were recovered from him. In another raid conducted at Ramgarh village, Om Parkash was nabbed while selling liquor along the rear wall of a government school. The police seized 12 bottles of countrymade liquor during the search. Kawaljit Kuma of Kaartar Nagar was arrested by the anti-smuggling cell of the CIA-3 on a tip-off. He was selling liquor at his residence. As many as 20 bottles of liquor, without label, were seized from him. —  OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-nabbed-for-smuggling-liquor-248013
04-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||10 arrested for lockdown violation||Ludhiana, May 3 The police continued their crackdown on violators of weekend lockdown and other restrictions imposed due to pandemic with nine FIRs under Sections 188 of the IPC with Section 269 of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act also invoked in some cases on Sunday. In all, 10 persons were arrested and two others were booked — mostly for keeping their shops and commercial establishments open after the stipulated closure time. Among those arrested were three employees, Sanjeev Kumar, Anil Kumar and Tikan Kumar, of a liquor vend on Malhar Road and two others, identified as Jasvir Singh, resident of Anokharwal village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, and Sabodh Rai, resident of Hanumangarh in Sitamarhi district in Bihar, for loading passengers in a bus parked in Transport Nagar in violation of prohibitory orders. Others taken in custody for violation of lockdown restrictions were a karyana merchant Adesh Kumar from Bawa Colony, a fish seller Sahil from Fish Market on Gill Road, employee of a drinking place (ahata) Madhav Khatri from Ittanwala Chowk in Shimlapuri, fruit seller Rajesh Shah from Shimlapuri and Tejinder Singh from Sujat village for keeping open a swimming pool for children in violation of the prohibitory orders. In two other cases, the police booked owner of a garment shop Inayat in Ghumar Mandi and employee of a drinking place at Rajpura Chowk for violation of lockdown restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/10-arrested-for-lockdown-violation-248015
04-05-2021||---||Admn to set up 100 L2 beds at Jawaddi CHC, meritorious school||Ludhiana, May 3Aimed at containing the ferocious second wave of the coronavirus more efficaciously through makeshift Covid hospitals, the district administration has decided to set up 100 level-II beds (50 each) at Government Meritorious School and Community Health Centre (CHC), Jawaddi.Inspecting both facilities along with municipal councillor Mamta Ashu, Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia Gill and DMCH expert Dr Bishav Mohan, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma directed the officials to run the facilities as level-II (L2) Covid-care facility and asked them to install piped oxygen supply, beds and ACs and complete other compulsory requirements in both these places.Deputy Commissioner said both facilities had the necessary infrastructure and these must be utilised for the treatment of level-II patients to reduce the load on the other hospitals and helping them to convert their level-II beds to ICU beds.The Deputy Commissioner also took a round of various halls there and gave necessary directions to the officials and asked them to ensure Covid-care centre in CHC, Jawaddi, starts by Thursday (May 6) and Meritorious School by next Monday.Mamta Ashu said she was personally monitoring the entire situation and that more such level-II facilities would be set up in other parts of the district as well.Varinder Kumar Sharma said the infrastructure in both buildings was being upgraded by roping in industrial associations like the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), which was funding for the installation of piped oxygen supply lines. Sharma said the district administration was fully geared up to meet any situation arising due to Covid-19 pandemic and there was no dearth of resources. There was sufficient availability of oxygen and necessary drugs. He said the administration needed active support of the public to conquer the second wave of pandemic. He urged people to exercise restraint, not to panic, strictly adher to social distancing, wear mask and maintaining hand hygiene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/admn-to-set-up-100-l2-beds-at-jawaddi-chc-meritorious-school-248016
04-05-2021||Lovleen Bains||DC orders go for a toss as pvt schools remain open||Sahnewal, May 3Many private schools opened today despite orders of the Deputy Commissioner (DC) to keep educational institutions closed due to the sudden spurt in coronavirus cases in the district. Teaching and non- teaching staff attended their respective schools as usual.As per the DC orders, “As additional restrictions for Ludhiana district have been imposed, all educational institutions, including private and government schools and colleges shall remain closed. Only teaching and non-teaching staff of government schools will be on duty.”This order was issued on May 2, 2021, and remain in force till May 15, 2021. Any violation will invite criminal proceedings under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and 1860 of the Indian Penal Code.A frustrated teacher, who had to attend school today, on the condition of anonymity shared, “The staff was called to school as usual. But how can schools dare to defy DC orders? In the present situation, when coronavirus cases are increasing with each passing day, what is the emergency of calling the staff to schools and putting their and their families’ lives at the risk of contracting the disease?”“As the DC orders came last night, we were expecting educational institutions to be closed from today, but as no such notice has been issued by the school. I and my colleagues had to reach school as usual. Commuting has become difficult especially now as the government has minimised ferrying capacity in various kind of transport. Besides, the panic is such that one is not able to put one’s heart and soul into the work with adverse reports pouring in every next minute,” said a member of the non-teaching staff of a local school.“Anybody can fall prey to Covid in the present state of affairs. A teacher’s primary job is to teach. But in the absence of students, teachers attending institutions is of no use. In case of additional work, teachers will be able to discharge their duty diligently while sitting at home rather than taxing their mind with the fear of catching infection,” shared another local teacher, who attended school today.“Our workplace is not safe for long stay. Do schools have all required sanitation facilities? The health of the staff is at stake. Schools should immediately ask their staff to stay home. Moreover, the administration should take a strong notice of defiance of the DC orders by educational institutions,” said another teacher.Meanwhile, the Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner, Varinder Kumar Sharma, said he would immediately ask the District Education Officer to inquire into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dc-orders-go-for-a-toss-as-pvt-schools-remain-open-248017
04-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Fast food joint owner, 20 others booked for assault||Ludhiana, May 3 The police have registered a case against Soni, owner of a fast food joint, a resident of Ranchi Colony, Threeke, and around 20 persons for alleged assault, criminal intimidation, causing injury, violation of lockdown, rioting and unlawful assembly under Sections 188, 269, 323, 341, 506, 427, 148 and 149 on the complaint of Gaurav Kumar, a resident of Basant City, Extension-2, and a dealer of used cars in Kochhar Market. In his complaint, Gaurav told the police that on Sunday night, he saw four persons riding two motorcycles were roaming outside his house around his Tata Indigo car. He said he came out and asked them the reason for moving outside during curfew hours. “After which, they got infuriated and started abusing me. One of the assailants attacked me with a sharp weapon. Though I sustained a head injury, I raised an alarm and ran towards my house following which the accused fled the spot,” Gaurav said. The complainant said after some time, the main accused, identified as Soni, returned to the spot with around 20 persons and attacked him. Some of the assailants also damaged my car and escaped with documents and key of the vehicle when residents of the locality started gathering on the spot. The police said they were investigating the matter. No arrest had been made so far. In another incident, the police have booked Rajan, a resident of Prem Nagar, under Sections 323, 341 and 506 of the IPC on the complaint of Harish Malhotra of the same colony for allegedly hurling abuses outside the house of the complainant and beating up his brother-in-law Soni Bakshi and his friend Bobby due to some old enmity. The accused also threatened to kill them, the complainant said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fast-food-joint-owner-20-others-booked-for-assault-248018
04-05-2021||Mahesh Sharma
||Cops hold flag march in Ahmedgarh||Mandi Ahmedgarh, May 3 The administration remained on toes to ensure that residents stayed indoors during the lockdown and only essential services were provided to the latter according to the latest guidelines received from the Sangrur Deputy Commissioner, Ramvir Singh. The police also conducted a flag march in the town today. The Mandi Ahmedgarh Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Dev Darashdeep Singh, and the DSP, Rajan Sharma, asked the rank and file in the civil and police departments to ensure that amended guidelines issued by the DC were implemented in letter and in spirit. The Mandi Ahmedgarh Sadar SHO, Amandeep Kaur, and the City SHO, Major Singh, said the administration had imposed new and stricter guidelines within municipal limits of the town and rural localities in suppression of the earlier instructions. People were not clear about new relaxations and restrictions, which came into effect today, they added. Beat officers had to act tough at some places in the town, but they ensured that the lockdown was imposed properly in view of the recent surge in Covid cases, they said. Some shopkeepers had started opening their establishments on various pretexts while a large number of residents, instead of remaining indoors, ventured out citing flimsy excuses, they added.  However the restrictions were implemented after specially constituted teams of policemen undertook patrolling and conducted a flag march in the town, they said. The SDM led the flag march, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-hold-flag-march-in-ahmedgarh-248019
04-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Social bodies launch drive to collect oximeters from Covid survivors||Mandi Ahmedgarh, May 3 Office-bearers and activists of various social organisations have launched a coordinated movement to collect pulse oximeters from Covid survivors, who have been provided Fateh kits by the Health Department during their home quarantine after testing positive for the disease earlier. The initiative followed after the civil administration appealed to the public to help the Health Department by providing pulse oximeters due to surge in Covid patients during the second wave of the pandemic. The Mandi Ahmedgarh SDM, Dev Darashdeep Singh, had appealed to residents to cooperate with the administration and donate pulse oximeters after recycling kits once used by Covid survivors.  “The government had provided Fateh kits containing oximeters, steam inhalers and digital thermometers, besides other consumable components to a large number of coronavirus patients quarantined at their homes last year. Now, when the administration is facing shortage, we request Covid survivors to return oximeters lying idle at their homes,” the SDM said.    The Rotary Club president, Tarsem Garg, said, “Teams of volunteers have started visiting places of residents willing to return their oximeters, which were once provided to  them by the Health Department during their home quarantine due to Covid infection.”  “We have also coordinated with the authorities in the Health Department and asked them to provide us details of residents, who have been given Fateh kits,” he added. Remarkably, the pulse oximeter is one of many items in the Fateh kit, which is provided to Covid patients under home isolation. Its market price has increased sharply during the past few weeks. Moderate quality oximeters are presently available for Rs2,000 to 2,200 in the open market. The Health Department, owing to the ongoing shortage, is either supplying Fateh kits sans oximeters or trying to recycle used pulse oximeters. Azaz Ali, coordinator for pursuing issues related with home quarantined Covid patients at the local Civil Hospital, acknowledged the shortage of oximeters. “However we have not received any oximeter or other component of kit from any Covid survivor till now,” he said.  Identities of residents, who received Fateh kits earlier, would be provided to enthusiasts only after taking permission of the higher authorities in the department, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/social-bodies-launch-drive-to-collect-oximeters-from-covid-survivors-248020
04-05-2021||Manav Mander
||Restrictions put brakes on industrial production||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 3 Industry is already passing through a difficult phase due to the Covid-19 pandemic. New additional restrictions, which came into force from today, have added to the woes of the industry.  Although the industry was allowed to function today, all shops selling non-essential goods were closed from, which made it difficult to keep the ball rolling. Last year lockdown affected industrial production to a great extent. The industry faced tough time as workers went back home. Now, that the industry on back on the track, the second wave of Covid has arrived.  “On behalf of the bicycle industry I appreciate the timely and effective steps taken to minimise the effect of the pandemic in our state. The decision to allow industrial production in Punjab is a welcome step. This will give some relief and confidence of job security to migrant labourers,” said DS Chawla, president, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association. “Industrial production is mainly dependent on raw material and allied inputs such as machinery parts, hardware, oil and lubricants and tools. Closing of shops/markets except essential services has made it difficult to keep the industry running. It has affected the input supply to industry,” Chawla added. Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, from cycle part industry, said, “The main supply to industry is from shops/markets.”  “Shops/markets dealing with industrial inputs should be allowed to open so that the production in industry is not affected. If needed the opening hours of shops can be fixed. Otherwise, the purpose behind the purpose to keep the industry running will be defeated,” said Chawla. and Sachdeva. Cycle industry has also written to the Punjab Chief Minister in this regard.  Sanjeev Singal, a garment manufacturer, said, “Today, I sent my worker to pick up sewing machine thread from a wholesaler, but the shop was closed. Although my unit was open, we could hardly carry on production due to shortage of thread. Some workers remained idle, but I had to pay them today’s wages.”  “To ensure that the industry runs smoothly, shops dealing in raw material should be allowed to open. The administration can fix timings for the opening of such shops.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/restrictions-put-brakes-on-industrial-production-248021
04-05-2021||Ludhiana||Many return from centres without getting jab||Today, vaccination was carried out at only four  government session sites where the second dose of Covaxin was administered to people. Vaccination was given at the UPHC, Sunet; UPHC, Model Town; MCH, Vardhman; and Civil Hospital. A huge rush was witnessed at the UPHC, Model Town. “There is a shortage of vaccine. So, I thought it is better to get vaccinated today. I came from Abdullapur Basti to get the jab from here,” said a beneficiary. Many people, who were making rounds of private hospitals, have now got  vaccinated from government centres. “I was reluctant to go to a government centre after getting my first dose from a private hospital. Most private hospitals also going out of stock. So, I  managed to get my second dose from a govenrment centre,” said Harpal Singh of Sarabha Nagar. Many people were seen returning after witnessing boards displaying ‘vaccine out of stock’  outside private and government session sites. “The contrary, the state is going dry in stock of vaccine, which is unfortunate,” said another resident from Haibowal.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/many-return-from-centres-without-getting-jab-248022
