05-05-2021||Ludhiana||20 dead; 1,347 test positive for Covid in Ludhiana||As many as 1,347 persons tested positive for Covid, while 20 lost their lives to the virus in the district in the past 24 hours.Total active cases have reached 10,316, while 1,451 have lost their lives since March 2020. Active cases in the district were 10,316.Those who tested positive included four healthcare workers, two pre-operative cases and an undertrial, while tracing of 327 is still to be done.As many as 16 men and four women lost their life to the deadly virus. They were residents of Jammu Colony, Jagraon, Lohara, Guru Nanak Nagar, Doraha, Sanhewal, Mahajan Nagar, Chandigarh Road, Barewal Road, Prem Vihar, Giaspura, Haibowal Kalan, Tajpur Road, Janta Nagar, Akash Nagar, Pama village, Vikas Nagar and Kailash Nagar.Total 9,053 samples were collected and report of 384 samples is pending.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill has asked the people to follow all the necessary protocols and stay at home and go out only when required. “Together we can fight this virus and break the chain,” said Dr Gill.As the Covid-19 restrictions have been imposed on opening of non-essential shops, the administration cleared that some more shops were also allowed to open till 5 pm, except during the weekend curfew.Shops selling fertilisers, seeds, insecticides, pesticides, agriculture machinery and agriculture/horticulture implements are also allowed.Grocery shops, departmental stores, shops selling industrial materials, hardware items, tools, motors, pipes, etc, are also allowed.1,157 empty oxygen cylinders foundThe Sahnewal police found 1,157 empty oxygen cylinders at a plant at Giaspura during checking. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma has given orders to send these cylinders to other plants for refilling.The SHO, Balwinder Singh, said the DC had given orders to check gas plants in the areas coming under the police station.“During the checking it was found that the plant had been lying closed for the past two months. The owner of the plant will be shifting these cylinders to other plants for refilling,” said the SHO, Sanhewal.Dugri no longer containment zoneAfter passing of 14 days, restrictions from Urban Estate, Phase-I and II, Dugri, have been lifted and these are now no longer containment zones. Instead two micro containment zones have been formed, one each in Phase-I and Phase-II.In Phase-I, micro containment zone is from house number 1 to 727 and in Phase-II, micro containment zone is from house number 1 to 824.In addition to this, four more micro containment zones were formed at Raheri in Khanna, Jamalpur Colony in Focal Point, Kitchlu Nagar and Mandir Wali Gali in Durgapuri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20-dead-1-347-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-248349
05-05-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana 2nd in testing, 3rd in contact tracing||Even as the second Covid wave continues to rapidly slide into a devastating crisis, the Ludhiana district continues to lead the state in testing and tracing of the virus patients.While Ludhiana stood second in the antigen testing by conducting 51.2 per cent such tests in the last week, the district ranked third in the contact tracing, a key method to break virus spread chain, by tracing 18.3 per cent contacts of each Covid patient reported in April.In both the parameters, Ludhiana scored over the state’s average of 37.7 per cent antigen testing between April 25 and May 1 and 16 per cent contact tracing in April, revealed the data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune.On the antigen testing front, Bathinda topped the state with maximum 55.3 per cent tests, while all other districts, except Ludhiana, reported less than 50 per cent antigen testing.Among other districts, Muktsar recorded 48.6 per cent antigen testing, Fatehgarh Sahib 47.8 per cent, Jalandhar 41.4, Gurdaspur 39.4, Amritsar 39.2, Kapurthala 36.6, Faridkot 36.4, Patiala 35.9, Mohali 34.6, Nawanshahr 33.3, Fazilka 32.8, Hoshiarpur 30.7, Moga 29.4, Tarn Taran 25.5, Ferozepur 25, Ropar 22.5, Pathankot 19.7, Barnala 18.9 and Sangrur reported the lowest 10.7 per cent antigen testing.On the contact tracing front, Jalandhar led the state by tracing maximum 21.9 per cent contacts of virus patients, followed by Mohali 21.7, Hoshiarpur 17.1, Gurdaspur 16.5, Patiala 15.7, Mansa and Ropar 15.6 each, Fazilka 15.3, Nawanshahr 14.8, Barnala 13.3, Tarn Taran and Faridkot 12.8 each, Ferozepur 12.5, Fatehgarh Sahib 12.4, Bathinda 11.8, Kapurthala 11.6, Moga 11.5, Amritsar 9.8, Pathanakot 9.7, Sangrur 9 and Muktsar recorded the lowest contact tracing of 8.6 per cent.17 more beds, 615 vacantWith the addition of 17 more beds to further facilitate the critical Covid patients in need of hospitalisation with oxygen and ventilator life support, the total number of hospital beds in the district on Tuesday reached 2,448 — 1,867 Level-2 and 581 Level-3 beds.Till 5 pm this evening, 615 beds — 539 L2 and 76 L3 — were still vacant. However, no L3 bed was available in the government hospitals as all 16 such beds in the lone Civil Hospital remained occupied. Of the 539 vacant L2 beds, 205 were available in four government facilities while rest 334 were reported unoccupied in the private hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-2nd-in-testing-3rd-in-contact-tracing-248350
05-05-2021||Ludhiana||Man held for kidnapping, raping minor||The police arrested a man on charges of kidnapping and raping a 15-year-old girl at Meharban here.The accused has been identified as Dharamvir, alias Manga, of Machhiwara, Khanna.The complainant, the girl’s father, a resident of the Jagirpur road area, said his daughter studies in Class XI. Recently, his sister-in-law called them and asked his wife to send their daughter to their house at Chaunta village for a few days.“On April 27, the nephew of my sister-in-law kidnapped my daughter. The next day he dropped her at our house. She was looking scared and not revealing the ordeal she faced at the hands of the accused,” alleged the victim’s father.A few days later, she revealed to the parents that after kidnapping her, the accused took her to some isolated place where he raped her. He also threatened to kill her if she reveals anything to the family or the police.The girl’s father told the police that action should be taken against his sister-in-law who was aware about the intentions of her nephew.ASI Jaswinder Singh said after registering a case, the police conducted a raid at the whereabouts of the accused and nabbed him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-for-kidnapping-raping-minor-248351
05-05-2021||Ludhiana||NHM employees observe strike||National Health Mission (NHM) employees today protested outside the Civil Surgeon’s office regarding their long-pending demand for regularisation of their services. The employees are on strike and boycotting their Covid-related duties as well. The employees across the state are protesting in favour of their long-pending demand for regularisation of their services.Kiranjit Kaur, president of the National Health Mission, said for the past many years, the NHM employees were working under anti-employees policies of the government. As many as 9,000 employees from across the state were observing strike.“It has been 20-25 years that the employees are working on meagre salaries on a contractual basis and many of them will retire soon. Be it any health programme or during the pandemic, the NHM employees are working hand in hand with the government and extending every help to people but when it comes to our demand, the government turns a deaf ear towards the same,” she said.“As many as 500 NHM employees got infected while imparting duties and the government has never thought about them. “We want that the government should regularise our services on the lines of Sarv Shiksha Abhiyaan employees,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nhm-employees-observe-strike-248352
05-05-2021||Raikot||SAD leader ends life||An octogenarian Shiromani Akali Dal leader and president of Kalsan village gurdwara allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the village overhead water tank in the wee hours on Tuesday.The deceased, Jathedar Gurdev Singh Kalsan, submitted his resignation in a bizarre way by making a public announcement from the gurdwara after reading out the income and expenditure account, announcing that the balance amount of Rs 63,500 was entrusted to another office-bearer of the management committee.The Raikot Sadar police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sad-leader-ends-life-248353
05-05-2021||Ludhiana||Vaccine stock arrives in Ludhiana||The Covid vaccination drive in the district was hit today as there was a little stock of vaccine available. Only four centres administered the second dose of Covaxin.With stock reaching district in the evening, the drive will be continued from Wednesday. Today only 430 persons were vaccinated in the district.“We have received the stock of Covishield and from tomorrow onwards the vaccination process will start again. We have received 24,000 doses of the vaccine today and from tomorrow vaccination will be started at all the government session sites and private ones will also be given doses according to the stock,” said District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja.People were today seen returning from the session sites in the district without getting vaccinated. Even the Civil Surgeon office had to discontinue the drive as there was no stock. People coming for vaccination had to return without the jab.“Not only private, but also government centres are out of stock. My second dose of Covishield is due and I am making rounds of vaccination centres but to no avail,” said Kulpreet Kaur, a beneficiary.People were seen making a beeline to Civil Surgeon office in the hope of getting jab. “We were sure of getting vaccinated from the Civil Surgeon office but the tragedy is that even the office of the Civil Surgeon, which is responsible for the healthcare of the entire district, is without the stock,” said a city resident returning from the Civil Surgeon office.Policemen were deployed at the Civil Surgeon office and telling people that no vaccination is available. A notice was also pasted outside the office but people still kept coming to the office to enquire about the availability of vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccine-stock-arrives-in-ludhiana-248354
05-05-2021||Ludhiana||Cops urge residents to go for self-imposed curfew||As Covid-19 cases have been increasing each passing day, the Ludhiana police have asked residents to observe a self-imposed curfew. The police made it clear to the residents to stay in their houses and don’t roam on city roads without any valid reason, else they may face action.“As you know we are passing through the worst phase of the pandemic, all residents are requested to kindly stay at homes unless there is some medical emergency. Lets impose a self-proclaimed curfew for 15 days to break the chain. Anybody found roaming on roads without a valid reason will be questioned and stopped,” stated a message shared by the Ludhiana Police on its official Facebook page and Twitter handle.After the police posted the message on social media, hundreds of people gave their mixed reactions.Flag march against violatorsThe police, led by ADCP Pragya Jain, on Tuesday conducted a flag march to nab violators of the Covid-19 norms. Senior police officials and SHOs of Police Zone 1 took part in the march. The ADCP said several FIRs and challans were issued by the police during the march. Several people found roaming on city roads amid the curfew without any purpose were booked and some were arrested. The ADCP said some people caught on road were given warning to follow the norms, else they might face action. In the past two weeks, the Police Zone 1 registered 153 FIRs and issued 747 challans against the violators.Nancy said she respects the orders but on the ground level, shopkeepers were helpless as they were not even able to meet their expenses. Let other shopkeepers to open their shops with assurance of compliance of the Covid-19 norms.Ashutosh Goel says: “Everyone is playing the blame game. Some blame the government, some the police and some others. Let’s break the chain and avoid the blame game.”Abhishek Sonia says: “Dear Commissioner of Police, as you know we are passing through the worst phase of the pandemic, I have a suggestion to stop the practice of towing away of vehicles from near hospitals, medical stores and labs as people during emergency park their places at such spots and rush for medical aid. When the police tow away vehicles from such areas, attendants and patients face huge inconvenience.”Liquor vends to remain openAs the state government has allowed liquor vends to run their operations for the stipulated time even during the lockdown, other shopkeepers reacted sharply on social media.“By giving permission to liquor vends to run their operations during the lockdown, the government had discriminated with other shopkeepers who feed their families with their daily earnings. The government is in favour of booze lovers and liquor vend owners but it is playing havoc with the lives of shopkeepers and their families. If the government is serious about its income from the sale of liquor, we shopkeepers too feed our families with the daily income and who will feed our families during the lockdown if our shops remain closed,” stated many on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-urge-residents-to-go-for-self-imposed-curfew-248355
05-05-2021||Ludhiana||Proper asthma management imperative amid Covid spread||World Asthma Day is celebrated every year on May 5. With the world facing a pandemic, doctors say many patients consult them with asthma-related questions.Dr Rajinder Gulati, state awardee and retired SMO, Civil Hospital, Khanna, answers FAQs on Covid-19 and Asthma.Q. Are people with asthma at increased risk of Covid?A. People with asthma do not appear to be at increased risk of catching the coronavirus and systematic reviews have also not shown the same in people with well-controlled and mild to moderate asthma.Q. Are asthmatic people, who are infected with Covid-19, at an increased risk of Covid-related death?A. Overall, people with well-controlled asthma are not at an increased risk of Covid-related death. However, patients hospitalised with severe asthma and those who had recently needed oral corticosteroids for their asthma, are at an increased risk of Covid-related death.Q. How important is asthma management, especially during the pandemic?A. It is important to continue good asthma management, with strategies to maintain good symptom control, reduce the risk of severe exacerbations and minimise the need for oral corticosteroids.Q. Have there been more asthma exacerbations during the pandemic?A. No. In 2020, many countries saw a reduction in asthma exacerbations and influenza-related illness. The reasons are not precisely known but it may be due to handwashing, face masks and social/physical distancing that reduced the incidence of other respiratory infections, including influenza.Q. Are Covid-19 vaccines safe? What is the current advice?A. In general, allergic reactions to vaccines are rare. However, Covid-19 vaccines should be administered in a healthcare setting where anaphylaxis can be treated. As always, patients should speak to their healthcare provider if they have concerns. At present, based on the risks and benefits, and with the given precautions, Covid-19 vaccination is recommended for people with asthma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/proper-asthma-management-imperative-amid-covid-spread-248356
05-05-2021||Ludhiana||Teachers accuse Edu Dept of autocratic behaviour||Many educational institutes in the district have accused the Education Department to pursue an autocratic approach toward the teachers.Teachers say the Department arranges online meetings even on holidays and Sundays. Teachers have also alleged that the Department uses “rude” language and has been asking them to visit door-to-door to motivate masses to get their wards enrolled in government schools.Bearing the brunt, teachers maintain that the awareness drive was simply an eyewash as they were just supposed to show the names of new admissions during the drive.Talking to Ludhiana Tribune, a government schoolteacher said: “We are visiting the migrant families within 20 km of the periphery areas. We are asking for their Aadhaar cards and are writing the names of their wards that we admitted them in the school. What is the guarantee they will send their kids to schools once the pandemic is over?”“We are simply conducting surveys and collecting data. These should not be considered as admissions,” the teacher added.The teachers asked the Department that the schools won’t deny admissions to children but how would schools accommodate 1,000 students in 200 square yards?Jagjit Singh Mann from the Government Teachers’ Union said the Department was doing all it could to enrol more students but what about teachers to teach those students?“In Mangat block, there are around 35 such schools but there is only one teacher. Teachers are going door-to-door but masses are reluctant to talk at this time of the pandemic. Writing names and addresses will give no assurance that parents will sent their kids to school once the schools open again,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-accuse-edu-dept-of-autocratic-behaviour-248359
05-05-2021||Ludhiana||Transporter held for using MHA, MP stickers on car||The Police Division 5 arrested a transporter for using official stickers of the Ministry of Home Affairs and member of Parliament on his car.The accused has been identified as Hargurjit Singh, resident of Guru Gyan Vihar, Jawaddi.ASI Malkit Ram said a police party was conducting patrolling in the city to check the violations of Covid norms. In Jagjit Nagar, the police party noticed a Toyota Fortuner with official stickers of the Ministry of Home Affairs and member of Parliament parked outside Hemkunt Transport Company and Property Advisers.“We found two stickers — one of the Ministry of Home Affairs and another of Member Parliament Lok Sabha — on the car. When the Hargurjit Singh, who claimed to be the owner of the car, was asked about the permission of having these stickers on his car, he failed to give any answer,” said ASI Malkit.The ASI said the police arrested Hargurjit Singh and impounded his car. A case under Section 171 (wearing garb or carrying tokens used by public servant with fraudulent intent) of the IPC was registered against Hargurjit Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/transporter-held-for-using-mha-mp-stickers-on-car-248360
05-05-2021||Ludhiana||Activity on critical thinking||BVM observes World Laughter DayBVM, Udham Singh Nagar, celebrated World Laughter Day. A number of virtual activities was arranged for students. Kindergartners showcased their creativity by making their favourite cartoon character masks. Students of Class III to V enthralled the audience through comic mimes, funny poems and stand-up comedy. To highlight the significance of bringing laughter in everyone’s life, a laughter therapy session was also conducted by PE instructors and class in-charges of Class VI to VIII. Principal Ranju Mangal applauded the efforts of all students. TNSSDP alumnus donates Rs25,000An alumnus of SDP Senior Secondary School, Hazuri Road, has donated a cheque for Rs 25,000 to the school for welfare. Jagdish Rai Bansal is 100-years-old and did his Matriculation in 1938. Balraj Kumar Bhasin and his management expressed gratitude to the alumnus and his family. TNSMGM school holds welcome partyMGM Public School organised a virtual welcome party for the students of nursery, kindergarten and Class I. The prime objective of the celebrations was to make children familiarise with their teachers. The kids sang songs during the celebrations danced to the tunes of their favourite songs. Fun-filled games were also organised for them. Principal Sunita Vij also addressed the kids and wished them good luck for their future. TNSTalent hunt organisedDrishti Dr RC Jain Innovative Public School organised an online inter-house talent hunt for the students of Class III-V. Students showcased their talent in the field of dance, drama and singins position in dance went to Iyaan Jain from ruby house, Sureet Kaur from ruby house stood first in acting, Abhinav from sapphire house came first in art-and-craft and Dhairya Jain from sapphire house grabbed first position in singing. TNSStudents pray for Covid patientsGreen Land Senior Secondary Public School organised a “Let us come together, fold our hands” activity to offer prayers for the health and safety of people suffering from coronavirus. Students of Class I to XII offered prayers to the Almighty for the quick recovery of all Covid-19 patients. Teachers, through the medium of a video, enlightened students about the significance of prayers in one’s life. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/activity-on-critical-thinking-248362
05-05-2021||Nitin Jain||Positivity rate touches new high at 12%||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 3Refusing to take a break, the average daily Covid cases continue to register exponential rise by crossing 1,100-mark, while the average positivity rate also touched a new high of 12 per cent in the last week.OfficialspeakThe augmentation will help ease out the current situation as 633 beds — 517 L2 and 116 L3 — are still vacant in the district. However, all 116 L3 vacant beds are available in private hospitals as all 16 L3 beds in the lone Civil Hospital remained occupied till this evening.—  Varinder Kumar Sharma, Deputy CommissionerThe key indicators of virus surge, the count of average daily Covid cases mounted to 1,139 at 12 per cent positivity rate, even surpassing the state’s 11.7 per cent, between April 25 and May 1.The 24-hour average of new infections rose by 334.01 per cent in 18 days from 341 recorded between March 10 and April 13, taking it to 717 between April 15 and 21, 934 between April 20 and 26 and 1,062 between April 23 and 29.With the increasing caseload, Ludhiana continued to remain way ahead from all other districts and re-emerged as the Covid capital of the state.The nearest rival was Mohali, which reported 860 average daily cases between April 25 and May 1, which was 24.49 per cent more than Ludhiana.Among other districts, Jalandhar recorded 585 average daily infections, Bathinda 550, Patiala 526, Amritsar 449, Mansa and Muktsar 241 each, Fazilka 238, Hoshiarpur 236, Pathankot 205, Gurdaspur 202, Sangrur 165, Faridkot 140, Kapurthala 137, Ropar 133, Ferozepur 124, Moga 92, Tarn Taran 85, Fatehgarh Sahib 62 and Barnala remained safest with minimum 57 average daily positive cases in last week.On the average positivity front, Mohali remained the leader with highest 23.9 per cent, followed by Mansa 23, Fazilka 20, Bathinda 16.7, Muktsar 16.2, Moga 13.4, Patiala 11.7, Faridkot 11.3, Amritsar 10.7, Ropar 10.6, Ferozepur 10.5, Jalandhar 10, Barnala 9.9, Pathankot 9.4, Hoshiarpur 8.9, Sangrur 7.9, Tarn Taran and Kapurthala 7.3 each, Gurdaspur 6.3, Fatehgarh Sahib 4.6, and Nawanshahr reported the lowest average positivity rate of 4.5 per cent in last week.515 beds added, 633 vacantGiving a big respite to the critical Covid patients seeking hospitalisation with oxygen and ventilator support, the district administration has added 515 more beds — 391 Level-2 and 124 Level-3 category — in the last two days.Sharing details, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune that the augmentation helped ease out the current situation as 633 beds — 517 L2 and 116 L3 — were still vacant in the district. However, all 116 L3 vacant beds were available in private hospitals as all 16 L3 beds in the lone Civil Hospital remained occupied till this evening.Of the 517 L2 vacant beds, 320 were available in private facilities while the four government hospitals in the district had 197 available till 5 pm.Vaccination stoppedWith no vaccine available, Ludhiana on Monday stopped the ongoing vaccination drive for 45-plus age groups. “We have exhausted the entire Covishield stock, while a few hundred doses of Covaxin are still available,” confirmed the District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja.Today, a total of 916 persons were inoculated — 542 second dose and 374 first dose — following which all sites were shut till further order. “Tomorrow we will run only four session sites for immunising Covaxin beneficiaries with a second dose,” informed the DIO. He added that fresh vaccine stock was expected on Tuesday, and if it happened, the inoculation could restart from Wednesday onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/positivity-rate-touches-new-high-at-12-248014
