06-05-2021||The students’ counselling cell of the Government College for Girls||Webinar on mental health issues||Birth anniversary of Guru Teg BahadurLudhiana: Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, in collaboration with the Department of Youth Welfare, Panjab University, Chandigarh, virtually celebrated the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur. On the occasion, Dr Dharminder Singh Ubha, principal, Khalsa College, Patiala, delivered a lecture on the teachings of the ninth Sikh Guru. TNSPlantation drive organisedShree Atam Vallabh Jain College organised a tree-plantation drive to mark Earth Day week. Principal Dr Sandeep Kumar and president of the college managing committee Ashok Jain made students aware of the importance of planting tree and the issue of climate change, especially during a pandemic. TNSEnglish Language Day celebratedThe postgraduate department of English of Khasa College for Women, Sidhwan Khurd, observed English Language Day by organising an intra-college poem-recitation competition. Labiba Fatima, Kamaldeep Kaur and Manpreet Kaur bagged the first, second and third positions, respectively, in the contest while Kamadeep Kaur received the consolation prize. TNSBCA Semester-III resultsStudents of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women brought laurels to the college by performing well in BCA Semester-III examinations. Kehkesha Bano secured first position in the college with 87.73 per cent, followed by Lavisha Thakur with 86.4 per cent. Rohini, Smriti and Vaishally shared the third position with 85.86 per cent. TNS10-day yoga camp concludesA 10-day online yoga camp organised by the department of physical education of SDP College for Women concluded. Students learned to perform various asanas during the camp. The instructor for the camp was Jaswinder Singh, department head of the college. “The purpose of this camp was to get relief from physical and mental stress during the corona period. TNSWebinar on online teachingPartap College of Education organised a webinar under the patronage of International Professional Development Association (IPDA), UK, on the topic “Assessment of online teaching and learning”. The webinar was attended by nearly 80 teachers, researchers and scholars. Prof Hazel Bryan, IPDA chair, was the chairperson for the webinar. Dr Manpreet Kaur, secretary, IPDA, India, welcomed the chairperson, keynote speakers and attendees. TNSIndependent-thinking activity heldSri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management conducted the final level of independent-thinking exercise. The activity aimed to motivate students to think independently and express their opinions on various social and national issues. Principal Dr Ajay Sharma congratulated Aashray Jain, Aadvik Thapar, Harmanbeer Singh Waraich, who were adjudged the best independent thinkers after the exercise. TNSGPC wins cleanliness awardKhanna: Gobindgarh Public College, Alour, has won the “One district one green champion” award under the Swachhta Action Plan 2020-21 of the Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education. Principal Dr Neena Seth Pajni said: “The college qualified for the award as based on swachhta initiatives, water conservation, use of solar energy, and campus post-Covid sanitation plan and practices.” Many colleges of the city had given their name for the competition. The principal said the NSS and the NCC units were constantly engaged in various swachhta activities to make people aware of environmental issues. TNSStart-up idea of MBA student selected‘Mumz Choice’, a start-up idea presented by Savneet Kaur, an MBA first year student of the PCTE Group of Institutes, was selected by the Technology Business Incubator Foundation (TBIF), IIT, Ropar. Savneet said her idea behind the start-up is to provide catering services to Kindergarten and play schools in the country and the main motive was providing healthy food to growing toddlers in such schools. She said the concept ws new in India but it was already prevailing in countries such as Canada, Dubai and France. TNSVirtual demo on ‘HD make-up’The department of BVoc (beauty aesthetics and wellness) of the Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women, Ludhiana, organised a one-day virtual demo class of ‘HD Make-up’. Sukhman Kaur, who was the resource person, delivered a lecture. To give thorough knowledge, a practical demo was given. Convener of the course Dr Ashu Beri and other faculty members Gurvinder Kaur and Neha Jaggi were also present. TNSE-summit on hospitality industrySchool of Hotel Management, Airlines and Tourism, CT University, organised its first Hospitality & Tourism International HR E-Summit on Renewals of Human Resource: Redefining Hospitality and Tourism Industry. HR stalwarts from the International and National Hospitality Industry pondered upon present challenges being faced by organisations in managing and developing human resources. CTU Vice- Chancellor Dr Harsh Sadawarti and Dr Varinder Singh Rana, Dean, SOHMAT, welcomed all guests. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-mental-health-issues-248806
06-05-2021||Ludhiana||Masks, sanitisers distributed among sanitary workers||Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Mayor Balkar Singh and Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee chairman Ashwani Sahota distributed kits containing masks, sanitisers and Vitamin C tablets among sanitation workers today.Sahota claimed that the kits had been given to 6,000 workers of the MC.He claimed that the MC pays complete attention for the protection and good health of the safai karamcharis. He thanked the authorities for the same.Sahota has also demanded that in case of shortage of oxygen or ventilator beds, two beds must be reserved for safai karamcharis at the Civil Hospital in case of any emergency. He demanded from the authorities to make required arrangements for vaccination of family members of all safai karamcharis. The Mayor and the Commissioner assured to meet their demands, Sahota said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/masks-sanitisers-distributed-among-sanitary-workers-248659
06-05-2021||Ludhiana||LIP demands free ration for vendors, labourers||Owing to Covid-19 restrictions, many people in the district have been deprived of a source of income. Taking the same into consideration, the Lok Insaaf Party has demanded from the government to provide them free ration and pay compensation to those affected.Street vendors, who have become a victim, to the restrictions as well, have also sought help from the government.Member, Ludhiana Rehri Phari FederationMany vendors used to sell eatables in the evening but they are unable to generate income these days. We want the government to provide help to them.Gurmeet Singh Mundian, district president, rural unit of Lok Insaaf Party, said: “Government has allowed liquor vends to open but many small street vendors and other daily wagers have been left to suffer due to restrictions.”He added: “Labourers are also suffering due to the restrictions imposed by the state government. The government should provide free ration to people suffering due to the restrictions. Besides, the poor, who are unable to generate income at this time, should be given compensation.”Meanwhile, the Ludhiana Rehri Phari Federation has also demanded from the government to provide relief to street vendors.“Many strret vendors used to sell eatables in the evening but they are unable to generate income these days. These vendors have no other source of income. We want the government to provide help to street vendors,” a member of the federation said.He added that many vendors had taken a loan under the Central Government scheme but as their work was affected due to restrictions, the government should waive their loans. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lip-demands-free-ration-for-vendors-labourers-248660
06-05-2021||Ludhiana||NRI booked for rape in Ludhiana||A city-based man staying in Canada raped and duped a local woman on the pretext of taking her abroad and solemnising marriage with her.The accused has been identified as Sukhraj Mallan, a native of New Deol Nagar, at present staying in Canada.Complainant Navjit Kaur of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar told the police that her first marriage was solemnised in 2002 but due to some differences with her husband, she divorced him in 2012.The woman alleged that in 2017, she came in contact with Sukhraj through Facebook and developed friendship with him.“Since we fell in love with each other, we also organised a ring ceremony in 2018 and after that the accused assured me that he will soon marry me and after the wedding, he will take me to Canada,” the victim alleged.She said on the pretext of marrying her, the accused also developed a sexual relationship with her. A few months later, he went to Canada after promising her that he would also take her there. He also took Rs 80,000 from her on the pretext of paying for some documents required for the Canadian visa.Now, he is staying in Canada and has refused to come to India to marry her.ASI Dharminder Singh said a case of rape and fraud had been registered against the accused and further probe was on in the case. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nri-booked-for-rape-in-ludhiana-248662
06-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Swindlers’ gang  busted, 4 held in Ludhiana||Raikot, May 5The Ludhiana (Rural) police today claimed to have nabbed four members of a gang of swindlers, who have been extorting money from men by threatening to circulate their compromising videos on social media platforms.A case was registered against five members of the gang on complaint of Joginder Singh, a resident of Hans Kalan.The accused have been identified as Manjit Kaur Kalam of Johlan village, Charanjit Kaur Kalo, Amarjit Singh and Sukhchain Singh Buta of Raikot, and Raju Masih of Ludhiana.The complainant said he was lured to the house of a tailor of Boparai Kalan village by the accused on Tuesday. When he reached there, they demanded Rs 2.5 lakh as ransom from him. Joginder said he paid Rs 15,000 to them on the spot.Ludhiana (Rural) SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal said the police team, led by DSP (Investigation) Rajesh Sharma, arrested all accused, except Raju Masih, when they were waiting to receive the balance ransom payment at a link road on the outskirts of Sadhar village.The police say investigation revealed that female members of the gang used to lure men to a designated place while their male accomplices would catch them in compromising positions.“Amarjit Singh of the gang usually posed as a cop and asked other members to take the victim to the police station. The accused have confessed of duping around 10 men during the pandemic period,” the police added.The DSP(I) said the police had initiated an investigation to identify other victims of the gang.“We have retrieved a few video clipping from mobile phones of the arrested accused and will try to identify other victims. We will also make efforts to recover the extortion money if victims come forward to lodge a formal complaint,” said the DSP(I).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/swindlers-gang-busted-4-held-in-ludhiana-248663
06-05-2021||Lovleen Bains||Teachers up in arms over orders to attend colleges||Sahnewal, May 5Teachers of various private colleges today wore black badges to protest against the stubborn attitude of the government for not allowing them to work from home at a time when Covid-19 cases are surging.Dr Vinay Sofat, president, Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ UnionI have written a letter to the Chief Minister and reached out to him on his Twitter handle requesting to direct the Education Department to allow teachers to work from home as the situation is becoming more alarming.Dr Vinay Sofat, president, Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU), said on one hand, the state government had imposed a partial lockdown and had been encouraging people to stay home to curb the spread of the virus but on the other hand, it had told teachers to report to colleges physically.“The attitude of the officials in the Higher Education Department toward teachers is cold, indifferent and stubborn,” he alleged, adding: “I have written a letter to the Chief Minister and have also reached out to him on his Twitter handle requesting to direct the Education Department to allow teachers to work from home as the situation is becoming more alarming.”Members, Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ UnionRepresentatives of the union have requested the Higher Education Secretary to let teachers work from home but he has turned a blind eye to their request. Why is the Higher Education Department so ignorant?Prof Sukhdev Singh Randhawa, state secretary, of PCCTU said Education Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa assured the representatives of the PCCTU that the Department would take the matter in cognisance. Dr Bikramjit Singh Sandhu, president, PCCTU, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib, said the Sandhu had subsequently instructed the officials of the Higher Education Department to issue the circular to colleges for allowing teachers to work from home.“Sadly, Higher Education Secretary adopted an indifferent attitude toward college teachers. The Secretary has allowed teachers of Guru Nanak Dev University to work from home but teachers of private colleges,” leaders said. The leaders also alleged that the Secretary, in order to delay the matter, had deliberately sent the file to the state Department of Home Affairs.“The representatives of the PCCTU have telephonically and via SMS requested the Higher Education Secretary to allow college teachers to work from home but he has turned a blind eye to their request. When the Education Minister has completely empathised with teachers, how the Higher Education Department can be so indifferent,” union members said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-up-in-arms-over-orders-to-attend-colleges-248664
06-05-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Man arrested for oxygen cylinder black marketing||Raikot, May 5An owner of a tyre shop at Sadhar was arrested today for allegedly hoarding and blak marketing of medical oxygen cylinders in the region.The Ludhiana (Rural) police recovered as many as 23 oxygen cylinders from him.Amid acute shortage of the live-saving essential commodity, the police said Somnath, a resident of Nai Abadi, Akalgarh, Sadhar, was found charging Rs 15,000 for one cylinder, which is usually sold for Rs 300 approximately.The accused was arrested after Balbir Singh, a resident of Toosa village, reported the same to the police.Ludhiana (Rural) SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal said the cops nabbed Somnath on Tuesday afternoon. The accused has been booked under Sections 420, 188 and 120B of the IPC; Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act and Section 51 of the National Disaster Management Act.The complainant had purchased two cylinders for the treatment of his relative. He said he paid Rs 15,000 for a large cylinder and Rs 11,000 for the small one.“The Covid patient was later shifted to a multispecialty hospital. I wanted to return the unused cylinder and get my money in return. However, Somnath refused to take the cylinder back, arguing that it had become scrap now,” the complainant said.The police said the accused used to get cylinders refilled from an oxygen plant at Focal Point through the portal meant for Covid Hospitals. “But instead of supplying the procured refills to eligible hospitals and healthcare centres, Somnath sold the cylinders illegaly,” the SSP added.Mullanpur Dakha DSP Gurbans Singh Bains said the police was yet to ascertain the identity of other accomplices, if any. “We will also verify if the gas meant for medical use was supplied for industrial purposes as well,” said the DSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-for-oxygen-cylinder-black-marketing-248665
06-05-2021||---||Couple brutally attacked over petty issue in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 5A couple was brutally attacked by three armed persons at Moti Bagh Colony yesterday night. The duo suffered serious injuries in the attack.The complainant, Ravinder Kumar, a jeweller by profession, said three brothers, who were staying in his neighbourhood, had attacked him and his wife with sharp weapons.“I suffered serious injuries on my head and other body parts while my wife also suffered serious injuries on her eyes. Afterwards, the trio fled the spot. Later, we were rushed to a hospital by local residents,” he said.Ravinder said recently he had constructed a speed bump in the street for the safety of children as a large number of vehicles pass from the street daily.The three brothers were against his decision. It might be the reason for the attack, the complainant alleged.Ravinder said a complaint was given to the Tibba police and they had assured to register a case against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/couple-brutally-attacked-over-petty-issue-in-ludhiana-248666
06-05-2021||---||Man, mother booked for dowry death in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 5After a woman committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her in-laws’ residence in Tibba, the Tibba police have registered a case of dowry death against the deceased’s husband and mother-in-law.The accused have been identified as Pankaj Arora and his mother Sunita Devi of New Puneet Nagar.Complainant Raj Rani, deceased’s mother, a resident of Delhi, told the police that in 2019 her daughter’s marriage was solemnised with the accused and this year, she gave birth to a baby girl.“After the birth of the girl, my daughter’s husband and mother-in-law started torturing her mentally and physically as they wanted a baby boy,” the complainant alleged.The deceased’s mother said since they started torturing her, she, along with her daughter, came to Delhi in March this year. On April 27, her husband came to Delhi and took her to Ludhiana. A few days ago, her daughter told her that her husband and mother-in-law again started torturing her and now, they were also demanding dowry. Unable to bear the torture, her daughter committed suicide yesterday.The deceased’s mother said her daughter committed suicide due to the harassment by her husband and mother in-law. Strict action should be taken against them.ASI Sukhdev Singh said a case of dowry death was registered against the accused and raids were being conducted to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-mother-booked-for-dowry-death-in-ludhiana-248667
06-05-2021||Harshraj Singh||Private bus operators in Ludhiana charge hefty fares from migrants||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 5Amid surge in Covid-19 cases and restrictions imposed by the government, many of the migrants are going back to their home states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Taking advantage of the situation, the private bus operators are not only charging hefty bus fares from these people but also carrying the passengers more than the permitted limit by ignoring social distancing norms. Several private buses are plying from Ludhiana to other states allegedly by breaking law.The Punjab government has directed the Transport Department that a number of passengers in buses be restricted to 50 per cent of the capacity. But, some of these private bus operators are allowing passengers even more than the total capacity.A number of migrants were seen at the Ludhiana Bus Stand on Wednesday, waiting to take buses to their respective states. A migrant, Rakesh Kumar, said, “I used to work as a waiter at marriage palaces. Now, I have no work. The restrictions have been imposed. I have no other source of income at present due to which it is difficult for me to stay here. I can’t even afford room rent without any job. I have to pay high fares to go back to my village in UP in a private bus.”The Bihar government has already announced lockdown in the state. But, a number of people with their families were seen waiting outside the bus stand in Ludhiana to catch buses to Bihar.Rajwinder of the Textile Hosiery Kaamgar Union said, “After new restrictions have been imposed, more migrants are going back to their home states, including UP and Bihar. The private bus operators are charging high fares from the passengers. It is the responsibility of the government to handle the situation and take action against those exploiting the migrants.”Earlier, Jaswinder Singh Grewal, general secretary of the Small Scale District Bus Operators Association, Punjab, had also sent a complaint to the Union ministry concerned against plying of private buses from Ludhiana to Delhi, Uttaranchal, UP and Bihar allegedly without permit and against the norms.An employee of the government bus service said, “Several private buses are illegally plying from Ludhiana to other states. These buses are not allowed to ply to other states but violations are being done by some private operators under the nose of the authorities concerned.”Despite repeated attempts, Secretary, Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Ludhiana, Sandeep Singh Garha could not be contacted for a comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/private-bus-operators-in-ludhiana-charge-hefty-fares-from-migrants-248668
06-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Shops selling non-essential goods continue to violate norms||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 5Despite complete restriction on the opening of shops selling non-essential goods, owners of such shops continue to sell goods by resorting to various tactics.Even the presence of the police on city roads fails to deter such violators.During a survey conducted in the city, it was noticed that although most of the shops selling non-essential goods were lying closed but shopkeepers or their employees could be seen roaming near the shops. Whenever any customer came, they quickly opened the shop and sold the goods to them.At some shops, shopkeepers had also kept their employees inside the shops. Whenever any customer came, the owner standing outside the shop took order from them and asked his employee to pack the order. He handed over the same to the customer by quickly opening the shop’s shutter.Some shopkeepers have also pasted their phone numbers outside their shops and any customer can call on these numbers. Goods are either being delivered to the customers at home or they can collect them from outside the shop.Even the liquor vends, which have been allowed to open till 5 pm, could be seen selling booze after that. Employees of vends remain inside the shop even after 5 pm and they deliver liquor to booze lovers through a small hole in the shutter. As per the rule, no employee can stay inside the shops during the lockdown period.As per the government orders, the shops selling essentials can remain open till 5 pm on all days, except for weekends. All other shops, however, must remain closed under the Punjab government’s orders until May 15. All non-essential shops and shops selling liquor, groceries and hardware must remain closed from 6 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday.Owners, staff roam near shopsDuring a survey conducted in the city, it was noticed that though most of the shops selling non-essential goods were lying closed but shopkeepers or their employees could be seen roaming near the shops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shops-selling-non-essential-goods-continue-to-violate-norms-248669
06-05-2021||---||Covid-19: 19 dead; 1,186 new cases in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 5Covid-19 claimed the lives of 19 more persons in the district during the past 24 hours. The Health Department has confirmed 1,186 fresh cases from Ludhiana and 109 from other districts or states today.Among those who tested positive in Ludhiana, 63 persons came in contact with positive patients, 109 visited OPDs, and 621 with influenza-like illness visited Flu Corner. Besides, 10 persons with a severe acute respiratory infection, two healthcare workers and one undertrial tested positive for the virus. The health department is yet to trace the remaining 290 positive patients.The department confirmed 26 deaths — 19 persons from Ludhiana, two from Barnala and one each from Sangrur, Patiala, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana.Those who died of the virus are a 44-year-old woman from Shimlapuri, 72-year-old man from Khanna, 50-year-old woman from Bhamian, 36-year-old man from Prem Nagar, 62-year-old woman from Shivji Nagar, 62-year-old woman from Shimlapuri, 57-year-old man from Miller Ganj, 51-year-old man from Dugri, 72-year-old man from Shivpuri, 60-year-old woman from Haibowal Kalan, 60-year-old man from Ludhiana, 78-year-old man from Kila Raipur, 65-year-old woman from Ludhiana,58-year-old man from Shimlapuri, 45-year-old man from Bharthla, 63-year-old woman from Dugri, 88-year-old man from Civil Lines, 83-year-old man from Haibowal Kalan and 62-year-old man from Jaspal Bangar.At present, there are 10,778 active cases in the district. According to the Health Department, 41 patients — 22 from Ludhiana and 19 from other districts —were on ventilator support.The Health Department has confirmed 61,321 Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana district and 8,586 cases in otherdistricts or states till date. A total of 1,470 persons from Ludhiana and 744 from other districts or states have died of the virus here to date.Situation turns grim: DCTerming that the Covid situation has turned grim and health infrastructure is severely strained in Ludhiana, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma urged people to don’t spoil the hard work of thousands of healthcare/frontline workers, working tirelessly to contain the virus by venturing out unnecessarily.Interacting with people of Ludhiana on the official Facebook page of the DPRO, Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said at present, 1,913 beds, including 526 level-III and 1,387 level-II, were filled in hospitals and the administration was going to start 100 beds in the CHC, Jawaddi, and Government Meritorious School soon.He said the administration was also planning to set up beds in hostels of Punjab Agriculture University if this trend remains the same in coming days.He said it was really sad that some people were still not following Covid appropriate behaviour properly which was leading to the fast spread of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-19-dead-1-186-new-cases-in-ludhiana-248670
06-05-2021||Harshraj Singh||Opt for NOTA next time, hosiery worker appeals to Ludhiana residents||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 5Amid the Covid-19 crisis in the country, a hosiery ‘worker’ is running a campaign, making an appeal to people to opt for NOTA (none of the above) option on EVMs in the next elections.He is worried as a number of Covid-19 infected people are dying everyday in the absence of timely treatment and oxygen in various parts of the country.Carrying a placard on his bicycle, 55-year-old Raghuveer Raju is visiting different locations in the city to appeal to people to opt for NOTA on EVM next time. The man, who has lost his job, has raised questions over the political system in the country.He blamed that the successive governments had ignored health facilities in the country due to which many people were dying without getting required treatment. He blamed the governments for the current crisis in the country.He said: “Whenever any election is held, workers of all parties set up booths and ask us to vote for the candidate of their respective party. When people are dying without getting oxygen and treatmentin various parts of the country, where are those party workers? Where are our elected councillors, MLAs and MPs.”“Poor people are suffering a lot but no government cares for them. There is a shortage of doctors, staff, and medical equipment at government hospitals,” he said.“After the first wave of Covid-19 hit the country, the Central and state governments had enough time to make required arrangements to handle the second wave but they failed to do the same. Instead of raising their voice to improve the health infrastructure, political parties remained busy in election preparations during the second wave. Now, several people have died due to lack of oxygen. We had elected leaders but they failed us. Hence, I am forced to run a campaign in support of NOTA.”“I have already lost my job. Many labourers are becoming jobless due to lockdown or restrictions. Even many of them don’t have the ESI insurance facility. We have the right to vote. If all people who have fed up with the system opt for the NOTA option, a lesson can be taught to all political parties,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/opt-for-nota-next-time-hosiery-worker-appeals-to-ludhiana-residents-248661
06-05-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district slips to 7th spot in vaccination in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 5Ludhiana, which was the first district in the state to launch vaccination at doorstep by holding mobile camps, has slipped from fourth to seventh spot in the per lakh Covid inoculation in the state.The data, compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that Ludhiana recorded 17,686 per lakh vaccination coverage till May 1, which was more than the state average of 14,691.Hussan Lal, Principal Health SecretaryWe have placed an order of 30 lakh doses of Covishield with SII and made an advance payment of Rs10.37 cr. However, no schedule for supply has so far been received. We have been told that availability of Covishield will be known in about four weeks.However, the inoculation speed came down from 1,36,172 per million vaccination coverage reported till April 14, which was way ahead than that time’s state average of 99,887.Mohali beat Pathankot to top the state with maximum 27,478 per lakh vaccination. Pathankot slipped to second slot with 22,178 coverage after remaining at the top with maximum 1,70,262 per million inoculation till April 14.Among other districts, Gurdaspur registered 21,026 per lakh inoculation, Jalandhar 20,724, Hoshiarpur 19,590, Kapurthala 15,133, Faridkot 14,139, Patiala 13,842, Amritsar 12,835, Tarn Taran 10,598, Barnala 9,878, Ropar 9,628, Muktsar 9,281, Fazilka 8,889, Bathinda 8,863, Moga 8,426, Fatehgarh Sahib 8,264, Ferozepur 8,122, Sangrur 7,445 and Mansa reported the lowest 6,869 per lakh vaccination coverage.According to the statistics, 1,77,793 healthcare workers have so far been given first dose, 98,701 second jab, 4,58,905 frontline workers first vaccine, 1,01,725 second shot, 23,80,435 above 45 years first injection and 2,43,877 have been inoculated with the second dose.The vaccine inventory till May 1 showed that the state had utilised 31,95,540 doses of Covishield from the total received stock of 33,46,500, and used 3,22,190 Covaxin doses from the total received stock of 3,34,080.Wait continues for below-45 age groupThe state government was yet to launch the vaccination of 18-44 age group, even five days after the Centre had allowed the inoculation of the population between 18 and 44 years.However, a few private facilities, which have procured the vaccine stock directly from the manufacturers, have started giving jabs to the below 45 age category.As per the Centre’s new policy on vaccination, the manufacturers were giving 50 per cent of the total vaccine production to the Union Government, while the rest half vaccine stock was being supplied to the state governments, private hospitals and the corporate sector. The manufacturers, which have been given liberty to decide the price, have quoted Rs 300 per dose of Covishield for the government supplies and Rs 600 for private sector, while Covaxin dose is priced at Rs 400 for government and Rs 1,200 for private facilities.Jab only at govt centres||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-slips-to-7th-spot-in-vaccination-in-punjab-248656
