08-05-2021||Lucknow||Delhi CM did theatrics over people fleeing lockdown, same in Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Saturday accused Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of "indulging in theatrics" over people moving out of the national capital because of the COVID-19 lockdown, and said the same was being seen in Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab.She demanded that vaccines should be administered for free to everyone, especially the poor, Dalits and tribals, and economic assistance should also be given to them.1. केवल हाथ जोड़कर दिल्ली के सीएम का यह कहना कि दिल्ली से लोग पलायन न करें, यही नाटक कोरोना के दौरान् पहले भी किया गया था। यह सब अब महाराष्ट्र, हरियाणा व पंजाब आदि राज्यों में भी देखने के लिए मिल रहा है। अब पंजाब में लुधियाना से भी लोग काफी पलायन कर रहे हैं, यह अति-दुःखद। 1/3  In a series of tweets in Hindi, the former Mayawati said, "The Delhi chief minister, with folded hands, urging people not to flee Delhi is a drama which was enacted during COVID-19 earlier. Now, the same is being seen in Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab. Many people from Ludhiana in Punjab are fleeing. This is extremely sad.""If these state governments generate confidence among the people that their needs will be fulfilled in time, then they would not flee. These state governments are indulging in varied theatrics to hide their failures. This is not hidden from anyone," she alleged. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/delhi-cm-did-theatrics-over-people-fleeing-lockdown-same-in-maharashtra-haryana-punjab-mayawati-249925
08-05-2021||Ludhiana||Bird flu cases found in Ludhiana, area in Kila Raipur village declared ‘infected zone’||The Department of Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Dairy Development on Friday declared the area near Suba Singh poultry farm in Kila Raipur village of Ludhiana as “infected zone” after cases of bird flu found there.This comes after the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases Lab, Bhopal declared Suba Singh poultry farm as positive for Avian Influenza (H5N8)."The National Institute of-High Security Animal Diseases lab, Bhopal has declared Suba Singh Poultry Farm, in Ludhiana district positive for H5N8 Avian Influenza. Therefore, exercising its power, the state government hereby notifies the following area as 'Infected Area' on account of confirmation of scheduled disease Avian Influenza (H5N8) among poultry birds," Additional Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Janjua said in a statement.However, the area around one kilometre from the epicentre of disease declared as "Infected Zone" while, 1-10 km area around it declared as a "Surveillance Zone".This means that no live or dead birds, unprocessed poultry meats, eggs, feed or any material/goods from the poultry farm shall be taken out of or brought into and no person shall bring or attempt to bring into market, Januja added while stating that the notification shall come into force with immediate effect. ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bird-flu-cases-found-in-ludhiana-area-in-kila-raipur-village-declared-infected-zone-249903
08-05-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Firm donates funeral van||6K old cylinders seized at dry portLudhiana: A team of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence on Friday seized nine containers having ‘banned’ products from dry port at Focal Point. The containers carried about 6,000 old cylinders and cut sheets for transformers, and were being transported under the garb of scrap. The officials confiscated the goods and these containers were brought by SRK Manufacturing Company, Khanna. The containers had come from Dubai. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/firm-donates-funeral-van-249878
08-05-2021||Ludhiana||Students celebrate Mother’s Day||Ram Lal Bhasin Public SchoolRam Lal Bhasin Public School, Dugri, conducted various competitions virtually to observe Mother’s Day. Students of Class I to V showcased their love for their mothers by making cards and handmade gifts while elementary students recited poems on relentless efforts made by mothers of fulfil everyone’s needs. TNSGreen Land Public SchoolTo celebrate the love between a mother and her child, Green Land Senior Secondary Public School organised various activities. Teachers, through video clippings, told students about the sacrifices and efforts made by mothers. Students of pre-nursery to Class II and Class VI to VIII showed their love and respect for their mothers through greeting cards. Students of Class III to V wrote love letters for their mothers while that of Class IX to XII participated in a baking activity. TNSSacred Soul Convent SchoolSacred Soul Convent Senior Secondary School, Dugri, Road celebrated Mother’s Day by organising various activities such as ‘Kesh sazza’ competition, ‘Nritya Tarang’ competition and a fashion show performance with their mothers. TNSRabindranath Tagore rememberedGreen Land Convent School, New Subhash Nagar, celebrated the birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore with zeal and enthusiasm. The school organised various competitions to instil in students love for poetry and develop recitation skills. Students were informed about the poems composed by Tagore. A special virtual morning assembly was also held, during which students spoke on his contribution in literature and India’s freedom, followed by a poetry-recitation competition for students of Class IX to XII. TNSAthletics Day observedTo promote sports and athletics among students, BVM, Kitchlu Nagar, observed World Athletics Day. Vinod Chauhan encouraged students to take up sports as an indispensable part of life for their harmonious development. Signifying the importance of sports, principal Neelam Mittar motivated students to practise healthy eating habits and keep physical fitness in check. TNSBVM, Udham Singh NagarTo spread awareness among students regarding the importance of fitness and boost their participation in athletics, World Athletics Day was celebrated at BVM, Udham Singh Nagar. Deepika, physical education instructor, sensitised students about the need of maintaining sound health for better living. She also acquainted students with the importance of physical exercise and indoor games in the current times of the pandemic. A special virtual class was also conducted for students of Class III to X, guiding them about the importance of athletics, teamwork and leadership for their physical and psychological growth. TNSBVM, Chandigarh RoadBVM, Chandigarh Road, organised a plethora of virtual activities to observe World Athletic Day. Head of the physical education department Sanjeev Kumar told students about the significance of the day. A virtual tour to world’s famous athletics stadiums was also held. TNSCounselling session for parentsBVM, Chandigarh Road, organised a virtual counselling session for students of Class XI and their parents. The session was conducted by class in-charges. Teachers discussed the importance of selecting the correct stream after Class X. Teachers of Class XI of science, commerce and humanities stream told students how their subjects played a vital role only in learner’s education and character building. Parents were encouraged to support the stream their kids will pick. They were also guided properly by the teachers. TNSEnglish Day observedAround 20 students virtually participated in English Day celebrations organised by MAC-Xavier’s Academy. Students presented their ideas on various topics through articles, poems, stories and songs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-celebrate-mothers-day-249879
08-05-2021||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) organised a webinar for the Progressive Beekeepers Association (PBKA). A total of 145 beekeepers attended the monthly webinar. Dr TS Riar||Beekeepers apprised 
of govt schemes||PAU Kisan Club holds webinar for membersA webinar was organised for the members of PAU Kisan Club, in which 145 farmers participated. The webinar was held under the guidance of Dr JS Mahal, director of Extension Education. Dr TS Riar, additional director (Communication), presented an overview of the activities of the club. Experts Dr Buta Singh Dhillon, Dr PS Shera and Dr Prathibha Vyas explained paddy sowing techniques, use of trichocards and use of bio-fertilisers, respectively. TNSFarmers informed about direct seeded riceThe Department of Extension Education of the university organised a webinar on “Direct seeded rice” under the guidance of Dr Kuldip Singh, head of the department, and Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director (Extension). Dr Kuldeep reiterated spoke on the importance of direct seeded rice and said transferring the DSR technology to farmers on a wider scale would help save water and labour cost. Dr MS Bhullar, head, Department of Agronomy, addressed the queries of participants and explained the details of sowing time, seed rate, soil condition, irrigation and weed control in direct seeded rice. Dr Manpreet Singh from the Department of Farm Machinery and Power Engineering shared his personal experiences, and demonstrated the working of machines and the method to convert domestically-available machines into DSR machines. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/beekeepers-apprised-of-govt-schemes-249882
08-05-2021||Ludhiana||Murder accused flees from jail||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/murder-accused-flees-from-jail-249883
08-05-2021||---||20 more succumb; 1,464 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 7As many as 1,464 persons tested positive for Covid, while 20 lost their lives to the virus in the district today.Those who tested positive included two healthcare workers and 358 are still untraceable. Six women and 14 men, belonging to various parts of the district, lost their lives.At present there are 11,212 active patients in the district. A total of 1,615 patients (1,465 new patients from Ludhiana district and 150 from other states/districts) tested positive in the last 24 hours.Till date, a total of 10,52,381 samples have been taken, out of which the reports of 10,52,006 samples have been received. As many as 9,79,200 samples were found negative, while reports of 375 samples are pending.The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 64,043, while 8,763 patients belong to other districts/states.He said unfortunately, 31 patients lost their lives today (20 from Ludhiana district, while one each from Sangrur, Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and five from Delhi). Now, the total number of persons who lost their lives to Covid is 1,509 from Ludhiana and 763 from other districts.Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist from the DMCH said heart patients should go in for vaccination and there was no need to stop the medicines they were taking. “Always wear a mask properly and maintain social distance,” said Dr Mohan.Today 8,726 persons were vaccinated at different government session sites in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20-more-succumb-1-464-test-positive-in-ludhiana-249866
08-05-2021||---||Vaccination sites see huge rush||Ludhiana, May 7Huge rush was witnessed at vaccination sites today. With vaccination going on at government centres only, people in large numbers are coming for getting the jab. Many are in a rush to get vaccinated before the stock finishes.People in a large number reached the Civil Surgeon’s office to get the jab. Left with no other option, doors of the hall area were closed and people were called one by one. Beneficiaries in a large number were seen outside waiting for their turn.“Things are getting worse and Ludhiana is severely hit by the virus. I thought this is the time that one should get vaccinated. But after coming here, I saw there was a huge rush and no norms regarding social distancing were being followed and people were jostling with each other to get inside the centre,” said Preeti, a city resident who returned without getting incolculated due to a huge rush.Another person at the site said he had been waiting for the past three hours but he was not yet vaccinated.“Firstly, I visited a few private hospitals but since there was no stock of vaccine, I came to the Civil Surgeon’s office only to find a large number of visitors. I will be lucky if I get vaccinated today,” said Parkash, a city resident.18-plus category waits for turnSome states have started vaccination of 18-44 years’ category but Punjab is yet to begin the same. Many youngsters are waiting to get themselves registered for the vaccination.“I am checking the portal every day but it always states: ‘No vaccination centre available for booking’. Hopefully, the registration is opened soon by the government,” said Harshita, an engineering student.District Immunisation Officer Puneet Juneja said the state government would decide on the starting of vaccination for 18-plus category and no orders in this regard had been received so far.Vaccination centres for todayOn Saturday, the first and second doses of Covishield will be administered to people aged 45 years and above only at Civil Hospital, Ludhiana; MCH Vardhman; Urban Primary Health Centre, Jawdi; Urban CHC, Civil Surgeon Office; Urban CHC, Subhash Nagar; Urban Primary Health Centre, Dholewal; Urban Primary Health Centre, Dugri; Model Gram dispensary, Old Krishna Mandir; ESI Model Hospital; Police Lines, Civil Lines; and Government Ayurvedic Hospital, Kochhar Market Road.Covaxin second dose only (12 noon to 2pm) will be administered at Civil Hospital, Ludhiana; MCH Vardhman UPHC, Sunet, and UPHC, Model Town (full day).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccination-sites-see-huge-rush-249867
08-05-2021||Nitin Jain||Second wave deadlier than first in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 7The second Covid wave, which has been rapidly sliding into a devastating crisis, has also turned out to be more deadly than the first one in Ludhiana district, if the official figures are any indication.The number of average daily virus deaths has touched 16 in the district this week, whereas the highest casualty count last year was 12.The data of trends, comparing first and second wave by the district administration, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that Ludhiana reported the highest-ever 16 daily average Covid deaths between April 26 and May 2. These casualties were confined to only the district residents whereas the virus deaths of those from outside Ludhiana, who died in the district, were not included in the tally.The much disturbing trend evident in the data was the exponential rise in the average daily Covid deaths, which doubled from eight between April 19 and 25 to 16 between April 26 and May 2.“If this trend continues, the situation, which has already turned grimmer, will become unimaginable,” quipped a health expert, Dr AP Singh.According to the official figures, the average daily virus deaths remained below five between December 28 last year and March 14 this year.The count remained five between March 15 and 28 before rising to seven between March 29 and April 4. It once again came down to five between April 5 and 18 before shooting up to eight between April 19 and 25.The comparative figures of the first wave showed that the daily average casualties due to the virus touched the highest tally of 12 between August 24-30 and September 14-20 last year.The district had reported nine average Covid deaths between August 3 and 9 last, 10 between August 10 and 23, 11 between September 7 and 13, before coming down to eight between September 21 and October 4.The count further dipped to four between October 5 and 11, three between October 12 and 18, touching the lowest level of one between October 19 and November 8 last.The death toll had again went up to two between November 9 and 15, three between November 16 and 29, two between November 30 and December 6, three between December 7 and 13, before once again sliding down to two between December 14 and 20 and once again hitting the low of one between December 21 and 27 last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/second-wave-deadlier-than-first-in-ludhiana-249868
08-05-2021||---||NHAI: Traffic black spots to be converted into white ones||Ludhiana, May 7 After the Ludhiana traffic police ACP Gurdev Singh penned a book on the Top 10 black spots in the industrial hub where maximum people lost their lives in road mishaps, a senior official of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) Sukhbir Singh Sandhu today visited the black spots. Sandhu assured to rectify all technical and infrastructural faults at the black spots and in coming few months, these would be converted into white spots. Tenders will be floated in June to start the work at these spots and the work will be completed in minimum possible time, the Chairman told the ACP. ACP (Traffic) said when he penned the book and submitted the same to the Police Commissioner, Ludhiana, the police wrote to the NHAI for immediate action. “Now, I hope the work to convert these black spots into white will start soon and it will decrease the rate of accidents at these points,” he added. Top 10 black spots in Ludhiana Sahnewal bridge, Eastman Cast, Dhandari bridge, Dhandari bus stop, Samrala Chowk, Tajpur Chowk, Basti Jodhewal, Jalandhar Bypass, Kailash Nagar crossing and Near Green Land School are the 10 black spots in the Ludhiana Commissionerate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nhai-traffic-black-spots-to-be-converted-into-white-ones-249869
08-05-2021||Ludhiana||2 peddlers held for smuggling banned drugs in ambulance||Two drug peddlers resorted to a novel way of smuggling. They bought an ambulance from some hospital in Malerkotla and started using the same to smuggle drugs. The anti-narcotics cell of the Ludhiana police nabbed the two smugglers, identified as Karamjit Singh Karma of Guru Govind Singh Nagar and Inderjit Singh Bittu of Shimlapuri. DCP (Investigation) SPS Dhindsa conducted an online press meet in this regard. The DCP said anti-narcotics cell in-charge Inspector Rajesh Kumar had got a tip-off that two smugglers using an ambulance was on the way to deliver the banned drugs worth lakhs. Accordingly, the police laid a naka on a road near Bhaini Sahib where after intercepting the ambulance, it was stopped for checking which led to the recovery of 1.33 lakh banned tablets. “The accused were aware that amid the pandemic, the ambulance is the only vehicle which the police hardly stop for checking,” the DCP said. During preliminary questioning, the accused said they were drivers by profession but due to the lockdown, they were not able to meet their daily expenses. Hence, they bought an ambulance from a hospital in Malerkotla for smuggling of drugs. The DCP revealed that they had to deliver the consignment of the banned drugs to Mani, a resident of GGS Nagar, and Amrit of New Kundan Puri. Raids were on to nab the other accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-peddlers-held-for-smuggling-banned-drugs-in-ambulance-249870
08-05-2021||Harshraj Singh
||Burning of waste on roadsides common scene in city||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 7 For burning of waste in open places, a fine of up to Rs 25,000 can be imposed. Despite this, the burning of dry leaves and waste is a common scene in various streets and plots in the city. The National Green Tribunal had earlier imposed a complete ban on the burning of waste in open places. However, the civic body is yet to ensure proper implementation of the orders. The residents are forced to suffer due to the burning of dry leaves and waste on roadsides and plots. Forty-year-old Rashpal Singh said, “My office is located on Daba Road and the burning of waste is a common thing in this area. Industrial waste, plastic and rubber items are openly burnt in vacant plots. Due to smoke emanating from burning waste, it is hard to breathe. Such unlawful practices should be strictly curbed.” Kapil Arora of the Council of Engineers, said, “A huge heap of waste was today put on fire in the Jawahar Nagar area. The people are forced to suffer due to such wrong practices. I have also complained to the civic body in this regard. The MC should take necessary steps to stop burning of waste in the city.” A few years ago, the MC had started a drive to issue challans against those who were found burning waste. But, the unlawful practice of burning waste is still going on unabatedly in the city. “The MC should conduct a special drive in all areas to create awareness among the people against the burning of waste. The civic body should ensure the implementation of the ban in the right manner and ensure the protection of the environment. Besides, the civic body and the PPCB should also act against the factories polluting the city,” said Satinderpal Singh of BRS Nagar. The burning of waste is also common at the MC’s landfill site near Kakka village. The residents of nearby areas are forced to suffer as smoke emanates due to the burning of waste. Health Officer, MC, Vipul Malhotra said a fine of Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000 could be imposed on those who burn the waste. “We are taking action against the violators,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/burning-of-waste-on-roadsides-common-scene-in-city-249871
08-05-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Education Dept ‘discriminating’ against us: Private schools||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 7Private schools managements in the city have alleged discrimination by the Education department towards them. The management committees of private schools say the Department is strengthening enrolment in government schools while tightening noose around the private ones.The management committees said no written guidelines on whether teachers could come to schools or not were received by them but in routine, teams of the Education Department visited schools to check and stop teachers from coming to schools.Government schoolteachers, on the other hand, have been reporting on duty and are visit door-to-door to enrol students.Principals of an aided private school near Samrala Chowk said teachers in government schools were going to schools, taking online classes, visiting door-to-door to encourage parents to enrol their kids in government school while private schools had been subjected to restrictions.“The Education Department is acting smart. It has not issued any guidelines in writing but at the same time, is not allowing our teaching and non-teaching staff to enter school premises. The Department also sends their teams to check whether teachers have come to the school or not. If the Department wants to provide best education to children, they should let us perform as well. Why is the Department misusing their powers?” said the principal.Voicing similar views, Harmit Kaur, Nankana Public School principal, said rules should be equal for both government and private schools. “If 50 per cent strength of teachers is allowed in government schools, why are teachers in private schools being asked not to come? Why the Education Department teams are visiting only private schools to check the attendance of the teaching and the non-teaching staff?” the principal said.DEO Lakhvir Singh, said it had come to the notice of the Department that the teaching and the non-teaching staff of private schools were reporting to the campus, and that is why, teams were constituted to keep private schools in check.He added that he had no authority to comment anything else and if private schools had any problem, they could send representation to higher authorities in the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/education-dept-discriminating-against-us-private-schools-249872
08-05-2021||---||Councillor raises questions over road quality in Giaspura||Ludhiana, May 7 Councillor from Ward 30 Jaspal Singh Giaspura has raised questions over the quality of recently recarpeted 33-Feet Road in Giaspura. He alleged the road work was done in a poor manner. He demanded that the civic body must collect samples of road material for testing at the earliest. He also demanded from the civic body authorities to direct the officials concerned to ensure that road must be re-carpeted once again as per the norms. The councillor, who is associated with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), said: “The road recarpeting work was done in a poor manner in March this year. It was recarpeted in a hurry by ignoring quality. I had then raised the matter but the officials concerned had ignored my voice. Now, potholes have started appearing on the stretch. Also, a portion of the road near the temple was not recarpeted by the contractor that time.” He said: “A number of manholes have been covered with bitumen. It was the responsibility of the civic body to ensure correction of the level of manholes. Even after passing of over one month, the level of manholes was not corrected. Besides, roads gullies at some points have not been constructed.” He has demanded from the civic body to take action and make sure that the road should be re-carpted again in a right manner. A resident said: “The civic body authorities should collect samples of road material. If any violation is found, exemplary action should be taken against those who are responsible for the poor work. We pay taxes and the public money should not go waste.” Denying the allegations, SDO Rakesh Singla said: “The road work was done in a proper manner. There is no complaint regarding potholes as our staff have inspected the stretch. Besides, a small portion on the road was not carpeted due to a water-leakage problem.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/councillor-raises-questions-over-road-quality-in-giaspura-249873
08-05-2021||Kuldip Bhatia
||GLADA issued notice for delay in construction of rail overbridge||Ludhiana, May 7 The rail overbridge on the Ludhiana-Dhuri section on Dhandra Road could soon see the light of the day with intervention of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which has issued a notice of motion to GLADA on a petition filed for early and time-bound completion of the project. The construction of the bridge was hanging fire for over four years now due to a standoff between the construction wing of Northern Railway and GLADA. The double Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli has issued a notice of motion to the state of Punjab and other respondents, including GLADA and Northern Railway, which would come up for hearing next on May 18. The petitioner submitted before the high court that Northern Railway authorities had decided to construct the Dhuri line rail overbridge on deposit basis and accordingly, GLADA had deposited a sum of Rs 21,84,34,848 on April 4, 2019. The HC was also intimated by the petitioner that as per information received by him from Railways, the proposal of delinking of funds deposited by GLADA for the Dhuri line rail overbridge from other arrears of ‘way leave and land lease charges’ had been conditionally approved by the competent authority subject to the written time bound assurance be received from the government of Punjab for submission of these pending charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glada-issued-notice-for-delay-in-construction-of-rail-overbridge-249874
08-05-2021||---||Management of livestock vital during summer, says vet||Ludhiana, May 7 “Stress, due to rise in temperature, lowers the feed intake, production and reproductive efficiency of dairy animals,” said Dr Parkash Singh Brar, director, Extension Education, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), while speaking on the importance of proper management of livestock during summer. He added that proper livestock management was also important to lower economic losses to farmers. “Adequate housing management, water availability, alterations in timings of feeding and feed formulation can help to lower the affects of thermal stress,” he said. “Buffaloes having fewer sweat glands and are more prone to heat stress. Depending on the availability of facilities at farm, buffaloes should be allowed to wallow in ponds or given showers or water splashes three to four times a day,” said Dr Brar. The expert added that farmers should ensure that dairy animals were taking adequate intake of clean fresh drinking water as it helped to lower production losses to a great extent. “Sheds should also be well ventilated, with the top of roof painted white or covered with thatch. On the boundary of the farm, shady trees should be planted to make the premises cooler,” Dr Brar said. “At big commercial farms, number of animals must be kept according to the space available, otherwise, higher animal density would lead to more heat stress as well. Fans, water coolers and foggers are also quite helpful during extreme hot days,” he said, adding that dairy animals, especially buffaloes, show heat signs during early morning or late evening and hence, heat detection and inseminations should be done during these cool hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/management-of-livestock-vital-during-summer-says-vet-249875
08-05-2021||Legal Correspondent
||Judges, judicial staff get jab||Ludhiana, May 7 The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) today organised a Covid-19 vaccination camp for judges, judicial staff, paralegal volunteers and lawyers under the supervision of CJM-cum-DLSA secretary PS Kaleka. Kaleka said it was the second camp held on the directions of the District and Sessions Judge in which as many as 180 got vaccinated against Covid. In the previous camp, 170 persons were benefitted. He said vaccination was the only way to break the transmission chain of the virus and appealed to all entitled to come forward and get inoculated at the earliest. He also asked people to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 protocols. A team from the Civil Surgeon’s office, including Dr Sonal Arora, Guriqbal Singh, Rajandeep Kaur and Surinder Kaur, was present during the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/judges-judicial-staff-get-jab-249876
08-05-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab CM comes to aid of 10-year-old selling socks to support family||A video of a 10-year-old school dropout selling socks on Ludhiana streets to support his family of seven moved many on social media, including Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who announced state aid to fund his education.The chief minister went on to say Rs two lakh would be given as immediate assistance to the boy’s family.This comes after Vansh Singh was seen in the video, which has been viewed by millions and shared widely, refusing to accept Rs 50 over and above the cost of socks he sold to a customer.MOVED BY SOCKS SELLER BOY'S PLIGHT, PUNJAB CM ANNOUNCES GOVT. SUPPORT FOR HIS EDUCATION, RS 2 LAKH AID FOR FAMILY pic.twitter.com/YzBST5g7nzMoved by the gesture, Singh spoke to the boy and his family on a video call on Friday, and said he was impressed by his self-esteem and dignity.The chief minister then directed the Ludhiana deputy commissioner to ensure that Vansh Singh goes back to school, saying all expenses for his education would be borne by the state government, an official statement said here.Vansh Singh’s father, Paramjit, is a sock seller too and his mother, Rani, a homemaker.He has three sisters and an elder brother, and the family lives in a rented accommodation in the Haibowal locality. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-cm-comes-to-aid-of-10-year-old-selling-socks-to-support-family-249562
