09-05-2021||Ludhiana||Traders urge govt to end curbs, stage stir||Shopkeepers and vendors of the Jamalpur area and members of a few labour unions staged a protest on Chandigarh Road against curfew and other restrictions. They demanded the government to end the restrictions so that they can work and generate income to meet their daily needs.The protest was joined by the Karkhana Mazdoor Union, Textile and Hosiery Kaamgar Union and Lok Ekta Sangathan. The protestors alleged that due to the restrictions, they have suffered huge losses.“The labourers, shopkeepers and vendors among others who suffered losses due to these restrictions and curfew should be given compensation at the earliest”, said Lakhwinder of Karkhana Mazdoor Union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/traders-urge-govt-to-end-curbs-stage-stir-250214
09-05-2021||Harshraj Singh||Plan to shift dairies hangs fire; untreated waste pollute Buddha Nullah||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 8Even months after the inauguration of the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project, a plan to shift the diaries outside the MC’s jurisdiction is hanging fire. These dairies, located along the Buddha Nullah, have been polluting the drain for decades.A huge amount of untreated waste from dairy complexes on Tajpur Road and Hambran Road is still being dumped in the Buddha Nullah. Many of the dairy owners have installed pipes to dump the dairy waste directly in the drain. It is not clear when the issues related to these dairies would be resolved.The untreated sewage, untreated waste from dyeing units and electroplating units, untreated dairy waste and solid waste are the major sources of pollution in the Buddha Nullah, which further pollutes the Sutlej.Col JS Gill, a member of the Buddha Nullah Task Force, said these dairies should be shifted outside the MC’s limit as untreated waste from these units was released into the Buddha Nullah.He said, “The government should allow the change of land use (CLU) at existing dairy complexes land as per the demand of the dairy owners. The authorities concerned should find out a piece of land outside the MC’s limit for shifting the dairies. The issue of dairies should be resolved at the earliest to make the Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah project successful.”In 2020, a high-powered committee was formed to take a decision on the dairy complexes. The panel had then made a proposal to shift the dairies to Gorsian Kadar Baksh village. However, the village panchayat and villagers had refused to give the village land for setting up dairies.A few other plans were earlier also made to sort out the issue in the past. A plan was also made to set up an effluent treatment plant at Tajpur Road dairy complex but the plant was not set up.In September 2020, MLA from Ludhiana East Sanjay Talwar had raised a demand that the committee should make it clear within 15 days whether these dairies would be shifted outside the MC’s jurisdiction or not.DS Oberoi of Tajpur Road Dairy Complex said, “If the government sets up a biogas plant at the existing dairy complex on Tajpur Road, it would also be better for us. If dairies are to be shifted, we want that the government should find out land within the radius of 10 km from the city limit so that the dairy owners don’t face inconvenience. The dairies should not be shifted to Gorsian Kadar Baksh village that is located around 33 km away from the city and we have also rejected this proposal.”“In 2012, a plan was also made to shift the dairies outside the Municipal Corporation’s jurisdiction. We had then requested the authorities concerned to shift the dairies to Dhanansu village but to no avail. The dairies should be shifted to a place that is located near the city,” he added.There are two dairy complexes in the city, one is Haibowal Dairy complex spread in around 179 acres of land and second is located in around 45 acres of land on Tajpur Road in Ludhiana, as per a report prepared by the Municipal Corporation.There are thousands of head of cattle at these dairy complexes. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said they would discuss the matter regarding shifting of dairies in the upcoming meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/plan-to-shift-dairies-hangs-fire-untreated-waste-pollute-buddha-nullah-250215
09-05-2021||---||Servant, aides booked for robbery attempt||Ludhiana, May 8The police have booked a servant and his unidentified accomplices for attempt to commit robbery. The servant was employed just two days back by a businessman family at Sarabha Nagar. The alertness of the 12-year-old son of the houseowner made the servant and his aides to flee.Gaurav Sharma, owner of the house, said on Thursday late night, their servant Dinesh served turmeric milk to family members. He and his mother, Shanta Devi, fell unconscious after drinking the milk while his son and wife started vomiting.“Our servant then opened the main gate and three of his armed aides entered the house. My son then raised alarm and locality people gathered and servant along with aides fled without looting anything,” the owner told the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/servant-aides-booked-for-robbery-attempt-250216
09-05-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Fire safety goes for toss at LIT, pollution board||Ludhiana, May 8The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has neglected fire-safety norms at premises by failing to replace outdated fire extinguishers with new ones.Arvind Sharma, secretary, Council of RTI Activists, filed a complaint with additional chief secretary of the local government and director of the local bodies. In the complaint, he alleged that fire extinguishers hanging outside the offices of the Acting Superintending Engineer (SE) and the Executive Officer (EO) of the LIT have gone past expiry date for more than three months now but the officials have not bothered replace them with new ones.Sharma said there had been several fire tragedies in the city, more often than not, due to lapse on the part of owners or occupants of industrial, commercial and administrative complexes, and non-observance of fire-safety norms.“The fire office of the Municipal Corporation also washes its hands off the responsibility to periodically check proper maintenance of fire-safety measures once the NoC is issued to a public building, and seldom is inspection carried out to ensure that fire-fighting equipment installed in such buildings is operational,” said the complainant.Sharma has demanded that directions be issued to the Municipal Fire Brigade to inspect fire-safety preparedness at all public buildings occasionally and take action as per the law where lapses were found.It is not only the LIT office where fire-safety norms have gone for a toss. The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) office in Focal Point is also among the defaulters.In a similar complaint lodged with the PPCB chairman, president of the Social Awareness Society Gajjan Singh Jassal has said fire extinguishers outside the offices of a Superintending Engineer and an Executive Engineer of the PPCB has gone past its expiry date for more than six months now.The complainant emphasised that fire-safety norms should be strictly followed in government offices and autonomous institutions and those flouting these measures should be punished accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fire-safety-goes-for-toss-at-lit-pollution-board-250217
09-05-2021||Shivani Bhakoo
||Work at native villages reason for going back, say migrants||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 8 Amid the rising Covid cases in the country, with the government advising people to stay home to curb the spread of the virus, a large migrant population can be seen at railway stations and bus stops to go back to their native villages in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Ludhiana Tribune spoke to a number of migrants who said they were going back to their villages not out of fear of the pandemic but because they had other commitments at home. They said they were also paying higher fare prices for the same. Ashok, who works at a hosiery unit in Industrial Area A, said he and his family would leave for his village in Bihar on May 11. He added: “Covid is not the reason. It has been over two years since I have gone back to my village and want to visit my parents.” When asked if the visit could be delayed, he said: “All our fellow migrants are travelling. They did not catch the infection. We will also be careful. Work and other commitments cannot be delayed due to Covid.” He added that he was paying Rs 300 extra per ticket. A similar story is that of Guriya’s, whose mother has already left for Uttar Pradesh with her siblings, cited construction of a room in their village home as the reason for going back. Guriya added her mother also had gone to find a suitable match for her. When she was also asked if it was risky to travel amid the rise in Covid cases, she said: “Nothing will happen to us as Covid is the disease of rich people.” Another pair of migrants, Kamlesh and her son, work at a crockery house in Ghumar Mandi and have just returned from Uttar Pradesh. Kamlesh said he had gone home to collect the payment of the harvested crop, adding: “I was missing my grand-daughter and my elder son was also getting married. Arrangements had to be made in the village.” When the migrants were asked if they had received the vaccination jab, all of them denied and said they were in no hurry to get the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/work-at-native-villages-reason-for-going-back-say-migrants-250218
09-05-2021||---||Civil Surgeon urges residents to avail online OPD services||Ludhiana, May 8A team from the mass media wing of the Health Department made people aware about the integrated telemedicine solution — e-Sanjeevani online OPD — by visiting various crowded areas of the city.Attendees were briefed in detail about the service launched by the state government. Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill said under the e-Sanjeevani OPD service, specialist doctors were providing free online consultation services to residents.“Doctors are providing complete information about the medicines to be used in the treatment of a patient’s illness, along with the diet to be followed during the course of the treatment,” the Civil Surgeon said.She added that the service could also be availed by downloading the e-Sanjeevani app.Doctors can be consulted from Monday to Saturday from 8 am to 2 pm.“This facility is proving to be very useful for pregnant women, patients suffering from depression, elderly patients, and patients with chronic diseases and co-morbidities. In order to avail the online OPD service, one has to log on to portal www.esanjeevaniopd.in,” Dr Gill added.Patients can also register if they don’t have a login ID. They have to add their personal information and phone number on the app, after which an OTP will be sent to their number. The patient will receive medical advice according to the token number received and an e-prescription will be sent to him/her, which can be downloaded to get medicine.Dr Gill said this service was launched in 2020 so that health facilities and health officials were not overburdened and crowding could be avoided at hospitals. She appealed to people to avail maximum benefits of this service in view of the alarming Covid-19 situation.How to registerPatients can register on the app if they do not have a login ID. They have to add their personal information and phone number on the app, after which an OTP will be sent to their number. The patient will receive medical advice according to the token number received on the app and an e-prescription will be sent to him/her, whichcan be downloaded to buy medicines from a nearby pharmacy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civil-surgeon-urges-residents-to-avail-online-opd-services-250220
09-05-2021||---||60 Level-II beds set up at community health centre||Ludhiana, May 8The district administration has set up 60 Level-II beds at Community Health Centre (CHC) at Jawaddi to contain the second wave of Covid-19.Municipal councillor Mamta Ashu and SDM (West) Amrinder Singh Malhi inspected the facility and directed the officials to run the facility with utmost care.Municipal councillor Mamta Ashu said the facility had the necessary infrastructure and that was why it is being utilised for the treatment of Level-II Covid patients to reduce the load on the other hospitals. This would also help hospitals to convert their Level-II beds to ICU beds, he added.A team of doctors and healthcare staff has been deputed in this hospital, where 3 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment.SDM Malhi said if residents were not able to secure a bed for their patient, they could visit this facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/60-level-ii-beds-set-up-at-community-health-centre-250221
09-05-2021||Lovleen Bains||Shops closed at Doraha despite kisan unions’ call to defy orders||Doraha, May 8Shopkeepers at Doraha today gave a cold shoulder to the call given by various kisan organisations to open shops and protest against the decision of lockdown restrictions.“We cannot go against official orders. Defying lockdown orders is not only illegal but also unethical. When the administration is leaving no stone unturned to curb the spread of the virus, we cannot disregard their efforts,” said a shopkeeper.“We stand in solidarity with the farming community but had their protest been thoughtfully planned, the execution would have been better. We should not be selfish as the Covid situation is grim. We have to be united to fight the war against coronavirus. Frontline workers are working day-in and day-out to flatten the curve. It is our duty to stand by them and help them than to create problems for them,” added another shopkeeper.“Shopkeepers have certain issues related to the opening and closing timings of the shops, which can be discussed with the administration officials. Opening shops forcibly and going against the official orders is wrong and we cannot supportsuch a call,” expressed another shopkeeper.“Moreover, we are in no position to pay the fine we would have to bear by opening our shops against lockdown orders. We are already facing a financial crunch,” shopkeepers collectively said.The president of the All India Traders’ Union, Bobby Tiwari, said: “No shop was opened today. We have to go as per the orders of the administration as we cannot afford to fight against life.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shops-closed-at-doraha-despite-kisan-unions-call-to-defy-orders-250222
09-05-2021||Ludhiana||9 stolen mobiles recovered, 2 held||17-year-old girl kidnapped, rapedLudhiana: A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped after being kidnapped from her house at Rorh village in Ludhiana. The accused has been identified as Gagan, a resident of Phagwara. The victim’s father said on May 2, her daughter was found unconscious at Government Primary School in the village. She was immediately rushed to the Civil Hospital for treatment. After regaining consciousness, the victim said on May 2, when she was alone at home, the accused knocked the door. The moment she opened it, he stormed into the house and forcibly took her at the nearby government school, where he raped her. The girl had alleged that accused also threatened her not to reveal anything else she will have to bear the dire consequences. The police have booked the accused. Investigation officer ASI Balbir Singh said that raids were being conducted to nab the accused. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/9-stolen-mobiles-recovered-2-held-250228
09-05-2021||Ludhiana||Arya College shines in B.Com Sem-V||B.Com Semester-III resultsStudents of Arya College made the college proud by excelling in B.Com Semester-III examinations. Meha Maggo stood first in the college be scoring 96.5 per cent. Harleen bagged second position with 93.83 per cent, followed by Riya with 93 per cent. TNSArya College for GirlsStudents of Arya College for Girls excelled in of B.Com Semester-III examinations. Megha Sharma secured first position with 96.5 per cent, Mehak stood second with 95.5 per cent and Sheenam Gupta bagged third position with 94.5 per cent. TNSKamla Lohtia SD CollegeStudents of Kamla Lohtia SD College have performed excellently in B.Com Semester-III examinations. Pankush Kumar secured first position in the college by scoring 92.17 per cent, followed by Prabal Sharma with 91.5 per cent. Nitin Kaushal and Sarbjeet Singh shared the third position with 91.33 per cent. TNSGNDEC annual fest commencesThe annual tech fest of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College commenced on Saturday virtually. The theme of the fest, i-GNEz 2021, this year is “Space to infinity”. Dr Arvind Dhingra, faculty coordinator of the fest, said to keep the youth engaged, the online event was conceived. The inaugural function was streamed live on YouTube. Ravi Garg, CEO, Master Soft Solutions and an alumnus of the college, was the guest of honour for the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/arya-college-shines-in-b-com-sem-v-250229
09-05-2021||Harshraj Singh||Civic body floats tenders to hire firm for waste collection||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 8Finally, the Municipal Corporation has started the process to hire a new firm for the collection and transportation of waste from secondary collection points to the processing plant at the main garbage dump site in Jamalpur near Kakka village. The civic body has also floated tenders for the same.The successful firm will have to ensure the collection of segregated waste from 43 designated secondary collection points to the waste processing plant. The technical bids will be opened on May 20.Notably, the MC’s waste processing plant is not functional. At present, the task of garbage collection and transport is being carried out by a private firm on a temporary basis that was earlier working for the A2Z group. The questions were earlier raised by the opposition parties as to why the civic body is not hiring a new firm.The MC, however, is yet to take the necessary steps to resume the functioning of the waste processing plant.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said, “The tenders have been floated to hire a new firm for collection and transport of segregated waste from the secondary collection points in the city to the waste processing plant. We will soon float tenders to hire a firm to run the waste processing plant also.”Around 1100 MT solid waste is generated daily in 95 wards of the city. The residents are demanding from the civic body to remove the open garbage dumps located in residential areas or near markets in the city.As the huge heaps of old waste which look like mountains have come up at the main garbage dump/landfill site near Kakka village, the residents of nearby areas are also suffering a lot. “We are forced to suffer due to foul smell emanating from the waste at the main garbage dump. The issue must be resolved on a priority basis as thousands of people living in the areas near the main dump are a harried lot,” said a resident of Kakka village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-floats-tenders-to-hire-firm-for-waste-collection-250208
09-05-2021||Manav Mander||Demand for oxygen concentrators rises||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 8Amid rising cases in the second wave of Covid-19, people have started purchasing oxygen concentrators fearing shortage of medical oxygen. The rise in demand has led to hike in the prices.GS Grover, general secretary, Ludhiana District Chemist Association, said the demand of oxygen concentrators had increased suddenly as people have started buying these and keeping them at home in case of emergency.“Presently, we are out of stock and not a single piece is available with us,” he said.With increase in demand, prices have also increased. Oxygen concentrator with five litre capacity is more in demand. Earlier, it was available between Rs40,000-Rs50,000 but now is being sold anything between Rs70,000-Rs80,000.A retailer in Civil Lines said he is daily getting 10-12 queries about oxygen concentrators. The supply is coming less but the demand is sky rocketing. “Last year people were hoarding sanitisers, gloves and masks and this year they are storing medical oxygen, concentrators, nebulisers, steamers etc”.Harish Kalra, a city resident, who recently bought an oxygen concentrators by paying a huge amount said his son is asthmatic and fearing any shortage in near future he bought it for any unforeseen situation.“We do not know what is in store for us in the future. Today, resources are available and we are not sure about the situation tomorrow, so I thought it was better to buy now,” said Kalra.Dr Amit Gulrez, Deputy Medical Superintendent, Christian Medical College and Hospital, said oxygen concentrator was earlier also used for patients with respiratory problems but suddenly it has come to limelight due to Covid.“It can be helpful to the patients during the initial days but if the condition deteriorated the patient will have to go to the hospital for medical aid and supervision. It is not a wonder equipment for coming out of covid,” said Dr Gulrez.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/demand-for-oxygen-concentrators-rises-250210
09-05-2021||---||19 dead; 1,223 test positive in Ludhiana dustrict||Ludhiana, May 8As many as 1,223 persons from the district tested positive, while 19 lost their lives to the virus today. Total number of positive cases till now has reached 65,266, while 1,528 have lost their lives since March 2020.Today, 3,240 persons were vaccinated at different government vaccination sites in the district.Patients on ventilator support were 50 — 33 belonging to Ludhiana and 17 to other districts.The active cases in the district were 11,368, while 9,920 samples were collected from the district.Those who tested positive include five healthcare workers and one pre-operative case, while 258 are still untraceable.Nine men and 10 women, belonging to various parts of the district, lost their lives.Meanwhile, for controlling the spread of Covid, Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, Dr Kiran Gill said, “Testing is very important for early detection. If testing is done at an initial stage then we can control the spread of the virus. On the other hand, vaccination is important to make the immune system strong. These both things are need of the hour and the Health Department is working on it day and night.”She added, “Testing at an early stage will also decrease the death rate. People hesitate to go for early testing, which leads to severity of the disease in such persons and they are also responsible for its spread unknowingly. So, if testing is done whenever one has the onset of symptoms or comes into contact with an infected person then required treatment can be given to the patient at correct time and further spread of the disease can be stopped.”She urged people to follow the guidelines of the Punjab Government strictly. “Always wear mask properly, wash your hands frequently, maintain social distancing and avoid going outside unnecessarily,” she said. She also appealed that a self-imposed lockdown can be helpful in breaking the chain.Vaccination scheduleThe second dose of Covaxin (for 45 plus age group only) would be administered at:The first and second doses of Covidshield (for 45 plus age group only) will be administered at:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/19-dead-1-223-test-positive-in-ludhiana-dustrict-250211
09-05-2021||Nitin Jain||Doubling rate of cases continues to dip, still better than first peak||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 8Even as the second Covid wave continues to rapidly slide into a devastating crisis with exponential rise in daily cases and deaths, the district’s doubling rate was still less than the first peak of the pandemic witnessed here last year.While the number of days required for the number of cases to double was dipping drastically and touched the lowest of 30.98 days this week, it was still much better than the first peak’s worst doubling rate of 17.28 days recorded in the district between August 10 and 16 last year.The analysis of comparative trends done by the district administration, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that the doubling rate has dipped almost six times in two months from 175.44 days between March 1 and 7 to 30.98 days between April 26 and May 2.This worrisome slide makes it evident that the rate of cumulative increase in the number of Covid cases was leading to uncontrolled exponential growth of the virus in Ludhiana, which has once again assumed the dubious distinction of Covid capital of Punjab.The official data showed that the doubling time had touched its all-time best of 579.2 days between January 11 and 17 after which it started sliding continuously to 487.19 between January 18 and 24, 443.09 between January 25 and 31, and once again improving to 499.74 between February 1 and 7.OfficialspeakWe have imposed stricter restrictions, including extension of curfew duration to 17 hours between 12 noon and 5 am on weekdays, besides continuing with the complete weekend lockdown from 12 noon on Friday to 5 am every Monday. The aim is to break the chain of virus spread and this can only be achieved if the public follows the restrictions religiously and exercise Covid appropriate behaviour. —Varinder Kumar Sharma, Deputy CommissionerThereafter, the crude estimate of the current rate of spread of the virus kept falling to 439.63 days between February 8 and 14; 370.04 between February 15 and 21; 269.66 between February 22 and 28; 175.44 between March 1 and 7; 129.83 between March 8 and 14; and touching the double figure of 74.6 days between March 15 and 21; 57.17 between March 22 and 28, 65.01 between March 29 and April 4; 60.28 between April 5 and 11; 48.07 between April 12 and 18; 33.56 between April 19 and 25 and touching this year’s minimum time to double the cases in 30.98 days between April 26 and May 2.Comparatively, the doubling rate, which was at its lowest of 17.28 days so far between August 10 and 16 in 2020, had risen to 32.44 between August 17 and 23 before falling to 29.25 between August 24 and 30; 28.83 between August 31 and September 6 and once again started rising to 29.98 between September 7 and 13; 66.68 between September 14 and 20; 85.41 between September 21 and 27; 151.26 September 28 and October 4; 184.71 between October 12 and 18; 257.32 between October 19 and 25, to 268.43 between October 26 and November 1.The Covid spread had started increasing once again last year when the cases had begun doubling in 223.17 days between November 2 and 8; 171.43 between November 9 and 15; 162.8 between November 16 and 22; 157.08 between November 23 and 29 and reaching 153.22 days between November 30 and December 6.The situation had once again started improving last year when the doubling rate improved considerably to 237.85 between December 7 and 13; 270.47 between December 14 and 20 and touching the last year’s best tally of 441.69 days between December 21 and 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doubling-rate-of-cases-continues-to-dip-still-better-than-first-peak-250212
