10-05-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana reports record 46 COVID deaths||Ludhiana reported 46 COVID deaths in the last 24 hours, health officials said—the highest deaths reported since the pandemic began last March.The number includes 30 locals. Of the rest, 4 were from Fatehgarh Sahib, 3 from Delhi, 2 from Sangrur, and 1 each from Chandigarh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Mansa, Moga, and Barnala.This takes the district’s total deaths since the pandemic began to 2,382, including 1,580 locals.The district’s CFR rate stands at 2.31 per cent.Ludhiana also reported 1,595 COVID cases. The district now has 11,518 active cases.Some 1,376 people are hospitalised and critical.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-reports-record-46-covid-deaths-250832
10-05-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Encroachments, alterations continue at MC market||Ludhiana, May 9Illegal extension and alteration of standard design — a violation of building bylaws as well as terms and conditions of allotment and encroachments in corridor meant for the movement of people — have become a routine in the RR Bhardwaj Municipal Corporation (MC) market on Gill Road here.More often than not, field staff and supervisory officials of the building branch (Zone C) of the Municipal Corporation either fail to take notice of these blatant violations or issue notices to allottees without any further follow-up action.Simranpal Singh Kalsi, a city-based social activist and president of the Social Welfare and Public Awareness Society, in a complaint to the Principal Secretary, Local Government Department, Punjab, has said all booths in the market were constructed as per the approved layout and standard design.“However, many allottees had made illegal extensions and had raised more floors over booths even though they did not have right to the roofs as per terms and conditions of allotment letters,” he alleged.According to Kalsi, many booth owners were carrying out illegal extension and violation of standard design in the name of urgent repairs while, in fact, they were remodeling and extending the booths. Not only this, a majority of the owners had encroached upon corridors (open space) left in front of the booths for public movement.“Corridors have been encroached upon by putting street furniture of merchandise. Also, at several places cemented structures have been built while some other allottees had extended their booths to completely cover the corridors, which are the property of the MC,” Kalsi said.Maintaining that collusion of MC staff of the C-zone of building branch in these violations could not be ruled out, the complainant has sought stern action against defaulting allottees and negligent employees/officials of the MC for their failure to check encroachments, illegal alteration of standard design and extensions carried out in booths. MC officials said some allottees had sought permission to repair roofs of booths which had been permitted. However, action as per law would be taken against encroachments, extension or alteration of standard design, if any found in the market, they asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/encroachments-alterations-continue-at-mc-market-250491
10-05-2021||---||22 dead, 1,729 infected in biggest single-day surge in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 9Today, in a highest single-day surge, 1,729 tested positive for Covid in the past 24 hours and the district also saw the highest death toll in a single day as 22 persons lost their lives today.Till evening, 54 patients were on ventilator support of which 41 belong to Ludhiana and 13 were from other districts admitted to Ludhiana. Active cases from the district today reached 12,047. The case fatality rate of Ludhiana is 2.31 per cent. Total number of positive patients from Ludhiana have now reached 66,995 while 1,550 have succumbed to the virus.Those who lost their lives today include nine men and 13 women. The deceased belonged to various urban and rural areas of Ludhiana.Today, 198 positive patients from the district were admitted to government hospitals while 1,164 were admitted to private hospitals.A total of 10,063 samples for Covid testing were collected and sent for testing while reports of 452 are awaited.Civil Surgeon Kiran Gill has appealed to people to stay at home, frequently wash their hands, maintain social distancing and wear mask. She said these tough times would end soon with the cooperation of all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/22-dead-1-729-infected-in-biggest-single-day-surge-in-ludhiana-250492
10-05-2021||Manav Mander||18+ vax drive: Labourers to get 1st dose||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 9The Covid vaccination drive for the 18-44 years age group will kickstart in the district on Monday. The district has received 16,800 doses. In the first phase, construction workers, who are registered with the Labour Department, will be vaccinated while others will have to wait. The online registration has not started yet.District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said from Monday, the vaccination for the age group of 18-44 years will be started.“In the first phase, construction workers who are registered with the Labour Department will be vaccinated. Camps will be arranged by the department while staff and vaccine will be provided by us,” said Dr Juneja.Vaccination scheduleCentres for the administration of the first and second doses of Covidshield (45 plus category only)All CHC in rural areas Centres for the administration of the second dose of Covaxin (45 plus only)n Urban PHC, Sunetn Urban PHC, Model Townn MCH, Vardhmann Civil Hospital, Ludhianan SDH, KhannaHe said for the 18-44 years’ category people who were at high risk would be vaccinated first. The government would sending the guidelines and vaccination would be done according to that.Meanwhile, online registration for vaccination has not yet started for any category yet.“At present, the vaccination is being done after registering people on the spot till the online system starts,” he said.Meanwhile, people are daily checking the sites for online registration for vaccination but for the 45 plus category all the sites are being shown as ‘booked’ and for the 18 plus category the site shows message ‘No vaccination site is available for booking’.Jasmine, a 20-year-old city resident, said she is daily checking the site but it had still not opened for booking for the 18 plus category. “Even my parents got themselves registered on the spot as no booking was available online. I hope the vaccination starts soon,” she said.Manroop, another city resident, said many of his friends who live in Delhi and Mumbai have got themselves vaccinated. “I hope the vaccination starts soon in Ludhiana for the 18 plus category as the virus is affecting everyone,” he said.Meanwhile, many people are facing a tough time after vaccination has been discontinued at private hospitals. “People are making rounds of the hospital and waiting for the vaccine to arrive. We have been telling them to go to government centres but they are still hoping against hope for the stock to arrive at private hospital from where they got their first dose,” said a doctor.Today, 6,933 persons were vaccinated in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/18-vax-drive-labourers-to-get-1st-dose-250493
10-05-2021||---||11,500 litres of lahan destroyed||Ludhiana, May 9Surprise raids conducted by the Anti-Smuggling Cell and the Excise Department at villages near Sutlej led to the recovery of 11,500 litres of lahan (raw material for distillation of illicit liquor), which was destroyed by the police.Yashpal Sharma, in-charge of the cell, said first raid was conducted along with the officials of the Excise Department at Bholewal Jadid village where the distillery was seized.Besides recovering 6,500 litres of lahan, 55 bottles of illicit liquor, drums, water tanks, pipes and some other stuff require to make illicit liquor was also seized.The police said it was a kind of ‘mini-illegal distillery’ that was found running with pipes laid underground to drain the waste material generated after distillation of illicit liquor.Smugglers identified as Sandeep Singh Babbu of Bholewal village and Paramjit Singh Panna managed to give the slip to the police.Another raid was conducted near Bholewal Jadid village from where 5,000 litres of lahan, drums, pipes, etc, were seized. Charanjit Singh was arrested from the spot while accused Sukhwinder Singh fled the spot. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/11-500-litres-of-lahan-destroyed-250494
10-05-2021||Ludhiana||Thieves decamp with garments worth lakhs from factory||Miscreants targeted a garment factory at Basti Jodhewal and took away garments worth lakhs. Vijay Rai of the Bahadurke road area, owner of the factory, Your Merchandise, told the police that he owns a factory where he manufactures T-shirts, besides other items. On the intervening night of May 3-4,  thieves entered the factory by breaking open its main locks. After barging into the factory, they decamped with 700 boxes of T-shirts and each box contained 12 shirts. Owner said CCTV cameras were also installed at each nook and corner of the factory but thieves took away the DVR also. Besides T-shirts, the thieves also took away some electronic goods and other valuables. ASI Vijay Kumar said to get any clue about the thieves,  CCTV cameras of the nearby factories were being checked. A case had been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-decamp-with-garments-worth-lakhs-from-factory-250495
10-05-2021||---||22-year-old killed in hit-and-run||Ludhiana, May 9A 22-year-old girl was killed by a speedy and rashly driven truck near the Sutlej at Ladhowal here.The deceased has been identified as Baljit Kaur, a resident of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar.The complainant, Amarjit Singh, told the Ladhowal police that on May 8, he, along with his niece, was heading towards Ludhiana city.“When we reached the Sutlej bridge, a truck rammed into our motorcycle from the rear side. The collision was so intense that I fell on the other side of the road while my niece was crushed by the truck. Since I also suffered injuries in the accident, I failed to note down the registration number of the truck. The truck driver, along with the vehicle, fled the spot after the incident,” the deceased’s uncle added.The complainant said he had also raised an alarm and requested the passers-by to catch the truck driver but to no avail.Investigating officer ASI Parshotam Lal said a case of negligent driving under Section 304-A of the IPC had been registered against the accused and CCTV cameras installed on the highway were being checked to identify the truck and its driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/22-year-old-killed-in-hit-and-run-250496
10-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Cyber criminals target Covid patients’ families in garb of providing succour||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 9Cyber criminals are all out to target people seeking help related to Covid-19. On their radar are people in need of oxygen, beds or Covid-related medicines.After the country’s cyber security agency raised an alert, the police have urged people to stay vigilant and avoid any such communication with cyber criminals.There are numerous reports of fraudulent text messages sent to victims’ phones, bearing the names of official authorities or electronic financial transaction applications which request the victims to click on links to update their data. On clicking, it allows fraudsters to misappropriate money from the victims’ bank accounts.A police official said cyber criminals can also make a call after sending text message on the pretext that he or she has been in close contact with a person infected with Covid-19 and ask the recipient to click on the link to comply with the precautionary measures or update the data connected to the financial application.In this way, fraudsters manage to steal confidential information from victims and data on their mobile phones, access their bank accounts and misappropriate funds from them. The money is either transferred to other bank accounts or withdrawn from ATMs.Sharing the incident, a city based resident said, “My brother was Covid positive and got treated at a government facility. A few days later I got a text message on my mobile phone and the caller said click on the link to comply with the Covid related precautionary measures as one of your family member was Covid positive. Immediately, I also got a call and the caller said he is speaking on government behalf and government is sending Covid injection for all family members. He asked me to click on the link to get enrolled.” He added that since he had seen the police awareness message about such frauds on social media, he didn’t click on the link. He said he had shared about his brother’s recovery from Covid on social media and it could be possible that fraudsters took his mobile number from there.Additional DCP (Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said in such crisis, people should remain vigilant as cyber criminals may call to extend help related to Covid. She added that cyber criminals keep searching data on social media to get detail about the persons putting posts related to any Covid help etc.ADCP said avoid opening text messages received from unknown senders/persons and be cautious while sharing your mobile number or personal details on social media for getting Covid related help.Inspector Pawan Kumar, in-charge, Cyber City 1, said, “We are probing these cases, and are trying to identify the criminals and the place from where they are operating. We will soon bust the racket.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cyber-criminals-target-covid-patients-families-in-garb-of-providing-succour-250497
10-05-2021||Ludhiana||Murder accused who fled nailed||The Daba police today nabbed a murder accused, Harwinder Singh Lalli of Lohara. He had fled from the Daba police lock-up on the intervening night of May 6 and 7. He, along with two of his aides, Gurmeet Singh and Tejram, had killed a youth on April 28 in Giaspura. The accused had killed the victim while attempting to snatch a mobile phone from him. The police said a tip-off was received that the accused was hiding at some place at Mojowal village, near Nangal Dam, in Rupnagar. Later, the police conducted a raid in coordination with the Rupnagar police and nabbed him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/murder-accused-who-fled-nailed-250498
10-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Violators argue with cops over Covid curbs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 9Despite the weekend lockdown, the city saw significant rush of people on roads. The police had to set up nakas at the each nook and corner of the city to catch the violators.Many commuters were seen arguing with cops when they were stopped for checking at the nakas.On Saturday afternoon, Kotwali SHO Harjit Singh had set up a naka at Clock Tower. Cops stopped a i20 car for checking in which four persons were travelling. When cops told them that a challan would be issued as only two persons were allowed to travel in a car, they started arguing with the police. They did not stop arguing even in the presence of ACP Waryam Singh.“How can police challan us as we were going to get us vaccinated and getting vaccinated is also an emergency. Cops are harassing us. We all were wearing mask and following the Covid norms. See our Aadhar cards, we are not lying,” said a man.SHO Harjit said occupants misbehaved with cops on duty without any logic and fail to provide any curfew pass or permission.The police registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC against Jasmit Singh alias Harry, a resident of Hargobind Nagar.Police officials said this was not the first case. Most commuters, who were stopped, tried to pressurise the cops on duty and indulged in arguments.Meanwhile, most shopkeepers followed the weekend curfew timings and closed their shops before 12 noon. The police were also seen on roads asking a few shopkeepers to close their shops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/violators-argue-with-cops-over-covid-curbs-250499
10-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||MCPI(U) opposes fresh guidelines||Doraha, May 9 The state committee of Marxist Communist Party of India (United) organised a virtual meeting to discuss the present situation in the country. Pawan Kumar Kaushal, secretary, Punjab State Committee of MCPI(U), said neither the Centre nor the state government is coming out with any concrete solution to solve the Covid crisis. People are dying in the absence of any proper health aid. Already due to the weekend lockdown, the public was facing difficulties and problems in their day to day lives. The recent directions of the District Magistrate have increased their difficulties manifold. Normal life will be only from 5 am to 12 noon, just for 7 hours which will deeply hit small traders, shopkeepers and other vulnerable poor sections of society and already shattered bankrupt economy of the state the members felt. Members of the MCPI(U) strongly opposing the fresh directions. They expressed solidarity with the protesting traders, shopkeepers, farmers, workers and  other vulnerable sections of society and appealed to the people to follow the guidelines issued by the Health Department from time to time.  Prem Singh Bhangu, Sukhdev Singh, Joginder Singh, Balkrishan, Pawan Kumar kaushal, Malkit Sing, Zora Singh, Hakam Singh Manana, Gurprit Nastik, Pawan Sogalpur,Iqbal Singh Mandauli participated in the virtual meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mcpiu-opposes-fresh-guidelines-250500
10-05-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||2 pairs of Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi, 18 other trains suspended||Ludhiana, May 9Due to persistent low occupancy in elite Shatabdi Express trains in the wake of spurt in Covid cases in, Vande Bharat and a few other long route trains have been suspended.Northern Railway authorities have announced indefinite suspension of two pairs (02013/14 and 02029/30) of the New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express, one pair (22439/40) of the New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Vande Bharat Express and nine pairs of other long-route trains catering to the needs of travelers in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir.Norhern Railway officials said both pairs of the New Delhi-Ludhiana-Amritsar Shatabdi Express, along with the pair of the New Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat, would suspend operations from May 9 till further notice.Among other trains to remain suspended from May 9 include 02265/66 Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Jammu Tawi Duronto Special Express, 02445/46 New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Festival Special Express, 02461/62 New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Shri Shakti Express, 04605/06 Rishikesh-Jammu Tawi Special Express, 04609/10 Rishikesh-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Hemkunt Express, 04639/40 Ferozepur-SAS Nagar (Mohali) Express, 02751/52 Nanded-Jammu Tawi Humsafar Express, 09415/16 Ahmedabad-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Special Express and 02919/20 Dr Ambedkar Nagar-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Malwa Express.Meanwhile, Rajesh Aggrawal, Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur division, said passengers travelling out of Punjab should get themselves tested for Covid-19 while for the incoming passengers, a negative report was already mandatory as per the latest guidelines of the state government.All passengers on railway platforms and on board the train must strictly follow all guidelines to curb the spread of coronavirus. Wearing face mask, maintaining social distance, use of sanitisers and frequent washing of hands is mandatory on railway platforms, the DRM added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-pairs-of-delhi-amritsar-shatabdi-18-other-trains-suspended-250501
10-05-2021||Partly cloudy||FORECAST||Max 38Min 23Yesterday'sMax 37Min 22Sunset on Monday: 7:11 pmSunrise on Tuesday: 5:34 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/forecast-250502
10-05-2021||---||Construction waste mgmt plant to be set up soon||Ludhiana, May 9A plant for the management of construction and demolition (C&D) waste will be set up at Dhandari Kalan soon under the Smart City mission. Ludhiana Smart City Limited officials are waiting for approval from the government as bids for the project have already been received.In the absence of any such plant, the construction and demolition waste is being dumped on roadsides and vacant plots in the city, causing inconvenience to the public. Heaps of such construction waste can be seen in a few green belt areas of the city.The waste generated during demolition drives, conducted by the civic body, is also dumped along the Buddha Nullah and at other locations.A resident of Chandigarh Road, Jagjeet Singh, said: “It is a common practice in the city as the construction and demolition waste is being dumped on vacant plots. Such practices should be stopped at the earliest. The MC and other authorities concerned should take necessary steps at the earliest. There is a dire need to set up a waste management plant. Moreover, the waste can be reused for various purposes.”The MC had been planning to set up a plant for the management of construction and demolition (C&D) waste in the city for a long time. The project was later shifted under the Smart City mission. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had also visited Jodhpur to study the functioning of the C&D waste management plant last year.An official said after getting the approval from the higher authorities, the work order would be issued to the successful bidder to start construction of the plant at the earliest. The estimated cost of the plant would be around Rs 12 crore, as per information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/construction-waste-mgmt-plant-to-be-set-up-soon-250503
10-05-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Self-discipline, busting myths vital to fight virus||The half-day curfew imposed in the city is a great initiative of the administration as it would help to break the chain of the second wave of Covid-19 to a great extent. People should take the guidelines seriously and step out of their houses only in cases of emergency. It is also very important to keep the vaccination drive going as in the long run, it is the only solution.Amarpreet KaurGovt should not make tall claimsIt is unfortunate to witness the grave situation created by the second wave of coronavirus. Tall claims of government regarding stocks of vaccines, availability of beds, ventilators and medicines have proven to be false. The residents were also at fault to assume that the virus has died and Covid guidelines were disrespected. To keep the third wave in control, it is important to follow social distancing and wear face mask. To fight this disease, people should cooperate with each other and go out only in cases of emergency.JBS NandaStay indoors, eat balanced dietMany people are dying due to lack of medical facilities, hospital beds, essential medicines and shortage of oxygen during the second surge of coronavirus. Number of single-day deaths are mounting and so are the positive cases. In this time of hour, it becomes our prime responsibility to fight together to put a curb on the spread of the viurs. People should religiously follow all Covid guidelines and regulations. Stay indoors to break the chain. To keep oneself healthy go fight the virus, people should exercise at homes and eat balanced diet.Farzana KhanFollowing guidelines responsibility of allThe second wave of Covid-19 has created a panic among public. People who are traveling for work purposes right now, should quarantine themselves for a week to check for symptoms. Imposing a lockdown is a good decision by the administration but workers and labourers, who earn on a daily basis, should be helped by the government. Following Covid guidelines is the responsibility of each and every citizen. But there are some policies of the government which have been poorly designed such as opening of liquor shops and forceful closure of other shops.Ritu PriyaVaccination is the only way forwardThe second wave of the coronavirus is a do or die situation. In the interest of the lives of our loves ones, we all should religiously stick to Covid guidelines issued by the administration. We all should take basic precautions and avoid crowding at all costs. Those who still haven’t enrolled for receiving the vaccination, should do so at the earliest as getting vaccinated will help the body in fighting the deadly virus.Dr Sunil ChopraKeep elderly & kids in isolationThe coronavirus situation in the country is becoming worse with every passing day. There is also a shortage of health officials to tend to patients. It is important to keep the elderly and small kids isolated at all times. It is also necessary to be human first and reach out to those who need help. The governments should also make sure that there is enough vaccine stock so that everyone can receive the jab as soon as possible.Mohd Saleem FarooquiImpose partial lockdown to keep economy stableTo break the chain of the second wave of coronavirus, lockdown imposition should be strictly obeyed. People should stay inside their homes and come out for only necessary chores. Lockdown should also be imposed in the manner that it should not affect the economy. Therefore, partial lockdowns for specified hours during the day or night is a better alternative. Large gatherings of people should also be kept in check. To ensure that all guidelines are followed, people must be repeatedly reminded through press and social media.Gautam DevSecond wave pushed health infra to limitsThe second wave cf Coronavirus has pshed the health infrastructure in the country to its limits. Hospitals are running out of beds and majority of Covid patients are dying because of short supplies of oxygen. If the health infrastructure is not improved, the situation will become even worse. We all should follow the guidelines issued by the police department and local administration. Staying inside our homes is very important.Navjot SinghBe human, reach out to those in needThe second wave of Covid-19 is bringing the worst in people. Some people have resorted to black marketeering of essential medicines and oxygen cylinders. This has led to families of people in genuine need of the essentials anxious and concerned. At such times, it is important to reach out to those in need. People should get vaccinated as soon as possible. The government should also ensure maximum establishment of oxygen plants and punish those indulging in black marketeering.Bimalpreet KaurTake action against people without maskThe Covid situation will improve only when we become more careful about sanitisation, wearing face mask and following social distancing. If somebody is already suffering from asthma or other respiratory diseases, he/she should practise double masking while going out. Avoid crowds wherever possible. If a family is visiting a patient in the hospital, they should wear PPE kits. Traffic police on duty should also behave strictly with seen without face mask.Simranjeet kaurOur safety is in our handsThe second wave of Covid became severe because people thought the virus has died down and the situation had come back to normal. There is still a group of people who think that Covid is not dangerous. We should follow all guidelines directed by government and doctors. Our safety is in our hands. We should wear face masks, stay home and properly sanitise essential products we bring home.Harshita KhullarBusting myths part of fighting CovidAs the world scrambles to monitor and contain the COVID-19 outbreak, drug companies are racing to develop or repurpose treatments to combat the potential pandemic. The death toll continues to climb. Providing accurate information and busting myths is also part of fighting the virus. Ensuring that vital supplies reach frontline health workers should be the priority of the government.VakitaContinue practising social distancing at public placesWe must continue the practice of physical distancing, handwashing and wearing face mask. Stay in touch with local health authorities who can provide correct information on the virus. It is important to invest money on health check-ups and insurance.Varun ChauhanNot the time to be inhuman towards those in needThe second wave of coronavirus is more and the circumstances are turning out to be more hazardous as many have hoarded oxygen cylinders and other medicines to be sold at black market. This is not the time to selfish and inhuman. Help those in need.Mohit VermaWearing face mask must be priorityWearing face mask must be our first priority. The practice of sanitising items brought from outside should be followed. It is important to get vaccinated to boost our immunity against the virus. The idiom “Precaution is better than cure” must be religiously obeyed.Yashika ThakurFix days to buy essential commoditiesIt is true that the Covid situation has become very alarming but at the same time, we have to admit that majority of people in markets and streets are not following Covid guidelines. Families should fix days to go out and get essential commodities. Avoid meeting relatives and friends. It is extremely imperative to aware public regularly about the guidelines and punish those who disobey them.Bir Devinder Singh BediPunish medical shops indulging in malpracticeLockdown is not the only solution. The government should also take more serious actions and make an example out of those who disobey lockdown restrictions. Making people aware about the benefits of getting vaccinated is imperative to fighting the virus. Licences of medical shops indulging in malpractices should be cancelled.Gurleen KaurOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONAs the second Covid wave continues to rapidly evolve into a devastating crisis, the Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner has imposed stricter restrictions, including daily 17-hour curfew and complete lockdown on weekends. Will this help check the further spread of the virus or what else needs to be done for public safety? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/self-discipline-busting-myths-vital-to-fight-virus-250504
10-05-2021||Our Correspondent||MCPI(U) opposes fresh guidelines||Doraha, May 9The state committee of Marxist Communist Party of India (United) organised a virtual meeting to discuss the present situation in the country. Pawan Kumar Kaushal, secretary, Punjab State Committee of MCPI(U), said neither the Centre nor the state government is coming out with any concrete solution to solve the Covid crisis.People are dying in the absence of any proper health aid. Already due to the weekend lockdown, the public was facing difficulties and problems in their day to day lives. The recent directions of the District Magistrate have increased their difficulties manifold. Normal life will be only from 5 am to 12 noon, just for 7 hours which will deeply hit small traders, shopkeepers and other vulnerable poor sections of society and already shattered bankrupt economy of the state the members felt.Members of the MCPI(U) strongly opposing the fresh directions.They expressed solidarity with the protesting traders, shopkeepers, farmers, workers and other vulnerable sections of society and appealed to the people to follow the guidelines issued by the Health Department from time to time. Prem Singh Bhangu, Sukhdev Singh, Joginder Singh, Balkrishan, Pawan Kumar kaushal, Malkit Sing, Zora Singh, Hakam Singh Manana, Gurprit Nastik, Pawan Sogalpur,Iqbal Singh Mandauli participated in the virtual meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mcpiu-opposes-fresh-guidelines-250505
