11-05-2021||Ludhiana||Highest-ever spike in death toll, 30 succumb in Ludhiana||The district breached all its previous records as 30 persons lost their lives to Covid in 24 hours. This is the highest death toll since the outbreak of Covid. The total death count from Ludhiana district today reached 1,580. As many as 1,470 persons tested positive for Covid.As many as 19 women and 11 men, belonging to different parts of the district, lost their lives.As many as 56 persons — 41 belonging to Ludhiana and 15 to other districts —were on ventilator support.A total of 10,79,669 samples were taken, out of which reports of 10,79,259 samples have been received. As many as 10,01,640 samples were found negative, while reports of 410 samples are pending.Civil Surgeon Kiran Gill said as per the latest directions of the Deputy Commissioner, curfew would be in place from Monday to Friday from 12 noon to 5 am the next day and there would be a complete curfew from Friday 12 noon to Monday 5 am. Only certain essential services and activities are allowed during the curfew.She added that no government wanted to close its state or territory but in this difficult time, the Deputy Commissioner had decided to impose curfew, which was the best decision for the safety of the people.“When people stay indoors, the rate of spread of the virus is definitely lower. The main purpose of the curfew is to break the chain of coronavirus so that no one comes in contact with an infected person, thus breaking the chain of transmission of the virus from one infected person to another,” said Dr Gill.High drama at hospital over Covid deathsA high drama was witnessed outside a private hospital in Model Town after families of two deceased Covid patients alleged shortage of oxygen in the hospital, due to which they lost their family members. A fake video also went viral which claimed death of five Covid patients due to shortage of oxygen.Immediately acting upon this, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma sent a team to the hospital to take stock of the situation. On reaching there, everything was found in place and the hospital had ample stock of oxygen cylinders as well.After this, Deputy Commissioner went live on Facebook on the official page of the DPRO, Ludhiana, and clarified that the news about the death of five Covid patients was completely baseless and fake.“No patient has died due to a shortage of life-saving gas. These deaths have been reported due to Covid-19,” said the DC.The Deputy Commissioner said the private hospital mentioned in the fake news on social media was receiving 150 oxygen cylinders daily and it had sufficient stock of the life-saving gas even now.He made it clear that there was no oxygen shortage at all in Ludhiana, despite rise in the Level-III patients.He appealed to the people to not pay heed to rumours and ordered the Commissioner of Police to take strict action against those spreading such false news and creating nuisance and fear among the people during such sensitive times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/highest-ever-spike-in-death-toll-30-succumb-in-ludhiana-251109
11-05-2021||Ludhiana||Daily test sampling doubles in 2nd wave||As the second Covid wave has been ringing alarm bells with daily cases and deaths touching new high, the district administration has ramped up the sampling to test, trace and treat the virus patients in Ludhiana.The sampling touched a record high of 8,594 in a week between April 19 and 25, which was almost double than the highest of 4,810 samples collected during the first wave in the district between September 14 and 20.The analysis of comparative data done by the district administration, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that after touching a high of 8,594 samples, the district collected 7,840 samples between April 26 and May 2.The sampling gradually rose from 1,927 between December 28 and January 3 to 2,239 between January 4 and 10; 1,988 between January 11 and 17; 2,009 between January 18 and 24; 2,053 between January 25 and 31; 1,961 between February 1 and 7; 2,405 between February 8 and 14; 2,397 between February 15 and 21; 2,502 between February 22 and 28; 3,736 between March 1 and 7; 3,830 between March 8 and 14; 3,761 between March 15 and 21; 4,848 between March 22 and 28; 4,103 between March 29 and April 4; 4,457 between April 5 and 11; and touching 6,865 between April 12 and 18.Comparatively, the sampling had begun from 925 between August 3 and 9 last year to go up to 1,826 between August 10 and 16; 3,018 between August 17 and 23; 3,893 between August 24 and 30; 4,005 between August 31 and September 6; 4,720 between September 7 and 13; before touching the peak at 4,810 between September 14 and 20.Thereafter, the sampling kept falling to 4,598 between September 21 and 27; 4,068 between September 28 and October 4; 4,319 between October 5 and 11; 3,865 between October 12 and 18; 3,384 between October 19 and 25; 2,438 between October 26 and November 1; 1,955 between November 2 and 8; 1,969 between November 9 and 15; 2,170 between November 16 and 22; before rising to 3,272 between November 23 and 29 and once again decreasing to 3,121 between November 30 and December 6; 2,775 between December 7 and 13; 2,496 between December 14 and 20: and 2,165 between December 21 and 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/daily-test-sampling-doubles-in-2nd-wave-251110
11-05-2021||Ludhiana||Man dies as bike rams into tractor-trailer||Ravinder Gaus (35), who was riding a Bajaj Platina motorcycle (bearing registration no. PB 91C 8153), rammed into a speeding tractor-trailer when the tractor driver suddenly applied breaks in front of the Shimlapuri branch of the State Bank of India on Gill Road here late on Sunday evening. The victim sustained multiple injuries and died on the spot.In a complaint to the police, Babu Gaus, father of the deceased and a resident of Preet Nagar in Shimlapuri, said the tractor-trailer was being driven at a high speed and Ravinder was behind the vehicle when it stopped, after which the motorcycle rammed into the vehicle.The police said the driver of the tractor-trailer had been identified as Rahul, a resident of Lohara Colony, and a case under Sections 279, 427 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against him. However, no arrest had been made so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-dies-as-bike-rams-into-tractor-trailer-251111
11-05-2021||Our CorrespondentLudhiana||GLADA’s mega  e-auction begins||A mega e-auction of 56 commercial sites and 14 residential plots in various schemes of the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) commenced at 9 am today. It will continue till 1 pm on May 21.While all the commercial sites put together carry a total reserve price of Rs 109.1 crore, the residential plots have a combined floor price of Rs 8.5 crore.Even though the real estate market remained southwards due to economy shrunken by Covid-induced lockdown since last more than one year, but GLADA has gone ahead with making an offer for sale through e-auction of sites, which include a premium chunk of land on Ferozepur Road (a national highway) with a total reserve price of little more than Rs 53.00 crore, and another school site in Sector 33 on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh road with a floor price upward of Rs 1.61 crore.As per the offer document, other commercial sites to be sold through e-auction include six shop-cum-offices (SCOs) in Phase II and III, Dugri, three SCOs in pocket 1 and pocket 2 in Old Jail Road Market, five shop-cum-flats (SCFs) in Phase II, Dugri, 11 SCFs in Phase III, Dugri (opposite Army Flats), and five SCFs in Sector 39 (opposite Sacred Heart School).Among other commercial sites to go under the hammer are nine booths in Phase II, Dugri, four booths in Phase II, Dugri, Bypass Road, six booths in Sector 39 (opposite Sacred Heart School) and five shops in Old Jail Road Market.In addition to commercial sites, GLADA has also made an offer for five residential plots (100 and 125 sq yds each) in Phase II, Dugri, and nine plots of varying sizes (from 200 to 427 sq yds) in Sector 39-A on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh road here.Intending bidders would have to deposit an eligibility fee of Rs 3 lakh or 2 per cent, whichever is higher for SCOs, SCFs, chunk of land and school site, Rs 1 lakh for booths and shops and Rs2 lakh for residential plots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gladas-mega-e-auction-begins-251112
11-05-2021||Tribune reportersLudhiana||Lockdown violations continue; 8 FIRs lodged, 3 held||Though the police had built up immense pressure for effective implementation of the weekend lockdown and daily curfew, violations of prohibitory orders continued, albeit a few, from various parts of the city.On Sunday, the police lodged eight FIRs under Sections 188, IPC, while in a few others, Section 269, IPC, and relevant Section of the Disaster Management Act were also invoked. Three persons were arrested and six others were booked for lockdown and curfew violations.The police said among those arrested for keeping their shops and commercial establishments open during the weekend lockdown were a dhaba owner, Anees Ahmad, from near Basant Park and two others, Gama Sahni of Tilak Bayania village, and Sita Ram, a resident of Tareni village, both in Uttar Pradesh, for loading migrant passengers in a bus (bearing a Uttar Pradesh registration number) for ferrying them to various destinations in UP.Among those booked for violations were Bhola, owner of Malwa Chicken near Girja Ghar Chowk, Harnek Singh, a meat seller in Islam Ganj, Chintu, a fruit vendor in Field Ganj, Rohit Katna, a vegetable seller in Ahata Sher Jang, owner of Aman Chicken near Hero Bakery Chowk on Pakhowal Road and Dalip Saini, a fish seller on Tajpur Road.Four temporary jails set up in cityDeputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Varinder Kumar Sharma has notified four sites as temporary jails in the city to lodge people who would be found violating curfew imposed to contain Covid-19.The District Magistrate said the temporary jails had been set up at New SD School on Bahadurke Road, indoor stadium on Pakhowal Road, Guru Nanak Stadium and Valmiki Bhawan in Moti Nagar.He said these sites would become functional as temporary jails and violators would be detained in the open jails.He said ADCPs Pragya Jain, Jaskaranjit Singh Teja, Sameer Verma and Rupinder Kaur Saran had been appointed as superintendents of these jails.He said people who would be seen roaming around the city without any reason would be rounded up and detained in open jails.Notably, the daily curfew is imposed from Monday to Friday from 12 noon to 5 am. On these five days, relaxations from the daily curfew for all categories of shops, private offices and establishments will be between 5 am to 12 noon. The weekend curfew will be from 12 noon on Friday to 5 am on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lockdown-violations-continue-8-firs-lodged-3-held-251113
11-05-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC floats tenders to reconstruct century-old bridge||About a decade after an old bridge over the Buddha Nullah was declared unsafe, the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, has finally floated tenders for its reconstruction. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 5.84 crore while the project is supposed to be completed within one year once the work order is issued to a successful bidder.The bridge, located on Old GT Road, near Chand Cinema, was closed for all kind of vehicles, except two-wheelers, over three months ago while it was earlier closed for heavy vehicles in 2018. The bridge is said to be over 100 years old and it was declared ‘unsafe’ by an engineer of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College here in 2011, as per information.The bridge was damaged from different points while a number of bricks have fallen from it on the road, with commuters passing underneath it. Its safety walls were also in a dilapidated condition.MLA Rakesh Pandey had also raised the matter before the MC to reconstruct the bridge. Since its closure for cars and heavy vehicles, the traffic (from the Jalandhar bypass side towards Clock Tower) has been diverted through a nearby bridge.A Congress leader had given a written complaint to the then MC Commissioner in 2014 about the poor condition of the bridge and demanded to take immediate steps in this regard but to no avail.In 2016, MC’s Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) had given nod for consultancy for the redesigning of the bridge but the project was delayed again. In 2017 and 2018, officials kept making claims that the bridge would be reconstructed soon. In July 2019, the soil-testing work was started for preparing the design for the reconstruction of the bridge.In January 2021, MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal had ordered officials to get the design finalised from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College.A resident, Gaganpreet Singh, said: “The bridge is in a bad condition which is visible. It is a good move if it is reconstructed. The MC should make sure that the work must be completed in a time-bound manner. Transparency should be ensured in the project.”MC’s Superintending Engineer Teerath Bansal said the tenders had been floated to invite bidders for the reconstruction of the bridge. Technical bids for the project would be opened on May 18 while financial bids will be opened later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-floats-tenders-to-reconstruct-century-old-bridge-251114
11-05-2021||Ludhiana||Stray bull falls into open manhole at Giaspura, rescued by MC staff||A stray bull fell into a sewer manhole in the Giaspura area last night.When a few persons saw the bull in the uncovered manhole on Sua Road in Giaspura this morning, they raised an alarm. The bull was later rescued, but the questions are being raised over the role of MC officials concerned who ignored the uncovered manhole.Residents said a complaint was made to the civic body regarding the uncovered manhole but no action was taken in this regard, resulting in the bull falling into it.A shop owner, Sandeep Kumar, said, “The manhole has been lying open for the past few months. A stray bull fell in the manhole last night. I saw the bull in the manhole at about 7 am. The condition of the bull was seemingly not well this morning. After the matter was brought into the notice of the MC, the staff concerned reached there to rescue the bull.”“By using a JCB machine, the manhole slab was removed. The bull was then lifted out using ropes. It was later shifted to a gaushala,” said Sandeep Kumar.After the rescue operation, the MC filled the manhole area with soil in an improper manner. A businessman, Rashpal Singh said, “A complaint about the uncovered manhole was made to the civic body’s official concerned on telephone over a month ago. The uncovered manhole was posing a threat to pedestrians, including the children. Following the complaint, the MC had then placed a slab but no cover was placed on the manhole. Thus, the uncovered manhole was giving an open invitation to a mishap. If the MC had acted timely to cover the sewer manhole, this incident could have been averted.”Executive Engineer, Parshotam Lal said, “The bull has been rescued. We are looking into the matter. The staff concerned has already been given directions to make sure that all sewer manholes must be covered.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/stray-bull-falls-into-open-manhole-at-giaspura-rescued-by-mc-staff-251115
11-05-2021||Ludhiana||Covid guidelines thrown to wind||Despite the 17-hour daily curfew, which came in force from today, massive rush was witnessed all over the city. Covid norms such as social distancing and wearing masks were thrown to the wind.The major markets in the city, including Field Ganj, Chaura Bazaar, Ghumar Mandi, Model Town, Kesar Ganj Complex, Mochpura etc., witnessed a huge rush of residents.The roads saw serpentine queues of vehicles making it difficult for pedestrians to move on roads. Gurdit Singh, a vegetable vendor, said residents are behaving as if things will not be available tomorrow.“There is a rush of customers since early morning at 8:30 am. Though the vegetables etc come under essential products still today, it was unexpected rush. Perhaps people speculate that curfew hours may extend,” said the vendor.A salesman at a karyana store in Dandi Swami said, “There is no social distancing anywhere in the market. Neither the shopkeepers are following the protocol nor the customers for the simple reason that there are just 3-4 working hours and if in this time-slot we start following guidelines, the customers will go elsewhere”.The residents feel that this was not a viable option. “You see the rush. It seems entire city has come on the roads. There is no social distancing and majority of people are not wearing the masks properly. These few hours are more than enough for spreading the deadly virus”, rued Kumud, a homemaker, who had gone to her tailor to get the stitched outfit, lying with tailor for long.It was yet more miserable condition in interior part of the city, where markets are densely populated. “People have literally come out today to accomplish the pending works. This is more dangerous”, said Pankaj, having a cycle repair shop in Field Ganj.It may be mentioned here that to break the chain, most of the industrialists and shopkeepers have already voiced out for a complete lockdown in the city for at least 10-15 days.Talking to The Tribune, DS Chawla, from United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said everything in bicycle industry is inter-linked. Most of the MSMEs have the raw material for about a week or so and after that there will be no production. “From 5 am to 12 noon, even if shops are opened, it will hardly serve any purpose. The payments are stuck, we are not getting raw material smoothly. Everything is disturbed. Complete lockdown is the only solution,” he said.Sunil Mehra, president, Beopar Mandal, said there is a need to strengthen the health system now.“Partial Shut down is not the solution as industry is interlinked. Till 12 noon, we can just go to shops and clean them but there can not be any business as buyers will not come. There is hardly retail customer in the market. Either you instruct to open everything at least till 3-4 pm or go for a complete shutdown,” rued Mehra.‘At least give one dose to all’Onkar Singh Pahwa from Avon Cycles said, “Everyone above 18 years of age should be given at least one jab. There will certainly be a difference if one is vaccinated. All can’t afford to shell out Rs250 for a vaccination, they should be given the dose by the government,” said Pahwa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-guidelines-thrown-to-wind-251116
11-05-2021||Ludhiana||Avian influenza: Don’t panic,  take precautions, say experts||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 crises in our country, Bird flu has hit several states of the country, including Punjab, in the past few months. Although there are only sporadic reports of bird flu but poultry farmers need to be more vigilant and aware about this disease since birds from poultry farm at Kila Raipur have tested positive for avian influenza.Bird flu is a disease of birds, caused by Avian Influenza Type A virus, which could affect several kinds of birds, including wild birds, turkeys, quails, chicken and ducks etc. The virus shed in the faeces, nasal discharges and saliva of infected birds. Healthy birds become sick when they come in contact with the infected/reservoir birds or their secretions or contaminated feed, water or equipment.“Rarely, the disease transmits from birds to humans. However, the persons working in close contact of birds must follow proper personnel hygiene and safety measures,” said Dr Jasbir Bedi, Director, Centre for One Health, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana.He further said that poultry and poultry products including eggs should be cooked properly before consumption. Cooking at or over 70°C kills influenza virus.“Farm to farm transmission usually occur through the movement of the live birds, people and contaminated vehicles, equipment etc. Entry of person or vehicles in the poultry farm should be regulated,” said Dr Rajnish Sharma, assistant professor, Centre for One Health.“One should inform the local veterinarian, in case he/she come across something aberrant, for example death of wild birds in the vicinity of the farm,” added Dr Sharma.Follow these tips||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/avian-influenza-dont-panic-take-precautions-say-experts-251117
11-05-2021||Ludhiana||89 construction workers get jab||The third phase of administrating Covid vaccine to the people in the 18-44 age group was started in the district today.DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said the inoculation drive was only way to fight and overcome the virus at the earliest.Accompanied by Joint Commissioner of Police J Elanchezhian and Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill, he said the construction workers had been included into high-risk category and would be give jab on priority basis.A total of 9,656 people were vaccinated today. Construction workers failed to give enthusiastic response to the vaccination drive. During the camps organised in coordination with the Labour Department only 89 construction workers were vaccinated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/89-construction-workers-get-jab-251118
11-05-2021||Ludhiana||Curfew: Teachers demand change in school timings||Teachers have demanded that the Education Department should stick to its order that schools will work with 50 per cent staff. Not only this, teachers said working hours for teachers should be reduced from 8 am to 11 am because for teachers in Ludhiana, it would be difficult to reach back as curfew is imposed daily at 12 noon.During a meeting held here today which was attended by Surinder Kumar Puari, state president, Government School Teachers’ Union, Secretary Balkar Valtoha, Patron Charan Sarabha, Press Secretary Praveen Kumar and Tehal Singh Sarabha, the teachers said the recent order that in schools where there are 10 or less teachers, all should report, was not acceptable.They said about 90-95 per cent of primary and middle school teachers in the state will have to go to school with 100 per cent staff as in primary and middle schools the number of staff does not exceed three or four.The organisation urged Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla that the order regarding attendance of 50 per cent staff should be implemented in all the primary, middle, high and secondary schools so that the adverse effects of the epidemic could be avoided.The organisation also demanded that the school hours should be changed to 8 am to 11 am so that the teachers could reach their homes before 12 noon, as after 12 noon curfew comes into force and teachers will face difficulties in reaching their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/curfew-teachers-demand-change-in-school-timings-251119
11-05-2021||Ludhiana||2 bootleggers held, illicit liquor seized||The police have arrested two persons while three others were booked for illicit distillation and liquor smuggling in three raids, all of these conducted in areas falling under the Ladhowal police station on Sunday.Sandeep Singh, a resident of Bholewal Jadid village, and his accomplice Paramjit Singh of Razapur village, were booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act after a police party of anti-smuggling cell raided their hideout for distillation near the river bank in Bholewal Jadid village.The police seized 55 bottles of illicit liquor, drums, tubes, pipes, other distillation equipment and 6,500 litres of raw liquor (lahan). The accused, however, managed to give the police the slip.In another raid in Bholewal Jadid village, the police nabbed Charanjit Singh while his accomplice Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Razapur village, managed to escape. The duo have been booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act with seizure of 45 bottles of illicit liquor, equipment and utensils for distillation, 5,000 litres of lahan and a motorcycle from the spot.A liquor smuggler, Jagtar Singh, a resident of Mianwal village in Jalandhar district, was arrested with 11 bottles of countrymade liquor (Punjab Sophi) from Khaira Bet village. A case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-bootleggers-held-illicit-liquor-seized-251120
11-05-2021||Lovleen BainsDoraha||ASI attacked at naka in Doraha||An on-duty police official was injured by two car-borne youth at a naka set up in Doraha. The injured cop was admitted to a local hospital where his condition is said to be stable.Sukhdev Singh, who was on duty at the Doraha police naka, stopped a car coming from Khanna side. When he signalled them to stop, the two occupants injured him with a sharp tool as a result the ASI fell down on the spot.The miscreants tried to escape the naka but got stuck in the traffic mess ahead of them. They came out of their vehicle and forcibly entered another car. Accidently, the car did not start. Meanwhile, the police beefed up the barricading disallowing their passage from the front. Panicked, they again sat in their own car, put it in reverse gear and sped away after pointing revolver at the car immediately behind them to make way for their escape. They also took away the service revolver of the ASI.DSP Payal Hardeep Singh Cheema said the officer is out of danger and has received minor injuries.“A case has been registered against the two at Doraha police station. Search is on to nab the miscreants,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/asi-attacked-at-naka-in-doraha-251121
11-05-2021||Ludhiana||4 booked for possessing banned items||Five arrested for gamblingLudhiana: The police have arrested five persons for gambling on a vacant plot near 32 quarters in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar and recovered Rs 1,430 in cash from the spot. They were identified as Bhagirath, a resident of BRS Nagar, Umesh Kumar, Subhash Kumar, Kallu and Radhe Sham, a resident of Sham Nagar. All of them have been booked under the Gambling Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-booked-for-possessing-banned-items-251122
