12-05-2021||---||1,386 test positive, 30 more succumb in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 11Today, 1,386 persons tested positive for Covid while for the second consecutive day 30 patients lost their lives to the virus. Total positive cases have now reached 69,851 while 1,610 have lost their lives so far.Today, 53 persons were on ventilator support, of which 37 belong to Ludhiana and 16 from other districts are admitted here.Active cases from the district today reached 11,480. Today, five healthcare workers and an undertrial also tested positive and 302 are still being traced.Those who lost their lives today include 21 men and nine women and they belong to both urban and rural areas of the district.Meanwhile, the team of the mass media wing of the Health Department today sensitised the public in different parts of the city to precationary measures for the prevention of the Covid pandemic and new rules of curfew.Today, the mass media team of the department went to different parts of the city and sensitised people to wearing masks, social distancing and hand washing. The team visited shops and their owners were warned not to gather too much people in shops and not to allow unmasked person to enter their establishments. If more people enter the shop, social distancing should be followed.Besides, the team through the public address system, at major intersections, made people aware about the pandemic and how to prevent it. Misconceptions among people about the disease were also dispelled.Vaccination centres to be shiftedIt has been decided to shift vaccination centres from those hospitals where vaccination and sampling is going side by side as there is fear of spreading the infection due to large gatherings.Today, a total of 10,348 persons were vaccinated which includes only 145 persons in the 18-44 years’ category (construction workers).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-386-test-positive-30-more-succumb-in-ludhiana-251686
12-05-2021||---||13-year-old gang-raped in Malaud||Ludhiana May 11 Two persons gang-raped a 13-year-old girl at Ramgarh Sardara village in Malaud of Khanna district. The accused had kidnapped the girl from her home to commit the crime. They have been identified as Kulwinder Singh, alias Kinda, and Baljit Singh, alias Gandhi, of Ramgarh Sardara village. The complainant told the Malaud police that on the night of May 9, when her niece was going upstairs to give food to her uncle, both accused, who were standing near the stairs outside their house, stopped the girl and asked her to accompany them. “When my niece refused to go with them, they forcibly dragged her out of the house and took her to their ‘motor room’ at agricultural fields in the village where they both raped her,” he said. He said when her niece returned home, she was afraid. When she was asked the reason, she told him about the incident. The next day, the victim approached the Khanna police and filed a complaint against the duo. Investigating officer ASI Rajwant Kaur said a case under Sections 342 (illegal detention), 363 (kidnapping), 376 (rape) and 377 (unnatural sex) Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the accused and raids were being conducted by the police at their suspected whereabouts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/13-year-old-gang-raped-in-malaud-251687
12-05-2021||---||Three held with illegal arms||Ludhiana May 11 The Crime Branch wing of the city police arrested three notorious persons and recovered illegal weapons from them. The accused have been identified as Kulwant Singh (24) of Galib Kalan, Jagraon; Jaswant Singh (24) of Galib Kalan and Judge Singh (24) of Kamal Chowk, Jagraon. DCP (Crime) SPS Dhindsa, ADCP Rupinder Kaur Bhatti and Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crime) Mandeep Singh issued a statement in this regard. The DCP said a police party was present in Sunet where a tip-off was received that the accused were roaming in the city and they were carrying illegal weapons. The ACP said as per initial information, the accused were heading towards Galib Kalan from Ludhiana and they might be on the way to commit some crime. Accordingly, the police laid a naka near Sunet where a Hyundai Verna car was stopped for checking, which led to the recovery of illegal weapons from them. Two .32 bore pistols, a .315 bore pistol and six live cartridges were recovered from the trio. The DCP said all accused had a notorious past as they were booked by the Sangrur police in a case of attempt to commit culpable homicide in September last year. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-held-with-illegal-arms-251688
12-05-2021||Ludhiana||Murder case: Cops round up a few suspects||The police today rounded up some suspects in the murder case of a married woman at Jain Colony, Bhamian Road, yesterday. The police are also scanning the call details of the deceased to find out if she was killed by some known person. ACP (Crime) Surinder Mohan said the probe was on from various angles in the case. The police are checking the CCTV footage of the area to find any lead. Yesterday, Megha, a 30-year-old woman, was found dead at her home. Some unknown person entered the home and strangulated her with a mobile charger cable. The suspect was captured in the CCTV footage. As per the police, the accused also took away some cash after killing the woman. A two-and-half-year-old son of the deceased witnessed the incident. A neighbouring woman had found Megha lying in a pool of blood and her son was sitting beside the deceased. The woman then raised an alarm and the police were informed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/murder-case-cops-round-up-a-few-suspects-251689
12-05-2021||Harshraj Singh
||Civic body to purchase safety gear worth Rs 2.45 crore for sewermen||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 11 To ensure the safety of sewermen, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has decided to purchase safety gear worth Rs2.45 crore for them. The sewermen were generally seen working without safety gear in various parts of the city. In the past, some of them had died due to asphyxiation while cleaning sewer chambers in the city. Safety gear is essential for them as they have been working as frontline warriors amid the pandemic. The MC has floated the tenders to purchase the equipment. The civic body will purchase 58 airline breathing apparatus sets and 115 chin-type gas masks for the sewermen. The MC will also purchase 58 gas detectors that would be capable of measuring gases in the sewer chambers. Several sewermen had died or fallen seriously ill after inhaling gases in the sewer chambers during the past years. Besides, the MC would purchase 58 tripod sets, 58 nylon rope ladders, and 58 fume exhausters-cum-air blowers for sewer-related tasks.  At present, the MC has just a few safety gear for the sewermen and there was a need to buy more equipment, an official said. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, MC’s O&M branch has initiated the process to purchase the safety equipment. Moreover, the MC authorities have also decided to purchase PPE kits for the sewermen. The MC will purchase 1,641 reflecting jackets with fluorescent strips and the same number of safety helmets, normal face masks, hand gloves, safety gumboots, and safety body clothing for the sewer men. MC’s Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said the tenders had been floated. Technical bids would be opened on May 18. Once the tendering process was completed, the successful bidder would have to deliver these items within one month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-to-purchase-safety-gear-worth-rs-2-45-crore-for-sewermen-251690
12-05-2021||---||Elderly to get free pick-and-drop facility for jab||Ludhiana, May 11In a novel initiative, the Ludhiana police have started a free pick-and-drop facility for elderly to reduce their hassles in reaching Covid vaccination centres. The service will be provided free of cost to residents. The initiative has been started in collaboration with HumHain.The Joint Commissioner of Police (City), Deepak Pareek, told The Tribune that Ludhiana Commissionerate under the guidance of Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal took this initiative to serve the elderly who may face problem of conveyance to reach vaccination centres.“We want to serve the elderly through this initiative. Our cars will pick them up from their residences and after getting them vaccinated, they will be droped back to their house. Initially, 10 cars have been added to the fleet and in coming days, more cars will be added,” JCP Pareek said while launching the initiative at the Police Lines today.JCP Pareek said the elderly can call 9577744447 to avail the service in Ludhiana.Residents urged to enrol their vehiclesThe JCP said if any city resident want to enrol in this noble cause, and want to deploy their cars for the purpose as well, they can also call on the given number. “Residents can enrol their cars for one day or a few days for the same and there will not be any binding for them to permanently deploy their vehicles. We all together can join the cause and help the elderly,” Pareek added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/elderly-to-get-free-pick-and-drop-facility-for-jab-251691
12-05-2021||Nitin Jain||Oxygen demand double than first peak||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 11As the second Covid wave continues to rapidly slide into a devastating crisis, with hospitals falling short of beds, oxygen supplies running low and many dying of the virus daily, some of them even before seeing a doctor, the demand of the life-saving gas has touched a new high and has more than doubled as compared to the first peak in the district.The official data compiled by the district administration, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that the demand of medical oxygen in Ludhiana has touched an all-time high of 2,800 cylinders per day, which was 224 per cent more than the peak demand of 1,250 life-saving gas cylinders recorded during the first peak here.Besides two manufacturers, six bottling plants were producing 2,500 oxygen cylinders in the district on a daily basis, leaving Ludhiana in a ‘hand-to-mouth’ situation.“We have deputed nodal officers at all points of production, supply chain, and delivery destination to ensure complete transparency in oxygen supplies, of which we take demand from hospitals daily at 8 am and consumption data at 3 pm,” said Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.To augment the oxygen supplies, the state government had recently airlifted tankers to bring life-saving gas from Bokaro in Jharkhand.This was done to meet the increasing demand of medical oxygen in the state after the Centre allocated 90 MT of oxygen from the steel city and total 195 MT from all other parts of the country on a daily basis.The state was producing 32 MT of oxygen from its own sources per day and the daily demand was 250 MT, which was expected to touch 300 MT soon.“On Chief Minister’s instructions, we first got the allocation from the Centre, then arranged tankers, tied up with the IAF, provided police escorts and coordinated with my counterparts in other states to get green corridors for the non-stop and hassle-free movement of oxygen refilled tankers from Bokaro to Punjab,” Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said.She said the empty tankers were airlifted from Punjab to Bokaro and refilled ones were being brought by road as the railways had refused to carry them.Principal Secretary, Industries, Alok Shekhar, who arranged the supplies and coordinated the logistics, told The Tribune that four aircraft daily were being flown to Bokaro with two empty tankers each and since these tankers were having over 3.5-metre height, the Railways had denied to carry them on oxygen express train. He said 14 large-sized tankers had been pressed into service and the system would run on a daily basis.Besides getting allocation of 195 MT from outside, the state has also enhanced its own production of the life gas by 14 MT daily after reviving six defunct plants and enhancing capacity of existing units.Till date, 85 oxygen units in 22 districts were having the capacity of refilling 5,141 cylinders per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/oxygen-demand-double-than-first-peak-251692
12-05-2021||---||Ludhiana MC removes 15 encroachments||Ludhiana, May 11 The MC Ludhiana’s Tehbazari wing has removed nearly 15 encroachments from the green belt area and roadsides on Old GT Road near Chawani Mohalla and Salem Tabri, here. Some poor vendors used to run their stalls at these locations to meet their daily expenses, as per information. Notably, the the civic body has planned to develop green belts from Jalandhar Bypass Chowk to Sherpur Chowk.  Despite repeated attempts, the MC Tehbazari chief, Neeraj Jain, could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-removes-15-encroachments-251693
12-05-2021||Mahesh Sharma||50-bed Covid care centre set up at Karamsar hospital||Mandi Ahmedgarh, May 11To strengthen healthcare facilities in rural areas witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases, the district administration has roped in the management committee of the historic Rara Sahib gurdwara for setting up a 50-bed Covid care centre at Sant Isher Memorial Hospital, Karamsar, near here.The facility will become operational from Friday.A team of senior functionaries of the district, led by Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma, today visited Karamsar to oversee the preparations at Sant Isher Singh Memorial Hospital. Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Gill, ADC(D) Sandeep Kumar, SDM Payal Mankanwal Singh Chahal and zila parishad member Gurdev Singh Lapran accompanied the Deputy Commissioner during the visit.Deputy Commissioner Sharma said he was satisfied with the facilities available at the hospital and added that the Covid Care Centre was equipped with modern gadgets and oxygen supplies for both Level-I and Level-II corona patients.This would ease the burden on multi-speciality hospitals at Ludhiana for Level-III patients, he said.The Deputy Commissioner added that the facility of collecting samples for corona tests would be available for residents from Wednesday.“Timely detection of the virus will help in preventing deterioration of positive cases to Level-II and Level-III, and help save many lives. Vaccination camp will also be launched in the facility soon,” said the DC.The Deputy Commissioner said the district administration was geared up to combat the rising cases and physical infrastructure for Covid patients was being upgraded on modern lines to ensure that patients did not face any problems during their treatment in the Covid Care Centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/50-bed-covid-care-centre-set-up-at-karamsar-hospital-251695
12-05-2021||---||CMCH interns take to streets demanding hike in stipend||Ludhiana, May 11 MBBS interns of Christian Medical College and Hospital today staged a protest against the hospital administration for not providing them increased stipend as per the government rules.  Interns of the 2016 batch said the protest was a wake up call for the authorities as they are flouting government rules. Protesting students demanded stipend according to the rules of the state government. “The state government has asked to give a stipend of Rs15,000 per month to MBBS interns but our institution is still giving Rs7,800. Our demand is that we should be paid Rs15,000 as per government rules. Talks with the authorities in this regard have failed to achieve any results. We were left with no other option except staging a protest,” said a student, on the condition of anonymity. The student further added that in the final year of MBBS, students need to pay half fee but they were charged full fee. “We were not given any relaxation even during the pandemic. We were charged full fee by showing guidelines of the state government but when it comes to paying us, they do not want to follow the rules. We want stipend according to the state government rules,” said another student.  He further added that they are performing all the medical duties like frontline workers but their institute doesn’t care two hoots about them. Final exams of the students were over by March 30 and their result was declared on April 10 and they joined their internship on April 12. They are yet to get their first stipend and want they should be given the full amount of Rs15,000. Earlier, batches were also getting Rs7,800 only.  Principal Dr Jeyaraj D Pandian said the CMCH was a charitable, private institution and they cannot afford a stipend as per the central or state government. “The stipend of the students is still due and even before the due date, they have started protesting. The country is facing such a difficult time and they are thinking about money,” said Dr Jeyaraj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cmch-interns-take-to-streets-demanding-hike-in-stipend-251696
12-05-2021||Lovleen Bains
||NGO comes to aid of Covid victims’ kin, supplies wood for cremation||Doraha, May 11 ‘We Do Not Accept Money or Things’, an NGO run by philanthropist Anmol Kwatra and his team has taken the responsibility of arranging wood for the cremation of Covid victims. The NGO said many families were finding it difficult to arrange ‘samagri’ to cremate bodies. “We had never dreamt that the situation would turn this grim one day. Many families are losing their loved ones every day. It is unbearable to come to terms with the death of the kin. A lot of poor families are unable to procure ‘samagri’ for the cremation of their family members,” said Kwatra. “The poor have no means to afford the wood to cremate their loved ones. It is unfortunate to learn that a family has lost a breadwinner to the virus and cannot afford to perform his/her last rites as well.  I, along with my Doraha team, identified the families in need and decided to provide them with the ‘samagri’ to perform the last rites,” he added. Ishu Doraha, in-charge of the NGO at Doraha, said the needy families could contact the NGO at 9688000074. “The funeral will be entirely funded by the NGO. Anmol has instructed us to help all families in need. The identity of the families will not be revealed. We want Covid victims to receive dignified last rites,” Ishu added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngo-comes-to-aid-of-covid-victims-kin-supplies-wood-for-cremation-251697
12-05-2021||Payal||ASHA workers threaten to intensify stir over demands||Office-bearers and activists of the ASHA Workers’ and Facilitator Union have threatened to intensify their stir if their long-pending demands are not accepted and implemented without further delay.When none of the officials from Primary Health Centre, Payal, turned up to receive their memorandum, the activists hung the memorandum on the branches of a tree at the venue of the protest.Terming the protest illegal, Payal SMO Harpreet Singh Sekhon claimed that according to the guidelines of the government, healthcare workers and frontline workers could not shirk away from their duty to fight against the spread of coronavirus.Office-bearers of the outfit, led by state president Kirandeep Kaur Panjola, alleged that the government had failed to redress the long-pending problems of frontline workers.“We have been working continuously and spreading awareness about the causes of the spread of Covid-19, and sampling for corona testing, vaccination and handling positive patients. The administration has failed to provide us protective materials, including sanitisers and masks,” said Panjola.Payment of Rs4,000 honorarium for ASHA workers on the pattern of Haryana government, Rs500 per tour for facilitators, Rs15,000 salary, a smartphone and two uniforms were cited among major demands of the protestors.Payal unit president Harpreet Kaur Bhathal accuded the administration of not extending help to a corona positive worker of Araichan village, three members of whose family had already succumbed to the virus. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/asha-workers-threaten-to-intensify-stir-over-demands-251698
12-05-2021||---||Woman nabbed with heroin||Ludhiana, May 11 The Tibba police nabbed a woman and recovered 150 gm of heroin from her possession. She has been identified as Usha Rani, a resident of Kailash Nagar. Tibba SHO Mohammad Jamil said during a routine patrolling on the Rahon road, on suspicion, a woman pedestrian was stopped for checking. During the checking of her belongings, heroin was recovered from her possession. During preliminary questioning, the woman revealed that heroin was handed to her by her son, Deepak Bhalla, and the same was to be delivered to their clients. The SHO said the police remand of the woman would be sought from court for further interrogation of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-nabbed-with-heroin-251700
12-05-2021||Ludhiana||Fire breaks out at bike showroom||A fire broke out at Hero Motors showroom on the National Highway near Dholewal Chowk. Around a dozen motorcycles and office equipment such as computers and laptops were destroyed in the fire. Sunny, an employee of the showroom, said today at around 8 am, smoke started emanating from the showroom. The fire station was informed about the fire immediately. Initially, some showroom staff present there tried to douse the flames but they failed. Fire tenders reached the spot and managed to douse the fire within an hour. Office staff said around a dozen motorcycles caught fire of which some had completely gutted. Since the fire broke out at the ground floor, main office where computers and other record was kept had also gutted. The exact cause of fire could not be established yet. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fire-breaks-out-at-bike-showroom-251701
12-05-2021||---||CII donates PPE kits to health workers||Ludhiana, May 11 Essential healthcare items, including PPE kits, N95 respirators, three-layer surgical masks, face shields, oximeters, doppler, medical supplies as multivitamins and logistic infrastructure such as mattress, water dispenser and printer etc., were donated by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) to Urban Primary Health Center, Model Town. The CII is also supporting ASHA workers who act as a bridge between communities and healthcare system. The CII came forward to applause these unsung heroes and gave them protective gear, sanitisers, handwash, food essentials and sanitary napkins to them. “At this time, our health workers are working odd hours and long shifts, such backing was much needed. Support to ASHA workers is so touching. It’s the gesture that counts,” said Dr Harman Sidhu, in-charge, UPHC Model Town.  Ashpreet, Chairman, CII,  Ludhiana Zone, said, “During these testing times, we stand committed to support the front line workers and the district administration. Over the past year, the CII has contributed on several critical fronts in response to Covid-19, including food security for the most vulnerable; supporting the well-being of healthcare workers and facilitating matching donations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cii-donates-ppe-kits-to-health-workers-251702
12-05-2021||---||Curfew: School timings changed for teachers||Ludhiana, May 11 In a relief to government schoolteachers of the district, the District Magistrate has changed the timings for the teachers from 8 am to 11:15 am.  The orders were issued today following a request made by the teachers that due to the 17-hour long curfew imposed in the district from 12 pm, it will be difficult for them to commute during the curfew hours. The orders will be implemented till the implementation of the curfew orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/curfew-school-timings-changed-for-teachers-251703
12-05-2021||Ludhiana||Ex-councillor complains of contaminated water supply||A former councillor has sent a complaint to the Chief Minister over alleged contaminated water supply in Chawani Mohalla in Ward No 84. In her complaint, Anita Krishan Kharbanda said sewage was getting mixed in the water being supplied by the civic body to the houses in the area. She blamed the civic body for not taking any action to resolve the problem of contaminated water supply and choked sewers in the area. If any disease outbreak took place in the area, the MC will be held responsible for the same, she added.   MC’s Executive Engineer Pardeep Saluja said: “I have no information regarding the matter. If there is any complaint related to water supply, we will take required steps.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ex-councillor-complains-of-contaminated-water-supply-251705
12-05-2021||---||Sewa Kendras to open from 7am to 12 noon||Ludhiana, May 11 In the wake of rising Covid cases, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Tuesday changed the timings of Sewa Kendras from 7 am to 12 noon with immediate effect in the district.   The DC said the step has been taken considering the prevailing situation of the Covid-19 pandemic and added further the move would help to minimise the gathering of people in the Sewa Kendras.   He said that Ludhiana has 38 Sewa Kendras, including 29 in urban and nine in the rural hinterland. Sharma said these kendras have been offering a total of 327 citizen services to people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sewa-kendras-to-open-from-7am-to-12-noon-251706
12-05-2021||Ludhiana||Amid shortage, one ‘Fateh kit’ per family||Facing an acute shortage of ‘Fateh kits’, the health department has now decided to give just one kit per family, but extra medicines will be given as per need and the patients’ medical condition.The kit consists of 18 items, including pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, steamer, face masks, sanitiser, gargle solution and essential medicines such as cough syrup, multi-vitamin, vitamin-C tablets, Vit-D pouches, etc.Amid shortage, the department was already collecting oximeters back from the recovered patients to distribute among the new ones.A patient in Ludhiana said he got the ‘Fateh’ kit but it did not have an oximeter and thermometer. “It contained medicines and a manual. I bought oximeter for Rs 1,500 from the market,” he said.Dr Manoj Sobti, member, Punjab Medical Council, said giving one kit to the entire family was of no use. “All positive members in the family will be sharing the same equipment. The viral load on the equipment will increase if it is shared by so many people. Taking back oximeters from the recovered patients is also not a wise decision,” he said.“If possible, fresh equipment and kits should be provided to the patients as Covid is a communicable disease,” he said.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, Covid nodal officer, said: “We asked the recovered patients to return the oximeters but we hardly got any and now we have placed a fresh order for the oximeters.”Despite repeated attempts, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu could not be contacted for comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amid-shortage-one-fateh-kit-per-family-251525
12-05-2021||Ludhiana||8,760 more birds culled, 4,110 eggs destroyed in Kila Raipur||The Animal Husbandry Department today culled 8,760 additional birds at a poultry farm in Kila Raipur.The administration had ordered the culling of birds after samples taken from Suba Singh poultry farm tested positive for bird flu.Dr Paramdeep Singh Walia, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, Ludhiana, said besides culling of birds, 4,110 eggs were destroyed. A rapid response team of the department had earlier culled 31,600 poultry birds at the poultry farm.In all, 75,000 birds were present at the farm. The National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, had confirmed the presence of avian influenza (H5N8 virus) in the samples taken from the poultry farm. The area within 1 km radius of the poultry farm was declared an infected zone, while the 10 km area around it was designated as a surveillance zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/8-760-more-birds-culled-4-110-eggs-destroyed-in-kila-raipur-251562
