13-05-2021||Nitin Jain||Rapid rise in critical Covid patients on ventilator in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 12Ludhiana district, which has earned a dubious distinction of Covid capital of the state and was among the worst-hit districts in the state, has been witnessing a rapid rise in the number of critical virus patients put on ventilators.Official figures available with The Tribune revealed that the highest-ever 64 critically ill patients suffering from Covid were put on ventilators in different government and private hospitals across the district on Wednesday.At the same time, a record high of 1,749 serious virus patients were under hospitalisation while 9,662 active cases were kept under home isolation in the district on Wednesday.In an indication of the Covid situation turning grimmer with each passing day, the count of critical patients on life support has increased more than three-fold within little over a month.The number of patients on ventilators has risen from 19 on April 4 to 64 on May 12.The data showed that the figure kept rising constantly since April, from 20 on April 5 to 22 on April 10, 25 on April 11, 30 on April 15, 31 on April 27, 40 on April 30, 42 on May 1, before coming down to 35 on May 4.However, the number has been constantly going up from 41 on May 5 to 47 on May 6, 52 on May 7, 54 on May 9, 56 on May 10 and touching an all-time high of 64 on May 12.The tally of active cases in the district also touched a record high of 12,598, including 12,278 local residents and 320 from other parts of the country under treatment here. The exponential rise in the figure was evident from the fact that it has risen from 7,447 on May 4, registering an increase of 169.16 per cent within a week.The count of Covid positive cases also crossed the 80,000-mark and mounted to 80,475, including 71,066, from Ludhiana district and 9,409 outsiders. So far, only a single case of Covid patient’s death under home isolation has been reported in the district.Ventilators almost doubledTaking cognisance of the rising number of critical patients, the district administration has almost doubled the number of ventilators in less than a week from 147 on May 6 to 274. As many as 147 on May 6 to 212 on May 8 to 274, including 256 in private hospitals, and 18 in government facilities, on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rapid-rise-in-critical-covid-patients-on-ventilator-in-ludhiana-district-252231
13-05-2021||---||28 die of Covid, 1,215 +ve in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, May 12Covid-19 has claimed the lives of 28 more persons in the district during the past 24 hours. The Health Department on Wednesday confirmed 1,215 fresh cases from the district and 126 from other districts or states. There are 12,278 active cases that belong to Ludhiana district at present.Of the 1,215 fresh cases in Ludhiana, 84 persons came in contact with positive patients, 182 visited the OPD and 669 with influenza-like illness visited the Flu Corner. Besides, 11 persons with a severe acute respiratory infection, seven healthcare workers, three undertrials, and three others tested positive for the virus. The process was underway to trace 256 persons, who have also tested positive.The Ludhiana Civil Surgeon said 28 persons from Ludhiana, three from Sangrur, two from Moga, two from Barnala and one each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Hoshiarpur died of the virus.In Ludhiana district, one patient each from Ghuman village, Shivpuri, Indra Colony, Majli Khurd, Salem Tabri, GLADA Height Society, Tajpur Road, Rishi Nagar, Gurdev Nagar, Sudhar, Agar Nagar, Civil Lines, Vishal Nagar, Guru Nanak Dev Nagar, Model Town, Rajewal, Dhandai Kalan, Haibowal Kalan, Fatehgarh Mohalla, three patients from Shimlapuri, two from Kidwai Nagar, two from Dugri and two patients from Mundian Kalan died due to Covid. Notably, 11 persons, who died during the past 24 hours, were of age 30-50 years’ age group and 17 were of 52-78 years age group.As many as 13,006 samples were collected today. At present, 64 patients, including 44 from Ludhiana and 20 from other districts or states, are on ventilator support.A total of 71,066 cases have been confirmed of the Ludhiana district while 9,409 patients from other districts or states have tested positive here. Besides, the virus has claimed the lives of 1,638 patients in Ludhiana district and 824 persons from other districts or states so far.Expressing serious concern over the alarming rate of deaths in Ludhiana due to the pandemic, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday said 168 persons have lost their lives in the past seven days, 24 deaths per day in Ludhiana and blamed casual and careless behaviour of some people are contributing to rapid surge in cases.Interacting with people in his weekly Facebook live session on the official page of the DPRO, Ludhiana, the Deputy Commissioner said those people who were still not obeying the Covid appropriate behaviour must think about the families of 168 persons, who died from May 7 to May 12.“I am really worried and pained over the crowding of some people during relaxation timings in Ludhiana”, Sharma said, adding this irresponsibility had been proving fatal for others.The DC said: “All of us should learn from history, especially the time of the outbreak of Spanish flu and plague 100 years ago and how our forefathers maintained isolation during their toughest time and we are alive due to their seriousness towards guidelines of governments during that period.”He said: “Now we all must ensure meticulous adoption of proper isolation in our daily routine to contain the surge and secure the future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/28-die-of-covid-1-215-ve-in-ludhiana-district-252233
13-05-2021||Harshraj Singh||Civic body starts process to buy 4 mechanical sweeping machines||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 12The Municipal Corporation (MC) is going to purchase four mechanical sweeping machines for the cleaning of major city roads. One machine will be deployed at each of the four zones of the MC, Ludhiana.The civic body has invited online expression of interest (EoI) for the supply, operation, and maintenance of the four road mechanical sweeping machines from interested firms. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal have given instructions to the officials concerned regarding the purchase of the machines.Notably, the corporation had earlier started the mechanical sweeping on major city roads about five years ago but later, the service was stopped. The civic body had signed an agreement with a private firm to conduct mechanical sweeping, which was started in 2016. At that time, the MC was paying Rs 97,000 per km per month to the company for cleaning roads.After the Congress formed government in the state, questions were raised over the mechanical sweeping project in the city. In a House meeting in 2017, some Congress leaders had suggested the MC House to purchase its own vehicles for mechanical sweeping instead of paying a huge amount to a private firm for conducting mechanical sweeping. Sources said there was no check on the working of the firm.After the MC’s sixth House formed in 2018, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had then announced to end the agreement with the firm. After terminating the firm’s services, manual sweeping was resumed on the major city roads again.A few MC sweepers have also met with mishaps while working on major roads. In 2020, a contractual sanitation worker, Ashok Kumar, had met with a mishap when he was cleaning the central verge area on the Sherpur Chowk-Dholewal Chowk road. Ashok’s both legs had fractured in the mishap.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said, “It is difficult for safai karamcharis to work on busy roads as chances of mishaps remain high there. Now, we have started the process to purchase four machines for mechanical sweeping. Mechanical sweeping will be done on all major roads in all the four zones of the city.”MC to buy anti-smog gunsTo control air pollution, the Municipal Corporation has also invited expression of interests for purchasing two types of anti-smog guns and installation of a CNG-based crematorium in the city. EoI technical bids will be opened on May 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-starts-process-to-buy-4-mechanical-sweeping-machines-252234
13-05-2021||---||ASI dismissed from service for opening fire at brother||Ludhiana, May 12Adopting a zero tolerance approach towards misuse of power and dereliction in duty, the Ludhiana Commissionerate Police have dismissed from service an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) for opening fire at his brother, another policeman, here, a fortnight ago.Commissioner of Police (CP) Rakesh Agrawal issued an order to dismiss from service ASI Janak Raj, here, on Wednesday.The CP said the matter was investigated and the ASI was found guilty of misconduct following which he was shunted out from service.“Stringent action is another message to the entire force in uniform that no one is above the law and anybody found wanting will be taken to task,” the city police chief asserted.However, the dismissed policeman was still absconding.“Raids are being conducted and he will be arrested soon,” the CP added.It was on April 28 that ASI Janak Raj, who was then posted at the Punjab Agricultural University police station, opened fire at his brother Vijay Kumar, who was also an ASI and deployed in the police force engaged by the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation in enforcement duties.Vijay had suffered a bullet injury in his abdomen during the firing by his brother from the latter’s official weapon.The incident took place when the police team, comprising ASI Vijay, along with the Municipal Corporation team, had gone to conduct a demolition drive at Gopal Nagar in Haibowal. No sooner had the enforcement team launched the demolition drive, ASI Janak Raj also reached the spot and entered into arguments with his brother over some petty issue.As the heated exchange between the siblings turned ugly, Janak Raj pulled out his official weapon and fired at his brother from a close range, besides firing a shot in the air.The police had registered a case against ASI Janak Raj under relevant provisions of the law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/asi-dismissed-from-service-for-opening-fire-at-brother-252236
13-05-2021||---||Man booked on sodomy charge||Ludhiana, May 12A 13-year-old boy was sodomised by a man at Foji Colony in Moti Nagar here. The Moti Nagar police station have registered a case against the accused.He has been identified as Johny of Foji Colony.The complainant, the mother of the boy, told the police that on the morning of May 8, when she and her husband went to work, their son was alone at home.In the evening when they returned home, the boy was disturbed. When he was repeatedly asked about the reason behind the same, he told them about the incident.“I was alone in the room when a neighbour came to our house and offered me some eatables. Later, he took me to his room where he sodomised me. I also raised an alarm but the accused did not stop,” the victim told the police.He had also threatened the boy of dire consequences if he reveals about the same to anybody.ASI Anil Kumar said a case under various sections of the IPC and the POCSO Act has been registered against the accused and raids are being conducted at his suspected whereabouts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-on-sodomy-charge-252237
13-05-2021||---||ADCP nabs man making spurious sanitiser||Ludhiana, May 12ADCP 1 Pragya Jain caught a man making spurious sanitisers openly on the roadside at Ekbalganj on Wednesday. The ADCP, along with the ACP (Central), Waryam Singh, was patrolling in the city to nab curfew violators.The accused has been identified as Vipul Jain, a resident of GK Estate, Chandigarh Road, Ludhiana.“I was checking curfew violations and suddenly I saw a man filling plastic cans of sanitisers. He was preparing sanitiser by mixing some chemicals. He was not having any permission to prepare the same,” she said.The ADCP said nobody can manufacture sanitisers without approval from the authorities concerned.“I have also called a health team to the spot to collect samples. Once the report of samples is received, legal action will be taken, “said ADCP Jain.The police have registered a case under Sections 420, 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 18(A)18(c) Drug Cosmetics Act and Sections 4, 5 Disaster Management Act against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/adcp-nabs-man-making-spurious-sanitiser-252238
13-05-2021||---||Minister, MP visit Covid care centre at Jawaddi||Ludhiana, May 12Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Ludhiana Member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu on Wednesday visited the newly set up 50-bed Covid care centre at the Jawaddi Community Health Centre to take stock of arrangements.The duo said the district administration and officials were working tirelessly to augment health infrastructure to deal with the spike in Covid cases.They said 50 oxygenated beds had been set up here and this had been functioning as a level-II Covid treatment centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minister-mp-visit-covid-care-centre-at-jawaddi-252239
13-05-2021||---||Thieves target factory at village||Ludhiana, May 12Thieves targeted a factory at Bajra village and decamped with goods worth lakhs.Complainant Sohan Lal, owner of Vinayak Factory, said the factory was closed and thieves entered the premises after breaking the lock on the main door.“They decamped with 150 rolls of fabric, a overlock machine, a stitching machine, 100 collar tapes, gas cylinder, utensils and other valuables, “ he said.A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-target-factory-at-village-252241
13-05-2021||Ludhiana||Mgmt threatened us to withdraw demand, allege CMCH students||A day after staging a protest against the Christain Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) administration for not providing them an increased stipend, MBBS students blamed the authorities for allegedly threatening them to cancel their demand or face dire consequences. They alleged that they were asked to sign a document that they will not mark any protest otherwise action would be taken against them. On the other hand, the hospital authorities denied the allegations.The students said the state government has asked to give a stipend of Rs15,000 per month to MBBS interns but CMCH is still giving just Rs7,800.A student said, “The principal called us to visit the office today for a discussion on the matter. We were asked to visit the office in a group of only 10 students and leave our mobiles outside the office. Instead of listening to the demand, the students were forced to sign a document that they will not raise any demand to hike stipend. They were threatened that their degrees will be barred if they demand a hike in stipend. Even some students belonging to a community were threatened that their sponsorships will be cancelled. The administration is threatening us openly now. It is injustice.”“We want to make a request to the Chief Minister to get the matter resolved as our demand is genuine. We never refused to do Covid related duty,” a student said.The CMCH authorities have denied all the allegations and claimed that nobody threatened any student. Dr William Bhatti, Director, CMCH, said, “Nobody has forced the students to sign any document. There is a war-like situation in the country due to Covid. The students were asked to resume Covid-19 duty as it is not the time to hold protests. They are making excuses to avoid Covid duty by levelling false allegations.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mgmt-threatened-us-to-withdraw-demand-allege-cmch-students-252243
13-05-2021||Harshraj Singh||Lakshman Nagar road in Giaspura awaits repairs||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 12Even six months after the issue of poor recarpeting work on the main road at Lakshman Nagar in Giaspura was raised by residents, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has failed to do the needful. The road still lies in a dilapidated condition.The residents had complained to the MC about the poor quality of construction work when the contractor concerned had recarpeted a portion of the main road. The recarpeting work was then left midway.Following the complaint, MC’s then Superintending Engineer concerned had claimed that the contractor had started the work without even getting the order and he had assured to take necessary action against the contractor.RK Yadav, a resident of Lakshman Nagar, said: “A portion of the main road that links Daba Road with the 33-feet road in Lakshman Nagar was recarpeted in a very poor manner. Cracks started to appear soon as the material was not properly laid. Even the bitumen was laid on the sewer manhole covers. When we complained to the civic body, the MC had got the work stalled at that time. We were assured that the road will be recarpeted soon after dismantling poorly laid road layers but to no avail.”“Now, more than six months have passed, the work has not been resumed. The old layer of the road which was laid in a poor manner was not even removed. Big potholes on another portion, which was not recarpeted at that time are giving an open invitation to mishaps. The commuters are forced to face a lot of inconveniences. The main road should be recarpeted/reconstructed at the earliest. Besides, internal streets should also be recarpeted.”Another resident said, “The MC should dismantle the road layers which were laid in a poor manner and then get it recarpeted or reconstructed as per rules. We demand from the MC authorities to direct the officials concerned to do the needful to resolve the matter.”The SDO could not be contacted for a comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lakshman-nagar-road-in-giaspura-awaits-repairs-252244
13-05-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||2 Radha Soami sites turned into Covid care centres||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 12The Radha Soami sect here has converted their sites on Chandigarh Road and Hambran Road into Covid care centres. The 120-bed centre has become operational.Talking to Ludhiana Tribune, zonal secretary Gurminder Singh said the wards, in cooperation with the district administration, were ready by Wednesday evening.“The Deputy Commissioner is monitoring everything. Doctors and oxygen cylinders will be provided by the administration. The electricity and bed expenses will be borne by the sect,” Gurinder Singh said.The areas converted into care centres were “satsang ghars” and since religious gatherings have been prohibited to curb the spread of the virus, the sect decided to convert the halls into Covid care centres. Food for patients will also be prepared on the premises.To ease the burden on the health infrastructure, many religious institutions have come forward to provide medical and non-medical help to patients.Another case is that of ISKON Sri Jagannath Temple at Janpath Estate. The temple is providing approximately 500 thalis of food on a daily basis in different areas in the city.Ajay Singhania, vice president of the local unit, said fresh food was daily prepared and delivered to Covid patients and their families in the city. The orders are taken through the website www.iskonludhiana.in.He said we also receive information through stories put up by residents on their social media handles. We provide food to all those patients and families who cannot cook meals at their homes owing to the pandemic.Ranjit Kaur, a resident of Randhir Singh Nagar, said we had to support each other in these difficult times. “Social media has played an indispensable part in procuring essentials for Covid patients,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-radha-soami-sites-turned-into-covid-care-centres-252245
13-05-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Rotary club honours nursing community||Members of the nursing community of various hospitals and nursing homes observed International Nurses Day today and vowed to adopt the teachings of Florence Nightingale, in whose remembrance the day is celebrated.A felicitation function was organised for nurses at Primary Health Centre, and Maternal and Child Care Centre, during which they took an oath to dedicate themselves to their duty, especially during the Covid pandemic.Speakers for the day spoke on the vital role played by the nursing community as frontline warriors. The felicitated nurses were presented mementoes and shawls as a token of appreciation. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rotary-club-honours-nursing-community-252247
13-05-2021||Lovleen Bains||BKU sanitises camps at Tikri||Doraha, May 12Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta) Ugrahan began sanitising farmers’ camps at Tikri border today to contain the spread of coronavirus at protest sites. The district general-secretary of the union, Saudagar Singh Ghudani, along with other members from Doraha and surrounding areas, have volunteered for the same.“We do not want that our ongoing protest to be disrupted in any way,” the members expressed, adding: “We have been fighting against the Centre for more than five months now and if the government thinks they can drive us away with the scare of the virus, they are wrong,” they said.“We have started sanitising camps in and around Tikri border so that the spread of virus can be controlled at protest sites. We sanitise the camps and surrounding areas daily. We are taking all precautions and have also asked farmers to wear face mask and maintain social distancing,” said Saudagar Singh Ghudani, district general-secretary, BKU (Ekta) Ugrahan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bku-sanitises-camps-at-tikri-252248
13-05-2021||Ludhiana||PSPCL provides relief to consumers||Under directions from the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has announced relaxation in the provisions for review of security (consumption) and payment of additional security (consumption).As per methodology evolved by the PSPCL and communicated to its field offices through a memo dated April 27, 2021, the security (consumption) for the year 2021-22 shall be reviewed on the basis of average monthly consumption for the twelve months period from April to March for the year 2019-20 or 2020-21, whichever is higher.It has been stated that in case of reduction in load/demand by the consumer during FY 2019-20 or 2020-21, the security (consumption) shall be reviewed for the year 2021-22 based on consumption in proportion to reduced load/demand as on March 31, 2021.The PSPCL chief engineer/commercial has said that in case of new connections or extension of load/demand of an existing connection during FY 2019-20 or 2020-21, the first review shall be carried out only in 2022-23.It has also been decided that the adequacy of the amount of Security (consumption) shall be reviewed by PSPCL after every three years (preferably after revision of tariff for the relevant year) except for HT/EHT (high tension/extra high tension) consumers in whose case review of Security (consumption) shall be carried out annually. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-provides-relief-to-consumers-252249
13-05-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||LIT decides to put off e-auction of properties||Ludhiana, May 12The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has decided to put off the e-auction of built up commercial properties and residential plots after legal issues in the auction process were highlighted by Pushpinder Singal, district president of the BJP.In a complaint to the Punjab Governor, the Chief Minister, Principal Secretary, Local Government Department, Punjab and Director of Local Government, Punjab, Singal had alleged that rules governing e-auction of properties were being bent by the LIT top brass for their vested interests.In the complaint, he alleged that a public notice for the e-auction, to be held on May 13, 2021, was published in newspapers on April 29, just 14 days prior to the date of e-auction. “This is a blatant violation of the provisions made in The Punjab Management and Transfer of Properties Act, 2020 which lays down that no auction shall be conducted until the expiry of at least 30 days from the publication of such notice,” he said.Singal further alleged that LIT chairman Raman Balasubramanium and Executive Officer Kuljeet Kaur had deliberately given a shorter period between the date of publication of e-auction notice and the e-auction proceedings to provide undue benefit to their near and dear ones.The complainant maintained that earlier also complaints were lodged with the LIT authorities about certain irregularities and illegal acts but these were ignored as the LIT chairman claimed of being close to senior leaders of the ruling party. The BJP had called for an independent enquiry into the e-auction.Copies of the complaint have also been sent to the DC, Leader of the Opposition Party in Punjab Vidhan Sabha and Chief Vigilance officer of Local Government, Punjab.The LIT Executive Officer Kuljeet Kaur said the complaint had been brought to their notice and it had been decided to put off the e-auction for the time being. “We shall seek permission from the government for issuing a corrigendum for extension of the date of e-auction to give 30 day’s clear notice for the same as per legal provision,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lit-decides-to-put-off-e-auction-of-properties-252251
13-05-2021||Ludhiana||DC salutes nurses in video message||Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday saluted nurses for their indomitable and undying spirit in the fight against the Covid-19 on the occasion of International Nurses Day.In a video message, the DC said the nurses have risked their lives to save others from the scourge of the infectious disease by putting extraordinary efforts.He said the deadly wave of the pandemic has engulfed the entire country and healthcare workers especially nurses have been playing a commendable role to combat the pandemic.The DC expressed hope that the hard work put in by them would be pivotal in saving millions of lives.He said the hard work of these soldiers without uniform would ever act as inspiration for the others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dc-salutes-nurses-in-video-message-252252
13-05-2021||Ludhiana||Online technical festival||CT University inks MoU with hospitalCT University and Mohandai Oswal Hospital have signed an MoU for faculty exchange and providing hands-on training and internship facilities for the students under-studying various healthcare & paramedical courses at the CT University, said VC Harsh Sadawarti. Dr Pradeep Kumar Sharma, Registrar, Mohandai Oswal Hospital said, “All hospitals need well trained technicians and it requires practical exposure and learning. TNSSCHOOL NOTESTiny tots take part in origami contestLudhiana: International Public Senior Secondary School organised an online origami and drawing competition for the students of kindergarten. The tiny tots shared their creations on the class WhatsApp group. Principal Suman Arora and director of the school Baljinder Singh Sandhu said creative activities help in the holistic development of children. They also applauded the kindergartners for their creative skills. TNSStudents observe Nurses DayTo mark the birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale and contributions of nurses, BVM, Sector-39, Chandigarh Road, observed International Nurses Day. Students expressed their gratitude to the nurses working during the pandemic. Students of Class III-V dressed as nurses and prepared first aid box. Paramjit Kaur, head of dispensary, acquainted everyone about the significance of the day and the role of nurses in the field of medicine. TNSGreen Land, New Subhash NagarGreen Land Convent School, New Subhash Nagar, observed International Nurses Day to honour the contributions of nurses to society during the Covid-19 pandemic. A special morning assembly was organised, in which students threw light on the importance of the day. Teachers briefed students about the life of Florence Nightingale, followed by a virtual role-play activity for the students of kindergarten. TNSBCM KindergartenTo express gratitude towards nurses and the frontline warriors, students of BCM Kindergarten, Chandigarh Road, celebrated International Nurses Day. Teachers told the tiny tots about the importance of nurses and said it was important to appreciate the efforts of nurses in the field of health care. Nursery students made the nurses’ caps. Students of LKG prepared a paper model of nurse while the UKG tiny tots expressed their gratitude by writing ‘thank you’ notes for nurses. TNSGreen Land Sr Sec Public SchoolTo mark International Nurses Day, students of Class I-III of Greenland Senior Secondary Public School participated in a hat-making activity and made nurses’ hats from paper plates. Students of Class IV-IX expressed their gratitude by making ‘thank you’ cards. They also wrote a short speech on ‘Contribution of nurses in making the world a better place’. TNSGreen Grove Public SchoolDoraha: The management, staff and students of Green Grove public School observed International Nurses Day to pay gratitude to nurses for their service during the pandemic. Students presented special speeches in English and Hindi. Teachers made a PPT to tell students about the work and importance of nurses. Principal Ms Suzy George, president JPS Jolly and chairperson Satinderjeet Kaur Jolly appreciated the efforts of students and teachers. They requested people to stay at home and follow all norms to curb the spread of the pandemic. OCEid celebrationsInternational Public Senior Secondary School, Sandhu Nagar, celebrated Eid-ul-Fitr with great fervour and excitement. Many online activities were organised for the students on the occasion. Students of Class I-III were asked to write five facts about the Islamic culture. Students of Class IV prepared gift envelops while that of Class VI made decorated glass jars. All students enthusiastically participated in all activities and shared photos of their creation on class group. TNSNational Technology Day observedThe school celebrated virtual National Technology Day with enthusiasm. The aim of the celebration was to remember the historical day of India’s first successful nuclear test at Pokhran. A special morning assembly was organised to celebrate the day. Teachers apprised students about the importance of the day. It was followed by a PowerPoint presentation competition for classes VIII to XII. The teachers announced important instructions and guidelines regarding the PowerPoint presentation. They prepared interesting presentations on various topics such as how technology has affected our lives. The presentations were judged on the basis of content, design and layout, special effects and overall presentation. The competition saw enthusiastic participation from the students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/online-technical-festival-252258
