14-05-2021||---||25 fall prey to virus, 1,335 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 13 Today, 1,335 persons from Ludhiana tested positive for Covid while 25 lost their lives to the virus. Total positive cases from Ludhiana district have now reached 72,401 while the death toll has reached 1,663. On Thursday, active cases in the district were 12,266 and 58 patients were on ventilator of which 40 were from Ludhiana and 18 from other districts. Those who tested positive today include six undertrials and five healthcare workers. As many as 294 persons are still to be traced. The patients who lost their lives today include 17 men and eight women, belonging to urban and rural areas of the district. Meanwhile, Civil Surgeon Kiran Gill had asked Covid survivors to contribute to the war against the virus by returning pulse oximeters. The state government had taken an initiative last year to provide free ‘Fateh kits’ to home isolated patients with an aim to providing effective medical care to patients affected by Covid-19. The kit included pulse oximeter, steamer, digital thermometer, medicines and masks as well as medicines and awareness material for treatment. Now, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has appealed to people to return their oximetres after recovering from Covid. The state government has so far distributed pulse oximeters to over one lakh people of the state. The surge in the number of Covid cases in the state is making it difficult for the government to cater to such a large number of patients. The Civil Surgeon appealed to people of Ludhiana that recovered patients who had previously received pulse oximeters in their Fateh kits should return them to their nearest government health facility so that the Health Department could sanitise them and make them available to  home-isolated Covid positive patients..||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/25-fall-prey-to-virus-1-335-test-positive-in-ludhiana-252430
14-05-2021||Nitin Jain||Daily positivity rate touches all-time high at 13.1 per cent in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 13The second wave of Covid continues to wreak havoc with daily cases and deaths rising with each passing day in the worst-hit district of the state. The daily positivity rate, a key indicator of the virus surge, touched an all-time high of 13.1 per cent here last week.With this, the Ludhiana district’s Covid spread surpassed the state’s positivity rate of 11.7 per cent between April 30 and May 6.The district’s positivity rate went up from 12 per cent between April 25 and May 1 while the state’s rate remained stable at 11.7 per cent between April 25 and May 6.With the increasing caseload, Ludhiana continued to remain way ahead from all other districts and earned the dubious distinction of Covid capital of the state.The grimmer situation through which the district was passing could be gauged from the fact that the district’s average daily positivity rate had registered an increase of 3.1 per cent in less than 10 days. The positivity rate here was on the constant rise since April 26 when it was 10 per cent (between April 20 and 26) and then shot up to 11.1 per cent between April 23 and 29. Earlier, the positivity rate had dipped from 11.5 per cent between April 15 and 21.However, Mohali continued to lead the state with the highest positivity rate of 24.9 per cent, followed by Bathinda 17.3 per cent, Fazilka 17.1, and Mansa 13.8 per cent.The districts that were placed better than Ludhiana included Patiala with a positivity rate of 12.4 per cent, followed by Pathankot and Jalandhar 11.7 per cent each, Amritsar 11.6, Muktsar 11.2, Ropar 10.7, Faridkot 9.2, Moga 8.6, Sangrur 8.3, Fatehgarh Sahib 8.1, Hoshiarpur 7.3, Ferozepur and Gurdaspur 6.4 per cent each, Barnala 6.3, Nawanshahr 6, Tarn Taran 5.4 and Kapurthala registered the lowest positivity rate of 5.2 per cent in the state.In contrast to Ludhiana district’s rising trend, the state’s positivity rate had come down from 12 per cent between April 23 and 29 to 11.7 per cent between April 30 and May 6. Earlier, the state’s Covid surge had risen from 7.2 per cent between April 2 and 8 to 9.5 between April 9 and 15 and 9.8 per cent between April 16 and 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/daily-positivity-rate-touches-all-time-high-at-13-1-per-cent-in-ludhiana-252431
14-05-2021||---||Man held on rape charge||Ludhiana, May 13A man was arrested on Wednesday for raping a girl at Mal Majra village in Samrala.The accused had been identified as Gurjit Singh, a resident of Sangatpura village in Khanna district.The complainant, the girl’s mother, told the police that the accused and her daughter had exchanged phone numbers a few weeks ago after which both started talking over phone.After developing a friendship, he also proposed her daughter.On the pretext of solemnising marriage with her daughter, the accused had been sexually abusing her.He used to make excuses whenever the girl asks him about their marriage.The complainant alleged that the accused had also threatened her of dire consequences if she tells anybody about the matter. A few days ago, her daughter told her family about her sexual exploitation, following which the police were informed.ASI Lakhwinder Kaur said after receiving a complaint, a case of rape was registered against the accused and yesterday he was arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-on-rape-charge-252432
14-05-2021||---||21 booked for curfew violations||Ludhiana, May 13The city police continued its action against curfew violators and booked 21 persons on Wednesday.In a statement issued, the city police stated that due to curfew, acting on the directions of the state government, the city police took strict action against the curfew violators.On Wednesday, during a special checking, 17 cases of curfew violations were registered against 21 persons at various police stations in the city. Most of the violators are shopkeepers who were found running their shops during the curfew hours.The police said at some of the shops, even customers were also present. They were let off with a warning.The police appealed to residents to follow the curfew norms religiously as the police would not spare any violator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/21-booked-for-curfew-violations-252433
14-05-2021||Ludhiana||Delhi man nabbed with 1 kg of heroin||The Khanna police have arrested a Delhi-based man and recovered 1 kg of heroin from his possession. He had come to deliver the consignment of drugs to his clients.The suspect has been identified as Dipanshu Avasthi, a resident of Nihal Vihar, West Delhi.Gursharandeep Singh Grewal, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Khanna, in a statement issued said the Khanna police had started a special campaign against drug trafficking and during the drive, the police achieved a huge success with the arrest of a man with a huge quantity of heroin, the value of which is said to be in crores in the international market.The SSP said the narcotics cell of the Khanna police had received a tip-off that a smuggler from Delhi was coming towards Khanna and he was carrying a huge quantity of drugs.After which, a naka was laid near Pristine Mall on GT Road, Khanna, where a man coming from the Mandi Gobindgarh side was stopped by the police.In the presence of Manmohan Sarna, Khanna DSP, 1 kg of heroin was recovered from his bag.The suspect is still being questioned and during police remand, there is a possibility of major disclosures that from where he had brought the consignment and to whom he has to deliver. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/delhi-man-nabbed-with-1-kg-of-heroin-252434
14-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Man who posed as poll strategist to allure Congress MLA for party ticket held||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 13A man, who posed as Prashant Kishore, a poll strategist, and attempted to allure a sitting Congress MLA of Ludhiana for a confirmed ticket in the upcoming Assembly elections in the state, has been arrested.The alertness of the MLA led to the arrest of the accused and another gang member. The Ludhiana police in a joint operation with the Sangrur police busted the gang. Though senior police officials are mum about the development, citing the ongoing operation but confirmed police sources revealed that the police have arrested two members of the gang.Ludhiana Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal didn’t respond to repeated queries while ADCP Jaskaranjit Singh Teja also refused to comment on the matter.As per information, in April this year, one of the arrested gang members had called Daman Thind Bajwa, national secretary, Indian Youth Congress, Sunam, and posing as Prashant Kishore, allured her for confirmed party ticket in the upcoming Assembly elections.“The man was posing as Prashant and his voice was exactly the same. I replied to all his queries thinking that he is the Principal Adviser to the Punjab Chief Minister and a renowned political strategist but when he demanded Rs 7 lakh from me, I turned suspicious and I informed senior Congress leaders and the police. An FIR was also lodged by the Sunam police,” Bajwa said.Recently, the gang targeted the sitting Congress MLA of Ludhiana and allured him of confirmed ticket for the Assembly elections. Since the MLA was aware of the recent case of Sunam, he acted smartly and did not let them feel that he was aware about the gang. The Ludhiana MLA had contacted the Sunam leader and was in touch with Sangrur and Ludhiana police.Last Saturday, the MLA was called by the alleged Prashant Kishore and his team members at a hotel in Jalandhar for a meeting. The MLA had asked the Ludhiana police to lay a trap and catch the ‘fake Prashant Kishore’. The police managed to catch the gang members.As per the Sunam Congress leader Daman Thind Bajwa, arrested members are Rakesh and Rajat. She said, initially the person acting as PK used to talk for the party ticket and later, two other persons used to act as team members of PK and they were to collect money on PK’s behalf. The Ludhiana MLA, who requested anonymity, told The Tribune that he had got a call from fake Prashant Kishore and now, the police had busted the gang and police operation was still on to catch all gang members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-who-posed-as-poll-strategist-to-allure-congress-mla-for-party-ticket-held-252435
14-05-2021||Harshraj Singh
||Trial run for first carcass utilisation plant by May 25||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 13 Finally, the city’s first carcass utilisation plant (CUP) is going to be made operational soon as claimed by officials. The plant is likely to be started on a trial basis by May 25. The plant is being built at a cost of around Rs 7.98 crore under Ludhiana Smart City Limited. At present, dead animals are disposed at a ‘Hadda Rodi’ near the Sutlej against the norms. MC Commissioner and CEO of Ludhiana Smart City Limited Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal reviewed the construction work of the plant. He said: “The capacity of CUP will be 150 carcasses of animals per day. It would eliminate the unscientific disposal of dead animals.” The plant is being constructed under the design built operate maintain and transfer (DBOMT) basis. MC officials said it was a zero discharge plant that would be managed by the concessionaire for a period of seven years. The MC’s operations and maintenance wing will keep a check on the operations of the plant. They said the trial run would be started by May 25. Vendors would be responsible for carrying the carcass of animals from the jurisdiction of Ludhiana city to the utilisation plant. Notably, skinners have been lifting and disposing the dead cattle from various parts of the city for decades. They take the carcasses to the ‘hadda rodi’ site near Ladhowal. But, residents of nearby areas had complained many times against the practice as the unbearable odour emanating from ‘hadda rodi’ has been troubling them for a long time. The Punjab Pollution Control Board had also sent notices to the animal skinners and imposed Rs 11.40 crore environmental compensation charges on them (Rs 2.28 crore on each) for allegedly discharging effluents from ‘hadda rodi’ into the Sutlej. The skinners had gone on strike against the notices. Later, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had assured them to get the matter resolved. According to the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, it was the responsibility of the MC to make adequate provisions for removal and proper disposal of dead animals. The MC had been making plans to set up the carcass utilisation plant for over one decade but the process was getting delayed. In 2014, the then health branch chief had stated that they had got approval from the MC’s Finance and Contract Committee to set up the project. The project was later shifted to Ludhiana Smart City Limited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/trial-run-for-first-carcass-utilisation-plant-by-may-25-252436
14-05-2021||---||Revival of loan schemes for minorities sought by corpn||Ludhiana, May 13 To revive the discontinued loan schemes for various minorities, including Sikhs, Christians, Muslims, Buddhists, Parsis and Jains and others, Punjab Backward Classes Land Development And Finance Corporation (Backfinco) vice-chairman Mohd Gulab on Thursday met Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. Mohd Gulab said earlier, the state government used to provide financial assistance to minorities by giving them loans for starting small businesses. He told the minister that Backfinco was established in 1976 to uplift the economic condition of the backward classes and economically weaker sections of the state. Gulab told that following National Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporation (NBCFDC) and the National Minority Finance and Development Corporation (NMDFC) came into existence, Backfinco was appointed a nodal agency to implement the self-employment schemes of both corporations in the state. He said under these schemes, loans were provided to the target group at an interest rate of only 6 per cent per annum. The age limit for the target group was 18 to 55 years and the annual income was less than Rs 300,000 for rural and urban areas, he said and added that 50 per cent of loans were given to the applicants whose annual family income was up to Rs. 1, 50,000. He also informed that loans were provided by the corporations under the Education Loan Scheme for the backward classes. Gulab said since 2017, the NMDFC had discontinued the term loan scheme for Sikhs, Muslims, Christians, Buddhists, Parsis and Jains which deprived the deserving youths of these communities to avail the benefits of these schemes.  He urged the minister that people of these communities were an integral part of society and the state government should restart all these welfare loan schemes immediately. The minister assured Gulab to look into the issue and directed officials to immediately work on modalities for restarting the loan schemes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/revival-of-loan-schemes-for-minorities-sought-by-corpn-252437
14-05-2021||Ludhiana||Mayor, MC chief visit cremation grounds in city||Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal inspected cremation grounds wherein bodies of Covid-19 infected patients are cremated. MC’s Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh was also present. He said the Mayor and the Commissioner checked arrangements and held talks with staff at the cremation grounds. They expressed satisfaction over the arrangements. The MC Commissioner also inspected the newly built building of the Animal Birth Control Centre at Haibowal Dairy Complex. He said the capacity of centre had enhanced from current to 100 dogs per day for sterilization of stray dogs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mayor-mc-chief-visit-cremation-grounds-in-city-252438
14-05-2021||Manav Mander||Healthcare workers’ families to be vaccinated at 24 sites today||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 13The district will kick start vaccination drive for comorbid citizens and family members of healthcare workers in the age group of 18 to 44 years at 24 sites tomorrow. Meanwhile, construction workers in the same age group will be vaccinated at the DMCH and Halwara.Today, the district was short of vaccine. Both Covishield and Covaxin was administered only at the Civil Hospital. Besides, only second dose of Covaxin was administered at four sites in the city today. Only 912 people were vaccinated out of which 100 were construction workers.People returned from most sites as no vaccine stock was available there. A city resident, Kamaljit Singh, said his second dose of Covishield was due, but he was unable to get the shot as there was no stock. “I went to the Civil Surgeon office, but the notice about no vaccination was pasted there. I had to come back without my second dose,” he added.Another city resident said he was unable to get the second dose as vaccine was out of stock. “I got my first dose from a private hospital. Now, private hospitals have stopped vaccinating. So, after waiting, I went to government hospital, but vaccine is not available there also. I don’t know from where I will get my second dose,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/healthcare-workers-families-to-be-vaccinated-at-24-sites-today-252439
14-05-2021||---||Webinar dwells on stress management||Ludhiana, May 13 A webinar on “Stress management in Covid-19 times” was jointly organised by the Communication Centre and the Department of Extension Education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), for students and faculty members. Dr Sarabjeet Singh, head, Department of Agricultural Journalism, Languages and Culture, said, “Negative thinking gives stress, which can be controlled through the strength of the mind.” He emphasised on replacing negative thinking by positive thoughts.  “Shun bad company and mingle with good people to exchange ideas and thoughts,” he advised. Dr Singh urged participants to follow the norm ‘Karoge gal, milega hal’ (share and get solution). In his welcome address, Dr TS Riar, Additional Director, Communication, said, “Energy development starts from home and happiness comes by sharing with family members.”  “Even office atmosphere should be motivating and friendly. It will increase efficiency in work,” he added. Dr Kuldeep Singh, head, Department of Extension Education, said such informative lectures would be organised in future also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-dwells-on-stress-management-252440
14-05-2021||---||DPI’s explanation of quarantine leave irks teachers||Ludhiana, May 13 Punjab is a state where the number of people affected by Covid is increasing with each passing day. Hundreds of teachers working in government schools of the state have contracted coronavirus and many have even lost their lives.  Earlier, the Chief Secretary, Punjab Government, had issued instructions through the Personnel Department to provide 17 days special quarantine leave to employees suffering from coronavirus.  On May 12, the Coordination Cell of the DPI, Punjab, gave an explanation, which was contrary to these instructions. As per the Coordination Cell: “Medical leave of school teachers suffering from coronavirus should be sanctioned.” This development is causing a lot of resentment in the teaching circles.  Meanwhile, the Government School Teachers Union Punjab State president, Surinder Kumar Puari, general secretary Balkar Valtoha, senior vice-president Prem Chawla and patrons Charan Singh Sarabha, Naveen Kumar, Parveen Kumar and Tahil Singh Sarabha have condemned the decision of the Education Department. They demanded withdrawal of the letter at the earliest.  Leaders said teachers and the staff of the Education Department were attending schools and conducting online classes. Teachers were also deployed on duties related to the epidemic, they added. This decision was shocking for employees and teachers, they said.  The Joint Teachers Morcha Punjab was organising a sit-in on May 17 in blocks/tehsils to protest against the anti-education policies of the Punjab and Central Governments, they added. Teachers and staff of the Education Department would join the protest, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dpis-explanation-of-quarantine-leave-irks-teachers-252441
14-05-2021||---||Ensure rehabilitation of all slum dwellers, says NGO||Ludhiana, May 13 A city-based NGO has demanded that the state government should make sure that all slum dwellers in the city are rehabilitated. There are many slum areas along roads and on green belts in different parts of the city.   Earlier, the civic body had shifted slum dwellers from several areas to flats at Giaspura and Mundian under the Basic Services for the Urban Poor (BSUP) scheme. But, slum dwellers from some areas were not shifted to these flats.  Kuldeep Singh Khaira of Vigilant Citizens’ Forum said, “The government should introduce a policy for all slum dwellers. Rehabilitation of slum dwellers must be ensured in the right manner. Moreover, the government should get children of slum dwellers admitted to schools. Earlier, dwellers from several selected slums have been shifted to flats. But in some cases, the MC has removed slums, but dwellers have not been rehabilitated.” Satish Thaman, member, Ludhiana (West) Grievances Redressal Committee said, “The civic body should ensure rehabilitation of all slum dwellers. The MC should make arrangements to shift them to an appropriate location before conducting any anti-encroachment drive. They should be provided accommodation. Their children should be provided free education.” About a month ago, the Municipal Corporation (MC) had conducted a demolition drive near Buddha Nullah on Tajpur Road and razed some slums. But, slum dwellers had then claimed that the civic body took no measures for their rehabilitation.  The MC tehbazari wing in-charge, Neeraj Jain, said they shifted slum dwellers to flats constructed under the BSUP scheme. The MC also shifted dwellers from a green belt area, near Salem Tabri, to Giaspura flats recently, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ensure-rehabilitation-of-all-slum-dwellers-says-ngo-252443
14-05-2021||Shivani Bhakoo
||Schoolteachers sore over ‘credit war’ on students’ enrolment issue||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 13 Many government schoolteachers and Principals have expressed their bitterness on a pamphlet being circulated in various WhatsApp groups, which gives credit of good enrolment to the Deputy DEO here. Teachers here feel that the enrollment process is a combined effort. To be in good books of higher-up a few persons should not play a role wherein others get de-motivated, said teachers. One of the Principals of a senior secondary school near Ludhiana said, “Many teachers have tested Covid positive and a few lost their lives too. We are strengthening the enrolment process under constant threat of the pandemic.”  “In such times, if credit is given to a single person, others will get de-motivated and disappointed. It is a combined effort of the department to enrol more and more students in government schools. And we all are making sincere efforts. Pleasing higher-up in such a manner is uncalled for,” he added. Another teacher said, “It sad that teachers of the Mangat block are giving credit to one person just because they want to be in good books of the official. The picture is being circulated in WhatsApp groups of teachers.”  “The picture states that this official is not a common man. People are making constant efforts to conspire against him. It is due to his warm nature and sweet goodwill that Ludhiana district has done well in the enrollment process. The persons, who tested positive and lost their lives, are nowhere to be mentioned,” the teacher added. “We are asked to go door to door, bear rude behaviour of officials during zoom meetings and put our lives at risk in this pandemic. No credit is given to us,” said teachers.  Teachers and Principals said due to their untiring efforts, Ludhiana district secured second position in enrolment campaign initiated by the Education Department. Instead of appreciating teachers and staff a few persons were given credit, they added. The Deputy DEO, Kuldip Singh, however, said he was not aware about any such pamphlet being circulated in WhatsApp groups. “In case a few teachers are circulating this, why should I be held accountable? It is their will to do so. But as far as pressurising for enrollment is concerned, I have never asked anyone to go door to door. We tell them in zoom meetings to follow Covid guidelines and strengthen the enrolment process,” the Deputy DEO added. Meanwhile, one of the teachers of Mangat Block III said Deputy DEO was doing a good job and motivating all. One should not feel bad if he was being given credit, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/schoolteachers-sore-over-credit-war-on-students-enrolment-issue-252444
14-05-2021||Doraha||Doraha traders demand extension in shop timings  from 12 noon to  2 pm||Traders seem to be unhappy with timings for opening shops in the town. The administration has instructed traders to open shops at 5 am. Traders say it is difficult for them to open shops during early morning hours. They have equal objections regarding closing time of shops, which is 12 noon. They have demanded that either closing time of shops be extended till 2 pm or the odd even scheme be implemented in the town. Jandeep kaushal, who runs a medical store, said, “The timing for opening shops may be feasible within big city, but as far as small town like Doraha is concerned it is total failure.”  “Neither all shopkeepers nor customers are locals. In a number of cases traders have to cover a distance of more than 20 to 25 km to reach town and open shops at 5 am, which is early and fails to solve any purpose,” he added. “No customer from surrounding villages comes during early hours. People from the periphery have to cover 20 to 30 km to reach town for shopping. They, in no case, are able to reach town before 11 and complete shopping within an hour.  The actual window assigned to traders for doing business is just two hours, which is not enough to sustain their families. Businessmen are facing severe financial crunch during pandemic,” complained Harpreet Singh, a trader from Ghulal village.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/doraha-traders-demand-extension-in-shop-timings-from-12-noon-to-2-pm-252445
14-05-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar dwells on reading skills||Nat’l Technology Day celebratedLudhiana: BCM Kindergarten, Chandigarh Road, celebrated National Technology Day with fervour. The theme of the day was “The science of today is the technology of tomorrow”. During celebrations it was highlighted that during the Covid -19 pandemic technology was the only way to connect with each other. India’s achievements in the areas of space and atomic energy were also discussed on the occasion. An informative video related to it was shared with students. Little Munchkins participated in various activities planned for the day. Nursery kids prepared the face mask of an astronaut. LKG kids prepared the straw rocket whereas UKG students prepared aircraft with the help of reusable bottles and coloured papers. Headmistress Ritu Syal said the day reminded country’s technological advancement. School Principal DP Guleria said the country needed latest technology in the present time. TNSBlue Day celebratedLudhiana: DCM Presidency School Elementary Campus celebrated Blue Day. The significance of blue colour was highlighted through a series of activities on the occasion. The dress code of the day was blue for nursery students. Excitement and enthusiasm was visible in online classes. Clad in blue dresses, students were made to recognise blue colour through different games and play way activities. Blue coloured objects like umbrella, ball, cloud and flowers were on display, which helped students get a clear sense of the colour and its importance. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-dwells-on-reading-skills-252446
14-05-2021||---||FIEO signs MoU to support  Covid patients||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 13The Police Public Foundation (PPF) have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with cops to support Covid patients. The foundation aims to bridge the gap between the police and the public.Neeraj Satija, senior vice- president, and SC Ralhan, former president, Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), and members of the PPF were in talks with Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) to start an additional Covid ward of around 50 beds.Satija said the whole ward and all its equipment would be provided by the PPF. In future also 10 beds would be kept for free treatment of the poor and the needy, Satija added. Such patients would be charged only for consumables and medicines, Satija said.Doctor visitation and nursing charges would also be waived for these patients on 10 beds, Satija added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fieo-signs-mou-to-support-covid-patients-252723
