15-05-2021||---||19 deaths; 1,320 fresh cases in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 14On Friday, 1,320 persons tested positive for Covid while 19 lost their lives to the virus. Total confirmed cases from Ludhiana so far have reached 73,721 while the death toll has mounted to 1,682 since the outbreak of the contagion.Active cases in the district today reached 12,586. There were 57 patients on ventilator support in hospitals today, of which 36 belong to Ludhiana and 21 to other districts.Those who lost their lives today included 10 men and nine women from Shivpuri, Malak, Giaspura, Dholan, Sunder Nagar, Hargobind Nagar, Gahour, Bhadaur-ke-Road, Bhiani Sahib, Baddowal, Ghudani Khurd, Khanna, Sanjay Gandhi Colony, Gill Road, Dhandra, Basant Avenue, Shimlapuri, Tajpur Road and Haibowal Kalan.A total of 15,180 samples were collected in the district today.Meanwhile, the team of the mass media wing of the Health Department today sensitised public in different parts of the city to precationary measures for the prevention of the virus and new curfew restrictions.The team went to various parts of the city and made people aware of wearing mask, social distancing and washing hands. It visited shops and told shopkeepers that social distancing was important in preventing the virus. They were warned not to gather too much people in shops and not to allow persons sans masks to enter their shops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/19-deaths-1-320-fresh-cases-in-ludhiana-253079
15-05-2021||---||City bizman kills wife over property dispute||Ludhiana, May 14A city-based businessman strangled his wife to death at their residence in Atam Park here on Friday.The Model Town police registered a case of murder against Harmesh Arora, husband of the deceased, Aarti Arora, their son Lovenish Arora, daughter Ritika Arora and Lovenish’s wife Shaina Arora.The complainant, Rajan Kundra, deceased’s brother, said his sister got married to Harmesh in 1955. The couple had three children Lovenish, Ritika and Parmesh. Parmesh had been living in Canada while his two siblings were staying in Ludhiana.The complainant said his sister was running Aarti Boutique at Atam Nagar and she was also a director in a factory, Arora Alloys, in the Focal Point area.“Her husband was greedy as he wanted to usurp her boutique. Recently, he also removed my sister from the director’s post by forging her signatures. On May 13, when I went to meet my sister, she was under depression. She also apprised me then that her husband and his family members were planning to kill her,” he said.He said this morning, he had gone to pick her sister from her home. When he reached the place, he was shocked to see that her husband and other family members were putting her in a car. She was in an unconscious state.“When I asked the accused what happened to her, they fled the spot. Afterwards, I rushed her to hospital where doctors declared her brought dead,” he alleged.Model Town SHO Inderjit Singh Boparai said raids were being conducted to nab all accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/city-bizman-kills-wife-over-property-dispute-253081
15-05-2021||---||Road mishaps claim two lives in Khanna||Ludhiana, May 14Two persons, including a woman, died in separate road mishaps in Khanna district.Complainant Rajvir Singh of Madpur village, near Samrala, told the police that on May 13, he, along with his cousin Hardeep Singh, was heading towards Katani Kalan on a scooter.“When we were overtaking the tractor-trailer, its driver suddenly turned the vehicle towards us due to which we fell on the road. My cousin was crushed under one of the rear tyres of the tractor. He died on the spot,” the complainant added.Assistant sub-inspector Sikandar Raj from the Samrala police station said the driver of the tractor-trailer had fled the spot after the accident and efforts were on to identify him.In another incident, complainant Lalkar Singh of Daodour village in Khanna district told the police that on Thursday evening, when he along with his friend, was heading towards Khanna in his car, they stopped on Bija-GT Road. When they were standing on the road, a speeding and rashly driven car hit his friend, Nazma (27). She was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.The Sadar Khanna police registered a case of negligent driving against the unknown driver and CCTV footage of cameras in the area were being checked to get any clue about the car driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/road-mishaps-claim-two-lives-in-khanna-253082
15-05-2021||Ludhiana||6,089 in 18-44 age group jabbed||Today, 352 persons were vaccinated in the 45 plus age group category. In the 18-44 age group, 6,089 persons were vaccinated.Tomorrow, the camps for the 18-44 age group will be organised at 24 places. Covishield will not be administered for the 45 plus category tomorrow as the district has run out of its stock.The vaccination for those aged 18-44 (construction workers) and having comorbidites or family members of healthcare workers in this age category started in the district from today.The vaccination drive was inaugurated by MP Ravneet Singh Bittu by visiting Pothohar Khalsa Senior Secondary School in Khud Mohalla, here today.The MP warned a few private hospitals to not to overcharge patients. He warned that private doctors should not force the state government for taking strict decisions.Bittu said during his visit to the government Urban Health Centre at Jawaddi, he was impressed to see a 4-month pregnant doctor performing her duty in a Covid ward.“If such doctors can serve patients without even thinking of their own health, we also expect similar selfless acts from doctors of private hospitals,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said 24 such camps were being organised in the district today and depending on the number of vaccines received, more such camps would be organised in the coming days.He said though fresh cases were reported, the district administration was fully geared up to combat the pandemic and save people from the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/6-089-in-18-44-age-group-jabbed-253083
15-05-2021||Harshraj Singh||Civic body ignores sick, injured stray animals||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 14Ill or injured stray animals, including stray dogs and cattle, are continuously being ignored in areas of the Municipal Corporation (MC), Ludhiana. Despite the availability of some government veterinary hospitals in the city, the MC has not made any arrangement to take these injured or sick animals to these hospitals for required treatment.A number of sick stray animals are dying without getting any treatment. Residents want the Municipal Corporation authorities to start an ambulance service and ensure provision of timely treatment to the sick or injured stray dogs, cattle and any other animals or birds in the city. The matter was raised in the past too but the civic body took no concrete measures in this regard.Major Amarjit Singh Bath, a city resident, said: “We have raised a demand that there is a need to start a 24x7 dedicated helpline service for the welfare of the stray animals so that sick or injured animals must be provided treatment or any help timely. But, no steps have been taken in this regard by the MC.”He said: “There are a number of government hospitals and a veterinary university Ludhiana. The MC can take help of these institutions to provide treatment to the animals in areas under its jurisdiction. The civic body should start an ambulance service to take such animals to nearby government hospitals.”Simrandeep Singh, chairman of ‘Ek Akal Simran Charity Foundation’, said: “Ill stray dogs, bulls, cows and other animals are commonly seen in the city but many of them die without getting any treatment. Attention should be paid to the sick animals and birds too. A huge amount of cow cess is being collected by the civic body. The collected amount should be used for the welfare of all animals.”He said: “It is the responsibility of the MC and the government to provide timely treatment to all ill or injured stray animals. Teams of veterinary doctors should be formed for the task. A helpline number must be launched for the service. The government departments such as MC have many vehicles that can be used to shift injured or ill animals to hospitals for treatment.”MC’s senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla said they would make a proposal to provide treatment to such stray animals at veterinary hospitals under the Animal Husbandry Department.He said the MC had an ambulance that could be used for shifting the animals to hospitals.‘Ambulance service needed for timely treatment’A number of sick stray animals are dying without getting any treatment. Residents want the MC authorities to start an ambulance service and ensure provision of timely treatment to the sick or injured stray dogs, cattle and other animals or birds in the city. The matter was raised in the past too but the authorities concerned took no concrete measures in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-ignores-sick-injured-stray-animals-253085
15-05-2021||Nitin Jain||Recovery rate touches all-time high of 97.25 per cent in district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 14In what appears to be a ray of hope to beat the devastating second Covid wave, the recovery rate of Covid patients has touched an all-time high of 97.25 per cent in Ludhiana district on Friday.Even as daily virus cases and deaths were rising, the fast recovery of patients was instilling a ray of hope among residents in the state’s worst-hit district.The official data available with The Tribune revealed that the recovery rate touched an all-time high of 97.25 per cent in the district on Friday after remaining 97.24 per cent on May 10 and 11, before slightly dipping to 97.21 per cent on May 12, but again rising to 97.23 per cent on May 13.The recovery rate was an indicator of patients recovering from the virus every day in the ratio of those testing positive on the same day.The figures compiled by the district administration showed that the recovery rate was constantly going up since January 1 this year.The recovery rate ranged between 96.05 per cent and 96.08 per cent from January 1 to 31 while it went up to 96.13 per cent till February 28, 96.37 per cent till March 31 and reached 97.06 per cent on April 30.The recovery of Covid patients picked more pace in May when it reached 97.09 per cent on May 4, and kept daily rising to 97.11 per cent on May 6, 97.14 per cent on May 7, 97.16 per cent on May 8, 97.18 on May 9, before reaching 97.24 per cent with the highest daily jump of 0.06 per cent on May 10 and 11, slightly dipping to 97.21 per cent on May 12, again going up to 97.23 per cent on May 13 and touching its peak of 97.25 per cent on Friday.While a record 1,322 patients recovered from the deadly virus as compared to 1,355 fresh daily cases in the district on May 13, another 981 persons beat Covid against 1,320 more persons testing positive on Friday. With this, 59,453 of the total 73,741 patients have already won the battle against Covid, leaving 12,586 active cases and 9,901 persons under home isolation in Ludhiana.OfficialspeakWe are providing all possible help to Covid patients, including Fateh medicine and food kits, besides ensuring hospitalisation of critical cases and regular examination of those put under home isolation. The high recovery rate is an indication of our efforts bearing fruit and the district marching ahead towards winning the battle against the deadly virus. —Varinder Kumar Sharma, DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/recovery-rate-touches-all-time-high-of-97-25-per-cent-in-district-253087
15-05-2021||Ludhiana||Covid mobile clinic lying defunct||A Covid testing mobile clinic and ambulance, which was started in August last year during the peak of first wave of Covid, is lying defunct since the beginning of 2021. The ambulance was prepared at a cost of Rs 25 lakh.Local SAD leader Sukhbir Singh Sokhi performed a ‘pooja’ of the ambulance and garlanded it.“This is the time when it is most required but it is lying defunct. If the department cannot run it, they should give it to some NGO to make it functional,” said Sokhi while garlanding the ambulance.The ambulance used to conduct Covid test at the doorstep of people in containment zones, micro- containment zones, crowded areas and high-risk areas.The mobile clinic and ambulance has contact-less thermal testing with nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swab tests.The fully AC bus also has an oxygen cylinder, sanitiser machine, a separate ambulance zone to evacuate critical patients. It has a capacity to collect over 1,000 samples in a day.Officials in the Health Department said the size of the ambulance was too big due to which it was not possible to take it to interior parts of the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-mobile-clinic-lying-defunct-253088
15-05-2021||Manav Mander||Boost immunity against Covid with these ayurvedic herbs in your kitchen||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 14With rising Covid cases during the second wave, stress is being laid on increasing immunity. Age-old ayurvedic herbs which are easily available in everybody’s kitchen have come to people’s rescue during the pandemic.The Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, Sowa-Rigpa and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) has also launched a massive nationwide campaign to distribute its herbal ayurvedic drug AYUSH-64 and Sidha medicine Kabasura Kudineer for Covid patients in isolation.Dr Ravinder Vatsyayan, a city-based ayurvedacharya, said immunity is the natural power of the body to fight any disease. There are three types of immunity , which includes natural immunity, acquired immunity and artificial immunity.“At present our focus is to increase the natural immunity of the body which is regulated by diet, lifestyle and thought process. One need to have balanced diet on time, follow healthy lifestyle and stay away from negative thoughts. By following these three rules, the immunity will increase automatically,” said Dr Vatsayayan.Herbs such as amla, giloy, turmeric, tulsi and ashwagandha which have stood the test of time in raising and for maintaining immunity should be consumed daily.Dr Mohit Vaid, another city-based ayurvedacharya, further added, “Most important thing is one should keep his kapha balanced- because kapha is food for virus. Risk factors for kapha aggrevation are obese patients, patients who are prone to respiratory allergies, patient who easily gain weight, high cholesterol, diabetics and hypothyroidism patients”.Back to basics“One should take light easily digestable diet, no dairy products after sunset, avoid fats specially Saturated and trans fats such as butter ghee, ice creams, cold drinks and baked items. Some home remedies can really help which include turmeric, ginger, black pepper, ajwain water, pippali, warm water use. Fasting once or twice a week will be helpful. Some ayurvedic medicine can be taken for normal cold or flu symptoms after consulting ayurvedic doctor such as trikatu churan, panchkol churan, talisadi churan, maha laxmi Vilas rasa, dashmool kwath steam, ajwain water steam,” said Dr Mohit Vaid.General measuresHow to keep virus at bayWhat to do in dry cough, sore throat?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/boost-immunity-against-covid-with-these-ayurvedic-herbs-in-your-kitchen-253089
15-05-2021||---||Construction work of school inaugurated||Ludhiana, May 14MLA Surinder Dawar today inaugurated the construction work of a Government Senior Secondary Smart School in the Kidwai Nagar area of the city. He was also accompanied by Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, Manik Dawar, besides several others.The MLA said the Ludhiana Improvement Trust had handed over a prime piece of land measuring 8,250 sq yards in Kidwai Nagar area of the city to the Education Department for the construction of a Government Senior Secondary Smart School. Dawar informed that this land worth around Rs 50 crore was handed over by LIT to the Education Department totally free of cost. He said that with the construction of this smart school, a large number of area residents would be benefitted.MLA Surinder Dawar informed that the school would be constructed with a cost of Rs 8.5 crore and would be complete in the next six months. He said residents of the Ward No 8 of the Ludhiana Central constituency would be benefited by the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/construction-work-of-school-inaugurated-253090
15-05-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||PSPCL revises rules for industrial connnections||Ludhiana, May 14To save industrial units from avoidable inconvenience and plug the loss of revenue arising from sudden disconnection of industrial power connections on the directions of government agencies such as the Punjab Pollution Control Board or other similar regulatory bodies, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has issued revised guidelines for disconnection and reconnection of industrial connections which would come in force with immediate effect.In an office memo (373/377DD/SR-63 dated May 4, 2021), the PSPCL Chief Engineer/Commercial has directed that the issue of disconnection and reconnection of industrial units on notices issued by PPCB and other statutory bodies had been considered by the management and accordingly it had been decided that such industrial connections would be disconnected on the last day of the notice period served by PPCB, or any such body.“Further, the field officers shall ensure that reconnection of such disconnected electricity connections will be carried out within 24 hours of the issuance of relevant NOC (no objection certificate) by PPCB or any other central/state authority which had issued directions for disconnection,” says the memo.Online applications must for new connectionsMeanwhile, PSPCL has made online submission of applications for new connections or extension of load above 50 kVA upto 100 kVA, mandatory with effect from April 30, 2021. Earlier, a ‘single window system’ (SWS) for new connection and extension of load above 100 kVA was put in place.In a commercial circular (14/2021) the PSPCL has laid down – “Now in order to facilitate the consumers and to make the procedure more transparent and& fast; the registration of applications for new connection or extension of demand above 50 kVA upto 100 kVA has been made mandatory to be applied through online system only. This system shall cover the whole procedure right from online registration of application upto the release of connection.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pspcl-revises-rules-for-industrial-connnections-253092
15-05-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Bird flu no scare for chicken lovers||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 14Shopkeepers dealing in poultry products are relieved as despite the avian influenza scare, there has been no decline in the sales. The shopkeepers said the meat and chicken lovers understand that there has not been any case reported so far in this part of the region where bird flu is transmitted to humans.Talking to The Tribune, Amandeep Singh, from Dugri area, said the birds were culled in the particular poultry farm near Raikot. “To save money, the birds must have not been injected, which is mandatory. Due to this, the immune system of birds gets weak and they catch infection. Over 60,000 birds were culled in the five-days’ operation. The authorities culled the birds and destroyed the eggs at the farm”, said Amandeep Singh.However, the demand for eggs and chicken has not decreased. “We are relieved as people have not stopped buying the poultry products as is usually done when any such case is highlighted. Customers are coming, demanding both eggs and chicken and we have not reduced the prices either because there is no decline in the demand,” said Amandeep Singh.Recently, the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal had confirmed about avian influenza in samples sent from the particular farm. The poultry farm owner had informed the concerned authorities about the death of around 1,500 birds following which quick action was taken by the administration and the one kilometer area was declared as an infected zone. Following suo-moto action, culling of birds had promptly started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bird-flu-no-scare-for-chicken-lovers-253093
15-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Cops win battle against Covid||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 14Cops of the Special Staff wing of the Ludhiana police who today joined duty after winning the corona battle were given warm welcome by the staff members.Inspector Beant Juneja, in-charge, Special Staff, garlanded the cops and wished them good luck.“Two cops of special branch who tested Covid positive returned back on duty with more zeal and dedication to serve the people of Ludhiana. ASI Jaiwant Singh and ASI Arjun Singh were tested Covid positive April 27. Their dedication towards duty was appreciated by the whole staff and they were welcomed with garlands to boost their morale. They have been instrumental in arresting 25 Proclaimed Offenders and Bail jumpers in last five months” said Juneja.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cops-win-battle-against-covid-253094
15-05-2021||Ludhiana||Treat pet wounds at home with ‘Sepil’||After showing promising results among humans, ‘Sepil’, a new herbal antiseptic has showed promising results in treating animal wounds at Vet Hospital of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana. Developed by Prof Vikas Gautam, Dept of Medical Microbiology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, the antiseptic has been highly effective in treating wounds of dogs.Dr Inderjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor, GADVASU, said looking at the initial success of ‘Sepil’ in chronic non-healing human wounds, we’ve started it’s use in animals at GADVASU Veterinary hospital. Clinicians noticed remarkable healing of the wound to the tune of 70-80 per cent within six days in a dog. The filling of the void created by the bite, no scarring and the normal hair appearance in the follow up were clearly visible. With this herbal formulation debridement surgeries are avoided as in human cases and pet owners visits are also not needed amid the Covid crisis. Owners can apply Sepil at home and need not to come to hospital for dressing, debridement etc.The wound completely healed with appearance of normal hair. This is what is desired by the pet-lovers and ‘Sepil’ has come up to their expectations.“The results have been quite encouraging with quick healing and good rejuvenation of around 5 cm X 2 cm deep wound,” says Dr Navdeep Singh, HoD, Department of Veterinary Surgery, GADVASU. ‘Sepil’ is likely to be the much-awaited solution for non-healing wounds, said Prof. Vikas Gautam, the inventor of this formulation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/treat-pet-wounds-at-home-with-sepil-253095
15-05-2021||Ludhiana||Railways  suspends  more trains||Amid the Covid crisis, the Northern Railways have decided to suspend eight more pairs of unreserved short-run trains from May 15-16, 2021.Railway officials said 04659/60 Amritsar-Pathankot-Amritsar, 04503/04 Ambala Cantt-Ludhiana-Ambala Cantt, 04631/32 Bathinda-Fazilka-Bathinda, 04637-38 Jalandhar City-Ferozepur Cantt-Jalandhar City, 04625/26 Ferozepur Cantt-Ludhiana-Ferozepur Cantt, 04629/30 Ludhiana-Lohian Khas-Ludhiana, 04627/28 Ferozepur Cantt-Fazilika-Ferozepur Cantt and 04643/44 Ferozepur Cantt-Fazilka-Ferozepur Cantt trains would remain suspended. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/railways-suspends-more-trains-253096
15-05-2021||Tibune News Service||Cong politicising vax drive: AAP||Ludhiana, May 14The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today accused the ruling Congress of using the Covid-19 emergency to score political brownie points.AAP state joint secretary Aman Mohi and Punjab spokesperson Ahbaab Singh Grewal said today that while there was a shortage of Covid vaccines across the state and the common man was running from pillar to post to get vaccinated, Congress leaders were putting up camps at their whim to gain political mileage out of people’s misery.They alleged that the Congress government in the state had failed miserably to provide any relief to people during the pandemic and the state health system had collapsed. In spite of this, ruling party ministers, MLAs and councillors were politicising the Covid vaccination drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cong-politicising-vax-drive-aap-253097
15-05-2021||Manav Mander||Now, black fungus scare in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 14Covid survivors not following up with the doctor post recovery or continuing medicines after recovery on their own are the major factors leading to the black fungus infection (mucormycosis).In addition to this, cases have surfaced where people are indulging in self-medication (to avoid hospital visits) and buying steroids on their own for tackling Covid, which is later leading to the black fungus infection.Who are at riskAll recovered patients from Covid who are or were on steroids, if experiencing some headache, vision impairment, swelling on face, nasal block, altered mental state or blackish discolouration around the bridge of the nose should get themselves checked for black fungus.Nearly three-four cases are being reported every week in major hospitals of Ludhiana though many have been cured. A few patients have lost their eyesight after contracting black fungus. It affects the nose, sinuses, eyes and brain.Dr Manish Munjal, Head of Department of Otorhinolaryngology at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), said they had received 20-25 cases of black fungus during the second wave and most of the patients were Covid survivors.“The problem is found mostly in Covid survivors who are diabetic, hypertensive or kidney patients. They are cured of the virus but during the process, they are given steroids. The body’s immune system goes into an overdrive to fight the virus. Drop in immunity later could be triggering these cases of mucormycosis,” said Dr Munjal.He said patients needed to do a regular follow-up with the doctor after recovery. “Telemedicine is not a popular concept in Punjab, especially in rural areas, due to which patients continue to take medicines post recovery on their own which leads to complications like the black fungus,” Dr Munjal added.Christian Medical College and Hospital is also receiving cases of black fungus. During pre-Covid times, one case was reported in a month but now, the hospital is getting two-three cases every week.Dr Priyanka, associate professor in Department of Ophthalmology at DMCH, said they received three patients in the past few days. One is still admitted and has lost sight in one eye.Dr Shaffie Baidwal, associate consultant, Department of Ophthalmology, Fortis Hospital, said when the fungus invades the para-nasal sinus mucosa, it may spread directly to the orbits, and from there to the brain. With extensive spread of the disease, removal of orbit/eye along with sinuses may be necessary. Often it is too late to save the patient’s vision, or even their eye or life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/now-black-fungus-scare-in-ludhiana-252985
15-05-2021||---||5 minors among 6 drown in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 14Five minors, including four siblings, drowned in a pond at Maangarh village on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh highway this afternoon. A man tried to save the children by jumping into the pond but he also drowned.The minors were taking a bath when they got stuck in a marshy area. A villager who saw the children drowning jumped into the pond but he too got stuck.The authorities called in divers who struggled for over two hours to retrieve the six bodies. Koom Kalan SHO Harshpal Singh Chahal, who visited the scene, said the five children were aged between 4 and 10 years.The siblings have been identified as Priya (4), Monu (6), Chhoti (8) and Laxmi (10). The fifth child has been identified as Kalim (10).The minors’ parents worked as migrant labourers. The siblings’ father Sanjay is a native of Lucknow and currently lives at Maangarh village. Kalim’s father Mohd Fahim, too, is a native of UP and a resident of the village.The SHO said the sixth victim had been identified as Rahul (22). His father Nirgun Saha is a native of Bihar and currently residing at Maangarh. The bodies were later handed over to parents.CM announces Rs50,000 ex gratia  Expressing deep shock over the tragic incident, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday announced ex gratia of Rs50,000 to the families of each of the five children who drowned in a pond in a Ludhiana village, as well as for the migrant who also died while trying to save them. The CM extended his heartfelt sympathies with the bereaved migrant families, and directed the district authorities to offer all possible support to them in this hour of grief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/5-minors-among-6-drown-in-ludhiana-253000
15-05-2021||Ludhiana||Five children among six who drown near Ludhiana village||A man and five children drowned in a pond near Sahnewal village in Ludhiana, district officials said.Four of the five children were siblings. The children had gone for a swim, but got stuck in a swamp, officials said. The man was a resident of the village who jumped in to rescue them but died officials said.Rescuers have fished out the bodies of four of the five children. Search continues for the bodies of the fifth child and the villager.Punjab CM mourns deaths; announces Rs 50,000 each for the familiesExpressing deep shock over the tragic incident, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday announced ex-gratia of Rs 50,000 to the families of each of the five children who drowned in a pond in a Ludhiana village, as well as the migrant who also died while trying to save them.The incident happened in village Mangarh, where the five migrant children, aged between 7 and 10 years, accidentally drowned to death.The 22-year-old migrant who jumped into the pond in a futile attempt to rescue them also lost his life.The chief minister extended his heartfelt sympathies with the bereaved migrant families, and directed the district authorities to offer all possible support to them in this hour of grief.According to Deputy Commissioner Ludhiana Varinder Kumar Sharma, four bodies had so far been recovered and search for the remaining two was in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-children-among-six-who-drown-near-ludhiana-village-252837
