16-05-2021||Ludhiana||Wanted gangster Jaipal behind the killing of cops at Jagraon: Police||Ludhiana police on Sunday said wanted gangster Jaipal and his aides were behind the killing of two ASIs at New Grain Market in Jagraon.Police registered a murder case against Jaipal of Ferozepur, Babbi of Moga, Jassi of Kharar and one unknown person.The case was registered on the complaint of Punjab Home Guard Jawan Rajwinder Singh who had managed to save his life.As per the Rajwinder, on Saturday, during routine patrolling, he, along with ASI Bhagwan Singh and ASI Dalwinderjit Singh saw two men emerge from a car to hand over a suitcase to the occupants of a canter parked beneath the shed at the grain market."We asked the occupants of canter and car to show their identity proofs. ASI Bhagwan Singh identified the man sitting in the canter as gangster Jaipal Ferozepuria. Suddenly Jaipal and others caught hold of the ASI and fired at him from close range. The bullet hit the neck of ASI Bhagwan. ASI Dalwinderjit, after noticing firing from the gangsters, was trying to flee but he was also shot at from behind and he fell down,"said PHG Jawan Rajwinder.Singh said he saw gangster Jaipal and others taking the suitcase from the canter and keeping the same in their car. Assailants also took away the service pistol of ASI Bhagwan and the mobile phone of ASI Dalwinder.A case under sections 302, 307, 397, 353, 186 of the IPC and under the relevant sections of the Arms Act has been registered against the gangsters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/wanted-gangster-jaipal-behind-the-killing-of-cops-at-jagraon-police-253712
16-05-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana to continue 17-hour weekday curfew, weekend lockdown until May 23||Ludhiana’s district administration extended its Covid-19 restrictions on Sunday as the district continued to report over 1,000 cases a day.A formal order issued by District Magistrate Varinder Kumar Sharma said it would continue having weekday curfew restrictions from 12 pm to 5 am and weekend lockdown from 12 noon on Friday to 5 am on Monday.Punjab’s official health bulletin on Saturday reported 1,132 infections in the district on Saturday---the highest in the state---and 18 fatalities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-to-continue-17-hour-weekday-curfew-weekend-lockdown-until-may-23-253699
16-05-2021||Ludhiana||18 succumb, 1,132 +ve in Ludhiana||As many as 1,132 persons tested positive for Covid while 18 patients suffering from the disease lost their lives in the past 24 hours. Total positive patients from district have now reached 74,853 while 1,700 people have succumbed to the virus since March 2020.Those who lost their lives to coronavirus today belong to Railway Colony, GK Vihar, Dugri, Basti Jodhewal, Harcharan Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Khanna, Janta Nagar, Amarjit Colony, Amar Nagar, Subhash Nagar, Dhandra, Ram Nagar, Dugri and Haibowal Kalan.Today, three healthcare workers, one pre-operative case and an undertrial also tested positive while 201, who are asymptomatic, are still untraceable.At present, there are 12,832 active cases in the district. Of the 53 patients on ventilator support, 29 belong to Ludhiana district and 24 are from other districts.Meanwhile, Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Sanjay Talwar took stock of the arrangements at the MCH, Vardhman, and directed officials to leave no stone unturned to ensure that patients do not face any kind of problem.He said there was no dearth of oxygen, vital medicines and others essentials with the administration and officials were working round the clock to facilitate patients. Maintaining suitable distancing, Talwar also went to meet patients undergoing treatment at the hospital.The MLA appealed to people to fulfil their social responsibility by adhering to Covid protocols, including wearing face mask properly, maintaining social distance and observing hand hygiene. He said people must support the government in this war against invisible enemy and should obey the guidelines of the government imposed to curb the spread of the pathogen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/18-succumb-1-132-ve-in-ludhiana-253511
16-05-2021||Ludhiana||Vaccination drive for 18+: Confusion  among beneficiaries over eligibility||Confusion prevails among 18 to 44 years category beneficiaries regarding vaccination. At present, only construction workers and family members of healthcare workers belonging to this age group and people with comorbid conditions are eligible for vaccination. Today, 11,443 people were vaccinated in below and 259 in above 44 year category.Majority of people are unaware of these conditions. People, who do not fall in these categories, are also going to vaccination and returning without receiving the jab. This is only leading to rush at vaccination centres in the district.Tejinder Kaur from Dugri today went to a vaccination centre for getting vaccinated, but there was a huge rush at the site. So, she along with her 20-year-old son went to Government Multipurpose School. After two hours, when her turn came for vaccination, the doctor present at the school asked her for medical certificate or prescription.“I was not aware that 18 to 44 years category is not open to all for vaccination. I thought anyone can get vaccinated. I wasted my entire day in going from one centre to another only to find that both me and my son are not eligible for inoculation. When can we get vaccinated? I don’t know,” she rued.Another 18-year-old student today went to Sukhman Sahib Gurdwara for getting vaccinated. He came to know that beneficiaries had to submit a prescription slip for receiving vaccination. “People were submitting their prescription slips, but somebody told me it was not required and anyone can get vaccinated at gurdwara. My friend in Delhi has received vaccine. He did not require any doctor’s slip for inoculation,” he said.Not satisfied with the criteria of getting vaccinated, he later went to Jamalpur cente only to be turned back without jab against virus.Meanwhile, those above 45 years are also returning without vaccination as the district has exhausted the stock of Covishield. Only second dose of Covaxin is being administered at four places in the city.Lalit Khurana, who returned from Civil Hospital without vaccination, said the vaccine was out of stock and he was asked to come and enquire tomorrow. “There was huge rush at a school in Shimlapuri. People in 18 to 44 years category were also vaccinated. If they have vaccine stock at school, then why it is not available at Civil Hospital?” he said.Official dispel confusion“At present, only construction workers and family members in 18 to 44 years age group and those with comorbid conditions can get themselves vaccinated. Categories are being opened step by step so that the demand and supply circle are in balance,” said Dr Puneet Juneja, District Immunisation Officer.On being asked why people in 18 to 44 years category were getting vaccinated, but the drive had come to halt for above those above 45 years she said, “The vaccine stock for 18 to 44 years is sent by the state government while we get vials for above 45 years category from the Central Government. The stock is earmarked for different categories and cannot be mixed up.”“Since the district has exhausted the stock of Covishield for 45 years and above, the vaccination drive has come to halt. We have stock of Covaxin. So, only second dose of Covaxin is being administered to above 45 years age group at four places in the city. The vaccination for 18 to 44 years category is going on in the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vaccination-drive-for-18-confusion-among-beneficiaries-over-eligibility-253514
16-05-2021||Ludhiana||Daily Covid sampling touches all-time high in Ludhiana||In order to beat the second Covid wave, which continues to rapidly slide into a devastating crisis with health facilities falling short, oxygen supplies running low, and many dying due to the virus, some of them even without seeing a doctor, the daily sampling to diagnose the deadly disease has touched an all-time high in the district.Ludhiana, which remains the Covid capital of Punjab being the worst-hit district in the state, has almost doubled the sampling pace in the last two weeks with the thrust on test, trace and treat (T3 strategy).The official data available with The Tribune revealed that the daily sampling figure touched an all-time high of 15,180 on Friday, which was almost double than 8,458 samples tested in the district on May 1.After falling down to 7,176 on May 2, the daily sampling rate continued to rise constantly with each passing day as 8,585 samples were taken on May 3, 9,053 on May 4, 10,951 on May 5, 10,380 on May 6, 10,379 on May 7, 9,902 on May 8, 10,063 on May 9, 8,305 on May 10, 10,002 on May 11, 13,006 on May 12, 12,422 on May 13, and touching the peak of 15,180 on May 14.On Saturday, the sampling rate once again came down slightly to 14,591.In all, 11,43,904 samples have been collected in the district so far, of which 10,68,526 have tested negative and 74,873 samples were found positive while reports of 505 samples were yet to be received.While 60,321 patients have already recovered from the virus, 12,832 cases are still active in the district as on Saturday. Of the total active cases, 10,345 are recuperating in home isolation, while 1,373 critical patients are still hospitalised, including 217 in government hospitals and 1,156 in various private facilities across the district.However, 2,553 patients, including 1,700 locals and 853 from outside district, have lost battle to Covid till date.Recovery rate on the riseThe recovery rate continued to rise even on Saturday as well when the district touched a new high with 97.26 per cent patients recovering from the virus. With 868 more patients beating Covid on Saturday, the total count of recoveries mounted to 60,321.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/daily-covid-sampling-touches-all-time-high-in-ludhiana-253516
16-05-2021||Ludhiana||MC floats tenders to set up rendering plant at abattoir||The Municipal Corporation (MC) is going to set up a rendering plant at its modern slaughterhouse. Earlier, the civic body had upgraded the slaughterhouse, but the rendering plant was not installed. As per the norms, a rendering plant is required at the slaughterhouse.Now, the MC has floated tender for the installation of rendering plant at the modern slaughterhouse on Hambran Road. The estimated cost of the project is Rs1.61 crore.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu confirmed that the tender had been floated for the installation of the rendering plant.The MC has already started operations of its slaughterhouse at Haibowal Dairy Complex. Sources said a few meat sellers were visiting the facility for slaughtering animals as per the norms. Slaughtering in an unauthorised manner was going on in the city, the sources added.Col JS Gill (retd), a member of Buddha Nullah Task Force, said, “The MC should promote its modern slaughterhouse and make sure it functions properly. Illegal slaughter of animals in the city should be stopped. The civic body should ensure proper disposal of the animal waste in the right manner.”Earlier, the MC had conducted a drive against those, who used to slaughter animals at their shops. An official said only meat of animals and birds, which were slaughtered at the MC slaughterhouse could be sold in the city as per the norms.Notably, crores have been spent on the modernisation of the slaughterhouse. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-floats-tenders-to-set-up-rendering-plant-at-abattoir-253517
16-05-2021||Ludhiana||Bids invited for 1st vending zone||Finally, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has floated tenders to construct the first vending zone for street vendors in the city. A street vendors’ union had been demanding from the civic body to set up vending zones in the city for past over six years but the MC was delaying the process. The first vending zone at an estimated cost of around Rs1.21 crore would be set up near Dairy Complex on Hambran Road, Ludhiana. Under the project, the MC would construct the sheds under the street vending policy.The provision of water supply and toilets will be ensured at the vending zone. The technical bids will be opened on June 1.The Department of Local Government had earlier issued a notification regarding the MC’s plan to set up 64 vending zones for 8,989 vendors in the city. However, the MC needs to set up, many more vending zones in the city as a total of 21,725 street vendors were earlier identified in the city.As per the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, the MC was supposed to ensure the provision of vending zones for the street vendors. Currently, the vendors are forced to station their carts/tables on roadsides in absence of the vending zones.Vijay Kumar, vice president, Rehri Phari Federation, Ludhiana, said: “We have been waiting endlessly for the vending zones but the process was getting delayed. In absence of the vending zones, the street vendors face a lot of inconveniences. We want the MC and other authorities concerned to set up vending zones for all the vendors before taking any action against them. Till, the vending zones are not set up, the vendors must be allowed to station carts on roadsides.”An official of MC said the vending zone will be set up under the MC funds. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu could not be contacted for a comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bids-invited-for-1st-vending-zone-253518
16-05-2021||Ludhiana||3 held with 819-gm heroin, Rs4.9 lakh||The Special Task Force (STF) of the city police have nabbed three drug smugglers and recovered 819 gm of heroin and Rs4.9 lakh drug money from their possession in two separate cases.In the first case, the accused have been identified as Gurminder Singh Lalli (52), a resident of Amritsar, and Harjinder Singh, alias Sunny, a resident of Tarn Taran.Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge, STF, said a secret information was received that the accused were into the notorious trade of drug smuggling and were on their way to Ferozepur from Tarn Taran to deliver a huge quantity of heroin to their clients.A naka was laid where the accused, who were travelling in a car, were intercepted. During search of the car, 410-gm of heroin and Rs4.90 lakh was recovered.Inspector said both the accused had a notorious past as they were already facing 10 cases of drug smuggling, attempt to murder among others. Over 40 kg of heroin had already been recovered from the accused in the past, he added. Both the accused had spent considerable time in jail and come out and started the illegal trade recently, he said.In the second case, the STF nabbed Sanjay Chawla alias Sanju, a resident of Janta Nagar, and recovered 409 gm of heroin from him, the inspector said. Chawla was nabbed from Janta Nagar, he added. The accused was a driver in a printing press and himself a drug addict, he said. About two years ago he started the illegal trade, he added. In both cases, the police remand of the accused would be sought from court, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-held-with-819-gm-heroin-rs4-9-lakh-253520
16-05-2021||Ludhiana May 15||16 face FIRs for curfew violations in Ludhiana||The city police is continuing its tough stand against curfew violators. Those booked for flouting curfew norms include shopkeepers, roadside vendors and commuters.Some violators were caught red-handed while gambling during curfew hours. The Salem Tabri police have registered a case against six gamblers identified as Balwinder Singh of Ann Nagar, Naresh Kumar of New Kartar Nagar, Mohit Kumar of Sita Nagar, Sanjiv of Sunil Nagar, Amit Kumar of New Kartar Nagar and Sagar of Punjabi Bagh Colony.Investigation officer ASI Pritpal Singh said secret information was received that several persons, who had gathered at a park in the Punjabi Bagh area during curfew hours, were gambling. Accordingly, a police party conducted a raid and nabbed the six suspects red-handed while gambling, the ASI added. The police also recovered Rs2,700 from the spot, the ASI said.Meanwhile, the Sadar police registered a case against G5 Hotel owner Sonu Kakkar and manager Anish Kumar as they were caught selling food even in the curfew.Now, the police have also started patrolling in the internal city areas to nab curfew violators. The Haibowal police caught a water balls (golgappa) seller near Jawala Singh Chowk. Several customers were standing at his vend in violation of the Covid norms and no one was wearing face mask. The vendor was identified as Girdhari Lal, a resident of Thaper Colony.The Daresi police have also booked UP-based bus operators identified as Shailinder and Hari Om. The suspects used to pick up passengers near Basti Jodhewal without following the Covid guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/16-face-firs-for-curfew-violations-in-ludhiana-253523
16-05-2021||Ludhiana May 15||Man to move apex court against ACP||A resident of Sector 32, Chandigarh Road, has alleged that he would approach the Supreme Court against the former SHO of Police Division 3, now ACP, for not returning his seized weapon to him.The complainant, Jaspreet Singh, said in 2015, when he along with his friends was celebrating Lohri festival, on someone’s complaint, SHO Randhir Singh came there and asked for his licenced weapon alleging celebratory firing by him.“I went home and brought my revolver along with 10 cartridges. The SHO registered a case against me. I then approached CP, Ludhiana, who marked an inquiry, in which they found me innocent and the case was cancelled by the police within a year,” alleged complainant.He alleged that despite cancellation of the case, the SHO didn’t return his weapon and 10 cartridges even after two years. He then approached High Court, which asked the police to return the case property. However, the police told the court that no weapon or cartridges were seized as case property during the registration of the case in 2015.“I again filed a writ petition in the High Court. The said SHO, who got promoted as ACP recently, in connivance with another SHO of police Division No. 3, put back weapon at the police malkhana. He also apprised the High Court that weapon was recovered from malkhana during fresh search. Now, the police is asking me to collect weapon and take back the case from the court,” the complainant alleged.How could he take back his weapon from the police station as his licence had already expired and he had to bear mental pressure for two years?, said the complainant. “If I take back revolver with an expired weapon licence, the police might book me in case of keeping illegal weapon,” he added. “I will approach the SC in this regard,” he said.ACP Randhir Singh while denying all the allegations said when weapon was seized, it was kept at Malkhana by some cop and now applicant is not coming to get his weapon back. Even the cancellation report of case against Jaspreet is yet to be approved by court. “I am a responsible cop, what would I have to do with seized weapon” said the ACP .—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-to-move-apex-court-against-acp-253526
16-05-2021||Ludhiana||Dengue endemic disease of tropical countries: Doctors||National Dengue Day is observed on May 16 every year. Doctors say since there is no vaccine for dengue, the best way is to prevent the disease is to restrict breeding of mosquitoes in unhygienic environment.Dr Amit Modgill, head of the Department of Medicine at Suman Hospital, said dengue was a highly endemic infectious disease of tropical countries and was rapidly becoming a global burden.Precautions“Dengue cases usually start increasing from May and spike after the monsoon around September. If you contract dengue, fever and other symptoms usually begin about four to seven days after the initial infection. In many cases, symptoms will be mild. They may be mistaken for symptoms of flu or another infection. Young children and people, who have never experienced infection, may have a milder illness than older children and adults. Symptoms generally last for about 10 days,” said Dr Amit.The doctor further said there was no vaccine to prevent dengue fever. “The best method of protection is to avoid mosquito bites and to prevent breeding of mosquito in and around your areas,” he added.Another city-based medicine expert said people should understand their responsibility and keep their surroundings clean.“Doctors, time and again, request people to empty their coolers and flower pots every week to check breeding of mosquitoes. Even a spoonful of water is enough for the breeding of mosquitoes. People should not let water get stagnant in and around their houses,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dengue-endemic-disease-of-tropical-countries-doctors-253529
16-05-2021||Our CorrespondentMandi Ahmedgarh||Hike in veggie, fruit prices pinches common man||With prices of green vegetables and fruits looking up, these are getting out of common man’s reach. Wide gap between wholesale and retail prices has further stressed producers and consumers economically. Non-perishable vegetables, including onion and potato, are no exception to the trend.However, residents heaved a sigh of relief as the administration had started issuing a retail price list of commonly purchased vegetables and fruits, with instructions for vendors not to sell above recommended rates.Uncertain and irregular arrival of fresh vegetables and fruits, fluctuating weather conditions and lesser number of vendors are cited as major factors behind uncertainty of rates in the regional market falling under Ludhiana and Sangrur districts.Wholesale dealers said it was apprehended that vegetable prices would increase further as the weather forecast predicted intermittent rains during the following days.As retailers and vendors are quick to hike vegetable and fruit rates, the impact of this increase is more visible.Jassa Goyal, a vegetable agent of Mandi Ahmedgarh, said prices of almost all vegetables had increased considerably during past few weeks, both in wholesale and retail markets. He wondered that zuchhini (tori), which once was available free for the poor, was selling at Rs40 to Rs50 in the market. Prices of ‘tinda’ and ladyfinger are also fluctuating around Rs40. Mushroom, which is sold by producers at Rs100 per kg, is available at double the wholesale price. Broccoli is available with select vendors on condition of advance payment.Fruits are also beyond reach of the common man as their price fluctuates at hourly intervals. Imported apple is selling between Rs250 and Rs300 per kg. Delayed arrival due to interrupted movement of transport vehicles is normally cited as the reason behind high fruit prices. Quality grapes and pomegranate is available at Rs150 per kg.Perusal of records revealed that the District Magistrate’s office in Ludhiana had started issuing daily price lists for fruits and vegetables. Residents have been asked not to buy above rates mentioned in these lists.The District Magistrate announced that action would be taken against retailers and vendors selling fruits and vegetables above enlisted prices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hike-in-veggie-fruit-prices-pinches-common-man-253530
16-05-2021||Ludhiana||Homage paid to Shaheed Sukhdev on 114th birth anniversary||The 114th birth anniversary of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar was celebrated at his birthplace in Mohalla Naughara in Ludhiana on Saturday. A havan was organised to mark the day. Earlier, the kin of the martyr offered floral tributes at his statue and paid homage to him.Members of the Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust led by the national president Ashok Thapar, distributed masks, sanitisers, and soaps to the frontline warriors who were on Covid duty.Giving information about the cancellation of the cultural ceremony to be held in Mohalla Naughara on the birthday of the martyr, Thapar said we celebrated the martyr’s birth anniversary by following the guidelines issued by the Health Department for the prevention of Covid spread and the weekend lockdown imposed by the district administration.The members of various organisations paid tribute to the martyr of freedom struggle on his birthday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/homage-paid-to-shaheed-sukhdev-on-114th-birth-anniversary-253532
16-05-2021||Our CorrespondentLudhiana||Lone flight between Ludhiana-Delhi remains grounded due to pandemic||As there is spike in Covid-19 cases in the city, the industrial capital of the state, majority of the people have shelved their travel plans leading to suspension of several long route trains. The pandemic has also cast its shadow on lone Alliance Air flight, operating between Ludhiana and New Delhi. Though the reasons for suspension of the flight are obvious, officials of Alliance Air maintain that flight was suspended till May 20, 2021, due to operational reasons.Ludhiana Airport officials say last flight arrived and took off from Sahnewal Airport on April 9, 2021. Thereafter, the flight was first suspended till May 9. Now, it has been further suspended till May 20.“The air traffic and the pandemic situation will be reviewed by the airport authorities and the airline operating Ludhiana-Delhi flight on May 20. Further decision about resumption of flight, or otherwise, will be taken thereafter,” said sources at the airport.Low volume of passengers (ranging between 35 to 50 per cent) on the four days a week (Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday) flight, which arrived at and took off from the Sahnewal airport in Ludhiana, due to adverse impact of the pandemic was a cause of concern for the operator, claimed the sources. At one stage there were reports of complete withdrawal of the flight due to its financial non-viability, the sources added.Hike in air fares due to withdrawal of financial assistance by the Union Government under its ‘UDAAN’ scheme last year and change in timetable (from morning to evening) were other factors that had impacted the passenger traffic on the Ludhiana-Delhi sector, said the sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lone-flight-between-ludhiana-delhi-remains-grounded-due-to-pandemic-253533
16-05-2021||Mahesh SharmaMandi Ahmedgarh/ Payal/ Raikot||Police, religious outfits deliver meals to Covid patients at home||Implementing the initiative of the state government to provide free meals to needy Covid-19 patients quarantined at their homes, the police have started making arrangements to respond promptly to SOS calls received through the helpline numbers 181 and 112.DSPs at Ahmedgarh, Ludhiana Rural Investigation, Mullanpur Dakha, Raikot and Payal are making arrangements for uninterrupted preparation of meals at designated kitchens falling under their respective jurisdiction, or those run by religious and social organisations.Jagraon DSP (I) Rajesh Sharma said Ludhiana (Rural) SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal had advised rank and file in the department to ensure that no call for meals for Covid patients goes unanswered.The Jagraon DSP appreciated the gesture shown by management committees of gurdwaras at Sadhar, Raikot and Jodhan, and said the police had organised individual meetings with the office-bearers of the committees to discuss the plan of action.Mullanpur Dakha DSP Gurbans Singh Bains said extra ration had been procured and stocked at Dakha police station kitchen for the preparation of meals.Ahmedgarh DSP Rajan Sharma said the menu had been prepared after consulting with dieticians so that the patients get nutritious food required for early recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-religious-outfits-deliver-meals-to-covid-patients-at-home-253534
16-05-2021||Lovleen BainsSahnewal||Work to convert wasteland into sports stadium starts at Sahnewal||In a unique endeavour, the Sahnewal Nagar Council has taken the initiative of converting an open wasteland into a sports stadium for young budding players, who feel handicapped due to the lack of any such place in the town.Give details of the park-cum-sports stadium Nagar Council president Capt Sukhjit Singh Hara (retd) shared, “Development work of park-cum-sports complex has been initiated on the old depleted pond, which is no more in use. An amount of Rs70 lakh has been sanctioned for the complex by the Chief Minister and its foundation stone laid by Fathegarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh.”“The complex will help those aspirants, who need sports training to get into professional career. Budding sportspersons are either forced to drop the idea of getting professionally settled through sports or do it half-heartedly through insufficient means available as there no stadium in the town,” he added.“Sports lovers of the town and surrounding 20 villages are enthusiastic about this complex,” he said.“The work on the project has already started and will be completed in three to four months. Sports like athletics, kabaddi, volleyball, football and others will be promoted at this complex. With more funds pouring in, we will start the facility of indoor sports such as badminton and table tennis. An open gym and park for kids too is a part of the project,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/work-to-convert-wasteland-into-sports-stadium-starts-at-sahnewal-253535
16-05-2021||Ludhiana||Show-and-tell competition held||International Family Day celebratedLudhiana: Green Land Convent School, New Subhash Nagar, observed International Family Day. The aim of the celebrations was to highlight the importance of families and make students understand the special emotional bond among them. Students expressed their love and affection through ‘family tree’ activity and cooking without fire contest. They also made short videos on their families. TNSBhartiya Vidya MandirLudhiana: To tell students about the importance of the family, branches of Bhartiya Vidya Mandir Senior Secondary School in the city observed International Day of Families. A myriad of virtual activities such as a yoga session and a prayer session were organised for students. Students also played indoor games with their parents and grandparents. TNSGreen Land Convent School, DugriLudhiana: Green Land Convent School, Dugri, organised a virtual card-making activity to observe International Family Day. The aim of the celebrations was to spread awareness about the importance of families and the love among them. Students of Class IV to VI took part in a card-making event while students of Class I to III, VII and VIII participated in other activities such as family portrait drawing, making a family tree, yoga among others. TNSDCM Presidency SchoolLudhiana: DCM Presidency School celebrated World Family Day by participating in a role-play activity. Kindergartners dressed up as their grandparents, parents and other family members and enacted their roles. Students were also told the importance of staying together, sharing and caring for their families. TNSGreen grove public schoolDoraha: Green Grove Public School observed World Family Day virtually. Students expressed their views on nuclear and joint families. School president JPS Jolly laid stress on the importance of restoring family values among students. Principal Suzy George, chairperson Satinderjeet Kaur Jolly and vice-president Navera Jolly appreciated the efforts put in by students to mark the day. OCWorld Astronomy Day celebrationsLudhiana: Students of Blue Bells Public School celebrated World Astronomy Day virtually. Students were told about constellations, planets and other astronomical bodies. Talking about this year’s celebration, school director Deepak Aggarwal told kids about astronomy and motivated them to explore the field professionally as well. TNSWebinar on laughterLudhiana: BCM School, Basant City, organised a webinar on “Laughter is the best medicine”. Actor and comedian Khayali Saharan was the resource person for the webinar. Over 1,200 students and staff members participated. Students were told that keeping a positive attitude was important to deal with the pandemic. Principal JP Singh said it was an interactive session and encouraged everyone to stay positive. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/show-and-tell-competition-held-253536
16-05-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab Police ASIs shot dead at police checkpost in Jagraon||Some unidentified assailants allegedly shot dead two policemen at a police checkpost in Jagraon on Saturday evening, police said on Saturday.Police said the two cops, Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinder Singh, both assistant sub-inspectors, were part of a team positioned at a checkpost erected near Jagraon’s grain market after they were tipped off about possible smuggling. They had just signaled a truck stop for checking when a car bore down on them. Police said occupants of the car shot at the police team.Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinder Singh both died on the way to a hospital, police said. Both policemen were part of Ludhiana Rural Police’s Crime Investigation Agency.A third cop was also wounded in the incident.Chief Minister Amarinder said a massive search operation was underway to find the assailants. He also said the cops' families will be taken care of in "every possible way"  He said in a tweet: "Unfortunate fatal attack on two of our brave CIA policemen in Jagraon. Intensive manhunt is on and the culprits would be nabbed soon. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and we will ensure that they are taken care of in every possible way".  Unfortunate fatal attack on two of our brave CIA policemen in Jagraon. Intensive manhunt is on and the culprits would be nabbed soon. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and we will ensure that they are taken care of in every possible way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-police-asis-shot-dead-at-police-checkpost-in-jagraon-253316
