17-05-2021||Open House To what extent 17-hr curfew||Restrictions helpful, but focus must be on vaccination||There is an urgent need to spread awareness on the second wave of Covid-19. People should practise yoga to keep their oxygen levels in control. Remaining calm and keeping a postive mind is also the key to fight against the virus. Patients should not rush to the hospital if they have resources to get treatment at home. Helping those who are in need will help us all to win the war against coronavirus.Simarjot KaurFollow guidelinesThe second wave of coronavirus has pushed the health infrastructure in the country to its limits. Hospitals are running out of beds and majority of Covid patients are dying because of short supplies of oxygen. The situation will become even worse. We all should follow the guidelines issued by the police department and the local administration.Sneha PalOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONEven as the Covid vaccination for 18 to 44 age groups under priority categories has begun, the already covered beneficiaries under the 45-plus age groups are still facing shortage of vaccine in the district. In the wake of devastating second wave of coronavirus, what needs to be done to overcome the shortage of vaccine and ensure vaccination of all to build herd immunity, which is necessary to beat the virus? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comGive free sanitiser, mask, medicine to needyThe second wave of Covid is affecting youth between the age of 20 to 25 and is being proven to be more dangerous than other waves. It is important to eat healthy and avoid junk food. One should step outside only in case of necessities. It has also been advised by doctors to wear double mask while visiting a crowded place and always have a sanitiser in pocket. Free sanitisers, masks, grocery items and essential medicines should be provided to the needy for free. If a lot of people in a locality have tested positive, it should be declared a containment zone and all essentials should be provided to them at their doorstep.Simranjeet KaurLockdown is crucialIn view of the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths in the district, the city administration has decided to impose a 17-hour daily curfew. Lockdown was very crucial as the spread of the virus can be significantly reduced by this preventive measure. To ensure public safety from the virus, we all must avoid non-essential travel, ensure proper cleaning and frequent sanitisation of workplace, particularly of the frequently-touched surfaces. The local administration authorities must also punish those strictly who disobey the guidelines.Varun ChauhanEveryone should get vaccinated at the earliestThe most important precaution everyone has to follow is to wear masks and avoid crowds. The half-day lockdown imposed must be followed with sincerity. People must avoid foods that cause any symptoms of cough and cold such as ice-creams, cold drinks etc. People should get also vaccinated as soon as possible.Amarpreet KaurCurfew should be extended beyond weekendsEven with gradual increase in curfews and lockdowns, we have failed in controlling the virus. The fault is our own negligence to the severity of the condition. We have failed in our mission to create awareness, management to store medicine, beds, ventilators, vaccination and other needful equipment to control it. The period of existing curfew should be extended, more guidelines should be issued according to the latest research.JBS NandaLockdown affecting businessesAs the second wave of coronavirus continues to rapidly evolve into a devastating crisis, Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner has imposed a 17-hour curfew and complete lockdown on weekends. I don’t think that it will help in controlling the devastating crisis. The government given permission to open industry but the industry won’t be able to gain profits if retail shops have been closed.Krish SehgalStay home stay safeAs the pandemic is at its peak, people should abide by all rules and regulations issued by the Deputy Commissioner and the state government. The 17-hour daily curfew and complete lockdown on the weekends will help to stop the further spread of the virus. The police also need to be stricter with the rules and take action against those who violate the restrictions. People should strictly follow the idea of “Stay home stay safe”.Harshita SharmaRemember prevention is better than cureAll residents should religiously follow the guidelines given by Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner. Complying with the guidelines is the only way residents can help curb the spread of the virus. It is important to stop taking the virus lightly. Always remember that “Prevention is better than cure”.Navjot SinghLack of infrastructure wreaked havocRecently the news of a police officer threatening hospital authorities for an oxygen cylinder went viral. Such behaviour by those in authorities is highly unacceptable. Risking someone else’s life to save the life of one’s loved one will only lead to chaos and inhumane behaviour, which will not win the war against the virus. The incident is a proof that lack of infrastructure has caused major problem in dealing with the pandemic, especially in India. It is time that more equipped hospitals should be built so that the country is ready to tackle any variant of the virus.Simarjot KaurMake transactions through online modesA new study has found that coronavirus can live on currency notes and phone screens for at least 28 days. It is advisable to make payments and transactions through secure online platforms to minimise the risk of virus. UV light sanitiser, which is easily available in the market, can be used to sanitise currency notes, wallet, mobile phone etc. Similarly, cleaning, wiping and sanitising the phone screens must be done regularly.Yashika ThakurAwareness, responsibility will help fight virusAs the country struggles with the second wave of Covid-19, imposing a 17-hour curfew in the city is a step in the positive direction. The state as well as the Centre should work hand-in-hand so that people do not lose their loved ones due to lack of medical infrastructure. Apart from such restrictions imposed by the government, the need of the hour is to become responsible citizens. Since ours is a densely populated country, doctors have encouraged people to wear double masks in crowded places, maintain social distancing and avoid visiting people’s homes. They are little steps that can help to flatten the curve of the deadly wave. Above all, we must keep ourselves educated about the developments related to Covid-19. With awareness and responsibility, we will overcome this challenging time.Yuvraj SinghShow concern, take responsibility seriouslyImposition of 17-hour curfew and complete lockdown on the weekends is not enough in flattening the spread of the deadly virus as the government alone cannot make it happen. Residents are equally responsible to play their parts and follow the guidelines. They need to show concern and take the situation seriously.Mohit VermaBetter safe than sorryPeople must respect the decision of the Deputy Commissioner as the guidelines are being issued for the safety of the residents. Before protesting against the decision, people should remember that it is better to be safe than sorry. Maintain physical distancing and wear face mask at public places. Sufficient oxygen plants should be set up so that the patients can get the essential supply on time.Gurpreet KaurEven small steps can curb spread of virusEven small steps taken by the local administration and residents will contribute a lot to curb the spread of the virus. Doctors have advised double masking while going out in crowded areas. Everyone should remember to wash hands when they come home after taking care of chores outside the house. People should not roam the streets for no reason at all. Such violators should be strictly punished. It is also very important to get vaccinated as soon as possible.Deepanshi PassiNo time for blame gameThe Deputy Commissioner of Ludhiana and the local administration are putting in all efforts to control the Covid situation in the city. It is now up to the residents to follow the orders and do their bit to curb the spread of the virus. Vaccination registrations are also now open and those who haven’t received their first jab, should go and get one as soon as possible. Instead of finding faults, one should be compassionate and human in another’s suffering.Dr Sunil ChopraSimple rules can bring big changes to Covid curveIt is important to get societies sanitised regularly. Shopkeepers should also keep a hands-free sanitiser outside their shops to slow the spread. There is an urgent need to spread awareness for getting vaccinated. Since slum areas are tightly packed and have unhygienic conditions, regular monitoring should be done there so that slum dwellers can be protected from the virus. Violators should be heavily fined. Some simple and strict rules can make a great difference.Gurleen kaurCheck rush in markets during non-curfew hoursThe restrictions imposed by Deputy Commissioner will not work. The working hours of 5 am to 12 noon see a lot of rush in the markets, with people not adhering to social distancing. These restrictions should be taken back and government should allow shopkeepers to resume normal routine because in that case, people will go the markets in intervals and huge rush can be avoided. Lockdown on the weekend is a good option.Ritu PriyaDC’s decision showing positive effectsThe decision of the Deputy Commissioner to impose lockdown for 17 hours daily alongwith weekend curfew is showing its positive effects. The decision was necessary to curb the spread of the virus. Still, people must be continuously reminded that they must stay inside their homes to stay safe and move out only if necessary. Wearing face mask and following social distancing remain the key factors. These instructions must be strictly adhered to by the public in their own welfare and interest. However, there is still a strong need on the part of the administration that these instructions are enforced on the general public by seeking assistance from the local police to maintain the current favourable changes in control of the virus.Gautam DevOpen shops on a rotation basisThe county is going through a very serious second wave of the virus. Various restrictions have been imposed for the control of the spread of coronavirus. But still, norms are not being followed by the public. Local governments should assign duties to councillors to take care of their respective wards. At each street, one person may be appointed to check unnecessary movement of people. Those who violate the regulations must be dealt with strictly. In each area there should be rotation of opening of shops so that people may meet their daily needs.Mohd Saleem FarooquiPandemic not an excuse to mint moneyThough the virus cannot be completely eradicated by lockdown, the curve can be flattened with restrictions. Self-discipline is very important. People should think of catching the virus before stepping out for unnecessary reasons. While going out to do necessary chores, one should always wear a mask and follow social distancing. The spread of the virus is an emergency situation and not the time to mint money.Dr Harpreet Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/restrictions-helpful-but-focus-must-be-on-vaccination-254073
17-05-2021||---||GNDEC e-cell holds general body meet||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 16To strengthen the entrepreneurship-related activities, the entrepreneurship cell of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (e-cell GNDEC) held its first general body meeting to welcome newly recruited members of the cell.The event was graced by Arvind Dhingra, faculty advisor, who motivated all members to come up with innovative ideas. He highlighted that the GNDEC was helping the students to become entrepreneurs since 1986 when STEP was established. He apprised the audience that STEP GNDEC was now a recognised technical business incubator under MSME-DI and students could avail a host of benefits to nurture their ideas. He also gave details of the various activities organised by the students during the past semester which include the pitching competition: Pitch it, Group discussion on Scenario of Start ups in India, AN Entrepreneurship development camp, interaction with a successful start-up founder.Vipul Sharma of third year was elected the student president of the cell.Students gave a presentation on the objectives and functions of the cell. An electronic newsletter ‘Unicorn’ would be published every month by the cell. The cell also aims to organise lectures by successful entrepreneurs to motivate the students. The cell would be coming up with its website very shortly. Some more activities by the cell would include ‘ideathons’, pitching competitions, business plan formulations and communications in business. Following this was a small activity prepared for the newly selected members.Principal Dr Sehijpal Singhsaid the college would continue to extend all possible support to the students to become successful entrepreneurs. The e-Cell shall consolidate and enhance the entrepreneurial initiatives of the institution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gndec-e-cell-holds-general-body-meet-254067
17-05-2021||---||Agri experts advise farmers to plan rice sowing, transplanting||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 16Decline in underground water table and management of paddy residue are the major issues associated with paddy cultivation in the state. The increased incidence of biotic and abiotic stresses under changing climate necessitates utmost attention. Besides this, declining agricultural labour availability is also becoming an important issue.Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has modified its breeding strategies towards development of short-duration varieties with higher per day productivity, low paddy residue load, good milling quality characteristics and tolerance to diseases.“The adoption of paddy varieties along with their matching production and protection technologies recommended by the PAU, Ludhiana, allows the staggered sowing/transplanting of paddy, thereby providing an emergent relief in the light of labour availability,” said Dr Buta Singh Dhillon, agronomist, PAU.Transplant paddy seedlings at optimum age as increasing seedling age affects the yield and quality of crop negatively. Seedling age is particularly important in short-duration parmal varieties and all basmati varieties. For higher yield of PR 126, sow its nursery during June 5-10 and transplant it around July 5. However, under the multiple cropping system involving potato and pea cultivation, its sowing can be commenced from May 25 and transplanting around June 25.“Avoid the cultivation of PR 127 in areas having poor quality irrigation water. To get better net returns from basmati, restrict its area to about 20 per cent of total paddy area as is evident from the price fluctuations vis-a-vis area under basmati cultivation during last many years,” added GS Mangat, Head, Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, PAU.Different varieties of paddy are transplanted from June 20 to end of July. Beside this, to further stagger the sowing schedule in view of labour availability direct seeding of rice can be done from June 1 onwards. The method ensures saving of labour and water. Level the field with laser leveler and apply heavy pre-sowing irrigation for sowing the seed.For direct seeding of rice, prefer ‘Lucky seed drill’ as it perform sowing and herbicide spraying operation simultaneously, said experts.Some important tips||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/agri-experts-advise-farmers-to-plan-rice-sowing-transplanting-254066
17-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Trains cancelled due to cyclone warning||Ludhiana, May 16The Railways have announced temporary cancellation of two pairs of trains operating from Hapa and Jamnagar (in Gujarat) to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra in the wake of cyclone Tauktae warning on May 17 and 18 in the coastal region of Gujarat.According to railway officials, in Ferozepur Division of Northern Railway, train 04680 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-Jamnagar (journey commencing on May 16), train 04678 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-Hapa (journey commencing on May 17), train 04677 Hapa-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra (journey commencing on May 18) and train 04679 Jamnagar-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra (journey commencing on May 19) would remain cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/trains-cancelled-due-to-cyclone-warning-254064
17-05-2021||---||3 arrested with  500 bottles of banned syrup||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 16The Khanna city police nabbed three persons and recovered 500 bottles of a banned syrup from their possession.The accused have been identified as Rajdeep Singh, Shiv, alias Monu, and Gurpreet Singh, all residents of Ludhiana.The police said acting on a tip-off, a naka was laid near the Pristine mall where a Swift car, which was coming from the Mandi Gobindgarh side, was stopped on suspicion for checking which led to the recovery of the banned syrup.The police arrested all occupants of the car, a police official said.The police said the accused were on the way to deliver the consignment of the banned syrup to their clients.“We will seek the police remand of the suspects so that in further interrogation more recovery of banned drugs could be made and more members of their gang could be arrested,” a police official said.Meanwhile, the Koom Kalan police arrested a person, Sukhdev Singh, of Chaunta village and recovered 11 gm of heroin from his possession.The police said he was nabbed at a naka near Gujjarwal village. The police also seized a Toyota Innova vehicle of the suspect. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against Sukhdev.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-arrested-with-500-bottles-of-banned-syrup-254063
17-05-2021||Ludhiana||Retd canal lining employees oppose shifting of records||A group of retired employees of the Canal Lining Arrear Division, here, has demanded from the government not to shift the official records from Ludhiana to Lehal Division, Patiala. They have written to Chief Minister and the authorities concerned in this regard.These retirees claimed that if the records were shifted from Ludhiana to Patiala, they would be forced to visit the Patiala office for pension-related and other issues amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Jatinder Kumar Khaira, retired SDO, said: “Amid the present crisis, an order was issued by the Water Resources Punjab, Chandigarh, that the records of the Canal Lining Arrear Division, now merged with the Sidhwan Canal Division, Ludhiana, has to be shifted to the Lehal Division, Patiala. If the records are shifted there, the retirees will face a lot of inconvenience.”He said, “We retired from the office of the Canal Lining Arrear Division situated at the Improvement Trust Building, Feroze Gandhi Market, in Ludhiana. All records of the lining division and the service cases, accounts branch cases, record branch cases, and the court cases are at present lying at the Lining Arrears Division that has merged with the Sidhwan Canal Division, Ludhiana.”He said: “It is convenient for retired employees and other employees to deal with their records and other pension and service benefits from the Ludhiana office. If the records are shifted to Patiala, it will be inconvenient for themto approach the office, situated in Patiala. It will be difficult for the retirees to visit the Patiala office for pension-related or other matters. We request to the government not to shift the records.”Another retiree said, “It will itself cause an unnecessary financial burden on the government. There is no need to shift any records from the Ludhiana office to Patiala. We demand from the government to direct the authorities concerned to withdraw the order.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/retd-canal-lining-employees-oppose-shifting-of-records-254062
17-05-2021||---||Activist alleges lapses in smart road project||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana, May 16While there have been several protests against the project of laying interlocking tiles on Malhar Road in Sarabha Nagar under the ‘Smart City mission’, a city-based activist has now highlighted quality issues in the ongoing construction work of the project.In a complaint to the Additional Chief Secretary, Local Government, Punjab, the Director, Local Bodies, Punjab, and the Chief Vigilance Officer, Local Government, Punjab, Ramesh Nayyar, a city-based social activist has alleged that the construction agency assigned the project for converting Malhar Road into a smart road under the ‘Smart City mission’ was using stone dust for preparing base bed before laying interlocking tiles in place of coarse sand as per specifications of the work order.“Stone dust is being used in place of coarse sand to prepare cushion for interlocking tiles as it is much cheaper in comparison to coarse sand which is normally used to prepare base for laying interlocking tiles. Large mounds of stone dust have been dumped at the site but in the absence of proper supervision by field staff of the MC and negligence on the part of their superior officials, the construction agency is flagrantly violating the specifications laid down in the work order and compromising with the quality of work,” said the complainant.Nayyar said stone dust laid beneath the interlocking tiles would create settling and drainage problems which was not the case if coarse sand, as per the specifications, was used for the purpose.“Interlocking tiles laid on a bed of stone dust tends to get uneven if exposed to waterlogging, have shorter life span and tiles tend to come off after a short time because of poor settling quality and is said to be most unsuitable for bedding layer under interlocking tiles,” asserted the complaint.Nayyar has called for a high level probe into the grave lapse and compromise with quality in execution of Smart City projects while pointing an accusing finger towards the field staff and supervisory officials of the MC for their alleged connivance with the erring construction agency.The MC Superintending Engineer, Rahul Gagneja, however, denied the allegations saying the work was being carried out as per specifications and MC field staff had been directed to monitor the material being used and quality of workmanship. “If any irregularity is found, it would be got rectified according to specifications of the work order,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/activist-alleges-lapses-in-smart-road-project-254061
17-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Video grab shows gangsters stayed on the spot after crime||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 16After killing two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) Bhagwan Singh and ASI Dalwinderjit Singh at New Grain Market in Jagraon yesterday, gangster Jaipal and his aides spent some time at the crime spot.The video grab (which is available with The Tribune) shows the gangsters were not in a hurry to leave the spot and they spent around 10 minutes near the bodies of the policemen.“After killing the two ASIs, they spent almost 10 minutes near the bodies of the two policemen. Afterwards, they took some packets from a canter and put them in their Hyundai i10 car. Assailants had parked their car in front of the canter and without any fear, they shifted some suitcases from the canter. They were moving around the place to check if the policemen had succumbed to their injuries or not. They were also aware that other people were present in the grain market despite that they were not in a hurry to flee the spot after committing the crime,” said an eyewitness who shot the video.“When the gangsters saw that they were being recorded through a mobile phone, they also fired at us. However, nobody suffered any bullet injuries. Afterwards, they fled the spot in both vehicles.Eyewitnesses said when the gangsters fired at them, they also escaped from the spot to save their lives.“We even heard sound of gunshots when they killed the policemen. We also tried to call the police when the accused were present on the spot but to no avail. After around 30 minutes, the police reached the spot,” said another eyewitness.Gangster Jaipal was staying in city for longPolice sources said gangster Jaipal Bhullar had been staying at the house of his aide Darshan Singh of Sahauli village in Ludhiana for the past one-and-a-half month. Though Jaipal is wanted by the Punjab Police for a long time, the Ludhiana rural police and the intelligence wing failed to nab him. Now, after the Jagraon incident, the police conducted a raid at the house of Darshan after getting information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/video-grab-shows-gangsters-stayed-on-the-spot-after-crime-254060
17-05-2021||---||Clash erupts between political rivals||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, May 16Political temperatures soared on the Janta Nagar main road here this morning when supporters of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), headed by party president Simarjit Singh Bains, came to blows with Youth Akali Dal (YAD) district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha. In the scuffle which continued for some time, Gosha alleged that his turban came off during the incident.While Gosha claimed that he had gone to the area along with some of his party colleagues to distribute langar, Bains alleged that Gosha and YAD activists had come to the place under a plan where he was supposed to inaugurate a road project in his constituency.Gosha said while he and his party workers were distributing langar in the area, Bains and his supporters confronted them, saying why they had come to the Assembly segment (Atam Nagar), represented by Bains. “Some Bains supporters hurled abuses at us which led to the scuffle. In the melee, my turban and that of one of my workers were tossed,” said Gosha.Bains, however, said Gosha and his party workers were objecting to the inauguration of the road project by him on the ground that the project was got sanctioned by the former city mayor, Harcharan Singh Gohalwadia.“Former mayor’s son was present at the spot and he was claiming that since the project was approved by his father, Bains had no business to inaugurate and take credit for the same,” said the LIP president.Both the groups (Gosha and Bains) have lodged complaints with the police seeking action against each other.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/clash-erupts-between-political-rivals-254059
17-05-2021||Ludhiana||Four days on, no first dose for people above 45 years due to vaccine crunch in Ludhiana district||For the fourth day today, vaccination for the 45 plus category (first dose) was not carried out as the district has not received the stock of Covishield. Now, it is expected that the stock will be arrived by Monday evening.For the 45 plus category, only second dose of Covaxin was administered at four places in the city and at one session site in Khanna. Meanwhile, vaccination for the 18-44 category was carried out at 35 session sites today.Being Sunday, a huge rush was witnessed at all session sites for the 18-44 year category. A beneficiary after getting the jab said she got vaccinated after standing for two hours but she was happy that she got the vaccination.Those in the category of 45 plus are waiting for the stock to arrive and many have booked their appointments online but they have to return from vaccination centres as the stock has not arrived so far.District Immunisation Officer Puneet Juneja said they might receive the stock for the 45 plus category tomorrow while vaccination for the 18-44 years’ group was going on smoothly, he said.Oxygen concentrator bank for patientsWith Ludhiana witnessing a surge in Covid cases and demand for oxygen has peaked, the Red Cross Society has started an oxygen concentrator bank for patients requiring the support of the life-saving gas in home isolation.Inaugurating the bank at the Red Cross Bhawan, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) Sandeep Kumar and Civil Surgeon Kiran Gill said as many as 25 oxygen concentrators had been donated by the NGO to the administration which would be given to needy patients through the bank.Dr Gill said home-isolated Covid patients could take it from the bank on mandatory doctor’sprescription and guarantee of device’s functioning under his supervision.He said the oxygen concentrator applicant had to pay a minimal daily rent of Rs 200 to the administration and submit refundable security of Rs 25,000 (either draft or cheque) to the society.She said the concentrator seeker had to submit an online google form on www.Ludhiana.nic.in and the applicant would be informed over the phone once the application is accepted within 12 hours. He or she could procure the concentrator from the society from 9 am to 5 pm, she said, adding that the decision had been taken on the recommendation of the seven-member committee of doctors.The DC said that the applicant could also contact at 94173-76655, 98784-50219 and 81465-55493 for the same.As many as 81 concentrators are being used for patients in government hospitals of the district.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-days-on-no-first-dose-for-people-above-45-years-due-to-vaccine-crunch-in-ludhiana-district-254056
17-05-2021||---||20 fall prey to Covid, 942 positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, May 16Today, 942 persons tested positive in Ludhiana while 20 lost their life to the virus.Total positive cases in the district have reached 75,795 while 1,720 have succumbed to Covid so far.Today, 207 patients were admitted to government hospitals and 1,177 to private hospitals and 52 patients were on ventilator support.There were 13,217 active patients in the district on Sunday. Those who lost their lives today include 10 men and 10 women who belonged to urban and rural parts of the district.Restrictions to continueMeanwhile, coming forward for extending a helping hand to the administration, a local NGO, Nishkam Ration Sewa, on Sunday handed over five oxygen concentrators and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to municipal councillor Mamta Ashu in a Covid care centre, established at Government Meritorious School, here.Welcoming the initiative, the councillor said it was a service of humanity as in this war against the pandemic, contribution by every individual was valuable. “We will win the battle against the virus with the active support and cooperation of people of Ludhiana,” she said.She said these oxygen concentrators and PPE Kits were of immense help for patients and frontline staff deployed on duty at the Covid care centre. The oxygen concentrators would reduce dependency on oxygen cylinders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20-fall-prey-to-covid-942-positive-in-ludhiana-district-254054
