18-05-2021||---||20 dead, 851 test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, May 17As many as 851 persons tested positive for Covid, while 20 persons lost their lives to the virus today. The case fatality rate in the district is 2.27 per cent. The total positive cases in the district till now have reached 76,646.Those who tested positive include a cop, healthcare worker and an undertrial, while 163 are still untraceable. Ten men and 10 women lost their lives to the virus. Six deceased were from the rural areas and rest from urban. The total number of deaths from the disease in Ludhiana district has reached 1,740.Today 54 patients were on ventilator support in different hospitals. As many as 1,190 patients were admitted to private hospitals and 223 to government hospitals.Since the number of Covid cases is showing an upward trend in recent days in rural areas, the Punjab Government has taken an initiative to focus on containing the disease in villages.The mass media team of the Health Department visited Lalton Kalan, Lalton Khurd and Thakkarwal villages and created awareness among the villagers by going door to door and by using public address system. Villagers were told about the importance of early detection and vaccination in controlling the spread of Covid.“Anyone who has onset of symptoms such as fever, sore throat, diarrhoea, headache, etc, must get himself tested for Covid as soon as possible so that there can be timely detection of the disease and such a person be isolated and further spread of the disease can be stopped. Moreover, villagers were made aware of vaccination and myths associated with it were also busted,” said a member of the mass media wing.Team members also met sarpanches and panchayat members of these villages and requested them to achieve the goal of “corona-free village”. They were asked to not let persons enter their villages without Covid negative report. They were also asked to start ‘theekri pehras’ for strict compliance of the curfew rules and paste posters related to Covid appropriate behaviour at prominent places in the villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20-dead-851-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-254469
18-05-2021||Nitin Jain||2nd wave starts ‘plateauing’; daily cases, fatalities drop||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 17In what appears to be the signs of gradual retreat, the devastating second Covid wave seems to have started plateauing in Ludhiana district.The 17-hour daily curfew and complete weekend lockdown seems to be yielding the desired results with the daily virus cases and deaths coming quite down in the Covid capital of the state.Varinder Kumar Sharma, Deputy CommissionerOfficialspeakThe current restrictions have started showing the desired results with the daily cases and deaths reducing considerably. This has given a sigh of relief but the fight against Covid will continue with all vigour. The residents will have to bear with us to bring back the situation to normal and till then, the prohibitions shall continues.While the daily positive cases have registered almost 50 per cent decline since May 1, the daily casualties have dipped by around 33 per cent since May 10.The official data compiled by the district administration, which is available with The Tribune, revealed that the daily cases came down from 1,600 on May 1 to 851 on May 17, registering a dip of 46.81 per cent, while the daily deaths due to Covid reduced from 30 on May 10 to 20 on May 17, recording a low of over 33 per cent.The case fatality rate (CFR), which indicates the ratio of deaths against the positive cases, has also dipped from the highest-ever 4.29 per cent recorded during the first peak here on September 11 last to 2.27 per cent on May 17, registering a decrease of 47.08 per cent. For the past fortnight, the CFR was dipping constantly and has registered a low of 8.46 per cent from 2.48 per cent on May 1 to 2.27 per cent on May 16.The statistics showed that the cumulative CFR dipped from 2.48 per cent on May 1 to 2.45 per cent on May 2; 2.43 per cent on May 3; 2.41 per cent on May 4; 2.4 per cent on May 5; 2.38 per cent on May 6; 2.36 per cent on May 7; 2.34 per cent on May 8; 2.31 per cent on May 9 and 10; 2.3 per cent on May 11 to 13; 2.28 per cent on May 14, to the lowest of 2.27 per cent on May 15, 16 and 17.The daily deaths of persons belonging to Ludhiana district also showed a receding trend since May 1 when 18 Covid casualties were reported here and it came down to 17 on May 2, going up to 21 on May 3, down to 20 on May 4, 19 each on May 5 and 6, 20 on May 7, 19 on May 8, 22 on May 9 and once again shooting up to 30 each on May 10 and 11. Thereafter, the death toll was constantly going down to 28 on May 12, 25 on May 13, 19 on May 14, 18 on May 15 and 20 each on May 16 and 17. The district has logged 365 casualties of local persons in this month so far.The daily virus cases were also coming down with each passing day from 1,600 on May 1 to 1,404 on May 2, 1,198 on May 3, 1,347 on May 4, 1,186 on May 5, 1,257 on May 6, 1,465 on May 7, 1,223 on May 8, 1,729 on May 9, 1,470 on May 10, 1,386 on May 11, 1,215 on May 12, 1,335 on May 13, 1,320 on May 14, 1,132 on May 15, 942 on May 16 and touching a low of 851 on May 17. This has left 22,060 local residents infected in the last 17 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2nd-wave-starts-plateauing-daily-cases-fatalities-drop-254470
18-05-2021||---||11, 552 vaccinated in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, May 17As many as 11,356 persons in the age group of 18-44 years and 196 in the 45-plus category were vaccinated in the district today.No first dose of Covid vaccine for persons in the above 45 years’ category was administered today for the continuous fifth day. Vaccination for the 18-44 years’ category was carried out at 30 places today. Only second dose of Covaxin was administered at five places in the district for the above 45 years’ category.People are waiting for the second dose to be administered as the district is yet to receive its stock.District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said they had not yet receive the stock for the 45-plus category.Meanwhile, people are getting impatient for getting their second dose and are waiting for supply. “My second dose of vaccine was scheduled for last week but vaccination for the 45-plus category has still not started. I hope there is no huge rush at the centre when the stock arrives,” said a city resident.Meanwhile, senior citizens of Rajguru Nagar have written to the Deputy Commissioner and requested for a vaccination camp at the colony.“Rajguru Nagar colony has been developed by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust and there are more than 1,000 senior citizens residing in it. Our association has 200 registered senior citizen members, besides a large number of young parents. A vaccination camp should be held and we will make arrangements for the same,” said KS Chawla, president, Rajguru Nagar Senior Citizens Welfare Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/11-552-vaccinated-in-ludhiana-district-254471
18-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Simarjit Singh Bains, YAD district president booked||Ludhiana, May 17Taking cognisance of cross-complaints filed by Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president and Atam Nagar MLA Simarjit Singh Bains and Youth Akali Dal (YAD) district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha over a clash between their supporters on Sunday, the police have registered a case against the two leaders besides 50 others, including nine by name.They have been charged under Sections 188 (disobedience to order), 269 (negligent act), 160 (committing affray) and 294 (obscene acts) of the IPC and 51B (refuse to comply with government directions) of the Disaster Management Act.In the FIR lodged at the Police Division No. 6 here, those booked include Bains’ son Ajaipreet Singh, former Mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwadia’s son Amanjot Singh, LIP councillor Arjun Singh Cheema, Amrik Singh, Sikander Singh Pannu, Swarn Singh, Harjot Singh, Mandeep Singh and Prabhjit Singh Pandher.They said the key suspects would be interrogated to ascertain the identities of the others involved. Video clips and photographs posted on the social media by Bains and Gosha as well as CCTV footage of the clash site were being examined to identify the suspects.Meanwhile, senior SAD leaders, including former minister Mahesinder Singh Grewal, today met Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal and demanded stern action against Bains and his supporters. He said such acts of hooliganism by an elected representative (MLA) of the people deserved to be condemned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/simarjit-singh-bains-yad-district-president-booked-254473
18-05-2021||Harshraj Singh||Choked with garbage, drain near Bhadaur House cries for attention||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 17As the MC has failed to stop the collection of solid waste in an old nullah (drain) that passes from Bhadaur House and other areas, the chances of waterlogging are likely to remain high in several parts of the old city during the upcoming rainy season, if timely action is not taken.A huge amount of garbage has collected in the drain near Bhadaur House and other points in the old city areas. The matter was earlier brought to the notice of the MC but nothing was done to stop the collection of solid waste in the drain. Now, the residents demand from the MC to make sure cleaning of the drain is done before the rainy season.Parminder Mehta, a Congress leader, said, “This old nullah is meant to drain out rainwater from old city areas. If it is not cleaned timely, major waterlogging will be witnessed in these areas. About Rs 1 crore was spent for the cleaning of the drain in the past but no step was taken to avoid the collection of waste in it. By following the Covid-related guidelines, the work to clean the drain can be carried out.”The drain passes through Talab Bazaar, Chaura Bazaar, Bhadaur House, Damoria Bridge area and some other parts of the city. The water from this drain flows into the Buddha Nullah. A number of illegal sewers have also been connected with the drain as per the sources.A shopkeeper said, “The MC should ensure the cleaning of the drain and take necessary steps to stop people from dumping solid waste in the drain. At present, the drain has got choked at different points due to dumping of garbage in it. The MC must take steps to ensure de-silting of the drain at the earliest so that the public do not face any inconvenience during the rainy season.”The MC authorities had earlier given instructions to the officials to get all drains cleaned in the city. Superintending Engineer, Rajinder Singh could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/choked-with-garbage-drain-near-bhadaur-house-cries-for-attention-254474
18-05-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana cops crack blind murder case, 1 held||The city police have cracked the blind murder case of a 29-year-old woman, identified as Megha Malhotra, at her residence on the 33-feet road in Mundian Kalan here on May 10. Cops have arrested one Mohan Singh, a painter, from his hideout in Basti district in Uttar Pradesh.The accused is a native of Dhangarhi village in Mehrajganj district of Uttar Pradesh.The Commissioner of Police (CP), Rakesh Agrawal, said the police had recovered a purse, Aadhaar card and an ATM card, all in the name of the deceased woman, along with Rs5,000 out of stolen money, the scarf used for strangulating the woman and some other incriminating material.The CP said the accused was already undergoing life imprisonment for the murder of a woman, Poonam, and her domestic servant, Chhotu, in a house in Shastri Nagar in May 2003. The accused had recently come out on parole in June 2020.“He had taken up the work of painting in the deceased’s house. Finding her alone with her child, he entered the house on May 10, strangled her, stole cash and valuables and fled,” said Agrawal. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-cops-crack-blind-murder-case-1-held-254475
18-05-2021||---||Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner marks probe against private hospital||Ludhiana, May 17Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma today ordered an inquiry against Khanna-based multispecialty private hospital for the alleged overcharging for Covid treatment from a resident.The Deputy Commissioner said a committee, headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) Sandeep Kumar, along with Deputy Director Dr Hatinder Kaur and Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Vivek Kataria would conduct the probe into the complaint filed by Ashwani Sharma about overcharging. He directed the committee to submit a detailed report to him within 48-hours.He said the people were free to file complaints and the committee, constituted by him, would look into the matter. He said the administration would take stringent action against the hospitals who would indulge in this malpractice.He said, “In this hour of distress, it is our collective duty to combat Covid-19 and strict action will be taken against the erring persons for violating the guidelines of the Health Department regarding the capped charges of Covid treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-deputy-commissioner-marks-probe-against-private-hospital-254477
18-05-2021||---||ADGP visits Ludhiana's Central Jail to probe liquor and hookah party||Ludhiana, May 17ADGP (Prisons) Parveen Kumar Sinha and IG (Prisons) SS Saini today visited the Central Jail here to probe an alleged liquor and hookah party in one of the barracks here. A video of the purported party had gone viral last week.The top officials remained at the jail with other officials and visited the barrack where the video was allegedly shot.While the jail officials here lodged a complaint with the police about some prisoners violating the rules, they did not mention liquor or hookah being served at the party.The Jails Minister had ordered an inquiry into gross violation of jail regulations.While jail officials refused to comment on the issue, sources said the ADGP sought to know the identity of the prisoners or undertrials seen in the video. The ADGP is likely to submit a report to the government soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/adgp-visits-ludhianas-central-jail-to-probe-liquor-and-hookah-party-254478
18-05-2021||Ludhiana||Two robbed of cash, phones||A truck driver and cleaner were looted by two unidentified motor cycle-borne youth late night on May 15. The victim, Mohammed Arif, a resident of Chatmalpur village, Dehradun Road, Saharanpur, told the police that he along with cleaner of the truck (HR-55P-4650) were going to Srinagar. “At around 2.30 am, we parked the truck in a service lane to take some rest. Suddenly, two bike-borne youth came there, forcibly opened the window of the truck and snatched two mobile phones from me and the cleaner, along with Rs12,500 in cash,” said the driver. A case has registered a case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-robbed-of-cash-phones-254479
18-05-2021||Ludhiana||Curfew violator arrested||Case registered for assaultLudhiana: The police have registered a case under Sections 323, 341, 307, 379-B, 148 and 149 of the IPC against seven identified persons and five or six unidentified accomplices on the complaint of one Dikshat Tandon, a resident of Hargobind Nagar. The accused persons have been identified as Vishal Gill, Steam Sahota, Kartik Baggan, Akshin Sabharwal, Rohit Hans, Real Peddu and Jatin Treddy. The complainant alleged that when he and his friend Karandeep Kalia were going back to their residence from Pindi Street, the assailants attacked them with sharp-edged weapons due to old enmity. He sustained serious injuries in the assault and was presently under treatment at DMC Hospital, the complainant added. TNSMan held with illicit liquorLudhiana: The police have arrested Hartej Singh, a resident of Gaunspur, while coming from Nurpur Bet side during the lockdown while carrying 14 bottles of illicit liquor. The man has been charged under Sections 188 of the IPC and Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. . TNSVillager booked for illegal miningLudhiana: The police have booked Sukhdev Singh, a resident of Baunkan Gujjran village, under Section 21 of the Mining Act for illegal sand mining. When the police conducted a raid on the site, the accused who was loading sand in his tractor-trailer. After seeing the police, he ran away, leaving the tractor-trailer behind which was impounded by cops. TNSTwo vehicle thefts in cityLudhiana: Two cars were reportedly stolen from different parts of the city on Saturday. One Mohan Singh, a resident of Bachittar Nagar on Gill Road, lodged a complaint that his Honda City car (PB-30R-1975), parked outside his house had been stolen on the intervening night of May 15 and 16. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered by the police. Meanwhile, another theft of Suzuki Zen LXI car (DL-9CF-7342) from outside DMC Hospital on Saturday was reported by one Narinder Singh, a resident of Navi Abadi Tankanwali, Ferozepur. The complainant said the car was parked outside the hospital but after some time when he came back, the vehicle had been stolen. The police have registered a case under Section 379 of the IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/curfew-violator-arrested-254481
18-05-2021||Manav Mander||‘Hypertension most common comorbidity in Covid patients’||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 17Hypertension is one of the most common comorbidity among Covid-19 patients, which need to be cautiously dealt with during and post recovery from the virus.On World Hypertension Day, which is celebrated on May 17 every year, Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, said the pandemic situation was difficult for everyone but those with comorbidity, need to be little more careful.Dr Bishav Mohan, Senior Cardiologist, Dayanand Medical College and HospitalThe problem observed among patients already on medication for hypertension is that owing to lack of physical activity, patients are gaining weight and this is causing severity in their condition.“The problem observed among patients already on medication for hypertension is that owing to lack of physical activity, patients are gaining weight and this is causing severity in the condition of the patients,” he said. He added that people needed to take up any kind of exercise in their day-to-day life so that they could keep themselves fit during the pandemic.Dr Sandeep Chopra, additional director (Cardiology), Fortis Hospital, said: “If a hypertensive patient becomes Covid positive, he/she should not panic and should not discontinue their medicines even while getting treated for Covid. Today, Covid-19 and black fungus disease has become a major reason of hypertension.”Dr Sandeep Chopra, Additional Director (Cardiology), Fortis HospitalCovid and black fungus disease have become a major reason of hypertension. If a hypertensive patient tests positive, he/she should not panic and should not discontinue their medicines during the treatment.A public awareness program was also held at Fortis Hospital, where Dr Chopra shared various tips to stay healthy during the pandemic.“Pandemic has caused lot of stress and anxiety among people and amidst this situation, people should keep themselves physically active, limit their salt intake and if they contract the virus, they should not panic at all. Eat healthy, stay fit and drink lots of water,” he said.Tips for accurate reading of BPAdvice before BP measurement||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hypertension-most-common-comorbidity-in-covid-patients-254488
18-05-2021||Lovleen Bains||Sanitary workers go on strike, garbage lifting stops at Doraha||Doraha, May 17Residents of Doraha have accused the Municipal Council of shirking away from their work for not lifting the heaps of garbage from residential areas. Garbage can be seen accumulating on roads, producing foul smell and acting as a breeding ground for diseases.Harish Kapila, Social WorkerThe council has failed to address the immediate problem of the residents. The heap of garbage is producing foul smell, exposing residents to infectious diseases, especially dengue.The Municipal Council says the sanitary workers were on strike for the past four days but the residents allege that garbage had been lying on roads even before the strike began.Harish Kapila, a social worker, complained: “The council has failed to address the immediate problem of the residents. The heap of garbage is producing foul smell, exposing residents to infectious diseases, especially dengue.”Ajay Kumar, Doraha Sanitary InspectorNo lifting has been done since May 13. The situation is not just appalling in Doraha but the sanitary employees, all over the state, have told that they will not lift garbage till their demands are met.“No municipal council worker has come to pick up garbage for the past four days. We are residing in filth and foul smell. The Municipal Council authorities have turned a blind eye to our problems. We are already going through a pandemic and the heaps of garbage will only make us more sick,” rued Rakesh Bector, resident of the town.Doraha Sanitary Inspector Ajay Kumar said there had been no lifting of garbage since May 13 as the employees had gone on strike. “The situation is not just appalling in Doraha but the sanitary employees, all over the state, have told that they will not lift garbage till their demands are met,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sanitary-workers-go-on-strike-garbage-lifting-stops-at-doraha-254489
18-05-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Kin of police personnel express concern over safety during duty||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Raikot/ Payal, May 17The murder of CIA cops on duty at Jagraon has sent a wave of shock among families of police personnel deployed at various stations in the region.Terming the murders as unprovoked, families of police officials on frontline duty have urged the state government to augment security arrangements for the protection of the officials. The families have also urged higher authorities in the police department to release officials of non-police duties.Grandmother of a police officerWe appreciate the concern for patients suffering from coronavirus but it is not the duty of police to deliver meals to their house. What is the guarantee that a criminal will not pose as a coronavirus patient and lure policemen home to attack them?“Unfortunately, the police had been acting defensively against criminals as as extant guidelines and SOPs do not allow direct action against the criminal, no matter how heinous the crime is,” said the father of a police official.Grandmother of a lady inspector argued that the authorities should relieve all cops of non-police duties being entrusted to them from time to time. “We appreciate the concern for patients suffering from coronavirus but it is not the duty of police to deliver meals to their house. What is the guarantee that a criminal will not pose as a coronavirus patient and lure policemen home to attack them?” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kin-of-police-personnel-express-concern-over-safety-during-duty-254493
18-05-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner inspects LPG-operated crematorium at Dholewal||The Deputy Commissioner (DC), Varinder Kumar Sharma, today inspected the functioning of an LPG-operated cremation chamber developed by the GST Group, Ludhiana, in the Dholewal cremation ground.The DC also visited the premises of the GST Group and said the chamber having stainless steel structure can hold high temperature, cremates bodies within an hour and three bodies can be cremated by using two LPG cylinders.Sharma said the cremation though the chamber is not only cost-effective over conventional wood-based crematorium but also time-saving.The chamber system will help to stop deforestation and can save 40 lakh trees in a year, he said adding that around 4 quintal wood usually required in a conventional system for cremating one body.Ranjodh Singh, owner, GST Group, said they will supply the LPG Gas chambers to other crematoriums in Ludhiana and Punjab at cost to cost basis. He said Ramgarhia Cremation Ground in Dholewal area, under the management of Ramgarhia Educational Council has performed 739 Covid cremations that include 138 cases in May, 2021 alone. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-deputy-commissioner-inspects-lpg-operated-crematorium-at-dholewal-254494
18-05-2021||Ludhiana||Residents slam politicians for violating Covid norms||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, some politicians are allegedly openly violating the guidelines by organising various events to attract the voters even during the curfew hours. Now, the city residents slammed such political leaders who violated the guidelines that were issued for the prevention of Covid-19.To claim the credit, several political leaders of different political parties were seen inaugurating development works or performing other activities recently but by violating the social distancing and other norms. Moreover, some elected representatives avoided wearing masks at such events to show their faces to gain publicity. They allowed the gathering of their supporters to get the photos clicked too. Some political leaders along with their supporters also visited the vaccination camps by ignoring social distancing norms.Col JS Brar of the Maha Sabha (NGO) said, “The law should be equal for all. Equal action should be taken against those leaders who violate the norms. If a common person can be put in an open jail for violating curfew orders, the political leaders and their supporters should also be put in such jails, if they break the curfew-related norms. The administration and police should keep a check on activities done by the politicians who are openly breaking the rules.”Kuldeep Singh Khaira, a city resident, said, “At this time of Covid-19 pandemic, several political leaders are working just to attract the voters. Even at the vaccination camps, some politicians along with their supporters gathered recently to take credit for organising such camps and they violated social distancing norms too. Even in the name of a sanitisation drive, some leaders get their photos clicked for publicity. It is totally wrong that politicians are allowing their supporters to gather at the inauguration of development projects when cases of Covid-19 are rising. Such practices should be curbed.”“I condemn the political leaders who are not following the norms for the prevention of Covid-19. They should act as responsible leaders. They should not encourage people to violate the norms. The political leaders should also be punished for violating norms,” said Prof Jaipal Singh, a city resident. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-slam-politicians-for-violating-covid-norms-254495
18-05-2021||---||Ahmedgarh SDM orders increase in contact tracing of patients||Our CorrespondentMandi Ahmedgarh, May 17Office-bearers and activists of various constitutional bodies today vowed to extend maximum support in contact tracing of corona positive patients and persuade them to get them tested for the virus.The oath was taken in response to a call made by government officials, led by Ahmedgarh SDM Vikramjit Singh Panthey, during a meeting held at his office today.Nodal Officer and executive magistrate Pawandeep Singh said constitutional leaders, including councillors, panches, sarpanches and lambardars of the subdivision, had come forward to facilitate contact tracing of corona positive patients so that the spread of the virus could be curbed with efficacy.“Having received instructions from the SDM, officials approached elected members of the urban and rural local bodies for seeking cooperation in the fight against the pandemic. While earlier, majority of corona patients hesitated in giving the names of people who came in their contact, they have now started cooperating in the matter,” said Pawandeep Singh.SDM Panthey, said contact tracing in the town was declining along with sampling of tests. He laid stress on the identification of asymptomatic and latent carriers of the virus to curb further spread.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ahmedgarh-sdm-orders-increase-in-contact-tracing-of-patients-254496
18-05-2021||---||College union seeks deferment of centralised admission portal||Ludhiana, May 17A deputation of the Non-Government Colleges’ Managements Federation of Punjab and Chandigarh met Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa today seeking deferment of the decision to make a common portal of three universities.Rajindermohan Singh Chhina, Senior VP, Non-Government Colleges’ Managements Federation of Punjab and Chandigarh A memorandum was submitted by the delegation for deferment of the decision taken by the Department of High Education, Punjab, to make a common portal of three universities of Punjab for centralised admission in degree colleges affiliated to Panjab University, Chandigarh; Punjabi University, Patiala; and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar.“A memorandum was submitted by the delegation for deferment of the decision taken by the Department of High Education, Punjab, to make a common portal of three universities of Punjab for centralised admission in degree colleges affiliated to Panjab University, Chandigarh; Punjabi University, Patiala; and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar,” said Rajindermohan Singh Chhina, senior vice-president of the association.“We strongly condemn the decision of online centralised admission by calling it impractical and unrealistic and stated that it will affect all higher education institutions of Punjab, which are already suffering owing to the pandemic,” he added.The members said owing to the pandemic crisis, more students were getting attracted to universities abroad and the strength of the colleges was decreasing with each passing day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/college-union-seeks-deferment-of-centralised-admission-portal-254497
18-05-2021||Ludhiana||NGO Buland Honsle donates two oxygen concentrators||A local NGO, Buland Honsle, on Monday handed over two oxygen concentrators to the district administration.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma received the concentrators and thanked the office-bearers for the help to the administration in the hour of crisis.He said these oxygen concentrators are of immense help for the patients in home isolation by providing life-saving gas to them. He said these medical devices would help to reduce burden on the oxygen cylinders as the equipment concentrates oxygen from ambient air by capturing and filtering the air. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ngo-buland-honsle-donates-two-oxygen-concentrators-254498
18-05-2021||---||Ludhiana MC takes action against illegal colonies||Ludhiana, May 17Following a complaint, the MC took action against two illegal colonies at Lohara and Jaspal Bangar here.Assistant Town Planner (ATP) Satish Malhotra said they dismantled the roads at these colonies today. The work was underway for the construction of the roads. He said they would take further legal action against the colonisers of these colonies.A city resident had earlier complained against the illegal colony at Lohara. Meanwhile, another resident also complained against alleged illegal constructions in the Zone C areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-takes-action-against-illegal-colonies-254499
18-05-2021||---||PSEB Class VIII, X results out||Ludhiana, May 17The Punjab School Education Board today announced the results of Class VIII and X.Students can check their result from 8 am Tuesday on at the official website pseb.ac.in.The pass percentage of Class VIII in the district is 99.88 per cent and that of Class X is 99.92 per cent.Lakhvir Singh, Ludhiana DEOAnnual exams of Class VIII and X were cancelled owing to a surge in Covid cases. Results have been declared on the basis of assessment and pre-board exams held this year.Owing to a surge in Covid-19 cases, exams for both classes were cancelled.Of the 41,910 students who appeared for the Class VIII examinations, a total of 41,861 have been declared pass.In Class X examinations, a total of 41,006 students appeared for the exams, of which 40,973 have passed.Ludhiana DEO Lakhvir Singh said the annual board exams of Class VIII and X were not conducted earlier this year. “Results have been declared on the basis of assessment and pre-board examinations held earlier this year,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pseb-class-viii-x-results-out-254503
18-05-2021||Manav Mander||Pandemic-induced stress ‘on rise’||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 17The ongoing pandemic is triggering stress in a large number of people. The category of patients includes students, especially from Class XII and young professionals. Hospital OPDs in Ludhiana are receiving at least 10 such patients every day. On World Hypertension Day today, the load of patients with high BP and stress has increased manifold.Dr Sandeep Chopra, Additional Director, Fortis HospitalStudents seek helpStudents are visiting doctors more often than earlier. Those in Class XII are stressed as they are not aware of their exam schedule… They are treated through counselling.People are losing jobs, facing financial crisis and students are having a tough time. Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist, DMCH, said the pandemic had increased the number of people suffering from hypertension.“Many students are coming to the OPD these days. They are mostly those studying in Class XII. Since the board has yet not announced anything about their exam schedule, it is causing panic among them. Professionals are facing tough times due to the ongoing pandemic as some lost their jobs, others are facing salary cuts and thus becoming prone to hypertension,” he said.He said such patients were reassured that everything would become fine with time and were told to do breathing exercises. Not medicines but counselling helps such patients to recover. Dr Sandeep Chopra, additional director, cardiology, Fortis Hospital, said he was getting eight-10 patients with stress issues in his OPD every day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pandemic-induced-stress-on-rise-254265
