19-05-2021||---||21 more succumb, 991 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 18What has come as a little breather for the district is that for the third day in a row, less than 1,000 persons tested positive for Covid. Today 991 persons tested positive, while 21 persons lost their lives.Those who tested positive include two cops and two healthcare workers, while 212 are still to be traced.Out of the 21 patients who lost their lives, nine belonged to rural areas, while the remaining from urban areas.Total positive cases in the district have now reached 77,637, while 1,761 have lost their lives to the virus. There are 12,371 active patients at present. As many as 1,092 patients are admitted to private hospitals and 216 to government hospitals. A total of 61 patients, 32 belonging to Ludhiana district, were on the ventilator support.Meanwhile, Sandeep Gupta, an NRI from the UK, originally from Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana, contacted Rakesh Agrawal, Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, and sent 10 oxygen concentrators for distribution to Covid patients in hospitals. He also assured to send more oxygen concentrators in the coming days.The concentrators were handed over to a temporary Covid care hospital being run in Radha Soami Satsang Ghar in Ludhiana through the Red Cross Society.No first dose for above 45 years’ categoryMeanwhile, for the sixth day in a row no first dose of vaccine for the above 45 years’ category was administered. The vaccine stock of 12,000 doses reached the district today evening and tomorrow sites for the 45-plus category will be started.Vaccination for the 18-44 years’ category was carried on at 56 places in the district today. Only second dose of Covaxin was administered at five places in the district.District Immunisation Officer Dr Puneet Juneja said they had received the stock of 12,000 doses for the 45-plus category. Today 16,467 doses were administered to the 18-44 years’ category.City doctor remembers Dr KK AggarwalCity-based Ayurvedacharya Dr R Vatsayayan remembered Padma Shri awardee Dr KK Aggarwal and said: “I recall meeting Dr Aggarwal a few years ago in a CME of the Rashtriya Ayurveda Vidyapeeth in New Delhi. My tribute to him, we have lost not only a brilliant doctor but a decent human being and a votary of Ayurveda.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/21-more-succumb-991-test-positive-in-ludhiana-254960
19-05-2021||Nitin Jain||District witnesses considerable dip in daily Covid positivity rate||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 18In another sign of gradual retreat and plateauing of the impact of devastating second Covid wave, the daily positivity rate, a key indicator of virus surge, has also dipped considerably in Ludhiana district last week after touching an all-time high of 13.1 per cent here in the first week of May.The state’s worst-hit district recorded an average positivity rate of 11.7 per cent between May 9 and 15, which was much lower than the state’s Covid surge rate of 13.1 per cent registered during this period.The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that while Ludhiana’s positivity rate came down by 1.4 notches as compared to 13.1 per cent recorded between April 30 and May 6, that of Punjab went up by the same ratio (1.4 per cent) from 11.7 per cent registered between April 30 and May 6.The district’s positivity rate had earlier gone up from 12 per cent between April 25 and May 1 to 13.1 per cent between April 30 and May 6, while the state’s rate had remained static at 11.7 per cent between April 25 and May 6.With the decreasing caseload, Ludhiana has turned out to be in a better situation than 11 other districts, which have the higher positivity rate.The situation has improved after turning grimmer when Ludhiana district’s average daily positivity rate had registered an increase of 3.1 per cent in less than 10 last days of April. The positivity rate here, which was on the constant rise since April 26 when it was 10 per cent (between April 20 and 26), had shot up to 11.1 per cent between April 23 and 29, before touching its peak at 13.1 per cent between April 30 and May 6, has finally started receding from May 9. Earlier, the positivity ratehad dipped between April 15 and 21.However, Mohali continued to lead the state with the highest positivity rate of 22.9 per cent between May 9 and 15, which was 2 notches less than 24.9 per cent recorded there between April 30 and May 6, followed by Bathinda which went up to 20.5 per cent from 17.3 per cent, and Mansa that registered a steep rise from 13.8 per cent to 20.5 per cent.The districts that were showing higher positivity rate than Ludhiana included Fazilka 18.7 per cent, Ferozepur 16.3, Muktsar 15.7, Faridkot 15.6, Ropar 15.3, Patiala 13.7, Jalandhar and Pathankot 13.3 per cent each.Those faring better than Ludhiana were Amritsar with 11.5 per cent positivity rate, Moga 10.2, Barnala 9.6, Hoshiarpur 9.5, Kapurthala 7.9, Gurdaspur 7.8, Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib 7.6 per cent each, Tarn Taran 6.4 and Nawanshahr recorded the lowest positivity average of 5.2 per cent in the state.In contrast to Ludhiana district’s decreasing trend, the state’s positivity rate had risen from 9.8 per cent between April 16 and 22 to 13.1 per cent between May 9 and 15. Earlier, Punjab’s positivity average had come down from 12 per cent between April 23 and 29 to 11.7 per cent between April 30 and May 6. Before that, the state’s Covid surge had risen from 7.2 per cent between April 2 and 8 to 9.5 between April 9 and 15 and 9.8 per cent between April 16 and 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/district-witnesses-considerable-dip-in-daily-covid-positivity-rate-254961
19-05-2021||Ludhiana||Elderly crushed to death by truck||A 60-year-old man crushed to death by a truck on Dugri bridge on Tuesday. The deceased  has been identified as Mohan Singh while his cousin Gurmukh Singh (45) suffered serious injuries in the accident. As per information, both were heading towards Daba and when they reached the Dugri bridge, their bike was hit by the speedy truck from the rear side. After the accident, both had suffered serious injuries. They were rushed to a nearby private hospital where Mohan succumbed and the condition of Gurmukh was said to be critical. Mohan, who was a tailor, is survived by two sons and his wife. SI Pritpal Singh said the truck driver fled the spot after the accident and efforts were on to nab him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/elderly-crushed-to-death-by-truck-254962
19-05-2021||Ludhiana||Act against illegal submersible pump, XEN told||Following a complaint against the installation of an ‘illegal’ submersible pump in an area under the Zone C, Superintending Engineer (Zone C and D) of the MC, Ludhiana, has asked the executive engineer concerned to take action in this regard. The Superintending Engineer (SE) had stated in the letter that complaints were being received against illegal submersible pumps in areas of Zone C. The executive engineer had been asked to take action against the installation of submersible pumps. The executive engineer would be held responsible if action was not taken against violations, the SE said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/act-against-illegal-submersible-pump-xen-told-254964
19-05-2021||---||Major fire at Hargobind Nagar factory||Ludhiana, May 18A major fire broke out at a shawl manufacturing factory, GS Traders, at Hargobind Nagar here on Tuesday evening. Goods and machinery worth lakhs gutted in the fire. Fortunately, no loss of human lives or any injury to humans reported in the incident.Aatish Rai, sub-fire officer, who immediately reached the spot along with his team, said over 15 fire tenders were used to completely douse the flames.“The fire broke out at GS Traders. Factory exists on the ground floor while the owner stays on the first floor. At around 6 pm, some passers-by noticed smoke billowing out from the factory and they alerted the owner and the fire station. Afterwards, family members vacated the first floor and went out as a precautionary measure,” Aatish said.He said the fire tenders reached the spot within 10 minutes of receiving the information and within one hour, the fire was completely doused.A huge stock was piled up inside the factory and even some machinery was also present which gutted in the fire. Some of the stock was taken out initially by the owner and residents.Residents who also participated in the rescue operation said had the fire tenders not reached on time, fire could have spread in nearby buildings.”It was a residential area and fire could have spread in the area. Residents living near the factory had also left their houses but quick and timely action by fire officials, saved the factory and nearby buildings” said residents. The fire officials said a short circuit was the cause of the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/major-fire-at-hargobind-nagar-factory-254965
19-05-2021||Ludhiana||Man fraudulently withdraws Rs 30L from kin’s bank account, booked||The Samrala police have registered a case against a man who had fraudulently withdrawn Rs 30 lakh from the bank account of his kin. He has been identified as Jatinder Singh Grewal, a resident of Rattipur village. Complainant Ekdeep Singh of Nagar village told the police that a complaint was submitted to the Senior Superintendent of Police, Khanna, who had marked an inquiry following which a fraud case was registered against the accused, who is a relative of his mother. “After the death of my father, the accused had been staying at our house as he was a close relative of my mother. Since the man was our relative, he created a bank limit of Rs 30 lakh in my name and also attached his own mobile number with my bank account. He kept on withdrawing money from my account and till date, he withdrawn Rs 30 lakh from my account,” the complainant said. The complainant said he came to know about the fraud when he checked his account balance and found withdrawals of Rs 30 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-fraudulently-withdraws-rs-30l-from-kins-bank-account-booked-254966
19-05-2021||---||Hookah party: Jail Dept writes to cops for action against 6 inmates||Ludhiana, May 18A day after DGP, Prisons, PK Sinha and DIG, Prisons, Surinder Singh Saini visited Central Jail here to investigate the episode in which gangsters had shared the video of a hookah party in jail on Facebook, the Jail Department today wrote to the Police Department for action against the six inmates who were seen in the hookah party.Production warrantThe police would bring all the accused on production warrant and probe will be done to enquire how hookah and other banned items reached the jail premises. Sources said if the police bring them on production warrant, the role of jail officials, if any, who might have provided banned items to the inmates, may also crop up. The ACP said on the basis of Jail Department letters, six accused were nominated.As per the sources, on May 9, when the police recovered a hookah and tobacco sachets from jail barracks, they had registered a case against Neeraj only, but gangster Nikka Jatana and others were not booked.Now after the video went viral and the ADGP visited the jail, six persons in the hookah party video have been identified by the Jail Department.The five other identified accused are Manvinder Singh, alias Nikka Jatana, facing 16 criminal cases, Bharti Singh, Kewal Krishan, a member of the Rano Sarpanch smuggler gang of Khanna, Maninder Singh, undergoing 10-year jail term in a drug case, and a murder accused Parminder Singh. All these accused were seen in the video smoking hookah and enjoying Punjabi songs and reportedly having liquor as well.Now the Ludhiana police are likely to nominate these accused in the already registered case and a section of the IT Act will also be added as the accused also shared the video on social media.Meanwhile, Balkar Singh, Jail Superintendent, confirmed the development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hookah-party-jail-dept-writes-to-cops-for-action-against-6-inmates-254967
19-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj
||Jagraon killings: 3 days on, no trace of four gangsters||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 18 Three days have been passed but the Ludhiana rural police have failed to trace the whereabouts of the gangster Jaipal and his three aides who shot dead two ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh at New Grain Market in Jagraon here. The Ludhiana police had also carried out an intensive combing operation at over 24 villages near Alamgir till late night but no trace of the gangsters was found. Yesterday, a cash reward was also announced on information regarding the four gangsters involved in the killing — Jaipal Bhullar of Dashmesh Nagar, Ferozepur; Baljinder Singh, alias, Babbi of Mahala Khurd, Moga; Jaspreet Singh Jassi of Kharar and Darshan Singh of Sahauli village, Ludhiana. Rs 10 lakh cash reward was announced on Jaipal, Rs 5 lakh on Jaspreet, and Rs 2 lakh each on Baljinder and Darshan. The day these gangsters had killed the police officials, not only the Ludhiana rural police but the entire Punjab Police has been put on alert. The Organised Control Crime Unit (OCCU), which had last year arrested the brother of Jaipal in a 30-kg gold robbery case in Ludhiana, had also been conducting raids across the state. In the past three days, the police have also rounded up several associates or kin of these gangsters to get any clue but to no avail. Sources said whenever Jaipal commits any crime, he goes to his pre-decided hideouts and stays there for months.Police suspect he must be having advanced weapons. Even the day he killed the ASIs, he reportedly came to collect some advanced weapons. Sources said Jaipal did not use mobile phones and he even stay away from social media due to which police find it difficult to trace him. Notably, on February 17, five robbers had entered the branch of IIFL and took away 30 kg of gold worth Rs 12 crore. It was the OCCU team, led by the then former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, which arrested brother of Jaipal, Amritpal Bhullar. Jaipal was the mastermind of the gold robbery and the Ludhiana police had failed to make any headway in the case then. Had the Ludhiana police acted, gangster Jaipal could also have been nabbed but the SIT formed by the Ludhiana police failed to arrest him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jagraon-killings-3-days-on-no-trace-of-four-gangsters-254968
19-05-2021||Harshraj Singh||Despite opposition, panel asks officials to float tenders to hire pvt firm for recovery||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 18Though SAD and BJP leaders have been raising questions over the Municipal Corporation’s plan to hire a private firm for the recovery of water supply and sewer charges in the city, a committee led by Senior Deputy Mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra has given nod to float tenders to invite interested firms for the task.Malhotra said: “We have made the final decision in today’s meeting that a firm will be hired to conduct the recovery of pending water supply and sewer charges from users. MC officials have been asked to float the tenders for the same.”He said: “The successful firm will have to conduct the recovery of Rs 35 crore without getting any commission. After recovering Rs 35 crore, the firm will start getting 15 per cent commission on the further recovered amount. If it recovers less than Rs 90 crore, 10 per cent penalty would be imposed, as per the proposal.”The MC is yet to recover over Rs 200 crore from those people who have not deposited their water supply and sewer charges, as per sources.Leader of Opposition in the MC House Harbhajan Singh Dang said: “We are against the MC’s proposal to hire a private firm for recovery. We will meet Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and request him to stop the process to float tenders to hire any firm for the task. The MC’s move is totally wrong.”BJP leaders had earlier opposed the MC’s plan of hiring a private firm for the recovery. BJP Ludhiana president Pushpendra Singhal had stated that if a private firm was deployed for the task, such a step of the MC would create a ‘mafia raj’ in the city. Moreover, people were already facing financial problems due to the pandemic, he had stated.Besides, a Congress leader, Parminder Mehta, has also raised questions over the MC’s plan. Mehta said: “Ward-level committees should be formed and the recovery drive must be conducted under the guidance of councillors of all 95 wards. The responsibility of the councillors from all 95 wards must be fixed. If any private firm is deployed, there would be no transparency in its working.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/despite-opposition-panel-asks-officials-to-float-tenders-to-hire-pvt-firm-for-recovery-254969
19-05-2021||Manav Mander||Get vaccinated before planning pregnancy: Doctor to women||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 18Apart from affecting the youth the most, the second wave of Covid has also affected pregnant women. In May alone so far, a total of 50 pregnant women have tested positive for Covid in the district. On an average, daily two to four pregnant women in the district test positive for Covid.Tips for expectant mothersAmidst the rapid surge in cases, it is imperative for pregnant women to follow appropriate Covid behaviour as more number of pregnant women are testing positive for the virus in the second wave is more than the first wave.Ashima Taneja, Professor and Head, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, said it is more important for pregnant women to follow all proposed precautions in the second wave of Covid with the new variant.“Last year, the situation was different and no transmission to the baby was evidenced from Covid-infected mothers. This year, transmission to babies has been witnessed in the form of intra-uterine death with newborns testing positive after delivery,” she said.She added that it was highly recommended to all women to get vaccinated before planning pregnancy as studies on receiving the vaccine during pregnancy and lactation is still under consideration.The doctor said: “Pregnancy alters the body’s immune system and response to viral infections in general. So, pregnant women have to be extra careful and take all necessary precautious.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/get-vaccinated-before-planning-pregnancy-doctor-to-women-254970
19-05-2021||---||Provide free ration, Rs 10K to needy: AAP||Ludhiana, May 18 Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, members of the AAP’s SC wing have sought from the government to provide free ration for two months and an LPG cylinder to needy families. They also demanded that financially weaker people in both urban and rural areas must be compensated. They said the financially weaker people, who suffered due to lockdown, be paid Rs 10,000 each in cash. A delegation of AAP leaders, including Jeevan Singh Sangholwal, Baljinder Singh Chaunta and Aman Chain Singh, have also submitted a memorandum at the DC office yesterday. They demanded that pending wages of labourers working under the MGNREGA should be released and their daily wages should be fixed at minimum Rs 600. The leaders said the government should improve the health infrastructure at government hospitals and more doctors, nurses and other staff should be recruited immediately. The government should provide free vaccination to all people in the state. The government should provide pension to the elderly, widows, and physically challenged as per the Congress party’s poll promise at the earliest, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/provide-free-ration-rs-10k-to-needy-aap-254972
19-05-2021||---||Tenders floated for re-carpeting Ishmeet Singh road||Ludhiana, May 18 The Municipal Corporation has floated tenders to invite bids for the re-carpeting of the main Ishmeet Singh road. A stretch of road from the Dana Mandi railway crossing to Dugri Bridge and up to Pakhowal Road will be re-carpeted. Potholes have appeared on the road. The road passes through three wards 46, 48 and 69. As per the tender documents, the total cost of the project is Rs 2.86 crore, including the cost for road marking with thermoplastic compound and installation of cat eyes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tenders-floated-for-re-carpeting-ishmeet-singh-road-254973
19-05-2021||---||Curfew relaxation for practical exams of Class XI, XII||Ludhiana, May 18 District Magistrate Varinder Kumar Sharma has given relaxation to the schools for conducting practical examinations of Classes XI and XII under the PSEB, CBSE and CISCE. The curfew was earlier extended till May 31. In view of the curfew order, Varinder Kumar Sharma said the exams can be conducted between 8 am and 12 noon and these must be finished before 12 noon. He said the exams cannot be conducted on Saturday and Sunday. For conducting the examination, the schools will have to ensure the following of the guidelines issued by the government for the prevention of Covid-19. The schools have been directed to avoid any kind of gathering. The daily curfew is from Monday to Friday from 12 noon to 5 am. The weekend curfew starts from 12 noon on Friday to 5 am on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/curfew-relaxation-for-practical-exams-of-class-xi-xii-254974
19-05-2021||---||MC to modernise workshop, develop old GT Road green belts||Ludhiana, May 18 Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, MC Commissioner, inspected the civic body’s workshop where vehicles are stationed on Tuesday. After inspecting the workshop, Sabharwal gave instructions to the officials to improve the workshop condition. He said the workshop would be modernised. The MC was also going to purchase new machinery, including road mechanical sweeping machines. Meanwhile, a meeting was also held at the Mayor’s camp office, which was chaired by Mayor Bakar Singh Sandhu, regarding the development and beautification of green belts on the old GT Road from the Jalandhar bypass to Sherpur Chowk. Sabharwal and other officials were also present during the meeting. A fund of Rs 26 crore has already been released by the Central Government to the Municipal Corporation under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) to improve the air quality in the city. Now, the MC is planning to use some amount from the funds on the development of these green belts. During the meeting, the officials have been asked to make the estimate for the development of the green belts. They also discussed the cleaning of the Buddha Darya. Mayor Sandhu has ordered the officials to ensure the cleanliness of the road gullies before the rainy season. The meeting was attended by Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh and other officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-to-modernise-workshop-develop-old-gt-road-green-belts-254975
19-05-2021||ibune News Service
||Motivate people to get tested if experiencing flu-like symptoms: DC||Ludhiana, May 18 To detect and treat Covid patients at the earliest, especially in the rural hinterland witnessing a surge in cases, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Rakesh Aggarwal on Tuesday called up panchayats to motivate people for reporting to doctors without fail in case of flu-like symptoms and get tested for Covid. Addressing panchayat members and others in Malakpur village, the Deputy Commissioner and the Commissioner of Police said the foremost priority was to protect human lives from the pandemic and said panchayat heads and members could do wonders by ensuring sensitisation activities at the grass-roots level and taking the message of contacting doctor immediately on first symptom so that timely treatment could be initiated which would further help save precious lives. They told them to take the services of local religious and social leaders to aware the public about Covid symptoms, including cold, cough, fever, sore throat and body ache. They told people not to take the pandemic lightly and extend fulsome support to the Health Department and the administration by reporting the symptoms to doctors without fail to fight the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/motivate-people-to-get-tested-if-experiencing-flu-like-symptoms-dc-254976
19-05-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Bail plea of man facing black marketing charges dismissed||Raikot, May 18A Jagraon court today dismissed the bail plea of a resident of Akalgarh Sadhar, who is a gas agency owner facing criminal charges of fraud for black marketing of medical oxygen.The accused, Som Nath, was booked by the Sadhar police under Sections 420, 188 and 120B of the IPC; Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act and Section 51 of the National Disaster Management Act on the complaint of Balbir Singh of Toosa village two weeks back.Som Nath was found charging Rs 15,000 for an oxygen cylinder, which is usually sold for Rs 300 approximately.The court disagreed with the counsel of the applicant that recovery of oxygen cylinders had already been made and the accused was no longer needed by the police. Agreeing with the public prosecutor, Jagraon JMIC Simarjit Singh observed that the accused had committed a grave offence and was not entitled for the bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bail-plea-of-man-facing-black-marketing-charges-dismissed-254977
19-05-2021||Ludhiana||Declamation contest results||Online debate competition heldThe NSS unit of SCD Government College organised a state-level debate on ‘Online education is a boon’. NSS convener Prof Geetanjali Pabreja welcomed the chairperson of the college, the principal and the judges. During the competition, students expressed their views on how online education was a necessity during the pandemic. Students were judged on the parameters of speech, vocabulary, relevance and eloquence. TNSWebinar on career guidanceGulzar Group of Institutes organised a career-oriented webinar to provide career guidance and industry expert sessions on the topics relevant to the contexts of today and the future. The keynote speaker for the webinar was Vibha Jain and Amit Jain, owners of a fashion brand. They told students that being interested in something innovative could bring out the best in them, and that potential could later turned into a business. Gulzar Group’s executive director Gurkirat Singh motivated students to become entrepreneurs and job providers. TNSIntellectual property rightsThe research and development cell of Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College organised a webinar on “Intellectual property rights: An overview and its enforcement”. Dr Preeti Khetarpal from the Department of Human Genetics and Molecular, Central University of Punjab, was the resource person for the webinar. She said intellectual property rights were the ideas, inventions and creative expressions based on which there was a public willingness to bestow the status of property. TNSThanksgiving ceremony organisedTo salute and acknowledge the frontline warriors in for their fight against the pandemic, CT University hosted thanksgiving ceremony ‘Abhaar: A salute to frontline warriors’. During the ceremony, a total of 14 police officials of Ludhiana (Rural), including IPS Charanjit Singh, SSP Ludhiana (Rural) among other cops, were honoured by university Chancellor Charanjit S Channi, managing director Manbir Singh and vice-chairman Harpreet Singh. Students also expressed gratitude to frontline workers for keeping residents safe in the fight against the pandemic and pledged to follow guildelines religiously. TNSlecture series on competitive examsThe Department of Extension Education and Communication Management, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), held an online lecture series 2021 for updating students about various concepts related to extension education in order to prepare them for various competitive exams. Dr Shashi K Varma, Professor and head (retd), CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar; and Lt Dr Simple Jain, Assistant Professor, Department of Home Science Extension and Communication Management, SKDUAT, Gujarat, were the keynote speakers for the day. More than 100 students participated in the webinar. Dr Varma delivered a lecture on “Socio-economic and gender analysis”. She discussed the topic in detail, different tool kits required for it and various participatory rural appraisal tools. Dr Jain delivered a lecture on “Experiential learning and training methods”. He explained experiential learning cycle and different training methods that can be used for conducting different types of trainings. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/declamation-contest-results-254978
19-05-2021||---||Infection spirals in Fazilka, but all 4 ventilators shifted to Ludhiana||Praful Chander NagpalFazilka, May 18All four ventilators in Fazilka district have been shifted to Ludhiana despite positive Covid cases rising here. The positive cases in rural areas have outnumbered infections reported in the three towns of the district.Free petrol for govt ambulancesMuktsar: A Reliance filling station on the Jalalabad road on Tuesday unveiled a scheme to offer 50 litre petrol/diesel for free to any government-run ambulance carrying Covid patients till June 30. TNSCivil Surgeon, Fazilka, Dr Parminder Kumar said on the instructions of the higher authorities, the ventilators had been shifted to the Deputy Medical Commissioner’s office in Ludhiana on the plea that there were more cases there. Now, there is no ventilator in the government hospitals of Fazilka to treat the patients.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that during the past one week, 3,580 positive cases had been reported in Fazilka and 93 persons succumbed to the disease.The district is represented by PPCC president Sunil Jakhar and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu happens to be the chairman of the District Grievances Redressal Committee here but most of the Covid patients have been left to fend for themselves.Official sources said presently, there were 4,413 active cases in the district but there was only one level-2 Covid centre at the Jalalabad Civil Hospital which could accommodate only 60 patients. Most of the remaining patients were in home isolation and the serious ones had been shifted to the Faridkot Medical College, which was already overburdened.“A second centre is being set up at the Ramasara hospital in Abohar subdivision, which will start functioning in a couple of days,” claimed Dr Parminder Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/infection-spirals-in-fazilka-but-all-4-ventilators-shifted-to-ludhiana-255090
