20-05-2021||Ludhiana||Online PPT competition held||Webinar on science at khalsa collegeThe Department of Physics, Khalsa College for Women, Sidhwan Khurd, organised an online webinar – “The marvels of science and the limits”. Dr Bir Bikram Singh, Professor & Head, Akal University, Talwandi Sabo, Bathinda, was the resource person. Prof Gagandeep Aulakh, HOD, Physics Department, welcomed the resource person. Principal Rajwinder Kaur Hundal thanked all faculty members and participants for attending the webinar.Lecture on Health & NutritionAn online extension lecture on ‘Making health & nutrition a priority during Covid-19 pandemic’ was organised by the Department of Home Science. Dr Anupama Sandal, professor, Department of Food Science Nutrition and Technology, CSKHPKU, Palampur, was the resource person. Dr Anupama made the students aware about making health and nutrition a priority during Covid-19 pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/online-ppt-competition-held-255737
20-05-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana Improvement Trust chief hails High Court decision||Ludhiana, May 19The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) chairman Raman Balasubramanium has hailed the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on fraudulent allotment of plots to housing cooperative societies in carving out 400-acre Model Town Extension scheme while ruling that FIR lodged 20 years ago in 2001 be taken to its logical conclusion. The HC has given three months time for setting up a special investigation team to complete the probe while also directing the Commissioner of Police to file his report in this regard.Addressing a press conference here today, the chairman of the trust said even though it took two decades to expose the fraud committed by then officials and functionaries of the LIT but in the end ‘truth has prevailed’. He said with the intervention of the HC as many as 58 plots, some already allotted and others in the process, were saved from being misappropriated by unscrupulous persons.“We have put the ongoing process for allotment of 33 alternative plots to the housing cooperative societies on the basis of bogus claims in abeyance, and action on plots already allotted would be taken in accordance with the police report and the HC verdict,” said Balasubramanium.He also made it clear that no one would be allowed to misappropriate plots or properties of the LIT and henceforth criminal cases would be lodged against the guilty persons in cases of any irregularity or illegality found in the allotment of land or property.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-improvement-trust-chief-hails-high-court-decision-255732
20-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Panches vow to assist admn in Covid fight||Raikot/Payal, May 19 Members of various panchayats vowed to assist the district administration to fight against the spread of Covid-19 and to raise awareness among rural masses. An oath was taken in response to  calls made by the Deputy Commissioner, Varinder Kumar Sharma, during his meetings with residents and frontline warriors of Ghaloti, Raqba and other villages of Payal and Dakha segments of Ludhiana district. Vaccination and frequent testing besides following guidelines on sanitisation of hands, wearing double mask and observing social distancing were cited among major preventive tools to fight the surge during the ensuing second phase of Covid.  During his interaction with people at various villages the Deputy Commissioner unequivocally said  Punjabis had been blessed with an indomitable spirit to excel even in hostile conditions. He called upon the people to exhibit the same commitment and spirit by adhering to SOPs on the issue. “It has since been proven that early testing and standard treatment according to set protocol helps to save the lives of the people. It is high time when we should understand that ignoring guidelines and indulging in self-medication can be dangerous for our lives,” said Sharma, cautioning that the second wave had taken the rural areas in its grip. He urged the villagers to keep a close vigil on the unauthorised movement of probable carriers by holding ‘Thikri Pehras’, particularly those having symptoms of cough, cold, fever and  sore throat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/panches-vow-to-assist-admn-in-covid-fight-255733
20-05-2021||Ludhiana||Distribution of free wheat to poor begins||The district administration will distribute free wheat for two months in a single go under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna to 4.54 lakh Smart Card holder families. DC Varinder Kumar Sharma started the drive. He said relief would be given to approximately 17 lakh eligible beneficiaries in the prevailing scenario due to the spread of Covid-19. The DC said in the wake of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had decided to give 5 kg of wheat per beneficiary per month for two months. He said regular monitoring of the entire process would be done so that proper distribution of wheat took place. District Food and Supplies Controller Sukhwinder Singh Gill said food supply teams were formed by the administration to complete the gigantic exercise seamlessly and transparently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/distribution-of-free-wheat-to-poor-begins-255734
20-05-2021||Ludhiana||Observation home inspected||Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority PS Kaleka today inspected the working of the observation home at Shimlapuri. The CJM enquired about the health of the children and facilities being provided to them. He is stated to have passed necessary instructions to the authorities concerned for the betterment of the inmates of the observation home. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/observation-home-inspected-255735
20-05-2021||---||Man held for abduction, bid to rape 13-year-old||Ludhiana, May 19 A 13-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped from her house in Machhiwara Sahib by a man. However, the girl managed to escape from his house. The accused has been identified as Mandeep Singh, a resident of Machhiwara Sahib, near here. The complainant told the Machhiwara police that on the wee hours of May 16, the accused barged into her house and forcibly took her along with him. All her family members were sleeping at the time of the incident. “The accused took me to his house in the village where he tried to rape me. I managed to flee the house by pushing him away. When I reached home, I told my family members about the incident, following which we filed a complaint with the police,” the victim alleged. The victim said the accused had also threatened to kill her if she reveals anything to the police or her family. Investigating officer Inspector Parveen Sharma said after receiving the complaint, the police had registered a case against the accused yesterday. Following which, acting on a tip-off a raid was conducted at the whereabouts of the accused and he was nabbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-for-abduction-bid-to-rape-13-year-old-255719
20-05-2021||---||Illegal colony razed on Lohara Road||Ludhiana, May 19Amid complaints of rampant illegal constructions in the areas falling under Zone C, the MC’s building branch team went to take action against illegal construction and allegedly faced misbehaviour. However, they demolished the illegal construction.Assistant Town Planner (ATP) Satish Malhotra said a woman building inspector had gone to check an illegal construction but the building owner “misbehaved” with her. “After getting information, I reached the spot and took action against the illegal construction. We also got an illegal colony demolished on Lohara Road and checked buildings too.”Malhotra said they had initiated a drive against the illegal constructions in Zone C and action would be taken against the buildings that were being constructed against the building bylaws. “The drive will be intensified against the illegal constructions. No illegal construction will be spared,” said ATP Satish Malhotra.A number of illegal constructions had come up in the areas under Zone C in the past too. Sources said there was high political interference in the working of the MC’s building branch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/illegal-colony-razed-on-lohara-road-255720
20-05-2021||Nitin Jain
||Ludhiana sixth in Punjab in antigen testing, positivity rate 4th lowest||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 19 Ludhiana district has ranked sixth in the rapid antigen testing (RAT) in the state, while the positivity rate reported from such tests in the district was fourth lowest in the state. The data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that Ludhiana conducted 52.4 per cent rapid antigen tests of the total testing done last week between May 9 and 15. This was 8.8 per cent more than 43.6 per cent RAT testing rate of the state. However, the positive cases tested out of the total RAT testing in the district remained 4.1 per cent, which was fourth lowest in the state and almost half the state’s RAT positivity rate of 8 per cent last week. The districts that conducted more RAT testing than Ludhiana included Muktsar with highest 73 per cent antigen tests, followed by Moga 67.7 per cent, Fazilka 60.9 per cent, Bathinda 57.1 per cent and Faridkot 54.1 per cent. Those which remained behind Ludhiana in antigen testing were Sangrur 47.9 per cent, Fatehgarh Sahib 47.4 per cent, Amritsar 46.5, Jalandhar 42.1, Patiala 42, Nawanshahr 39.4, Ferozepur 37.6, Ferozepur 37.6, Kapurthala 33.9, Hoshiarpur 32.2, Gurdaspur 31.3, Mohali 29.6, Pathankot 26.9, Tarn Taran 24.2, Mansa 22.8 and Barnala with lowest 21.4 per cent RAT tests in the state. In the positivity rate, Ropar registered the highest 16.5 per cent antigen positive tests in the state, followed by Mansa 16.4 per cent, Pathankot 15.8 per cent, Bathinda 15.2, Fazilka 14.9, Ferozepur 14.3, Muktsar 14, Barnala 11.8, Faridkot 11.3, Gurdaspur 10.6, Patiala 8.1, Jalandhar 7.4, Kapurthala 7.2, Mohali 7.1, Moga 6.7, Tarn Taran 6.6, Hoshiarpur 6 and Sangrur 4.1 per cent. The districts with lower antigen positivity rate than Ludhiana were Fatehgarh Sahib 3.2 per cent, Nawanshahr 3.1 per cent, and Amritsar 2.7 per cent. However, when it comes to the positivity rate in the RT-PCR tests, Ludhiana stood fifth in the state with 20.6 per cent positive tests, which was 3.6 per cent more than the state’s average of 17 per cent. Mohali topped the state with the highest RT-PCR positivity rate of 29.45 per cent, followed by Bathinda 27.6 per cent, Fazilka 24.5 per cent, Mansa 21.7 per cent and Faridkot 20.6 per cent. The districts with lower RT-PCR positive tests than Ludhiana were Muktsar with 20.4 per cent positivity rate, followed by Amritsar 19.1 per cent, Ferozepur 18.6, Patiala 17.8, Moga and Jalandhar 17.4 each, Ropar 15.1, Pathankot 12.3, Fatehgarh Sahib 11.5, Hoshiarpur 11.1, Sangrur 10.7, Barnala 9, Kapurthala 8.3, Nawanshahr 6.5, Gurdaspur 6.4, and Tarn Taran registered the lowest 6.3 per cent positivity rate in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-sixth-in-punjab-in-antigen-testing-positivity-rate-4th-lowest-255721
20-05-2021||---||27 die of Covid, 731 +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 19Covid-19 claimed the lives of 27 more persons — 15 women and 12 men — belonging to the district during the past 24 hours. Besides, the Health Department confirmed 731 fresh cases in Ludhiana and 98 cases from other districts or states.Out of the 731 confirmed fresh cases, 52 persons came in contact with positive patients, 129 visited OPDs and 367 with influenza-like illness visited Flu Corner. The department is yet to trace the remaining 167 positive patients. Four healthcare workers, six undertrials, cop and four patients with a severe acute respiratory infection tested positive for the virus.Civil Surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia on Wednesday confirmed that 39 persons — 27 from Ludhiana, three from Sangrur, two from Fatehgarh Sahib and one each from Gurdaspur, Faridkot, Chandigarh, Jalandhar, Muktsar, UP and Gujarat —died of the virus.In Ludhiana district, one patient each from Majra Raho, Khanna, Vishnu Puri, Sham Nagar, Model Gram, Khud Mohalla, Madhopuri, Tajpur Road, Samrala Chowk, Pakhowal village, MIG flats, Dhandra Road, Maharana Partap Nagar, Jain Enclave, Subash Nagar, Amarpura, Daba Lohara Road, Haibowal Kalan, Janta Nagar, Bhamina Khurd, Jawahar Nagar Camp, Hargobind Nagar, Rishi Nagar, and Azaad Nagar have lost their lives. Besides, two patients each from BRS Nagar and Shimlapuri died due to the virus. All these persons from Ludhiana district were aged between 44-72 years.A total of 12,02,246 samples have been collected to date, while 15,161 samples were collected today. The total number of confirmed cases in Ludhiana is 78,368, while 10,164 cases belong to other districts or states. According to the department, 1,788 persons of the Ludhiana district and 892 persons from other districts or states died due to the virus here. There are 11,373 active cases in the district. Currently, 55 patients — 30 from Ludhiana and 25 from other places — are on ventilator support.Slight dip in daily cases: DCDeputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday said the collective efforts of all stakeholders in the society and people’s support had started yielding results with Ludhiana witnessing slight dip in daily Covid cases.Speaking to the residents of Ludhiana during weekly Facebook Live session on the official page of the DPRO, the Deputy Commissioner said, “Non-pharmaceutical intervention like curfew, tirelessly functioning by teams of civil and police administration and wholehearted support of people have slowed down the spread of disease but it does not mean we lower down guard.”He said, “We all must keep obeying the Covid protocols till the war against Covid continues and if we all get the Covid jab we will be able to stop the third wave.”He said, “The administration is keeping close vigil on the surge in rural areas and several teams have been visiting the villages daily to monitor the situation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/27-die-of-covid-731-ve-in-ludhiana-255722
20-05-2021||---||Thieves decamp with gold jewellery, Rs 3L from house||Ludhiana, May 19 Despite night curfew and strict vigil by the police, thieves continue to target houses and shops in rural areas of Ludhiana. In the latest incident, thieves committed a major theft at a house in Sidhwan Bet from where they decamped with gold and cash worth lakhs. The owner of the house, Gagandeep Singh, said the incident took place on the intervening night of May 15 and 16. “After having dinner, all family members had gone to sleep in the courtyard. The next morning when we went to a room, we were shocked to see a big hole in a wall. When we checked the almirah, all cash and gold ornaments were missing. Thieves took away Rs 3 lakh and 17 tolas of gold ornaments worth lakhs of rupees,” he said. Gagandeep said a few days ago, he had borrowed money from a relative to pay some old debts which was stolen by the miscreants. He urged the police to nab them as soon as possible. Residents of the village alleged that when night curfew was in place, how could thieves managed to commit such major thefts. They demanded strict police patrolling in their village to prevent such incidents in the future. ASI Rajwinderpal Singh said a case of theft was registered against the thieves and serious efforts were being made to crack the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/thieves-decamp-with-gold-jewellery-rs-3l-from-house-255723
20-05-2021||---||Panel formed to ensure availability of essential drugs for Covid patients||Ludhiana, May 19 In the wake of a few hospitals prescribing Tocilizumab or its alternatives to Covid patients, which is limited in stock despite Itolizumab and Dexamethasone were advised by Punjab Health Adviser Dr KK Talwar, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday constituted a committee of experts to decide and ensure availability of essential drugs for patients. The committee, including Medical Nodal Officer, Covid, Ludhiana, Dr Hatinder Kaur Kaler; Dr Rajesh Mahajan from the DMCH Ludhiana; Dr Rajiv Kundara from SPS Hospital; Dr Anil Luther from CMC Hospital; Dr Shelly from Fortis Hospital; and ZLA Kulwinder Singh, would decide whether a drug is urgently required and from which stockist/ hospital/ chemist it can be provided in case any patient or attendant approaches the administration. The DC said now there was a shortage of other antifungal or essential Covid drugs due to which family members of patients run pillar to post to get the same. He said it had been observed that some big hospitals and stockists/ chemists keep stock of essential drugs but such hospitals offer these drugs only to patients admitted to their institutions. The Deputy Commissioner said the committee would decide on merits, as per medical requirements, about which patient requires which essential drug and from where it was to be sourced. The prescribing doctor would have to inform the committee about the patient’s record to justify the requirement of medicine, whenever summoned by the committee. The ZLA would ensure the presence of stock position with all hospitals/ stockists/ chemists about such drugs. He made it clear that all essential Covid drugs available in Ludhiana are a common resource pool available for all Covid patients admitted to various hospitals of the district. Once any essential drug is allocated by the committee to any particular patient, the stocking hospital/stockist/ chemist would be responsible under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897,  to sell that drug to a particular patient. He said any violation by any hospital/stockist/chemist would be dealt with strictly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/panel-formed-to-ensure-availability-of-essential-drugs-for-covid-patients-255725
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t release grants to Punjab Agricultural University, SC panel tells govt||The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes today issued an order directing the Punjab Government not to release grants/funds to Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, until it implements the reservation policy of the state government.Disclosing this here today, Chairperson of the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes Tajinder Kaur said Dalveer Kumar and others of the PAU SC/BC Employees Welfare Association, PAU Campus, Ludhiana, had complained that Punjab Agricultural University had not implemented Punjab Government’s reservation policy in the university since its inception. She said after that the commission had sought an action taken report from the PAU. In an affidavit the Registrar of PAU, Dr RS Sidhu, said PAU neither comes under the Punjab State SC/BC Reservation Policy 2006 nor Clause 1.1.1. of the UGC Act.Tajinder Kaur said the reservation policy should be implemented in the organisations which receive grants/funds from the Punjab Government/ GoI. Therefore, until the PAU, Ludhiana, implements the reservation policy executed by the state government, the funds/grants should not be released to PAU, Ludhiana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dont-release-grants-to-punjab-agricultural-university-sc-panel-tells-govt-255726
20-05-2021||---||50 shanties demolished near Ludhiana's Chand Cinema||Ludhiana, May 19 The Municipal Corporation on Wednesday demolished over 50 shanties in a green belt area near Chand Cinema here. The action has been taken as the civic body is to develop the green belt area. The MC’s building branch officials claimed that the slum dwellers were earlier allotted flats at Giaspura but they did not move there. Assistant Town Planner (ATP) Mohan Singh said, “We demolished around 50-60 shanties. The slum dwellers were allotted flats by the B&R branch concerned in the past but they did not go to the flats. We had received the orders from the higher authorities to demolish the shanties.” Meanwhile, a former councillor, Parminder Mehta, said, “Before demolishing the shanties at this time of the pandemic, it was the responsibility of the MC to make required arrangements to shift slum dwellers to the flats, if allotted. All the slum dwellers in the city should be rehabilitated in the right manner.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/50-shanties-demolished-near-ludhianas-chand-cinema-255727
20-05-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||21 teachers died so far, assn flays govt for not closing schools||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 19With the death of at least 21 teachers in the state after contracting Covid-19, resentment prevails among the teaching community over not shutting the schools. Adding to their woes, teachers have been told to visit villages door to door to strengthen enrolment in government schools.The teachers demanded that in view of the pandemic, the schools should be closed till June 30 and they should not be asked to come to school.Surinder Kumar Puari, Government School Teachers Union Punjab, state president; Balkar Valtoha, general secretary; Charan Sarabha, patron; Prem Chawla, senior vice-president; Naveen Kumar, finance secretary; Praveen Kumar, press secretary; and Tehal Singh Sarabha have expressed deep sorrow over the death of the teachers and in a press release said the Punjab Government and officials of the Education Department are playing with the lives of teachers. The pandemic has wreaked havoc on the country, especially Punjab. Despite strict guidelines have been issued by the Centre and the state government, the Education Department is urging government teachers to increase the enrolment by holding Zoom meetings.Teachers are being pressured through verbal orders to go to the villages to increase the enrolment due to which about 1 lakh teachers of Punjab are forced to go to schools, houses, streets, mohallas, kilns in villages.On the one hand, the government is appealing for social distancing and on the other hand, the department is pressuring teachers to make social connections.The teachers said due to the pandemic, children are being taught online. The teachers urged the government to immediately close government schools in view of the growing problems at the grassroots and to provide online education to children. There is no point in calling the teachers at school, the organisation demanded from the government to provide assistance of Rs50 lakh to the families of the teachers who have lost their lives due to Covid and declare them as ‘Covid fighter’.Those who fell preyFrom ChandigarhNotably, many more teachers, who were given up to Rs10,000 per month, also lost lives, who are not included in the list.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/21-teachers-died-so-far-assn-flays-govt-for-not-closing-schools-255728
20-05-2021||---||Keep your dogs cool in summer to avoid dehydration, heatstroke: Vet||Ludhiana, May 19 Summer is a difficult season for dogs as high temperatures can be dangerous for them and cause skin infections. Thus, it becomes important to keep your dog cool. Dr CS Randhawa, Head, Department of Veterinary Medicine Department, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), said the most common problems dogs suffer from in summers are heatstroke and dehydration. Even if a dog drinks plenty of water after exercising on a hot day, it can become overheated. Heat stroke is more common in black dogs and dogs with long coat. It is advised to take your dog for a walk during cool hours of the day. Another reason dogs become sick in summers is being left in the car on hot days for a long time. Temperatures can rise dangerously high inside a car in a matter of minutes, even with partially opened windows. “Human beings invariably sweat to cool down. However, a dog cannot sweat and it loses heat by panting. Dogs breathe in through the nose and out through the mouth, directing the air over the mucous membranes of the tongue, throat and trachea to facilitate cooling by evaporation of fluid. The dog also dissipates heat by dilation of the blood vessels in the surface of the skin in the face, ears and feet,” said Dr Randhawa. “Once the signs of heatstroke are detected, there is little time before serious damage, or even death, can occur. Heatstroke is a very serious condition that requires immediate medical attention. Do not take your dog for walk on hot surfaces as it can cause burns on paws,” Dr Randhawa added. Avoid vigorous exercise on warm days, keep your dogs in shady areas when outside and always keep fresh cool water available in shady places were some other suggestions by Dr Randhawa. The doctor added that certain types of dogs are more sensitive to heat. “Use extreme caution when these dogs are exposed to heat. Many dogs enjoy playing and lounging in cool water. Providing them with tub or kiddie pool or running a sprinkler can be a good option,” he said. Dr Randhawa added that summers is also the time when external parasites such as ticks and fleas grow on the skin and can cause further infections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/keep-your-dogs-cool-in-summer-to-avoid-dehydration-heatstroke-vet-255729
20-05-2021||Lovleen Bains
||These volunteers make sure no Covid patient sleeps on an empty stomach||Doraha, May 19 Amid the Covid crisis, a group of five volunteers in Doraha seem to have vowed to help Covid patients and be at their beck and call day and night. The food is cooked and supplied free of cost by Jasmeet Bakshi, owner of Maharaja Queen Food Court. It is then packed by a group of volunteers namely Jandeep Kaushal, Harish Kapila, Sabu Sethi, Ricky Bector, including the owner.  The group had been arranging, preparing and supplying food to those who are corona positive and are unable to prepare on their own. The food is cooked at two different spots, then brought by the volunteers at a common place, packed and delivered in different hospitals. The directives of the government as far as wearing of masks by the volunteers, maintaining social distancing, use of sanitisers etc. is concerned are specifically kept in mind while executing the entire work. “We supply meals to the patients in different hospitals whose list we procure, as a matter of routine, from the hospitals every day in order to have an idea of those who have been added or subtracted. Apart from this, there are homes, where we supply meals all three times a day since they have practically none left non-infected. Such was the condition in some homes that all four members are in bed with none to enquire about their well-being. The medicines too were supplied by us and now after a passage of a week they are feeling much better,” said Jandeep and Harish. It has been observed that the distribution of meals is so systematic that no one is left hungry while at the same time none is allowed to feed the already fed twice. “Our only repayment is the satisfaction we get when we serve those who are in dire need. Coming to their aid at this hour when most of them are alone and stranded it’s our social and moral responsibility to help them as a human being,” shared Bakshi, who said that any Covid patient in need of free food can contact him on his number-8983200001.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/these-volunteers-make-sure-no-covid-patient-sleeps-on-an-empty-stomach-255730
20-05-2021||---||Man nabbed with 129-kg poppy husk||Ludhiana, May 19 The Ludhiana police nabbed a drug smuggler and recovered 129 kg of poppy husk from his possession. The accused has been identified as Sandeep Kumar, alias Sanju, a resident of Kapurthala. One of his aides Sunny, alias Mahi, of Meharban is yet to be arrested in the case. JCP (Rural) Dr Sachin Gupta and Additional DCP Rupinder Kaur Sra conducted a press conference regarding the matter. The JCP said a tip-off was received that the two accused were on the way to deliver a huge consignment of poppy husk in their canter. Afterwards, the Meharban police laid a naka at a strategic point where their vehicle was stopped for checking. Before the canter could stop, one of the occupants, Sunny, managed to give the slip to the police while Sandeep was nabbed. Later, during the search of the vehicle, poppy husk and Rs 80,000 in cash were recovered. The JCP said the police remand of the smuggler would be sought from court for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-nabbed-with-129-kg-poppy-husk-255731
