22-05-2021||Ludhiana||23 dead, 687 +ve in Ludhiana||As many as 687 persons tested positive for Covid, while 23 lost their lives to the virus in the district today. Total positive cases from the district have now reached to 79,839, while 1,837 persons have lost their lives to the virus so far.Those who tested positive include five cops and three healthcare workers. As many as 148 patients are still untraceable. As many as 13 men and 10 woman died of Covid. Out of the total deceased patients, seven belonged to rural areas and remaining were from urban areas.As many as 57 patients were on ventilator support, out of them and 33 belong to Ludhiana. As many as 195 patients are admitted to government hospitals and 931 to private hospitals in Ludhiana district.Meanwhile, the district administration will take stringent action against the hospitals which are taking advantage of the Covid-19 patients by overcharging them for treatment.Deputy Commissioner, Varinder Kumar Sharma said if a hospital or a doctor exploits any Covid patient, the district administration will be forced to take very stringent action against them under the Epidemic Diseases Act. The government is empowered to shut the hospital or take control over the hospital. He said, “Complaints are being received regarding some private hospitals fleecing patients by charging above the rates that have been fixed by the government. If any hospital does so they would not be spared.”State and district-level committees would soon conduct detailed audit of the treatments of Covid-19 patients done by private hospitals. Anyone can file a complaint on 104 helpline number of the Health Department and Deputy Commissioner’s office.A total of 17,011 persons were vaccinated against Covid, out of which 9,511 belong to the 18-44 year category.Initiative for newborn careDeep Hospital here has announced to help Covid positive parents of newborn babies. Under the initiative, if the parents of a newborn are diagnosed with Covid and the baby doesn’t show any symptoms of the infection, the hospital will take care of the infant until the parents recover from the infection. Neonates born in any hospital in any part of the country will be covered under the special initiative. The hospital has so far allocated 15 beds for the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/23-dead-687-ve-in-ludhiana-256675
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana leads Punjab in Covid testing||Stepping up the sustained campaign against the devastating second Covid wave, Ludhiana district has been leading the state in testing the symptomatic and asymptomatic cases, which is a key to trace and treat the deadly virus patients at an early stage.The weekly data compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, revealed that Ludhiana conducted a record 43,333 RT-PCR tests, which were more than double compared to 21,486 tests done by its nearest rival Jalandhar between May 13 and 19.Much ahead of other districtsLudhiana conducts more than double RT-PCR tests and over three times antigen testing compared to nearest rivals Jalandhar and Bathinda, respectively.Similarly, Ludhiana also topped the state in conducting antigen testing by recording 56,390 RAT tests, which were over three times compared to 17,419 antigen tests done by Bathinda, which stood second in the state, between May 13 and 19.In another positive sign, Ludhiana district’s positivity rate from RT-PCR tests remained 12.9 per cent, which was even lower than Jalandhar’s 14.7 per cent and state’s positivity rate of 14.2 per cent between May 13 and 19.In the antigen testing also, the district’s positivity remained 3 per cent, which was over four times less than 12.6 per cent of Bathinda and less than half of state’s positivity rate of 6.4 per cent registered between May 13 and 19.Other districts stood nowhere in front of Ludhiana either in RT-PCR or RAT testing.In RT-PCR testing, Patiala stood third with 17,100 tests at positivity rate of 14.2 per cent between May 13 and 19, followed by Hoshiarpur 16,899 at 9.5 per cent, Amritsar 16,054 at 15.7 per cent, Mohali 15,893 at 28.7 per cent, Gurdaspur 14,184 at 5.9 per cent, Pathankot 12,958 at 13.1 per cent, Kapurthala 11,989 at 6.3 per cent, Mansa 11,149 at 13.5 per cent, Sangrur 10,765 at 10.1 per cent, Bathinda 9,756 at highest positivity rate of 28.93 per cent, Muktsar 9,509 at 14.7 per cent, Nawanshahr 8,064 at 23.1 per cent, Fazilka 7,378 at 5.7 per cent, Ropar 6,750 at 14 per cent, Tarn Taran 5,511 at 5.6 per cent, Faridkot 5,218 at 16.8 per cent, Fatehgarh Sahib 5,075 at 13.2 per cent, Barnala 3,954 at 10.3 per cent, Ferozepur 3,458 at 27 per cent and Moga conducted the minimum 2,122 tests at a comparatively high positivity rate of 18.2 per cent.In antigen testing, Amritsar ranked third in the state with 14,291 tests at 1.8 per cent positivity rate, followed by Fazilka 14,176 at 9.9 per cent, Jalandhar 13,953 at 7 per cent, Sangrur 13,627 at 3.7 per cent, Patiala 12,564 at 7.2 per cent, Muktsar 11,643 at 12.5 per cent, Gurdaspur 7,227 at 8.1 per cent, Faridkot 6,880 at 8.2 per cent, Hoshiarpur 6,729 at 6.4 per cent, Mohali 6,726 at 5.4 per cent, Kapurthala 6,390 at 7.1 per cent, Fatehgarh Sahib 5,174 at 3.1 per cent, Moga 4,999 at 6.2 per cent, Nawanshahr 4,576 at 3 per cent, Pathankot 4,208 at 9.7 per cent, Ferozepur 3,323 at highest positivity rate of 13.6 per cent, Mansa 2,344 at 11.4 per cent, Tarn Taran 1,813 at 8.5 per cent, Barnala 1,703 at 6.5 per cent and Ropar conducted the lowest 1,482 RAT tests at a high positivity rate of 11 per cent between May 13 and 19.“The districts have been asked to ramp up the testing and tracing drives under the T3 strategy to test, trace and treat the Covid patients at an early stage. The more the testing, the more symptomatic and asymptomatic patients traced and treated to check the spread of the deadly virus,” said Hussan Lal, Principal Health Secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-leads-punjab-in-covid-testing-256676
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||Pay relief to Covid victims on Delhi pattern, says AAP||Local AAP leaders have demanded that the state government should also compensate Covid-19 victims on the pattern of the Delhi Government.While addressing a press meet, AAP leaders Suresh Goyal and Ahbaab Singh Grewal alleged that the poor response of the state government towards the pandemic had led to unnecessary loss of life and caused a lot of suffering to people of the state.AAP Punjab spokesperson Ahbaab Singh Grewal said: “Though the state government had failed in its duty to provide relief, it should now at least announce a care package for those who have lost their loved ones to Covid. The package should be on the lines of the one announced by the Delhi Government, led by Arvind Kejriwal.”AAP women wing leader Rajinderpal Kaur Chinna was among others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pay-relief-to-covid-victims-on-delhi-pattern-says-aap-256677
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||Woman held with opium, heroin||The Focal Point police nabbed a woman and recovered 1.10 kg of opium, 30 gm of heroin and Rs 9,120 drug money from her. She has been identified as Narinder Kaur of Mann Singh Nagar, here.ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sra in a statement issued said the woman was a wife of transporter Surinder Singh and the couple had been into the illicit trade from a long time.Surinder, who is yet to be arrested, owns three trucks and he used to visit Rajasthan and MP from where he used to bring opium. The ADCP said once the husband of the woman was arrested, the entire supply line could be busted and main suppliers of opium could also be arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-held-with-opium-heroin-256678
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||Killing of ASIs in Jagraon: Gangster’s wife among six nabbed||In the ongoing probe into the killing of two ASIs, Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh, in Jagraon, the Ludhiana (Rural) police have arrested six persons, including the wife of one of the gangsters, Darshan Singh, of Salauli village here.The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh Lucky of Moga, his wife Ramandeep Kaur, Gagandeep Singh Nanna of Salauli, Jaspreet Singh of Jagraon, Nanak Chand of Salauli and Satpal Kaur, wife of gangster Darshan.Guns, cartridges seizedLudhiana (Rural) SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal said 180 cartridges, four magazines and a telescope were recovered from Satpal Kaur, 20 cartridges from Jaspreet, 43 cartridges from Nanak Chand, .12-bore gun along with 16 cartridges from Gagandeep, 20 cartridges along with .12-bore gun, a Swift car, 26 registration certificates (RCs) of various vehicles from Gurpreet and three RCs from Ramandeep Kaur.Ludhiana (rural) SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal said 180 live cartridges, four magazines and a telescope were recovered from Satpal Kaur, 20 live cartridges from Jaspreet, 43 live cartridges from Nanak Chand, .12 bore gun along with 16 cartridges from Gagandeep, 20 cartridges along with .12 bore gun, a Swift car, 26 Registration Certificates (RCs) of various vehicles from Gurpreet and three RCs from Ramandeep Kaur.The SSP said these persons used to help the Jaipal group either by keeping their weapons safe at some secret places or by keeping them in loop regarding police activities.The recovered weapons are those which Jaipal and his gang had kept after commiting the crime.“We suspect thgese weapons were used by gangsters in various crimes and these persons were helping gangsters in the crimes. Their interrogation can give us clue about whereabouts of gangster Jaipal and the three others involved in the crime, “SSP said.Snatched weapon might be used in killingsSSP Charanjit Singh Sohal said a few days before the killing of the two ASIs in Jagraon, Jaipal reportedly had a scuffle at a naka in Doraha, Ludhiana, and he had also snatched a 9 mm weapon from a policeman. Since the 9 mm weapon, which only the police posses, was used in the crime, it is possible that Jaipal used the weapon to kill the policemen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/killing-of-asis-in-jagraon-gangsters-wife-among-six-nabbed-256679
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||30 black fungus cases in Ludhiana so far||After the state government declared mucormycosis (black fungus) as a notifiable disease, the district has confirmed its 30 cases so far.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the district had received 30 cases of black fungus so far.He said the cases of black fungus were reported in Covid survivors/patients due to irrational use of steroids or poor oro-nasal hygiene in hospitalised patients and use of same mask for prolonged periods was also becoming a cause for mucormycosis.“People should not indulge in self-medication and take medicine only after consulting a doctor. It is advisable to use oxygen cylinder only under expert advice,” the DC said.Dr Navdeep Kaur Boparai, an ENT expert at Ivy Hospital, said the second wave of Covid had been worse than the first and it had led to increase in the usage of steroid, which not only worsens the sugar control but also increases the risk of developing mucormycosis.Dr Navdeep said the infection spreads along vascular and neuronal structures and infiltrates into the walls of blood vessels. It could erode bone through the walls of the sinus and could spread into the orbit and the retro-orbital area, thereby extending into the brain.All cases of post Covid-19 infection with such symptoms should be subjected to imaging to confirm sinus involvement and beyond. The prognosis of mucormycosis might improve with rapid diagnosis, early management, including combined antifungal drugs, aggressive surgical interventions and reversal of underlying risk factors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/30-black-fungus-cases-in-ludhiana-so-far-256681
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||Seize water pumps near dumping site: NGT||As the MC’s main garbage dumping site pollutes groundwater, a National Green Tribunal (NGT) panel has given directions to the authorities concerned that all the water pumps in the ambit of 2 km from the dumping site be seized and required alternative arrangement be made to ensure safe drinking water supply to the residents.The water samples collected from dump site areas have failed tests and found not safe for consumption. A large number of people living near the dumping site are dependent on groundwater.A huge amount of waste has collected at the main dumping site as the MC failed to ensure processing of the waste. After rain, harmful chemicals diffuse slowly into the earth at the dumping site and contaminate the underground water, according to information.The panel has also given directions to the departments concerned to take action to stop building new colonies in the area as the groundwater is contaminated and harmful for the health of people. Sources said a few illegal colonies have come up near the dumping site.An online meeting of the NGT committee, headed by Justice Jasbir Singh, was conducted today. Environmentalist-cum-member of the NGT committee Balbir Singh Seechewal, PPCB and MC officials also attended the meeting.According to information, the MC has failed to achieve the given targets regarding solid waste management. The NGT panel, headed by Justice Jasbir Singh, has given directions to the PPCB to calculate environment compensation to be imposed on the MC.An official said, “The MC has not achieved the target of source segregation of waste. The MC’s waste processing plant is not functioning. The MC has been asked to deposit Rs 5 lakh bank guarantee for not processing the wet waste. The MC has been asked to take required steps to ensure proper processing of the waste.”“The civic body has also been directed to ensure management of construction and demolition waste within three months, otherwise pay an environmental compensation. Besides, the civic body has been directed to deposit a bank guarantee of Rs 5 lakh and ensure treatment of legacy waste at its main garbage dump within six months,” the official said.Chief Engineer, PPCB, Gulshan Rai said the NGT panel had given directions to the authorities concerned to take a decision whether the dairies were to be shifted outside the MC limit and if the dairies were not to be shifted, the process to set up effluent treatment plants should be started. He said the MC had been asked to make alternative arrangement to supply safe drinking water to residents in the ambit of 2 km from the main dumping site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seize-water-pumps-near-dumping-site-ngt-256682
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||Now, shops, pvt offices can open till 1 pm from May 24||The District Magistrate has given some relaxations in curfew from May 24. As per the fresh order, shops, private offices and private institutions can be opened from 5 am to 1 pm from Monday to Friday. Earlier, these were allowed to open till 12 noon.Dine-in is not allowed in restaurants, dhabas, and other eateries. However, food can be taken away till 1 pm. Besides, the District Magistrate has allowed home delivery of cooked food till 8 pm. Food delivery persons need to carry a curfew pass. If any eatery or shop found violating the rules, it would be shut down till the curfew is underway.Moreover, e-commerce, courier companies and the Department of Post would be allowed to deliver parcels by 8 pm. Employees must need a curfew pass for delivering the goods.Notably, the curfew was earlier extended till May 31. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said the weekend curfew would be from Friday 1 pm till Monday 5 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/now-shops-pvt-offices-can-open-till-1-pm-from-may-24-256683
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana vet university teachers suspend OPD services||The Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University Teachers’ Association (GADVASUTA) suspended OPD services today from 10 am to 12 noon to protest the FIR registered against a GADVASU professor and his team.The case pertains to the death of a dog that was brought for treatment at GADVASU. The complaint has been filed by a resident of Shahpur Kalan, Sangrur.GADVASUTA president Dr Ashwani Kumar said as many as 100 to 150 cases from the state and adjoining states were treated daily in the institute, and clinicians had been working round the clock to provide the best services even during the pandemic and lockdown.The teachers wore black badges in protest. Dr Kumar also apologised for any inconvenience caused to livestock and pet owners due to the protest.Dr Kumar said: “If the false FIR registered against the GADVASU professor is not quashed immediately, then the GADVASUTA will intensify their agitation. We have also planned to suspend OPD services on Saturday.”The case has caused a wave of resentment in the veterinary fraternity throughout the state.Dr Sarabjit Singh Randhawa, president, Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association (PSVOA), expressed his solidarity with the GADVASU faculty and the professor against whom the FIR has been registered.He said if the FIR was not withdrawn, the veterinarians would suspend services across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-vet-university-teachers-suspend-opd-services-256685
22-05-2021||Lovleen BainsDoraha||Garbage piles up in Doraha as sanitary staff continue strike||In what could lead to a health hazard, mounds of garbage continue to pile up in Doraha as sanitation workers’ protest against the non-fulfilment of their demand of regularisation of services entered ninth day today.One of the protesters said, “Subsequent governments have failed to address our demand. We have spent years picking garbage without any benefits in return. Even the existing government gave assurances but to no avail. We have not got our due despite working as frontline workers amid the Covid crisis.”“There is a total indifference on the part of the government for sanitary workers. No one can understand the kind of risk we expose ourselves to, when we lift garbage and all kinds of waste at a time when hygiene, cleanliness and sanitation is given top priority worldwide,” he added.Vishnu Dutt Sharma, state president, Chief Sanitary Inspectors and Sanitary Inspectors Union of Municipal Councils of Punjab, said sanitary inspectors, sanitary workers and safai karamcharis have always been on the forefront to give a tough fight to the virus by engaging in regular cleanliness and sanitisation drives.“We have been doing our duty sincerely even when we know that it can prove fatal for us. Without adequate monetary support and medical assistance, we are helpless. If any of us gets infected, we have no means to pay for the medical expenses,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/garbage-piles-up-in-doraha-as-sanitary-staff-continue-strike-256686
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||Eateries welcome relaxation in home delivery timings||The hospitality industry has taken a massive hit due to the ongoing global pandemic. However, hoteliers and restaurant owners have heaved a sigh of relief with the latest orders issued by the district administration allowing home delivery of food items till 8 pm. As per the earlier orders, none was allowed to deliver food after 12 pm.The hospitality industry had expressed concern over the migration of workers in the absence of adequate work and demanded relaxation in curfew orders so that the labour exodus could be stopped.Talking to Ludhiana Tribune, Bhupinder Basant, senior vice-chairman, Punjab State Traders’ Board, said the hotel/restaurant industry was too worried as the labour had started moving back to their native places. “It was extremely important to hold back the labour and we were demanding it for a long time. The new orders will certainly provide a respite to the industry, already reeling under recession,” said Basant.Voicing similar views, another dhaba owner on Pakhowal Road, “In dhabas, the work usually starts at 10 am and how could we deliver just till 12 pm? We had stopped taking the deliveries but now till 8 pm, home delivery is allowed. We are again starting the home delivery from Monday onwards,” said the dhaba owner.The new orders regarding shops/home deliveries will be implemented from May 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/eateries-welcome-relaxation-in-home-delivery-timings-256687
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||Senior Vets Assn flays case against GADVASU prof||The Senior Vets Association today strongly condemned the registration of the alleged “false” FIR against a senior professor of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU).During an emergency meeting held here today, Dr Gurinder Singh Walia, former joint director of animal husbandry and member of the Punjab State Veterinary Council, said the case was registered without any logic at the instance of a senior officer of the state government.He urged the Chief Minister to intervene in the matter so that the veterinary fraternity was not demoralised and terrorised by those in power.As many as 30,000 cases from across the state and north India were brought for treatment at GADVASU, he added.Dr Walia lamented that use of brute power by distorting facts was highly condemnable, especially when a senior professor and his team was diligently performing their duty to treat the animals referred to the university vet hospital. He said restraint of dogs was the moral duty of the owner.Prominent among others present at the meeting were Dr Bimal Kumar Sharma, joint director-cum-incharge, Veterinary Polytechnic; Dr Nitin Kumar, Dr Nirmaljit Mahal and Dr Rajinder Kumar Vasdev, all retired deputy directors, Animal Husbandry Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/senior-vets-assn-flays-case-against-gadvasu-prof-256688
22-05-2021||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana||Additional surcharge for open-access industrial consumers marginally reduced||In accordance with the final orders made by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) on the petition filed by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited in regard to additional surcharge payable by ‘open-access’ (OA) consumers (large industrial units), the additional surcharge payable for the period April 1 to September 30, 2021, has been marginally reduced.As per the commercial circular issued by the PSPCL Chief Engineer/Commercial, the full OA consumers and partial OA consumers will pay an additional surcharge of Rs 1.16 per kWh for availing OA beyond the contract demand maintained with the distribution licensee while the partial OA consumers will be charged at the rate of Rs 0.83 per kWh for availing OA upto the contract demand maintained with the distribution licensee (PSPCL).Pending issuance of final orders on the petition by the PSERC, the PSPCL had earlier laid down that the OA consumers would continue to pay additional surcharge provisionally beyond March 31, 2021, at the then existing rates of Rs 1.23 and Rs 0.86 per kWh for OA beyond the contract demand and within the contract demand, respectively.According to the PSPCL circular, additional surcharge will be levied on the consumers situated within the area of supply of the PSPCL, on the actual open access power brought by them from the sources other than the PSPCL subject to the condition that the contracted capacity of the PSPCL continued to remain stranded during the period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/additional-surcharge-for-open-access-industrial-consumers-marginally-reduced-256690
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||Khanna ISKCON serves free meals to Covid patients, families||The ISKCON festival committee, Khanna, is gaining public praise for serving free food to Covid patients and their family members.The food is being prepared at ISKCON Publicity Centre, Khanna, under the supervision of organisation members.Around 150 thalis are being delivered daily to people. The main thing about the group is that all members are from various professions such as doctors, businessmen, government employees etc. From almost one week this service is going on where food is being delivered not only to people in home isolation but also in hospitals.Pawan Sachdeva, chairman, ISKCON festival committee, Khanna, said in many cases the female member or the entire family is infected from Covid and they require home-cooked food. “We decided to serve food to Covid patients and their families who are in need and cannot cook food at their own. Daily we have been serving food to 150 persons. We will continue this initiative in future also,” they added.General secretary Harwinder Shantu and press secretary Harish Gupta said whosoever requires food can contact at numbers 9780022316 and 9872846103 and they will supply hygienic and home-cooked food to them for free.The chairman Sachdeva said the food is nothing short of prasad which is prepared by members with full dedication to do something for the mankind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/khanna-iskcon-serves-free-meals-to-covid-patients-families-256691
22-05-2021||Our CorrespondentLudhiana||Unscrupulous developers continue to woo buyers to invest in illegal colonies in Ludhiana||Despite the mechanism put in place to curb the development of illegal colonies and invoking penal provisions of relevant acts against developers of the colonies by GLADA, these are proliferating across the city, with developers going all out to put their catchy advertisements on print, electronic and social media to woo gullible buyers to invest in their unlicensed and illegal colonies.Though the state government had introduced a policy for the regularisation of illegal colonies in 2013, which was repeatedly extended till January 2020, but the policy failed to serve its desired purpose and when it ultimately lapsed, an estimated 2,000 illegal colonies still existed in the city.Concerned over the manner in which unscrupulous developers were cheating the public and wooing them to invest in illegal colonies with no promise of even basic amenities, city-based social activist Rachpal Singh Gabria has filed a complaint with the Chief Minister to ramp up regulatory and enforcement action against developers of unlicensed colonies.He said, “Owners of agricultural land in Jaspal Bangar, Lohara, Giaspura, Dhandra and many other villages in surrounding areas were carving out residential plots, shops and commercial sites without any license or change of land use (CLU).Properties in such illegal colonies were being aggressively advertised on various media with promises of amenities such as water supply, sewerage and electricity connections, which obviously could not be made available to illegal colonies under the prevalent laws.”The complaint said the development of such colonies in Jaspal Bangar village and a few more villages were not an exception. “Almost on the entire peripheral areas around the city and also within the city limits, illegal colonies were mushrooming without any fear of the law or action by regulatory bodies (GLADA or MC),” the complaint read.“Most colonies under development at Jaspal Bangar village fall in the ‘industrial’ (i) zone in the approved master plan of the city,” he added.Gabria demanded strict action against promoters for violation of the provisions of the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act, 1995, and called for directions to the competent authority (GLADA and MC) to strengthen their regulatory and enforcement mechanism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/unscrupulous-developers-continue-to-woo-buyers-to-invest-in-illegal-colonies-in-ludhiana-256693
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||Webinar on stress management||Poster-making competitionStudents of Class VI to VIII of Shri OP Gupta SDP Model Senior Secondary School participated in an online on-the-spot poster-making competition on traffic rules. The aim of the competition was to instil in students the habit of following traffic rules. TNSsdp senior secondary schoolSDP Senior Secondary School organised an poster-making activity on traffic rules. Online lectures on the need and importance of following traffic rules were also conducted. As many as 25 students participated in the competition. Gourav stood first, followed by Shivam and Aditya. TNSRhyme recitation competitionBCM Kindergarten, Chandigarh Road, organised a rhyme recitation competition for students of LKG. Tiny tots recited rhymes on the nature, ‘save water’, ‘save Earth’, ‘say no to junk food’ among other topics. Headmistress Ritu Syal applauded the performance of the participants and encouraged them to actively participate in such competitions. Principal DP Guleria said the competition was organised to strengthen rhyme recitation of the kindergartners. TNSClay-moulding activityDCM Presidency School, elementary campus, conducted an online clay-moulding contest for the students of Prep II, with the aim to help students convey their feelings and reduce stress. During the activity, tiny tots made various shapes and objects such as fish, roses, aeroplane, flowers, fruits, etc. Teachers said playing and crafting with clay helped children learn basic shapes and acquire moulding skills. TNSGreen Land holds plantation driveGreen Land Convent School, Civil City, organised a plantation drive at school premises with the help of NGO Hands with Beings. The NGO has been started by Agarvansh Gupta, a student of Class X at the school. Praising the work being done by the NGO, Principal Ritu Malhotra said vitality of nature was the medium of corona liberation. TNSSkill activity organisedTo unleash the creative side of kindergartners, BCM Kindergarten, Chandigarh Road, organised an ‘artsy-crafty’ skills-based activities. The tiny tots prepared chickens with the help of cotton and colours. LKG students exhibited their skills by making ice-cream cones while the students of showcased their skills by preparing mushroom with the help of colourful paper. TNSAnti-terrorism Day observedNational Anti-Terrorism Day and National Endangered Species Day was observed by Green Land Senior Secondary Public School to sensitise students about the heinous consequences of terrorist activities, and to learn about the endangered species and the ways to protect them. Students of Class VII to VIII actively participated in Hindi poetry-recitation activity, in which they recited poems on Anti-Terrorism Day and National Endangered Species Day. TNSGreen Land Convent School, DugriA virtual poetry-writing competition was organised by Green Land Convent School, Dugri, on the occasion of Anti-Terrorism Day with the objective to wean away the youth from terrorism and the cult of violence by highlighting the sufferings of common people. The purpose of celebrating this day was to spread the message of peace, humanity, unity, and harmony among students, and to make them aware of the anti-social acts of terrorism. Student of Class VIII to X participated in the activity. TNSCollege NotesBajaj College excels in BBA resultsLudhiana: Students of Bajaj College brought laurels to the college by performing well in BBA examinations, results of which were declared by Panjab University, Chandigarh. In BBA Semester-V, Harneet Kaur clinched the top position in the college by scoring 83 per cent, followed by Malika with 80.33 per cent and Palak Arora with 79.33 per cent. In BBA Semester-III, Akash Deep bagged the first position in the college with 83.64 per cent, Ishan Verma stood second by scoring 80.36 per cent while Manik Gosian came third with 80 per cent. In BCA Semester-III examinations, Anjal secured first position with 84.26 per cent, followed by Rajveer Kaur with 79.73 per cent and Sunny Kumar with 77.86 per cent. In BCom Semester-III exams, Ankita bagged the first position in the college with 86.83 per cent, followed by Rijul and Pulak with 86 per cent and 85.67 per cent, respectively. TNSWebinar on responsive architectureThe technical activity committee of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, in collaboration with ASSOCHAM GEM, organised a webinar on climate-responsive architecture. Shubhrata Kumar from ASSOCHAM said we were living in an age where climate had become unpredictable and the habitat needed to be responsive to the climate. Architect Charanjit Singh Shah expressed concern on the fact that new architects were just copying western designs and making buildings with a lot of glass. TNSSession on shaping mindSri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management organised an interactive session under ‘Shape the mind programme’ for the students of BCom and BBA. Dr Vikas Arora, director, Sunshine Group of Institutions, Gujarat, talked on the theme ‘Art of public speaking’. Principal Dr Ajay Sharma welcomed the resource person. The speaker shared various tips on the theme based on his experiences. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/webinar-on-stress-management-256701
22-05-2021||Ludhiana||‘Trust deficit’ hampers drive in villages||Though the government has launched Mission Fateh 2.0 focusing on the rural population with an aim to conduct sampling/ testing on large scale, the trust deficit between villagers and health officials is hampering the process.To make things worse, every village is not equipped with adequate facilities and even the department has failed to arrange the required number of camps on their doorstep.24-hr control roomJoginder Singh from Lalton Kalan village said there was no dispensary in their village and they were forced to go to the neighbouring village for any health-related issue. “Around 60-70 people have tested positive in our village and five have even died. There is no testing facility in the village and a camp was held after many people tested positive. People are still reluctant and are not coming forward to get tested,” he said.Riyasat Ali from Ramgarh village in Jagraon defeated Covid in April 2020. On vaccination, he said: “I am not suffering from any disease. Why should I get vaccinated?”Paramjeet Singh from Bundli village near Samrala said trust factor was important and played a major role in rural areas. “It is very difficult to change the mindset of villagers who have lost faith in the government. They are under the impression that whoever goes to the hospital doesn’t come back as many died after being admitted to hospital in our village. They avoid getting tested. There is no dispensary in our village and people have to go to Ghalewal village for any treatment,” he said.He said to get tested, villagers had to go to Samrala. A vaccination camp was held 15 days ago and only 150 doses were administered as the department ran out of stock. “When some people mustered courage to get the jab, the camp was called off,” he said.Takarwal village sarpanch Amarjit Singh said they were not holding any “tikri pehras”. A vaccination camp was held for five days and now the next camp is awaited. “People are terrified of getting tested and the after-situation in case they test positive,” he said.Meanwhile, the district administration today set up a 24-hour Covid control room in the Government Girls’ College, Bharat Nagar Chowk, here and started an exclusive helpline 0161-2403111 for villagers.Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said a team of doctors, counsellors, teachers and trained youths had been deputed to run the war room. “The administration needs the active support of the public to conquer the deadly second wave,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/trust-deficit-hampers-drive-in-villages-256548
