24-05-2021||Restructure||Ramp up vax production, ensure even distribution||To deal with the shortage of vaccines, it is important that we take a balanced diet and practise yoga to keep our immunity system strong to fight the virus. Until the problem of shortage of vaccine is not dealt with, it is the duty of the local and state Health Department to provide nutrient and vitamin-enriched food to the needy people. There is an urgent need to aware people about the benefits of getting vaccinated. In order to complete the need of vaccines, production of vaccines also need to be increased so that people who have not even received the first jab, can get vaccinated to build herd immunity.Simranjeet kaurIncrease vaccination camps at every levelThe number of vaccination camps must be increased and doses should be distributed evenly so that areas where less people have been vaccinated, can also come forward to receive their jabs. It is also important that the second dose of the vaccination can be delayed for sometime so that people who have not got the first jab can receive one to protect themselves from the severity of the virus.Amarpreet KaurManagement of vaccine distribution vitalKeeping in view the large population of our country, it is not easy to get everyone vaccinated anytime soon. But vaccine management can be practised to make sure that the problem of shortage of vaccine is dealt with. Management of collection and distribution of vaccines needs to make on a priority basis. The collection of vaccines ought to be done in one common pool under the guidance of one committee and only this committee should make distribution norms for the same. It is also important that people who are most vulnerable to the virus must get vaccinated as soon as possible.JBS NandaMake vaccine affordableThe shortage of vaccine in the country is a serious problem right now and is affecting the citizens to a great extent. The problem needs to be sorted as soon as possible. To overcome these problems, it is essential to acknowledge the intangible value of vaccination. Hospitals should work directly with Serum Institute of India to procure their supplies of vaccine.Varun ChauhanWidening gap between two doses good decisionThe problem of shortage of vaccine in the country has increased after the Centre allowed vaccination to people in the age group of 18-44. To check this shortage, a direct approach is to increase local production of the vaccines. At present, such an immediate increase in production of vaccine is limited as it requires developing further infrastructure and more time lag between production and use. However, the country must ensure more production of vaccine locally by giving licences to new and capable units. All efforts must be made so that the country is self-sufficient in vaccinating all its citizens. The import of vaccine from abroad at this stage is also limited. As an alternative, the Centre’s decision to increase the gap between the first and the second dose is also a step in the right direction. This will allow more and more people to get their first jab.Gautam DevGet vulnerable groups vaccinated firstAs far as the shortage of the vaccine is concerned, the administration is doing its best to procure as many doses so that more and more people can get vaccinated. Sputnik V has also arrived in the country. It is not the responsibility of residents to register themselves for vaccination. It is also important that people shed all inhibitions and get their elders vaccinated first.Dr Sunil ChopraDistribute vaccine doses evenly to centresGovernment must open more vaccination centres and distribute doses evenly so that people at village levels can also receive their first jab. After the announcement of vaccination to people above the age of 18, there is a huge rush outside the centres but there are still many people above the age of 45, who are still waiting for their second dose. It is important to vaccinate the vulnerable groups first. The local government must demand for more doses. Doses should be distributed evenly so that if there are more number of vulnerable people living in an area, they can be vaccinated first. People should not create panic and must have patience.Farzana KhanNeed to increase vaccine productionWhen the Covid-19 pandemic began spreading, India, like most other countries, was left scrambling for protective gear and medical equipment to manage the crisis. As the world prepares itself for the launch of vaccines that are expected to bring the pandemic to an end, India may be better prepared at least on one count. As the world’s leading vaccine manufacturer, India may have better access to vaccines than many other parts of the developing world. As per reports only 3 per cent people of the total population are fully vaccinated till know. Moreover, this is not sure that they received original vaccines or not, as the hospitals are using fake vaccines which don’t have any benefit.Akshar KumarPlan vaccination for age groups judiciouslyThere must be proper planning for vaccination. The government should first cover one age group and when that group has been vaccinated, the turn of next group should come. It is also important that production of vaccines be doubled and more licences be given for more production. India is the second-highest populous country in the world and vaccinated every citizen will take a lot of time.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiBoost productionNow that more and more people are coming forward to get vaccinated, a shortage in the country is being reported. There is no doubt that doubt manufacturing of vaccines is being done at a fast pace, but keeping in mind the population of the country, the pace is slow. Other countries are also exporting vaccines to India. The government should increase the production of vaccine so that more people can receive their first dose of the vaccine.Harshita khullarApprove licence to more companies to make vaccineOne of the reasons behind shortage of vaccine is that the Centre has approved only two companies for producing vaccine. The government should expand the licence to more trusted companies to scale up production to meet vaccine needs. The government also needs to import more vaccine from other developed countries to deal with the shortage.Mehakpreet KaurNo second dose available for vulnerable groupsOwing to the shortage of vaccine, people aged above 45 have also not been able to get their second dose of the vaccine. The government should give licences to more companies to manufacture vaccines so that all citizens can get vaccinated in time to develop herd immunity.Navjot SinghTake action against black marketeersThere must be regular inspection on black marketeering of Covid drugs and vaccines. So far, no news of black marketeering of vaccines has come forward and it should be ensured that people who indulge in this malpractice are punished.Yashika ThakurHalt export of vaccinesLudhiana city is facing an acute shortage of vaccines. Vaccine is now provided to the age group of 18-44 but the remaining people, who are above the age of 45, are still left behind for the second dose, and some even first. The government must ensure proper supply of vaccines on a timely basis. Export of vaccines right now must be strictly prohibited. The government should appoint vigilant committee for checking black marketing of vaccines. Culprits should be strictly punished. Priority must be given to the higher age groups. There must be a proper grievance redressal mechanism to solve the problems of general public.Ritu PriyaLet vulnerable groups get vaccinated firstThe process of vaccination needs to be streamlined throughout the country. There should be a regular supply to vaccination centres, even if the doses are less in number. Priority ought to be given to the age groups of 45 plus as they are more vulnerable ones. There is also patience required on the part of people aged between 18 and 44 to get vaccinate. We should not get anxious as it always leads to chaos. The fight against the virus cannot be won if we don’t stand together.Bir Devinder Singh BediRope in pvt players to boost vax productionThough the process of vaccination had begun and many people are getting it too, there is a huge shortage in vaccination for the people between 18 and 44 years. The government should frame new policies and distribution should be done on the needs of each state. The Centre should give the authority to state government for the production of vaccination in the respective states. More private companies can also be roped in to manufacture vaccines.Gurleen KaurVaccinate registered beneficiaries firstThe first thing the government should do is to increase vaccination production as much as it possible. Exporting of vaccines is also a reason behind its shortage. People are already facing a lot of problems during the pandemic but getting vaccinated should not be one of them. Registered candidates must be given priority over unregistered candidates. Duplicacy of vaccines should also be kept in check.Shine RawalOrganise camps for different age groups separatelyThe following measures can be taken to increase vaccination rate. They include organising camps in various areas of the district for different age groups separately. Vaccination centres information should be posted at various social media platform and print media to increase awareness about the vaccine. The government can appoint volunteer staff so that more camps can be organised and more people can be vaccinated.Rajat KapoorInvolve NGOs in campaignLocal and state governments should allow NGOs to organise vaccination camps at large scales. Earlier, many NGOs were organising vaccination camps in first stage of vaccination but the case is not so similar now. Many people were coming forward to get vaccinated through NGOs. Roping in such organisations will help in getting more people vaccinated.Shashi Bhushan GoyalOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONFrom the worst-hit to the safest district in the state, Ludhiana has made a turnaround within 20 days with Covid positivity rate dropping drastically from the highest-ever 19.57 per cent on May 2 to the record low of 3.99 per cent on May 22. Should the strict restrictions of daily curfew and complete weekend lockdown in force be further relaxed or be continued further? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ramp-up-vax-production-ensure-even-distribution-257671
24-05-2021||---||Intercropping with groundnut to fetch better returns from ber orchards: Experts||Ludhiana, May 23‘Ber’ (Indian jujube) is a well-known versatile fruit plant having rich nutritional value. It can be grown in saline conditions, waste and degraded lands in arid and semi-arid climate. The fruit can also be well grown in poor and marginal soils and require very less input and management efforts for its cultivation.The ‘ber’ tree has a high ability for tolerating water-logged conditions also. However, due to thorny nature of plants, difficulty in fruit picking, annual pruning requirement and late harvesting varieties render the ‘ber’ orchards less remunerative and least preferred for new establishments. With proper management practices and intercropping of suitable agronomic crops, more profit can be fetched from ‘ber’ orchards, said Dr JS Brar, senior horticulturist, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU).Pruning of ‘ber’ treesRegular annual pruning is essential to induce a good and healthy growth which will provide a maximum fruit bearing area on the tree as well as to improve fruit size and quality.The best time for pruning of tree is middle of May. Pruning by heading back at 8 buds length of previous year’s growth gives higher yield and better quality fruits. Some thinning out of the branches of ‘ber’ trees is also necessary to avoid too much crowding so as to allow adequate sunlight and facilitate proper aeration, added Dr Brar.After pruning in the month of May, ample space between pruned trees remains vacant till the end of August. During this period, intercropping of suitable agronomic crop can be done to fetch additional income.Recently, the PAU has released a short duration groundnut variety TG 37A which become ready to harvest after 100-110 days of sowing.Steps to improve fruit yield, quality||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/intercropping-with-groundnut-to-fetch-better-returns-from-ber-orchards-experts-257670
24-05-2021||---||PAU develops ‘Ludo’ for rice technology, cotton cultivation||Ludhiana, May 23Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has developed ‘Ludo’ game for direct-seeded rice (DSR) technology and acquiring a higher yield from cotton cultivation. The game has been developed by Dr Anil Sharma, assistant director, Communication Centre, and his team.Dr Anil Sharma said: “In layman’s language, it is an effort to educate farmers about the tar-wattar direct-seeded rice technology, which is water as well as labour saving.”Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director of Extension Education, PAU, said the university scientists were making all-out efforts to update the knowledge of farmers.“Ludo, which comprises snakes and ladders, is a unique concept in relation to agricultural practices,” he said, adding it included PAU’s recommendations regarding DSR technology.Dr Mahal advised that if the DSR technology was practiced on medium- to heavy-textured soils in the first fortnight of June by adopting short duration varieties, using 8 to 10 kg seed per acre and giving first irrigation after 21 days of sowing, then the technology would yield better results and farmers would be on the winning side in the game.“If farmers adopt the technology on light-textured soils (sandy and loamy sand), use long duration varieties and more seed, and apply spray on dry fields to manage weeds, then they will be penalised. If the members of the family play Ludo, it will lead to curiosity, for which there is a booklet also,” he added.Dr TS Riar, additional director (Communication) presented the first set of Ludo to Dr Mahal and said the game would motivate youngsters to practice farming as per PAU recommendations. This would also contribute in conserving natural resources and protecting the environment, he added.Dr Tiar informed that the second Ludo on cotton cultivation provided information on the dos and don’ts to be followed for successful cultivation of cotton.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pau-develops-ludo-for-rice-technology-cotton-cultivation-257669
24-05-2021||---||DEO to hear complaint against official today||Ludhiana, May 23 Acting on a complaint by a female teacher to the Education Minister against Deputy DEO alleging undue pressure on her by the official for strengthening enrolment, the DEO (Elementary Education), Jaswinder Kaur, has asked the complainant to visit her office at 11 am tomorrow. The complainant, Karanjit Kaur, head teacher, Government Primary School Baddowal, Block Ludhiana 2, had filed a complaint against the Deputy DEO to the Education Minister for putting undue pressure on her to improve enrolment of students during a Zoom meeting held on May 10. The teacher alleged that the official intentionally pointed her out repeatedly during the meeting and such kind of pressure caused her great mental agony and stress. The teacher said despite trying to clear her position, the Deputy DEO did not let her utter a single word. In the complaint, the teacher had sought action against the official. In case my mental condition deteriorates further, the official should be held accountable, she wrote in her complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/deo-to-hear-complaint-against-official-today-257649
24-05-2021||---||20 more die, 597 Covid positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 23Today, 597 persons tested positive for Covid while 20 lost their lives to the virus. Today, there were 8,617 active cases in the district and 12,59,238 samples have been collected so far.The number of confirmed positive cases have now reached 81,018 in the district while 1,874 have lost their lives to the virus.Two expecting women, three healthcare workers and a pre-operative case were among those tested positive while 123 are still untraceable.Those who lost their lives today include 11 men and nine women. Nine of the deceased were from rural areas while the remaining persons were from urban areas.Today, 1,126 patients were admitted to various hospitals across the district of which 52 were on ventilator support.Meanwhile, Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra said today that special Covid-19 vaccination camps for the youth were being organised in various parts of the state.He inaugurated one such camp at the Government College for Girls, here, today.He said CM Capt Amarinder Singh has announced that Rs10-lakh special grant would be provided to villages that achieve 100 per cent vaccination. Today, 13,273 persons were vaccinated against Covid in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20-more-die-597-covid-positive-in-ludhiana-257642
24-05-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Illegal commercial buildings galore, Ludhiana MC unmoved||Ludhiana, May 23Officials of the Building Branch of the Municipal Corporation continue to turn a blind eye to brazen violations of the building bylaws by unscrupulous builders. As a result, illegal commercial buildings keep mushrooming all across the city without any fear of law.At the same time, commercial property being at a premium, a large number of residential buildings in almost every locality were openly being converted into commercial complexes.In two separate complaints to the Principal Secretary, Local Government Department, Punjab, the Director of Local Bodies, Punjab and the Chief Vigilance Officer, Local Government, Punjab, it has been alleged that over 12 illegal buildings in Zone D and almost 24 such buildings in Zone C were under construction.Complainants seek high-level probeIn two separate complaints to the Principal Secretary, Local Government Department, Punjab, the Director of Local Bodies, Punjab and the Chief Vigilance Officer, Local Government, Punjab, it has been alleged that over 12 illegal buildings in Zone D and almost 24 such buildings in Zone C were under construction. Complainants have made a submission that a high-level independent probe be ordered in the working of the building branch of the MC.It has also been alleged in the complaints that the pace at which illegal commercial activity was continuing in the city, connivance of MC employees and officials could not be ruled out.Attaching photographs of the under-construction commercial buildings, Council of RTI Activists secretary Arvind Sharma has said complex of seven shops on Main Pakhowal Road (opposite wine shop), six shops in Model House, two shops near Tikona Park (near milk booth and corner of the park) in Model Town, one shop in Model Town Extension (near Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh) and another on main Pakhowal Road (just beyond the entry point of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar) were being constructed with no apparent intervention from field staff of supervisory officials of Zone D of the building branch.Alleging free hand given by the MC field staff to unscrupulous builders, Simratpal Singh Kalsi, president, Society for Public Welfare and Awareness, said nearly 24 shops and commercial buildings were being constructed without approved building plans and change of land use by the owners of these buildings in different localities falling in Zone C.He maintained that most of these under-construction buildings were coming up on Star Road, Dhandari-Lohara Road, Sua Road, and in Industrial Area C, Jaspal Bangar and surrounding areas, adding that even after several complaints filed with the officials concerned with photographic evidence, no action was taken to stop the construction work and nor were the offenders proceeded against for violation of building bylaws and illegal change of land use.Both complainants have made a submission that a high-level independent probe be ordered in the working of the building branch of the MC so that responsibility (for lapses) could be fixed and guilty or conniving employees be punished for dereliction of duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/illegal-commercial-buildings-galore-ludhiana-mc-unmoved-257643
24-05-2021||---||Hospital asked to pay Rs35 lakh to couple for medical negligence||Ludhiana, May 23 The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed Handa Hospital to pay Rs 35 lakh along with interest at the rate of 8 per cent per annum from the date of filing of the complaint till realisation, as compensation to a city-based couple, Pulkit Kapoor and Karan Kapoor, for medical negligence. The couple had filed a complaint regarding the death of a newborn child due to medical negligence and deficiency in service on the part of the hospital. Commission president Justice Paramjeet Singh Dhaliwal and members Rajinder Kumar Goyal and Kiran Sibal directed the hospital to pay the awarded amount and if any amount remains deficient, the same will be paid by Dr Pratibah Handa, for causing mental agony, harassment, avoidable pain and suffering to the litigants.  The commission also ordered to pay Rs 33,000 as litigation expenses to the aggrieved. “The hospital was completely dependent on observations and diagnosis of the nurses. The result was evident as the doctor was completely unaware of the progress of labour. The infant, still inside the womb, had passed and swallowed the meconium (stool). The meconium was thick and old. It clogged the infant’s lungs and blocked the airway and caused hypoxia at birth. This resulted in the death of infant later within one day of his birth, after being referred to tertiary care centre,” said Bhavnik Mehta, counsel for the complainant. The forum also made clear that the liability of The Oriental Insurance Company Ltd will be only to the extent of the sum insured under the insurance policy which has been issued by it in favour of Dr Handa.    The forum directed that the compliance of the order shall be made by Handa Hospital, Dr Pratibah Handa and The Oriental Insurance Company Limited within a period of 30 days of the receipt of certified copy of the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hospital-asked-to-pay-rs35-lakh-to-couple-for-medical-negligence-257644
24-05-2021||---||2 nabbed with illegal weapon, cartridges||Ludhiana, May 23 The CIA Wing of the city police nabbed two persons and recovered a .32 bore gun and three live cartridges from them. The accused have been identified as Ashok Singh (26), alias Nik Oberoi , a resident of Old Madhopuri and Dikshit Tandon (24), alias Doda, a resident of Hargobind Nagar. ACP (Crime) Mandeep Singh said CIA personnel were patrolling near Kashmir Nagar and caught two persons on suspicion. During their search, a .32 bore gun and three live cartridges were recovered from them. The ACP said the accused were asked to produce the licence of the weapon but they failed. The ACP said both accused had a notorious past as accused Ashok is facing three criminal cases while Dikshit is facing two cases registered at different police stations in Ludhiana. The ACP said the police remand of the accused would be sought from the court so that further interrogation could be conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-nabbed-with-illegal-weapon-cartridges-257645
24-05-2021||Manav Mander||Another patient falls prey to black fungus in district, toll reaches five||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 23Ludhiana district has reported four more deaths due to mucormycosis. One patient succumbed to the deadly fungus today while information regarding the death of three more patients received today as data was submitted by various hospitals to the district Health Department after the state government had declared it as a notified disease on May 19. Total deaths due to black fungus in the district have reached five.According to the Health Department, a total of 52 patients are suffering from mucormycosis as on Sunday, of which 33 are confirmed and 19 are suspected patients.‘Covid patients should report if symptoms appear’Covid patients, who are at a high risk of black fungus, on discharge should monitor and report in case they observe any such symptoms — abnormal black discharge, blood or crust from nose, nasal blockade/stuffiness, headache, eye pain, facial pain, facial swelling/redness, eye swelling/congestion, double vision, loss of vision and if the blood sugar level is more than 200 mg/dL.The highest number of patients, 31 persons, are admitted to the DMCH while five each are admitted to Deep Hospital, SPS Hospital and the CMCH, four to Civil Hospital and one each to Oswal Hospital and Fortis Hospital.Meanwhile, the district has received 75 doses of Amphotericin B injections used in the treatment of mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus. These injections have been distributed among five city hospitals. With 52 patients patients admitted, 75 doses will not be able to suffice as each patient needs at least 30 vials of injections.After Remdesivir injection, now, the state government has decided to provide Amphotericin B from the government stock. The rate per vial has been fixed at Rs 1,424.82 (excluding GST which is 5 per cent). The state is procuring the injections from the Centre.Earlier, the demand for the injection was minimal and it was not produced in bulk by firms. But a sudden spike in the demand has led to its shortage.Kulwinder Singh, Zonal Licensing Authority, said the district had received its first batch of 75 doses of Amphotricin B injections which were used in the treatment of black fungus.The DMCH, CMCH and SPS have been allocated 20 injections each, 10 injections have been allocated to Deep Hospital and five to Grewal Hospital.Dr Manish Munjal, head of department, otorhinolaryngology, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, said at present, they had sufficient stock of injections for the patients admitted to the hospital.Stressing on the need for a regular follow-up, Dr Munjal said even after a patient was cured of black fungus, he/she needs a regular follow-up as it could re-occur.“Nose, sinus, eyes, brain and lungs could be affected due to black fungus. If fungus is removed from one part there are chances of its re-occurrence in other parts as well. Patients needs to be cautious about symptoms and need a regular follow-up with the doctor,” said Dr Munjal.He advised patients to keep their sugar levels in control and keep checking the same on a regular basis.Chief Secy holds online meeting on injectionLate on Sunday evening, an online meeting was chaired by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan during which a discussion was held on the injection used in the treatment of black fungus. At present, the state has 111 cases of black fungus.A six-member committee was formed to overview the usage of the injection in treating the fungus. It also has two city-based doctors, Manish Munjal, ENT expert from the DMCH, and Mary John, medicine expert from the CMCH. Members of the committee will decide which patient needs the injection according to their helath condition. During the meeting, possibility of a few other injections to be included in the line of treatment was also discussed. In the coming days, a few more companies will manufacture the injections after which their supply will be streamlined, said Mahajan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/another-patient-falls-prey-to-black-fungus-in-district-toll-reaches-five-257646
24-05-2021||---||Major drive launched against gambling||Ludhiana, May 23The special cell of the Ludhiana police is set to take on gamblers and for the purpose, a special campaign has been initiated by the cell.The reason for starting the campaign is the rise of gambling activity during the lockdown period.Beant Juneja, in charge of the Special Cell, said on the directions of the Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, a major drive had been initiated against illegal gambling and under the supervision of ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sran, the city police have come down heavily on gamblers and have busted rackets in a week.Four nabbed during raid at city hotelThe Police Division 3 conducted a raid at City Home hotel near Sangla Wala Shivala and busted a gambling racket on Saturday night. Four persons arrested from the spot were identified as Jagdish Singh of Khud Mohalla, Rakesh Kumar of Kidwai Nagar, Ashu Kaneja of Kirpal Nagar and Sunil of Ikbalganj. The raid was conducted by SHO Madhu Bala.“During the lockdown, gambling has increased a lot in city and we have initiated a special campaign against such activities. In a week, four cases of gambling have been registered. In some cases, gamblers were caught gambling in a park and in an open area during lockdown. They were not even following the Covid norms,” Juneja said.In the first case, two accused were held from the Tibba area red-handed while gambling and Rs 10,700 was recovered. In two other cases, two accused each were caught and Rs 1,790 and Rs 13,960, respectively, were recovered. In the fourth incident, two accused were nabbed along with Rs 4,420.ADCP Rupinder Sean said such illegal activities would not be allowed and strict action would be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/major-drive-launched-against-gambling-257647
24-05-2021||---||FIR against professor: Vet varsity teachers suspend Emergency services||Ludhiana, May 23Emergency services were suspended today at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) in protest against an FIR lodged against a senior professor.Members of the GADVASU Teachers Association said the FIR was a deliberate attempt to malign the image of the professor.Fir attempt to malign his image: AssnMembers of the GADVASU Teachers Association said the FIR is a deliberate attempt to malign the image of the professor. They alleged that the FIR is against the ruling of the Supreme Court which laid down guidelines for prosecuting medical professionals.They alleged that the FIR was against the ruling of the Supreme Court which laid down guidelines for prosecuting medical professionals. According to the ruling, “A private complaint may not be entertained unless the complainant has produced prima facie evidence before court in the form of a credible opinion given by another competent doctor to support the charge of rashness or negligence on the part of accused doctor.”Contrary to the guidelines of the court, a zero FIR was lodged without verifying facts by forming a committee according to guidelines laid by the court, teachers alleged. The sections under which the FIR was lodged also indicate foul play to malign the reputation of a renowned doctor and institute, they added.If the FIR is not withdrawn or quashed immediately, the association may move the High Court under Section 482 of CrPC for the quashing of the FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fir-against-professor-vet-varsity-teachers-suspend-emergency-services-257648
