25-05-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district leads state with highest count of 7,804 Covid active cases||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 24Even as Ludhiana has made a turnaround from being the worst-hit to the safest district in the state with a massive dip in the positivity rate within the last 20 days, it continues to lead the state with the highest count of the active Covid cases.Of the total 7,804 active cases in the district on May 24, almost 70 per cent were home isolated in the rural areas. This was fourth highest in the state, the analysis done by the Health and Family Welfare department has revealed. While 6,323 active cases were in home isolation, 989 patients were admitted to hospitals — 152 in government and 837 in private institutions.The comparative data of home isolation patients in rural and urban areas, which is available with The Tribune, showed that 69.56 per cent of the total active home isolation cases of Ludhiana were in rural areas, while the remaining 30.42 per cent were in the urban areas.The state’s average of rural active cases in home isolation was recorded at 44.8 per cent, while 55.2 per cent of the total active cases were in home isolation in the urban areas of the state.The districts with higher infected rural population than Ludhiana were Nawanshahr, which was at the top with the highest 72.05 per cent active home isolation cases in its villages, followed by Tarn Taran with 72.73 per cent rural infections, and Amritsar with 72 per cent Covid positive villagers under home isolation.Mohali recorded the lowest of 6.31 per cent of villagers infected with the deadly virus put under home isolation and maximum of 93.69 per cent of its active cases in home isolation were present in the urban areas.Those with lower active cases in home isolation in rural areas than Ludhiana included Hoshiarpur 66.61 per cent, Sangrur 60.04 per cent, Fazilka 58.23 per cent, Mansa 56.5 per cent, Pathankot 55.15 per cent, Ropar 51.15 per cent, Kapurthala 48.71 per cent, Moga 47.28 per cent, Bathinda 44.71 per cent, Gurdaspur 44.6 per cent, Ferozepur 43.18 per cent, Barnala 41 per cent, Fatehgarh Sahib 40.47 per cent, Muktsar 35.02 per cent, Patiala 31.27 per cent, Jalandhar 30.01 per cent, and Faridkot recorded the state’s second lowest 24.84 per cent of its rural active cases in home isolation.When it comes to total active cases, Mohali stood second in the state with 5,663 active cases, followed by Bathinda 5,550, Jalandhar 4,674, Amritsar 4,121, Muktsar 3,842, Fazilka 3,545, Patiala 3,051, Hoshairpur 2,208, Mansa 2,081, Pathankot 1,887, Sangrur 1,658, Ferozepur 1,654, Gurdaspur 1,458, Faridkot 1,428, Kapurthala 1,193, Fatehgarh Sahib 1,012, Ropar 916, Moga 881, Nawanshahr 724, Tarn Taran 674, and Barnala registered the lowest of 668 active cases in the state.The state recorded a total of 57,505 active cases as on May 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-leads-state-with-highest-count-of-7-804-covid-active-cases-258149
25-05-2021||Ludhiana||Civic body to hold F&CC meeting soon||The Municipal Corporation’s Finance and Contract Committee is likely to hold a meeting this week to conduct a discussion on development projects. It is learned that the F&CC panel will give a nod to issue work orders regarding various development projects in different wards. In view of the 2022 Assembly elections, a number of roads and other works are supposed to be carried out in different wards of the city. Mayor Balkar Singh said they would hold an F&CC meeting this week. Work orders for various development projects would be issued soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/civic-body-to-hold-fcc-meeting-soon-258151
25-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||3 peddlers held with heroin||Ludhiana, May 24 A team of the Special Task Force (STF), Ludhiana range, led by Inspector Harbans Singh, nabbed a man, Deepak Kumar (30), a resident of Mohalla Satguru Nagar, near Radha Swami Satsang Ghar, with 680 gm of heroin when he was going towards Pippal Chowk to deliver the contraband on a Honda Activa scooter on Sunday. STF officials said on a tip-off, a surveillance team was deployed around the house of Deepak in Satguru Nagar and when he came on his scooter (bearing registration no. PB 10HL 0363), the team intercepted him. Search of the accused was carried out in the presence of the STF SP, Ludhiana range, Surinder Kumar, which led to the seizure of 680 gm of heroin, 100 polythene zip pouches and an electronic scale, from a compartment of his two-wheeler. During the preliminary interrogation, Deepak told the police that he was employed in a nut-bolt factory and was himself a drug addict. He said to earn money for drugs and other expenses, he had been peddling drugs for the past around three years. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against Deepak at the STF police station in Mohali and the suspect was being produced in court for obtaining his police custody for further interrogation. In another incident, the police have arrested two persons, Baljit Singh, a resident of Makkar Colony in Giaspura, and Sukhdev Singh of Baba Namdev Colony, when the duo were going on a Hero Splendor motorcycle from near the water tank in Amarjit Colony. A team of the anti-narcotic cell on suspicion signalled them to stop and during search 40 gm of heroin was seized from them. A case under Sections 21-B, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-peddlers-held-with-heroin-258152
25-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Youth killed in road accident||Ludhiana, May 24A person was killed and another critically injured in two road accidents in the city.Sunil Kumar (26) was run over by a speeding truck while walking on foot near Leyland House on Main Tarnsport Nagar Road on the evening of May 22. The victim died on the spot while the truck driver fled the spot.In a complaint to the police, the elder brother of the deceased, Rakesh Singh, a resident of New Star City on Tibba Road, said his brother had gone to Transport Nagar for some work when he met with the fatal accident. The police have booked the unidentified truck driver under Sections 279/304-A of the IPC and were investigating the matter.In the second mishap occurred near HPN Club on Barewal Road, a youth, Deepak Podal (26), who was riding a motorcycle (bearing registartion no. PB 10FU 0877) was hit by a speeding truck (bearing registration no. PB 12C 1684) and sustained grievous injuries. He was admitted to a local hospital where he was still undergoing treatment. On the complaint of Nand Kishore Yadav, brother-in-law of the victim and a resident of Threeke Colony, the police have booked the truck driver, Naib Singh, a resident of Mansiha Bajan village, under Sections 279, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/youth-killed-in-road-accident-258153
25-05-2021||---||Overcharging: FIR against Khanna hospital||Ludhiana, May 24 In a stringent action against private hospitals indulging in fleecing patients for Covid treatment, a First Information Report (FIR) has been registered against Jain Multispeciality Hospital, Khanna, on Monday for charging nearly 106 per cent above the rates fixed by the government. A case under Sections 269, 270 and 188 of the IPC, Sections 51 (B) and 58 of the Disaster Management Act-2005 and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act-1897 has been registered against the management of the hospital on the complaint of Sagar Verma, a resident of Yamuna Nagar in Haryana. Verma had complained to Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma against the hospital for overcharging for the Covid treatment of his father, who later died in another hospital. The Deputy Commissioner had ordered a probe against the hospital and asked a committee of Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) Sandeep Kumar, Deputy Director Dr Hatinder Kaur and Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Vivek Kataria to complete the inquiry within 48 hours. The probe panel reported that as per the government rates fixed for the Covid treatment, the actual bill of Verma’s father should have Rs 2,35,450 only and the hospital earlier asked the complainant to pay Rs 8,45,062. Later in the probe, the hospital termed it a clerical mistake and said the bill was Rs 4,86,010, which was again more than 106 per cent against the government guidelines. The report blamed that due to malpractice of overbilling by the hospital, the complainant shifted his father to another health institution, where he succumbed later, so allegations against Jain Multispecialty Hospital were true. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the district administration was keeping a close vigil on the functioning of hospitals and no one would be allowed to do any kind of malpractice. He said anyone could file a complaint on 104 helpline number of the Health Department and his office regarding unethical practice in this hour of crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/overcharging-fir-against-khanna-hospital-258154
25-05-2021||Harshraj Singh
||No ‘check’ on illegal submersible pumps||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 24 Despite the Municipal Corporation (MC) had formed a committee to keep a check on the installation of unauthorised submersible pumps, installation of such new pumps is common in various parts of the city. Even no awareness is being initiated by the MC against the installation of new submersible pumps in those areas where water supply is available. In view of the depleting groundwater level, a committee was formed by the civic body in February this year to keep a check on the unauthorised installation of submersible pumps. Questions are being raised over the role of the officials concerned for turning a blind eye towards the illegal submersible pumps. A resident of the Dholewal area, Gajjan Singh Jassal, said: “I have made complaints many times but the civic body took no concrete action to stop the unauthorised installation of the submersible pumps in the city. The unlawful practice is common. Action was recently taken in two cases only when I complained to higher officials of the MC, Ludhiana. As per the guidelines, no new submersible pump can be installed in areas where water supply is available. The MC should conduct a survey in all parts of the city and take steps to stop such violations as the groundwater level is already depleting.” A city resident, Professor Jaipal Singh (retd), said: “The MC should ensure potable water supply in all areas of the city. It should make sure that nobody instals submersible pumps in those areas where the safe drinking water supply is available. In those areas where the water supply is not available, the residents are forced to instal pumps on their own. It is the responsibility of the civic body to ensure safe drinking water supply for them.” MC Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said, “The installation of new submersible pumps is prohibited in the city. If the water supply is not available in any area, permission is required for the installation of a submersible pump there. We are already taking action against unauthorised submersible pumps.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-check-on-illegal-submersible-pumps-258155
25-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Kisan morcha leaders call to observe May 26 as black day||Mandi Ahmedgarh, May 24Regional leaders of various constituents of the Sanyukat Kissan Morcha are on toes persuading residents of the town to observe May 26 as black day to mark the completion of six months of farmers’ agitation at Delhi borders against the three farm laws.The members of the morcha have asked people to hoist black flags on their vehicles and houses on Wednesday.Baldev Singh Latala, All India Kissan Sabha office-bearer, who had been camping at Delhi borders along with other national and state-level leaders, said the SKM has given a call for May 26 to be observed as a black day. He said they would also burn effigies of Modi government.Saudagar Singh Ghudani, leader, Bhartiya Kissan Union Ekta (Ugrahan), said activists of the outfit would also organise a dharna in front of the sub-division office at Payal to demand compensation for the farmers who had lost lives during the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/kisan-morcha-leaders-call-to-observe-may-26-as-black-day-258156
25-05-2021||Lovleen Bains||Sahnewal safai sewaks join Doraha workers in strike||Sahnewal, May 24Safai workers of Sahnewal, too, have joined Doraha workers in the protest against non-fulfilment of their demands. The workers have been on strike for the past 11 days, leading to accumulation of garbage on roads and residential areas.Sukhdev Singh, general secretary of Ludhiana Safai Sewak Union and president of Sahnewal Safai Sewak Union, said: “We understand that it is unethical on our part to sit on a strike during the pandemic but we are also helpless. We do not want the residents to suffer but we also want the government to listen to our demands on a priority basis. We have been working on a contractual basis for many years now with minimum salaries. Most workers are living hand to mouth and are only asking the government to make their jobs regular.”“We are resolute this time and we will not end the strike till our services are regularised. Prices of all essential commodities are rising. We have to run our homes as well, educate our children, pay for medicines among other expenses. How can you expect a person working on contract basis on a minimum pay to meet expenses?” protestors said.“We are aware of the risk we expose ourselves to while doing our job. If we get infected, who will look after our families? The government has taken our silence for granted. We will intensify our stir if the government remains unmoved,” the protestors added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sahnewal-safai-sewaks-join-doraha-workers-in-strike-258157
25-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Owners seek reopening of gyms, organise protest||Ludhiana, May 24 Owners of various gyms today held a protest at  Jamalpur chowk on the Ludhiana-Chandigarh road here. The protesters, representing the Gym Ekta Welfare Association, were holding placards, urging the state government to allow them to open gyms in the district. Monu Sabharwal, president of the association, said the government had permitted wine shops to open during the lockdown whereas gym and fitness centres were not given permission, forcing many people to shut down their establishments. He said a few days ago, Varinder Kohli, owner of a gym, had reportedly committed suicide as his business was ruined following the lockdown restrictions imposed by the state government due to Covid-19. Monu said owners of gym and fitness centres were facing a critical time since they had no source of income. However, they had to pay fee of their wards, electricity bills and rent of their establishments. He urged the state government to allow them to reopen their centres and help them come out of present crisis. Amarajeet Singh, Neeraj Sharma, Mintu, Sukesh Pawar and Dalip Singh were among several others who took part in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/owners-seek-reopening-of-gyms-organise-protest-258158
25-05-2021||Our Correspondent||6 of family booked for abducting minor girl||Ludhiana, May 24Tabrez, his father Shakeel and four other members of the family, identified as Taaseem, Sangira, Aslam and Sayeed, all residents of Mayapuri Colony on Tibba Road, have been booked by the police under Sections 363, 366-A and 120-B for the alleged abduction of a 14-year-old girl as the prime accused, Tabrez, wanted to marry her.Father of the girl, Sarfaraz, a resident of Shakti Nagar Mohalla in Mayapuri Colony, told the police that his daughter had gone missing from home since May 14. He said while searching for the victim, he had learnt that the accused, who wanted to marry the girl, had allegedly conspired with his family members to abduct his daughter. Later, the girl went missing.The police were investigating the matter but no arrest has been made so far.Woman goes missingA woman, identified as Poonam (22), a resident of Katani village, was reported missing from her residence on May 19.In a complaint lodged with the police, the mother of the woman, Mukesh Rani, a resident of Katani, said her daughter had left home without informing anybody.“Despite our best efforts, we have not been able to trace her Poonam and we apprehend that she might have been kidnapped by somebody,” the complainant said.The police have registered a case under Sections 346 of the IPC in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/6-of-family-booked-for-abducting-minor-girl-258159
25-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Seven arrested for lockdown violations||Ludhiana, May 24Despite strict lockdown imposed by the administration in the wake of Covid-19 and the city police doing their best to enforce the restrictions, violations continued with seven persons being arrested and three others booked for flouting the norms.The police said five persons arrested under various sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act were identified as a meat seller, Sonu Bharti, in Vijay Nagar Market, a sweetmeat shop owner, Madan Lal, in Vijay Nagar Market, Iskar and Dharma Shah, both vegetable vendors from Sherpur Khurd. Three others, Mandeep Singh and his brother Roop Singh and Soma Nath, were held for roaming around on motorcycles without any valid reason or permission during the lockdown hours in Humbran Road and Popli-cut areas.Among those booked for flouting restrictions were Gurnam Singh and Himanshu Kumar, both meat sellers in Isslam Ganj Chowk and Haibowal, respectively, and Vikas Gupta, a mobile shop owner in Guru Amardas Colony.Police officials have made an earnest appeal to residents and shopkeepers to strictly follow restrictions and not to go outdoors without any valid reason. They also told the residents to wear face mask while moving out of their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seven-arrested-for-lockdown-violations-258161
25-05-2021||---||Free limbs distribution camp held||Ludhiana, May 24 A free artificial limbs distribution camp was organised today by Vardhman Special Steels Limited, in cooperation with Bharat Vikas Parishad Charitable Trust, Punjab, at Divyang Shayata Kendre, Rishi Nagar. During the camp, artificial limbs, calipers, tri-cycles and hearing aids were given to 22 physically-handicapped persons. Mukesh Shrivastav and Amit Dhawan from Vardhman Steels said the work done by Bharat Vikas Parishad was noble and selfless, and assured the Trust financial help to further their cause of helping the physically disabled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/free-limbs-distribution-camp-held-258162
25-05-2021||---||Vet varsity to hold free milk adulteration testing camp||Ludhiana, May 24 To create awareness among people about milk adulteration, College of Dairy Science and Technology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), is organising a week-long milk adulteration testing camp from May 26 to June 1 on occasion of World Milk Day. During the camp, residents can bring minimum 100 ml chilled raw milk samples in clean and dry glass/plastic bottles to get it tested for adulterants for free. The timings of the camp are 8 am to 1.30 pm. The milk sample bottles should be labelled with the name and contact number of the person bringing the milk for testing. The milk samples will be analyzed at the college and the quality results will be conveyed through WhatsApp or text messages on the following day. GADVASU Vice-Chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh said the initiative taken by the college was a commendable one and would create awareness among consumers about the quality of milk they were drinking. He said the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) had announced June 1 as World Milk Day in 2001. The day celebrates the contributions of the dairy sector to sustainability, economic development, livelihoods and nutrition. The main objective of celebrating World Milk Day is to provide information about the need and importance of milk in the life of human beings. Dr Ramneek, dean, College of Dairy Science and Technology, said the camp was being organised to generate awareness among people about the importance of quality and safety of milk. He said: “Adulteration of milk is usually done for increasing the quantity of milk, extending its shelf life, maintaining SNF and avoiding detection of sour milk. Many of these adulterants can be harmful to the body.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vet-varsity-to-hold-free-milk-adulteration-testing-camp-258163
25-05-2021||Ludhiana||CICU launches free oxygen concentrator service||Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma today inaugurated the free service of oxygen concentrator launched by CICU.CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja said the pandemic has been hard on a lot of people and to help patients, CICU has decided to provide various free service such sanitization of industrial units, distribution of mask and sanitisers.Besides, CICU would also provide medical kits to institutions converted into Covid care hospitals, namely Meritorious School and Radha Soami Satsang Hospital, and support the government to find suitable suppliers of oxygen plants and medical gadgets, he added.The CICU president said they had also launched a free service of oxygen concentrator to deal with the shortage of oxygen in the fight against the pandemic.CICU general secretary Pankaj Sharma said the oxygen concentrators being provided were of 10 capacity litres and could be used by two people. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cicu-launches-free-oxygen-concentrator-service-258164
25-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Residents take oath to prevent third Covid wave||Raikot, May 24Residents here today vowed to take proactive measures to prevent the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. An oath was taken in response to an appeal made by Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh Boparai and Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma during a function held at a Level-2 Covid care center at Raikot.During the function, residents vowed 100 per cent inoculation, wearing face mask, maintaining social distancing among other measures to curb the further spread of coronavirus.“We are glad that people have realized that it is necessary that the maximum population gets inoculated before the onset of the third wave of the pandemic as it would ensure herd immunity against the virus,” said Boparai.The Deputy Commissioner urged people to make the sub-division a model segment where the entire population was covered under the vaccination drive.The organisers also distributed free kits, masks and sanitisers among residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/residents-take-oath-to-prevent-third-covid-wave-258166
25-05-2021||---||Schizophrenia treatable; shed stigma, acknowledge illness: Doc||Ludhiana, May 24World Schizophrenia Day is celebrated every year on May 24. Schizophrenia is a mental illness in which a person develops confusion about the real world around him and distortions (problems) in his own imagination about those existing realities, which creates mental illness in his day-to-day behaviour.Dr Rupesh Chaudhary, Professor, Department of Psychiatry, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, said there was lack of awareness about this mental illness in the community. “Due to a delay in its diagnosis and treatment, the illness grows unattended and adversely affects the personal, social and familial lives of the patients and their caregivers,” he said.“Some symptoms of Schizophrenia include talking to oneself and doing activities that the person did not usually does in his in his normal routine before. The usual age of onset for Schizophrenia is 18 to 35 years,” Dr Chaudhary added.About its management and treatment, the doctor firmly asserts that Schizophrenia is treatable and requires family members to shed the stigma of acknowledging the illness and start treatment without any hesitation or delay from a certified and qualified mental health professional.Most common symptoms||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/schizophrenia-treatable-shed-stigma-acknowledge-illness-doc-258167
25-05-2021||---||Six new patients of black fungus||Ludhiana, May 24Six new patients of mucormycosis (black fungus) have been reported in the Ludhiana district and one patient was referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, from Civil Hospital.According to the data shared by the Health Department, two patients have been cured of black fungus till date and five have lost their life so far in the district.At present total 40 patients suffering from black fungus are admitted to various city hospitals.BoxMucormycosisHospital Number of patientsDMCH: 19CMCH: 7SPS: 7Deep Hospital: 4Civil Hospital: 1SAS Grewal Hospital: 1Oswal Hospital: 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/six-new-patients-of-black-fungus-258168
25-05-2021||Guru Nanak Public School||Poem recitation contest||Virtual food and fireless cooking competition heldHVM Convent Senior Secondary School, Basti Jodhewal, organised a virtual food and fireless cooking competition. The competition was divided into three groups. Students of nursery to Class I participated in ‘Fruit and salad competition’ while those of Class II to V took part in healthy tiffin competition and students of Class VI to VIII participated in fireless cooking. E-certificates were awarded to all students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/poem-recitation-contest-258169
25-05-2021||The Department of Extension Education organised a guest lecture on “Qualitative research methods in social science research” as part of an ongoing series of lectures. Dr Pampa Mukherjee||Lecture on qualitative research methods||World Cultural Diversity Day observedThe Department of Extension Education celebrated World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development to deepen the understanding of the values of cultural diversity. In his welcome remarks, Dr Kuldeep Singh, head of the department, said: “Diverse cultural perspectives can inspire creativity and drive innovation.” Extension scientist Dr Lavleesh Garg said cultural diversity was a driving force of development not only with respect to economic growth but also as a means of leading a more fulfilling intellectual, emotional, moral and spiritual life. TNSInternational Day of Biodiversity observedThe Department of Forestry and Natural Resources organised a forum to mark International Day of Biodiversity. The theme of the day was “We are part of the solution for nature”. The programme was held with the financial support of the Punjab Biodiversity Board. On the occasion, Dr NS Bains, director of research, PAU, laid stress upon raising and conserving indigenous trees. A plantation drive at University Seed Farm, Ladhowal, and University Health Centre was also organised. Dr SK Chauhan, head, Department of Forestry and Natural Resources, called for conserving biodiversity and the lesser known plants for their future use. A technical session was also organised on the occasion. The resource persons for the session were Dr Viktor Bruckman from Austrian Academy of Science, Vienna; Dr Satish Narkhede, Dapoli, Maharashtra; and Dr Adarsh Vig, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. They spoke on the importance of biodiversity. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lecture-on-qualitative-research-methods-258170
25-05-2021||Ludhiana||Man arrested for smuggling liquor||Five nabbed on gambling chargeLudhiana: The police have nabbed five persons, identified as Mohit, Jaswinder Singh, Pavittar Singh, Rajneesh Kumar and Teerath Singh, who were found gambling at a public place behind Kali Mata Mandir in Maharshi Valmiki Nagar. A pack of cards and Rs 4,700 were seized from the spot and all suspects were booked under Sections 13, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act and Section 188, IPC. ocThree booked for casteist remarksLudhiana: The police have booked three persons, Ranjit Singh, Lalit Sharma and Sandeep Sharma, all residents of Baddowal, under Sections 66 of the IT Act and Section 3 of the SC/ST Act on the complaint of Jatinder Tandon of Tedhi Road in Shimlapuri. The complainant alleged that the suspects had sent him a recorded message on phone in which casteist remarks were made and derogatory language was used against him. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-for-smuggling-liquor-258171
25-05-2021||---||15 fall prey to virus||Ludhiana, May 24As many as 507 persons tested positive for Covid, while 15 lost their lives to the virus today. The total confirmed positive cases have now reached 81,525, while the death toll has gone to 1,889. Today, active cases in the district were 7,804.Those who tested positive include an undertrial. As many as 111 patients are still not traceable.Three women and 12 men lost their lives to Covid. Out of them six belonged to rural areas, while rest were from urban areas. A total of 989 patients were admitted to hospitals in the district, out of which 60 were on ventilator support.Meanwhile, to make the Mission Fateh 2.0 (corona-free village) a success, the mass media wing of the Health Department, conducted awareness programmes in Patti Multani, Bahadurke, Bagia and Kakkar Tihara villages under Block Sidhwabet block.The team of the mass media wing held a meeting with the sarpanches, panches and medical practitioners of these villages and apprised them of the instructions issued by the Punjab Government to check the spread of Covid, which include encouraging people not to leave their homes without an emergency.The team asked them to gather in limited numbers at weddings or bhogs in the villages. People should wear masks when going out of the house and wash their hands from time to time. No meetings or gatherings of any kind should be allowed and social distance should be maintained as well.“If anyone has a mild fever, cough, cold or difficulty in breathing, they should be asked to get themselves tested at the nearest health centre,” said a member of the mass media wing while talking to villagers.DC Varinder Kumar Sharma inaugurated the free service of oxygen concentrators launched by the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/15-fall-prey-to-virus-258182
