29-05-2021||Nitin Jain
||Ludhiana leads Punjab in daily test sampling||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, May 28 Even as the impact of the devastating second Covid wave has plateaued, Ludhiana district has been leading the state in daily sampling to test, trace and treat the infection at the initial stage. Crossing a record of 16,000 mark daily, the sampling figure touched a new high of 16,047 on Thursday to take the cumulative sampling count to 13,11,620, which was the maximum by any district in the state. Comparatively, the average daily sampling in the state remained between 65,890 and 82,446 in the last week from May 20 to 26. The data compiled by the district administration, which is available with The Tribune, revealed that the daily sampling has almost doubled in the last 17 days with the figure shooting up from 8,305 on May 10 to 16,047 on May 27. However, it came down to 14,760 on Friday. The official figures showed that the daily sampling, which was below the 2,000 mark till January 4, when it was as low as 1,330, had crossed the 2,000 mark for the first time this year on January 5, when 2,435 samples were collected. After going down even below the 1,500 mark on several days in between, the daily sampling had crossed the 3,000 mark for the first time in 2021 on February 25, when 3,024 samples were collected in the district. The daily sampling has been gradually picking up in the district as it crossed the 4,000 mark on March 4, when 4,075 Covid samples were taken, surpassed the 5,000 mark on March 23, when 5,106 samples were collected, went past the 7,000 mark on April 14 to reach 7,025, breached the 8,000 mark on April 18 to reach 8,341, took over the 9,000 mark to collect 9,932 samples on April 21, crossed the 10,000 mark on April 22 to reach 10,033, surpassed the 13,000 mark on May 12 to take 13,006 samples, went past the 15,000-mark to reach 15,180 on May 14, before touching a record high of 16,047 samples on May 27. Earlier, the average daily sampling in the district had remained 4,848 between March 22 and 28, which dipped to 4,103 between March 29 and April 4 and 4,457 between April 5 and 11. The sampling, which was as low as 1,927 between December 28 and January 3, remained 2,239 between January 4 and 10; 1,988 between January 11 and 17; 2,009 between January 18 and 24; 2,053 between January 25 and 31; 1,961 between February 1 and 7; 2,405 between February 8 and 14; 2,397 between February 15 and 21; 2,502 between February 22 and 28; 3,736 between March 1 and 7; 3,830 between March 8 and 14; and 3,761 between March 15 and 21. Comparatively, the average daily sampling was recorded at a maximum of 4,810 between September 14 and 20 last year, after starting from 925 between August 3 and 9.  However, it was ramped up to 1,826 between August 10 and 16; 3,018 between August 17 and 23; 3,893 between August 24 and 30; 4,005 between August 31 and September 6; and 4,720 between September 7 and 13. It had started coming down to 4,598 between September 21 and 27; 4,068 between September 28 and October 4; 4,319 between October 5 and 11; 3,865 between October 12 and 18; 3,384 between October 19 and 25; 2,438 between October 26 and November 1; 1,955 between November 2 and 8; 1,969 between November 9 and 15; 2,170 between November 16 and 22; before once again going up to 3,272 between November 23 and 29, falling to 3,121 between November 30 and December 6; 2,775 between December 7 and 13; 2,496 between December 14 and 20; and 2,165 between December 21 and 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-leads-punjab-in-daily-test-sampling-260273
29-05-2021||---||Man, PA booked for duping Khanna resident of Rs1.2 lakh||Ludhiana, May 28 A man claiming his links with the Police Department, duped a Khanna resident of Rs 1.2 lakh on the pretext of preventing the police from taking action against him. The Khanna City police have registered a case of extortion, cheating, criminal intimidation against the suspect, identified as Paramjit Singh, alias Param Walia, a resident of Nawi Abadi, Khanna. His PA Maninder Singh, a resident of the Peerkhana road, has also been booked by the police. The complainant, Paramjit Singh of the Samrala road area, Khanna, said he had a friendship with a girl but recently both had parted ways after some issues cropped up in their relationship. “Now my former girlfriend was threatening me to file a police complaint against me and she had warned me that she will get registered a case against me. When I told the matter to my friends, they apprised me about Param Walia who, as per them, has good links with the Police Department. My friends told me to ask Param to save me from any police action,” the victim alleged. Walia and his PA Maninder also runs a WhatsApp group, ‘City Live’, in which they used to mention about their links in all government departments, including the Police. One day, he met the accused and told him the matter. After a few days, the accused claimed that he had talked to a senior official of the Khanna police and his work would be done. “He demanded Rs 1.20 lakh from me for giving to the police official but the accused did not fulfill his promise. When I got to know about the reality of the accused, I filed a police complaint and got a case registered against him,” complainant Paramjit Singh alleged. Investigating officer SI Gurdev Singh said a case under various sections of the IPC had been registered against the accused and efforts were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-pa-booked-for-duping-khanna-resident-of-rs1-2-lakh-260274
29-05-2021||---||20 dead, 416 test +ve in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 28As many as 416 persons tested positive for Covid, while 20 lost their lives to the virus today.The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 83,251, while 1,965 persons from Ludhiana have lost their lives to the disease so far.Those who tested positive include three expectant mothers, two healthcare workers, undertrial and a pre-operative case. Hundred patients are still being traced.Twelve women and eight men from different parts of the district lost their lives. As many as 49 patients were on ventilator support.There are 5,614 active patients in the district at present. According to the data shared by the Health Department, a total of 13,29,386 samples have been taken, out of which reports of 13,28,973 samples have been received. As many as 12,34,883 samples were found negative, while reports of 413 samples are pending. The samples of 14,760 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently of the Punjab Government to not only save themselves but keep everyone around safe.Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, Dr Kiran Gill said during the first six days of the Mission Fateh 2.0, total 1,65,314 households were surveyed by ASHA workers in the district covering the population of 7,66,452.She added that a total of 16,564 individuals were tested for Covid-19, out of which 193 came positive. Mission Fateh kits were provided to all the patients in home isolation.She said, “Stay home stay safe and follow the guidelines of the Punjab Government religiously and take your vaccine short as per your turn.”Hospital offers free treatmentJeewan Hospital, Civil Lines, is providing Covid treatment free of cost to all Level-II and Level-III patients. Giving information, Dr Pritpal Singh, MD, of the hospital, said the hospital was offering free treatment to the patients. “Patients just have to buy medicines on their own, rest all the treatment, including oxygen, is given free of cost. We do not have ventilator support system,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/20-dead-416-test-ve-in-ludhiana-260275
29-05-2021||Ludhiana||914 vaccinated at pvt hospitals||While the vaccination (first dose) at government session sites remained shut today, it was held at private hospitals. Five more private hospitals started the vaccination drive and now a total of seven private hospitals are administering Covid vaccine. The private hospitals which are now administering vaccination for Covid include DMCH, Hero DMC Heart Institute, SPS Hospital, Deep Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Oswal Hospital and Verma Multi-speciality Hospital. Today 914 people were vaccinated at private hospitals. As many as 600 persons were administered the second dose of Covaxin at seven government sites. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/914-vaccinated-at-pvt-hospitals-260276
29-05-2021||---||Cyber wing launches drive against child pornography||Ludhiana, May 28 The cyber wing of the Ludhiana police started a campaign against child pornography and warned strict action as per law. The police have started sharing messages regarding child pornography on Facebook and Twitter. Sub-Inspector Jatinder Singh, in-charge, cyber cell, Ludhiana, said: “It is being observed that videos and images of child pornography are being shared on social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook messenger, and Instagram. As per guidelines of the government, sharing such content is punishable and a case under Section 67-B of the Information and Technology Act can be registered against the guilty,” he said. If any person was booked under relevent sections of the IT Act, he may have to undergo seven years of imprisonment and Rs 10 lakh fine, cyber cell in-charge said. “If anybody notices any such content, file a complaint with the cyber cell which will take action against the guilty,” he said. After the police shared the video on social networking sites, several people posted their comments. Girish Kapoor stated: “Good initiative, hope this is not a mere announcement, the police will take action against culprits to make our society a better place to live.” Gagandeep Singh said: “Also, apprise people that if you have porn videos in your phone while landing in Canada and if they found the same in your phone, their officials will ban your entry to that country and you have to return to India.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cyber-wing-launches-drive-against-child-pornography-260277
29-05-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Engineers fume over  ‘one-time settlement’ policy||Ludhiana, May 28The state government has provided a breather to owners of shop-cum-flats (SCFs) and shop-cum-offices (SCOs) which were converted into commercial entities.Under the ‘one-time settlement’ scheme, the government has decided to allow conversions of the SCFs and SCOs into commercial in all sanctioned TP schemes, development schemes, approved layouts under the PAPR Act, 1995, and approved TP schemes of private developers also. The scheme brought in for a limited (one-time) period would remain open till September 30, 2021.However, the Council of Engineers (CoE) has vehemently opposed and pointed fingers at the policy for ‘illegal conversion’ of SCFs into SCOs as well as other residential buildings being put to commercial use. According to CoE president Kapil Arora, such policy was against Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India as such regularisation was being allowed even in Town Planning Schemes without any amendment in its Master Plan, which is unlawful.He said the CoE, vide a public interest litigation (PIL) had already challenged the ‘one-time settlement policy of 2019’ as notified by the state government for regularisation of illegal construction of buildings. “We have given reference of various judgments of the Supreme Court in which the apex court has mentioned that such policy is against Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution. The PIL has been admitted (vide case number CWP-PIL-71-2018) and the court has directed that any action or decision taken by the respondents (state of Punjab and others) in pursuant to the provisions of the Act under challenge, shall abide by the outcome of this writ petition.”In the OTS policy, the government has laid down certain provisions which would govern the conversion of SCOs and SCFs into commercial entities. These include calculation of entire area at the stipulated rates, mode of payment – in lump sum or four equated six monthly instalments, architectural control of area to be converted, demolition of excess coverage, structural stability of the building, availability of sufficient parking space or making provisions for increase in parking area.It has also been made clear that in scheme areas the competent authority shall follow the procedure as laid down in Section 192 of the Punjab Municipal Act, Section 275 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act and Section 43 of the Punjab Town Improvement Act, 1922, – as applicable before according final approval. Further, the scheme would not be applicable in case of group housing/flatted development where all stories have been earmarked as residential.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/engineers-fume-over-one-time-settlement-policy-260278
29-05-2021||Manav Mander||64 patients of black fungus, only 20 injections allocated||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 28A total of 64 patients suffering from mucormycosis (black fungus) are admitted to various city hospitals but only 20 amphotricin B injections were received by the district. Today seven more patients were diagnosed of black fungus, out of which four belong to Ludhiana and three to other districts, making the total number of positive cases 64.Nearly 30 injections are administered to a patient during the treatment and seven are given on a single day.The DMCH was allotted eight injections, CMCH and SPS were given four each and two each were given to Deep Hospital and SAS Grewal Hospital.Earlier, the demand for the injection was minimal and it was not produced in bulk but a sudden spike in the demand has led to its shortage.Deepak Malhotra, whose father is Covid positive and admitted to a private hospital, said the doctor had prescribed the injection but it was not available.“Neither the hospital’s pharmacy has this injection, nor is available in the market. Some other injections are available but I don’t know about their authenticity,” said Deepak.Navneet Kumar, family member of another patient, said, “The government should ensure its availability but it has failed to do so. I am running from pillar to post to procure these for my father who is Covid positive as well.”Zonal Licensing Authority Kulwinder Singh said the stock that had been received was distributed to the hospitals and the next stock was expected in a day or two. “We have learnt that the state has received 970 injections from the Centre but it will take a couple of days for stock allotment and distribution,” he said.Meanwhile, the expert committee for mucormycosis has recommended injection amphotericin B (conventional) or liposomal amphotericin B or tab posaconazole or tab itraconazole for management and treatment of confirmed cases of mucormycosis.The drugs are issued as per the availability of stock with the state headquarters. Drugs are issued from the state headquarters to the office of Civil Surgeon of the respective district from where they are allocated, after checking the record of the patients, to the government and private hospitals where the patient is admitted by the drug inspector.“The details of all the confirmed patients have to be entered/updated on the portal. The drugs are issued only after the portal has been updated. The stock of the drugs issued is maintained by the Civil Surgeon. In any unfortunate incidence, if any patient dies, the remaining drugs are taken back by the office of Civil Surgeon. If a patient is cured/discharged or dies, the status should be updated on the portal,” said Kulwinder Singh.Mucormycosis Mortality committeesAs per the recommendations of the expert committee for mucormycosis, all the government and private hospitals treating black fungus should have a mucormycosis mortality committee, which should conduct audit of all deaths and clearly certify the cause of death. The mortality committee should include an ENT surgeon, anaesthesiologist and a medical specialist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/64-patients-of-black-fungus-only-20-injections-allocated-260279
29-05-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana cycle manufacturers worried over lack of grants to MSMEs||The United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) here has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issues being faced by the MSME (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises) sector during the pandemic. In the letter, the UCPMA stated that the government had promised to support the MSME sector during the lockdown of last year, the importance of which was recognised by the Finance Minister in the 2020 Budget Speech as well. “Many sectors received grants and the MSME sector was also expecting the same. But in the name of grants, only bank moratorium period was extended and loans were rescheduled,” members of the association said. The UCPMA president, DS Chawla, said burden on the sector was increasing as the extended period attracted more interest, which became a liability. “We want this sector needs to be treated in the manner agriculture sector is, which is given aids as grants and not as a loan,” said Chawla.  “Steel companies are more interested in exporting than feeding the domestic industry. We urge the government to immediately ban the export of raw steel and the manufactured product be given to the local industry first. A steel regulatory committee should be formed with due representation to the MSMEs. Bank interest for the period of the first and second wave of the pandemic should also be waived,” said the UCPMA president. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-cycle-manufacturers-worried-over-lack-of-grants-to-msmes-260280
29-05-2021||Ludhiana||Coffee table book on Guru Teg Bahadur released by PAU VC||Session on direct-seeded rice technologyThe Skill Development Centre of the university organised an online training course on direct-seeded rice technology for farmers. A total of 60 farmers and farm women attended the training course. Dr Kiranjot Sidhu, associate director (Skill Development), said the university was encouraging farmers to enhance rice cultivation area under the DSR technology, which was a water-saving as well as labour-saving technology. PAU expert Dr Amit Kaul explained the agronomic practices for the DSR technology with emphasis on field preparation, weed management, irrigation and fertilisation. Another expert Dr Rajesh Goyal demonstrated the use of machinery for the DSR technology. He said it could also be practiced using machines available at home.Training course on ‘Role of Internet of Things’The Skill Development Centre of the university organized a two-day online training course on the “Role of Internet of Things (IoT) in transfer of agricultural technologies” for in-service candidates. A total of 18 agriculture, horticulture and soil conservation officers, scientists from PAU and the Krishi Vigyan Kendras attended the course. Dr Kiranjot Sidhu, associate director (Skill Development), said the Food and Agriculture Organization estimated the need to produce 70 per cent more food in the world by 2050 to meet the demand of growing population. “The IoT solutions are focused on helping farmers to bridge the food supply-demand gap by ensuring higher crop yields, profitability and protection of the environment,” she added.Lecture on navigation for PhD positionsThe Department of Extension Education organised a lecture on “Navigation for PhD positions in foreign universities and setting up CVs and linkages on LinkedIn” as a part of an interactive lecture series. Kritika Gupta, a PAU alumnus with bachelor’s degree in nutrition and dietetics, was the keynote speaker for the lecture. Currently, she is a graduate assistant at the Department of Nutrition and Hospitality Management at University of Mississippi, US. More than 150 students participated in the lecture. Gupta shared her experience and journey while applying for PhD in foreign universities, and told students about the preparation and presentation of CVs while applying for PhD courses and updation of LinkedIn profiles to develop good links with the professionals around the world. She also briefed the participants about the dos and don’ts while requesting for various positions in reputed universities abroad.Lecture on effective communication skillsThe communication centre and Department of Extension Education of Punjab Agricultural University today jointly held a lecture on effective communication skills. The lecture was attended by the faculty of the university, and scientists from the Krishi Vigyan Kendras and Farm Advisory Service Centres. Dr G Jaya, deputy director (HRD), National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE), was the keynote speaker of the day. She said: “Communication promotes motivation, helps in socialising, alters one’s attitude and assists in controlling process.” Dr Jaya explained in detail various types of communication and also highlighted the seven Cs of communication — credibility, completeness, clarity, correctness, consistency, concreteness and conciseness. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/coffee-table-book-on-guru-teg-bahadur-released-by-pau-vc-260281
29-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Para-karate athlete gets monetry aid||Ludhiana, May 28 The chairman of the Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB), Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, has assured full support to para-karate athlete Tarun Sharma. Bindra said he would also take up the matter of ensuring employment to Tarun at the earliest. Bindra provided financial support of Rs5,100 and sports kits to Tarun. He said the player had made the state proud by achieving marvellous success at both national and international tournaments. “It was a matter of great honour for all Punjabis that Sharma has made a niche in the game with his sheer hard work and dedication. I will also hold consultations with the Director of Sports, Punjab, regarding a permanent job for Tarun at the earliest so that he can continue his training and can bring more laurels to the state and country,” the chairman said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/para-karate-athlete-gets-monetry-aid-260282
29-05-2021||Lovleen Bains
||Sanitary workers refuse to relent till demands met||Doraha, May 28 Protesting sanitary workers submitted two memorandums to the president of the Municipal Council and Payal tehsildar, respectively as their strike entered the 15th day today. The workers had been protesting against the non-fulfilment of their demands while the sanitary conditions of the town have gone from from bad to worse. The council chief, councillors of various wards and government officers have asked them to end their strike in view of the pandemic and cooperate with residents who may be suffering from one ailment or the other if serious sanitary conditions, as of now, are allowed to prevail. Payal Tehsildar Pardeep Bains, who met the sanitary workers on behalf of the SDM, today assured that their demands have already been forwarded through the Deputy Commissioner to the government. The tehsildar asked the safai karamcharis to put off their strike in the larger interest of the residents. He further said the memorandum submitted by them today too shall be sent to the deputy commissioner and the latter apprised of the situation.  Sudarshan Kumar Sharma, president, Municipal Council, who too was given the memorandum by the sanitary workers, said, “We are very well with you and we understand the economic and financial crisis through which your families have to pass many a times due to low wages. We have already approached the local MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha and put forth the representation to be forwarded to the chief minister soon.” “On behalf of the council, I have asked the sweepers to cooperate with the council and residents in the lifting of garbage so that the town can be kept safe in the wake of the pandemic,” Sharma said. The sanitary workers on the other hand have refused to end the dharna.  “We have been the most neglected lot. If the government can think in terms of increasing the wages and salaries of other employees why can’t it do the same for us? Nevertheless, the government is fully aware that the entire system comes to a halt when we strike work. We have always been on the forefront in the fight against Covid by engaging in regular sanitisation. There is a total indifference on the part of the government for sanitation workers,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sanitary-workers-refuse-to-relent-till-demands-met-260283
29-05-2021||Manav Mander||Multivitamins marked with red dot in Fateh kit irks vegetarians||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 28Multivitamins proided in a few Fateh kits across the state for Covid positive patients are marked with red dot (indicating ingredient of animal origin) which is upsetting patients who are pure vegetarians.A patient, Baljeet Kaur, said she was a vegetarian and always requests her doctor to prescribe her vegetarian tablets but the multivitamins in the kit bears a red dot.“Many multivitamins are available in the market and the department should give those marked with green dot so that the tablets suit everyone,” said Baljeet.A city resident, Rakesh Jain, whose son recently tested positive was provided a Fateh kit by the department.“The multivitamin tablets are made from ingredients of animal origin as those were marked with a red dot. My family is purely vegetarian and it has upset our religious sentiments as well. Either the government should mark the Fateh kit boxes with red or green dots or only green dotted multivitamins should be given as these are suitable for everyone,” he said.Another patient who received such multivitamin tablets said he was allergic to egg and always consume eatables marked with a green dot.“I was about to take the tablet. When I checked, it was marked with a red dot. Such things should be taken care of by the department,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/multivitamins-marked-with-red-dot-in-fateh-kit-irks-vegetarians-260284
29-05-2021||Mandi Ahmedgarh||Revenue staff rue govt apathy, threaten to intensify agitation||Members of the Revenue Patwar Union Punjab and the Revenue Kanungo Union burnt effigies of the state government at the sub-registrar office here on Friday. Accusing the government of ignoring their demands, the protesters threatened to intensify the stir if the demands were not accepted. Rationalisation of work allocation, restoration of old pension scheme, ban on police action without investigation, provision of laptops for patwaris, appointment of more revenue officials, including patwaris and kanungos, approval for posts of office kanungo, assistant office kanungo and khewat staff at all subdivisions, equal pay for all categories of patwaris and reduction of probation period from five year to three years, were cited among major demands of the union. Convener of the action Jagdeep Singh said activists of the coordination committee of the Revenue Patwar Union Punjab and the Revenue Kanungo Union Punjab had organised rallies at subdivision level to protest against the alleged unconcern of the government towards demands of revenue officials.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/revenue-staff-rue-govt-apathy-threaten-to-intensify-agitation-260285
29-05-2021||---||Ludhiana DC launches YouTube channel to raise awareness on Covid, vaccine||Ludhiana, May 28 The Deputy Commissioner (DC), Varinder Kumar Sharma, on Friday said vaccination, correct and complete information to the people regarding Covid are crucial to stem the spread of the pandemic. After virtually launching a YouTube channel of CityNeeds, an NGO, the DC appealed to everyone to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. He said the vaccine not only protects your lives but reduces chances of hospitalisation even if one contracts the virus after vaccination. He said aggressive participation by people in the vaccination drive would build herd immunity and would help to prevent the third wave of infectious disease. Municipal Councillor Mamta Ashu exhorted the youth to come forward and shoulder the responsibility of educating the rural folks about the importance of Covid apt behaviour and vaccination.  Dr Bishav Mohan asked the queries of people to the DC, Municipal Councillor and other experts. Dr SB Pandhi from CityNeeds said that the channel has over 200 short videos by 36 prominent doctors of DMCH, CMCH, Civil Hospital and Fortis Hospital addressing most commonly asked questions about Covid. He said the objective is to provide a platform for authentic information and guidance about Covid prevention, treatment and preparation for the anticipated third wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-dc-launches-youtube-channel-to-raise-awareness-on-covid-vaccine-260286
29-05-2021||Shivani Bhakoo
||Pupils miss friends, school-time fun||Tribune News Service  Ludhiana, May 28 The lack of clarity on the conduct of examination and missing the fun of going to school has left students of senior secondary classes anxious and perturbed.  For Jasnit (name changed), a Class XII student, sitting at home due to the lockdown has killed the joy of meeting friends at school and hampered her preparation. “I had never imagined in my life that I would be so unlucky and will not be able to enjoy the best years of my school life. Students of Classes XI and XII have to plan their academic future but the pandemic has changed everything. We are not able to meet our friends, teachers. And now after the exams, new chapter of our journey starts and we all will never meet again,” she said.  Jasnit is not alone, many other students like her feel disappointed over the present scenario in which they are unable to go to school, enjoy the last years of their school life. They feel that almost 15-16 months have passed since they are sitting at home, with nothing much to do.  One of the teachers of a reputed school here said students are frustrated and disappointed these days. “We had completed their syllabus but still the students look confused. Again they are approaching us for taking their tuitions or extra classes. Parents, teachers should act as pillar of strength for the students at such testing times,” said the teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pupils-miss-friends-school-time-fun-260287
29-05-2021||Ludhiana||Scheme for free sanitary pads to women launched||In order to instil confidence and empower girls/women by promoting safe menstrual health hygiene, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Friday launched the state government’s ambitious ‘Udaan scheme’ in the district under which sanitary pads would be distributed free of cost to needy women and girls every month.Participating in the virtual state-level program presided over by Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary on the occasion of International Menstrual Hygiene Day, the DC said nine sanitary pads would be delivered to each beneficiary per month through anganwadi workers.He said school drop-out/out of school girls, young women not attending college, BPL women, homeless women, migratory women, and every needy woman who are not covered under any scheme would be covered under the programme.The DC said the program would help to bring out of school/drop-out girls back in academics as it would boost their confidence in completing their daily chores during menstruation and ensure their personal development.He said that Ludhiana has 2,487 anganwadi centres in the district and nearly 4,500 anganwadi workers and helpers who would be instrumental in making the programme a success.He added that anganwadi workers and helpers would ensure the registration of the beneficiaries under the scheme to ensure sanitary pads can be delivered every month on time.Meanwhile, to create social awareness about maintaining menstrual hygiene, Team FICCI FLO, Ludhiana, organised a mensural hygiene programme with Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana, under its “Eat, Heal, Pray” drive. They organised a talk on menstrual hygiene, facilitated the Covid warriors nurses and donated sanitary napkins to all gynaecology ward patients.Dr Kavita Bhatti, Head, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, CMCH, talked about importance of menstrual hygiene and best practices to be followed. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/scheme-for-free-sanitary-pads-to-women-launched-260288
29-05-2021||---||Ludhiana CMC principal elected chief of stroke assn||Ludhiana, May 28 Dr Jeyaraj Durai Pandian, principal of Christian Medical College, has been elected president of the Indian Stroke Association. He is also the current vice-president of the World Stroke Organisation and the Chair of the Asian Stroke Advisory Panel. He started the Indian Stroke Clinical Trial Network (INSTRuCT) to carry out stroke clinical trials which are relevant to our nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-cmc-principal-elected-chief-of-stroke-assn-260289
