31-05-2021||Ludhiana||Two-hour further curfew relaxation in Ludhiana||Ludhiana will get another two-hour relaxation in the daily curfew imposed in the district, said District Magistrate, Varinder Kumar Sharma, on Monday.According to the fresh order, the daily curfew will be reduced to 12-hour daily with immediate effect till June 10.While all the shops, commercial establishments, and private offices will be allowed to open between 5 am and 5 pm daily on weekdays, the weekend lockdown will continue from Friday 5 pm to Monday 5 am.With dine-in to remain completely banned and take away to be allowed till 5 pm on weekdays, the delivery of food, parcels, and postal articles will be allowed till 9 pm and the delivery persons will have to carry curfew passes during their movement during curfew hours.The shops, commercial establishments, and private offices found open during curfew hours and eateries allowing dine-in will be challaned and sealed till the curfew remains imposed in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-hour-further-curfew-relaxation-in-ludhiana-261176
31-05-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Decline in cases good sign, but can’t let guard down||Despite consistent dip in cases, curfew and other restrictions must be continued until Covid ends completely. It is a proven fact that lockdown helps in decreasing the caseload. As a responsible citizen we should obey to all norms by the authorities concerned. Our small action can make a large change in society.Simarjot KaurContinue restrictionsThe present system of restrictions should continue. It is a matter of great satisfaction that a remarkable recovery has been made in the last few days in terms of decline in cases. This is the result of observing government guidelines. However, we should not be complacent about it. We cannot afford to let our guard down. The more the precautions the better it is. The world will be free from the pandemic very soon. With the advancement of technology and medical research human being is capable of controlling any disease.JBS NandaNo need to extend lockdownFortunately, Covid cases have dropped owing to the curfew. The lockdown need not be extended as many people find it difficult to make ends meet as they are unable to get wages. Every institute and office must be opened gradually as people, especially teenagers are suffering from many mental and health problems due to excessive pressure of online study. People must become responsible and continue following the Covid guidelines properly and help the government curb the situation.Amarpreet KaurAn ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cureNow, there is hardly any need to tighten the noose further as far as lockdown and curfew restrictions for the public are concerned as that will do more harm by shattering their economic condition. The authorities concerned, NGOs and the media should continue their efforts to awaken the masses regarding significance of vaccination plus preventive measures suggested by the ICMR and the Government of India.Dr Sunil ChopraDon’t let your guard downIt is a good news for city residents and others in general that the Covid positivity rate is declining continuously. However, the restrictions should continue at least for the next 15-20 days. People must wear masks and follow other norms till the virus vanishes. More and more testing should be done and special drives to test the public in adjoining villages be carried out. Local governments must distribute pamphlets to each and every household directing what to do and what not to do during a pandemic. People must be made aware about the outbreak of black fungus also so that timely treatment be taken. The residents must cooperate with the government and fellow citizens.Farzana KhanPrevention is better than cureThe restrictions should be continued further. The new variant of Covid-19 spreads rapidly in case of any negligence by people and the government. In view of the current situation, everyone should follow Covid norms properly. The vaccination drive should be increased day by day so that precious lives can be saved. The proverb “Prevention is better than cure” should be followed. Those who violate Covid norms should be punished. The new danger of black, white and yellow fungus has also increased which needs to be addressed at the earliest.Adish SoodAssist govt in fight against CovidThe significant drop in the Covid positive cases has been noticed in Ludhiana. If it is due to the lockdown and the weekend curfew then it should continue till zero death are reported. Along with the curfew and the lockdown other norms such as wearing double mask, keeping distance of at least six feet, washing hands should be followed strictly. Only fifty percent staff on rotational basis should be called in offices and other establishments to further bring down the number of positive cases in Ludhiana. Residents must assist the local government by following the norms and assisting others who are suffering with this virus. There must be a proper vigil on the unnecessary movement of public and must check on gathering.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiPunish violatorsThe daily curfew and weekend lockdown have shown their advantages and resulted in significant decrease in Covid cases in the city. Though the number of deaths has still not been brought under control, these steps must be continued for more time to come. These steps along with other measures will certainly result in bringing active cases under control. There is also a strong need to check persons who do not follow the precautionary instructions given by the Health Department pertaining to the control of the virus and for that purpose, the help of local police must be taken. The police must be strict in catching the culprits and punishing them with fine and even registering FIR. Simultaneously, vaccination programme must be strengthened to develop immunity in the masses so that they do not easily catch infection of this virus. Multiple steps must be continued to keep the disease under control in the city and reduce the number of deaths.Gautam DevRelaxations should be provided in curfewConsidering the decline in number of Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana, curbs should be further eased. Prolonged curfew will bring the daily wage labourers and vendors on the brink of starvation. A relaxation in the evening hours be also given as morning hours are of little use for fast food vendors, dhabas and restaurants. Customers rarely turn up at food stalls during morning hours. Mostly, the residents come out of their houses to grab a bite in the evening. If the administration is unable to lift the restrictions in the evening hours, a monetary help be given till the situation improves. However, the guidelines and curfew restrictions should be implemented more effectively and strict disciplinary action should be taken against the violators.RS SembhiAny laxity on our part may cost us dearThe credit for the decrease of Covid positivity rate in the city goes to residents as well as the administration. We all need to be cautious as we can’t lower the guard with respect to the disease. Any laxity on our part may cost us dear. Surely, some relaxations must be there as the situation has improved drastically, but all Covid-19 norms should be followed in letter and spirit by the shopkeepers as well as the customers, as it will not take long for the pandemic to strike back. Therefore, relaxations with caution must be there in place to contain the disease, otherwise whatever efforts we have done till date to control the virus will prove to be futile. The citizens should themselves follow Covid appropriate behaviour so that there is no need of strictness by the administration. It is only with the combined efforts that we can win over the pandemic.Bir Devinder Singh BediCurfew, lockdown should be liftedThere has been a favourable change in terms of Covid spread as active cases have dipped. The government should now observe the situation and try to introduce some relaxations to each and every industry so that economic condition of the city can be improved. Curfew and lockdown should be lifted up so that common man can survive in this tough era because schemes of the government are hardly providing any benefit to the deserving people while non deserving people are taking benefits from these schemes because of the corrupt practices of the officials.Ritu PriyaTake proper precautionsIn my opinion the relaxations should be done slowly over a period of time as we are still not in a good stage and immediate relaxations will bring us back to where we had started the battle. Though the strict actions by district administration and support of public has helped a lot in fighting this battle and decreasing the daily positive numbers, we should still take proper precautions so that we can overcome the battle completely.Rajat KapoorNot the right time for relaxationsIt is result of restrictions that Covid positively rate has dropped to record low of 3.99 per cent. But it is not the time of unlocking. Crowd on roads may push us back into a bad situation. Some relaxations to worst-hit sectors should be given. People should also understand the helplessness of the government.SHASHI BHUSHAN GOYALOPEN HOUSE QUESTIONA health team on duty for sensitising residents about the deadly virus and collecting samples for the Covid test was attacked by the residents at a Ludhiana village last week, leaving a multipurpose health worker seriously injured. With the government having pulled out all stops to check further spread of the dreaded virus, how can we win the battle against Covid when the healthcare workers are under attack? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/decline-in-cases-good-sign-but-cant-let-guard-down-261144
31-05-2021||---||Man, aides booked for car snatching||Ludhiana, May 30The police have booked Rajan, alias Raja, and two of his aides in a car snatching case. Complainant Gagandeep Singh of Tajpur had told the police that on May 23, when he was present near Rosy Chicken, three unknown persons carrying sharp weapons snatched the car from him and fled. Assistant Sub-Inspector Jagdish said one accused had been identified and efforts were on to nab the remaining two. The motive behind incident is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-aides-booked-for-car-snatching-261142
31-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Info on cops matter of public interest: High Court||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana May 30Information on personnel posted with the Ludhiana police “not personal in nature”, said the Punjab and Haryana High Court after the Commissioner’s office and the State Information Commission denied the info to an RTI activist under Section 8(1)(j) of the Right to Information Act.RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal had sought information about the personnel posted with the Ludhiana Police against the government’s transfer policy. However, he was denied the information by both Public Information Officer, Ludhiana police, and the State Information Commission, following which he approached the court.Sabharwal said he had filed the RTI as there could be many policemen in the department who had not been transferred for years due to their “political affiliations” or “connections” in the Police Department.“The Public Information Officer (PIO) of the Ludhiana police denied the information saying that it is of personal nature,” said Sabharwal.“I then approached the State Information Commission. But the commission upheld the decision of the Ludhiana police PIO,” he added.Left with no choice, I then filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, urging it to direct the Ludhiana police to provide the information concerned, said Sabharwal.The court observed: “Inter alia submits that information sought was of public interest as no police official can stay at a particular station for more than five years at a stretch and for a total period of 15/10 years at a particular station in his entire service. Thus, Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act, is not attracted.”The court, however, adjourned the case till July 26, stating that it was not an “urgent” matter.“There is merit in the petition. However, it is not of such a nature that it should be listed during this period when only cases of urgent nature are being taken up,” said the HC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/info-on-cops-matter-of-public-interest-high-court-261141
31-05-2021||---||Decision put on hold till Ludhiana  Municipal Corporation House meeting||Ludhiana, May 30After traders raised their voice against the Municipal Corporation for charging penalties and late fee on the renewal of trade licences after the due date, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu today directed the officials concerned issue/renew trade licences as per the old rates till the time the civic body’s General House takes a decision on the fine and late fees.The Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company had earlier sought suggestions on imposing a penalty of Rs 1,000 and a fine of Rs 100 per day on renewal of trade licence after the due date.Recently, some BJP leaders had raised voice against the Municipal Corporation for charging increased late fee from the traders.The members of the Knitwear Club also raised objections over move.BJP leaders alleged that the civic body had started charging increased late fee without even presenting the proposal before the MC House.They claimed that when some traders went to deposit the licence fee of Rs 190 at Municipal Corporation’s Zone-B office, they were asked to pay a fine of Rs 6,600.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/decision-put-on-hold-till-ludhiana-municipal-corporation-house-meeting-261140
31-05-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Penalty on renewal of trade licence: Govt left red faced||Ludhiana, May 30Undue haste and failure to follow the laid down procedure in bringing an amendment on rebate, penalty and auto renewal of trade licences – issued by Urban Local Bodies – has left the government red faced.The Municipal Corporation functionaries here are facing the wrath of the trade and business community and the opposition parties have got a stick to beat the ruling party.The amended conditions on withdrawal of rebate for renewal of trade licence and imposition of one time penalty of Rs 1,000 and a fine of Rs 100 per day on renewal after the expiry of licence on March 31 every year were put on the e-sewa portal of the Local Government Department, Punjab, on February 4.On the same day, the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), through its general manager (IT & Legal), sought suggestions from all the MC Commissioners, Regional Deputy Directors, Local Government and Executive Officers of the Municipal Councils across the state on configuration of rebate and penalty provisions in the mSewa portal for issuance of new trade licenses and auto renewal.According to the PMIDC letter, the suggestions received till February 9 were to be discussed in an online meeting scheduled to be held on February 11. But since the amended provisions were uploaded on the e-portal, the MC staff across the state started charging one time penalty and daily fine as per the revised rates.In Ludhiana, the senior MC functionaries though bowed to demands of the angry members of the business community and deferred the implementation of the revised rates till the matter is discussed at the Finance and Contract Committee meeting and also in the MC General House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/penalty-on-renewal-of-trade-licence-govt-left-red-faced-261139
31-05-2021||---||Experts share tips on year-round production of green fodder||Ludhiana, May 30Green fodder is the main stay of animal health and their production is the backbone of dairy industry. Dairy animals obtain nutrients, viz., energy, protein, fibre, minerals, vitamins and water from the forages for the maintenance of their body and optimum performance and hence year-round production of fodder becomes necessary.Maninder Kaur, Department of Plant Breeding and GeneticsSince feeding alone accounts for 60-70 per cent of the total cost of milk production, availability of adequate nutritious fodder coming from cheaper sources assumes greater importance.“Feeding green fodders to the animals helps to keep them healthy, reduce micronutrient deficiencies and increase milk production. Since, feeding alone accounts for 60-70 per cent of the total cost of milk production, availability of adequate nutritious fodder coming from cheaper sources assumes greater importance,” said Maninder Kaur from Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics.Hence, by providing sufficient quantities of fodder instead of costly concentrates and feeds to the milch animals, the cost of milk production can be considerably reduced.For healthy growth and to get more and cheap milk, each animal requires 40-50 kg green fodder per day. But there is a lean period of two months in Punjab i.e., May-June and Nov-Dec, when green fodder is not enough to feed animals. On the contrary, there are two months when surplus fodder is available i.e., Feb-Mar and Aug-Sep. The surplus fodder can therefore be preserved as silage or hay to be used during the lean periods to meet the per day green fodder requirement of 40-50 kg per animal, added further Harpreet Kaur Oberoi and Devinderpal Singh from Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics.Techniques farmers can adoptPerennial FodderNapier-bajra is a perennial fodder and the crop once planted gives fodder for 2-3 years. It can be propagated vegetatively from root slips or stem cuttings. It yields most of the fodder between March and November and is dormant in winters. During winters, oats or senji can be sown to obtain green fodder. The crop planted in March will start giving fodder in May and fodder is available in lean period of May-June.Multi-cut Fodder cropsRabi season crops berseem, shaftal, lucerne and ryegrass and kharif season crops sorghum and guinea grass are multi-cut fodder crops.Single-cut fodder cropsKharif crops- Maize, sorghum, bajra, guara and cowpea and Rabi crops- Senji and oats are the single-cut crops. Sowing of these single-cut crops can provide fodder whole year.Fodder in crop rotationIn Punjab, wheat-rice is the principle cropping rotation. After harvesting of wheat and before sowing of rice, there is a gap of 45-50 days in which fodder crops (bajra, maize, cowpea) could be sown to get fodder at the time of lean periods i.e., May-June or these fodder crops could be preserved as silage.Multiple cropping systemIn multiple cropping system, to get fodder at different times, fodder crops could be sown at different times. With proper irrigation facilities, farmer by adopting multiple cropping system of green fodder could get year-round fodder for his animals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/experts-share-tips-on-year-round-production-of-green-fodder-261138
31-05-2021||Ludhiana||Juvenile held for raping 4-year-old||Jail Warder suspendedLudhiana: Jail Superintendent, Ludhiana, Balkar Singh, on Sunday suspended Jail Warder Harjit Singh for negligence of of duty. As per information, a few days ago two jail inmates indulged in a scuffle in the central block of the jail. Despite the Jail Warder was on duty and he had intervened in the matter, he did not inform the Jail Superintendent about the incident. On Sunday, the Jail Superintendent came to know about the incident. After which he sought explanation from the jail warder in this regard and later placed him under suspension. Sources said the inmates indulged in a scuffle after having arguments over some issue. Several jail inmates had also witnessed the incident. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/juvenile-held-for-raping-4-year-old-261137
31-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Lone Ludhiana-Delhi flight to remain suspended till June 15||Ludhiana, May 30The lone flight operating between Ludhiana and Delhi will remain suspended till June 15.The suspension has been extended till June 15, said Alliance Air, which operates the flight between the two cities.Earlier, with the spike in Covid-19 cases and imposition of lock down in the region, the flight was first suspended till May 20 and later, till May 31.Ludhiana Airport officials said the last Delhi-Ludhiana-Delhi flight operated on April 9. Thereafter, the flight had remained suspended with the airline attributing the move to operational reasons.Alliance Air official said, “The passenger traffic, pandemic situation and restrictions on travel will be reviewed by the authorities before a decision is taken to restore the flight which operates four days a week.”Sources claimed that the flight was grounded due to low passenger traffic in view of the pandemic and disruption in travel plans of a majority of travelers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lone-ludhiana-delhi-flight-to-remain-suspended-till-june-15-261136
31-05-2021||---||Ludhiana Municipal Corporation may face the music if C&D waste not managed in 3 months||Ludhiana, May 30If the civic body fails to manage the construction and demolition waste timely, it may have to pay the environmental compensation. The NGT panel has recently asked the Municipal Corporation (MC) to ensure management of construction and demolition waste within three months, otherwise environmental compensation would be imposed on it.A plant for the management of construction and demolition waste is yet to be set up at Dhandari Kalan.However, tenders have been floated for the construction of a boundary wall at the site where the plant has to be set up under the Smart City Mission.In the absence of any such construction and demolition (C&D) waste management plant at present, the construction, and demolition waste is being dumped on roadsides and vacant sites in the city, causing inconvenience to the public.Heaps of such construction waste can be seen in some green belt areas of the city. The waste generated during demolition drives, conducted by the civic body, was also being dumped along with the Buddha Nullah and at other locations.A resident of Chandigarh Road, Jagjeet Singh, said: “It is a common practice in the city as debris is being dumped on vacant plots or roadsides. Such practices should be stopped at the earliest. The authorities concerned should take necessary steps for waste management at the earliest.”The MC had been planning to set up a plant for the management of the C&D waste in the city for a long time. The project was later shifted under the Smart City Mission.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had also visited Jodhpur to study the functioning of the C&D waste management plant last year.The estimated cost of the plant in Ludhiana would be around Rs 12 crore, as per information.Meanwhile, Superintending Engineer Rahul Gagneja could not be contacted for comments.Debris dumped on roadsides irks publicIn the absence of any construction and demolition (C&D) waste management plant at present, the construction and demolition waste is being dumped on roadsides and vacant sites in the city, causing inconvenience to the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-municipal-corporation-may-face-the-music-if-cd-waste-not-managed-in-3-months-261135
31-05-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Despite weekend lockdown, people visit city parks in large numbers in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 30Despite the entry into Rose Garden and Rakh Bagh here is prohibited on Saturday and Sunday due to the weekend lockdown, a large number of people can be seen visiting these parks.People entering such places are not even following the Covid guidelines. During a visit to these parks on Sunday, some people were seen exercising while others were sitting and chit chatting as these parks are exempted from the restrictions.Movement of people was noticed in the wee hours. Many people were present during afternoon, evening or late evening hours also.Most of them were not wearing mask and a few were sitting in groups, violating the social distancing norms of the authorities.Interestingly, people of all age groups are visiting these parks.“Yes we know that the administration has banned the entry of people into these parks on weekend and there is a partial ban during working days. However, what would we do at home for the whole day during this Covid time, “ said an elderly man, who was seen at Rakh Bagh.Though parking at Rakh Bagh and Rose Garden was sealed by the authorities to prevent the movement of people, people nowadays park their vehicles on roads outside parks and enter from small gates. Some even enter the parks by scaling the outer wall.On Sunday morning, police personnel had stopped people from entering the parks and vehicles found parked outside these places were also challaned. People were also told to follow the lockdown restrictions, otherwise they may face legal action.Challans issued to violators on sundayOn Sunday morning, police personnel had stopped people from entering parks and vehicles found parked outside these places were also challaned. People were also told to follow the lockdown restrictions or be ready to face legal action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/despite-weekend-lockdown-people-visit-city-parks-in-large-numbers-in-ludhiana-261134
31-05-2021||---||Covid-positive doctor delivers baby, discharged after 15 days of struggle||Ludhiana, May 30With sheer courage and timely help from a team of doctors, she not only fought Covid but also brought a new life into this world. “I am blessed that I am going back home with my son in my arms,” said Monika after she was discharged from the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.A doctor herself, Monika was admitted to the hospital with high fever, severe Covid pneumonia, low oxygen level, and 32-weeks pregnancy.“My critical situation was a challenge for the doctors. I find myself lucky as they (doctors) fought hard and saved me,” said Monika.The biggest challenge before the doctors was to save both mother and child.“Monika was having oxygen saturation level of 80 per cent. The challenge before us was to save both mother and child and we decided to go for an emergency C-section,” said Dr Kamakshi, senior anaesthesiologist.“She gave birth to a baby boy but her condition worsened as her oxygen saturation level dipped to 70 per cent and she turned unconscious. It was then that the doctors decided to put her on ventilator support,” she added.“She was on ventilator support but still her oxygen level was not coming to normal. Ventilator was adjusted to various settings and finally after eight days she was taken off the ventilator support,” informed Dr Rajesh Mahajan, medicine expert.Dr HS Dhooriya and Dr Parmod Sood, meanwhile, said expecting mothers “need to be more careful” in these times.“This was a difficult case but we are happy that the patient (Monika) came out of it and is fully recovered now,” said the duo.“Her recovery comes as a breath of fresh air amid the gloom. It is only due to her indomitable will power and support of doctors that she (Monika) is going back home with her little bundle of joy,” said senior cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, who guided the team of doctors who attended Monika.The family members were exhilarated to see Monika going back to home after a tough struggle of 15 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-positive-doctor-delivers-baby-discharged-after-15-days-of-struggle-261133
31-05-2021||Manav Mander||Distribution of Ayush-64 kick-starts in Ludhiana, district Ayurveda Department unaware||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, May 30Free distribution of Ayush-64 tablets for Covid patients started in Ludhiana today but the district Ayurveda Department is unaware about the exercise.There is no coordination between the NGO, Sewa Bharti, which has been given the responsibility of distributing the medicine, and the local Ayurveda Department.Even the two doctors which have been appointed to the panel for providing consultation to the patients are from Ayurveda Department, Patiala, and not Ludhiana.The Ministry of AYUSH is distributing Ayush-64 tablets through NGO Sewa Bharti across the country.In Ludhiana, distribution centres have been set up at Sunder Nagar, Kitchlu Nagar, Mundian Kalan and Hambran Road and medicine will be available from 11 am to 1 pm every day.District Ayurveda and Unani Officer Dr Pankaj Gupta said they were not aware whether the district had received the stock of medicine or not.“We have not been approached by the NGO in this regard. We don’t have any information or data,” said Dr Gupta.Som Nath Aggarwal, who heads the north-India unit of Sewa Bharti, said: “We have set up four centres where people can come and take the medicine by showing their test reports.”“We have received nearly 10,000 bottles of the medicine which will be distributed in the district,” he said.Rakesh Prashar, who looks after the Ludhiana unit of Sewa Bharti, said: “Family members of the patients can collect the medicine from our centres, and in case they cannot come, arrangements can be made for sending the medicine to their home.”“We also have two expert doctors from the Ayurveda Department on the panel and in case patients need any consultation they can be contacted,” said Prashar, adding that the two doctors from the Ayurveda Department in Patiala can be consulted on phone.Director, Ayurveda, Dr Poonam Vashisht, meanwhile, said ideally the NGO and the Ayurveda Department should work together for the distribution of tablets.“For many districts, I have arranged the online meetings between the department and the NGO so that they work as a unit,” she said.The district Ayurveda Department will co-ordinate with the office of Civil Surgeon and get the list of the Covid positive patients and the team will then deliver the medicine at their homes. The role of the doctors here is to guide and assist the patients about the medicine, said Dr Poonam Vashisht.When asked, if setting up of collection centers was a good idea, Dr Vashisht said: “In some cases patients’ family members can pick the medicine, but there are cases where the whole family is positive. In such cases the team should pay a home visit. It is more appropriate to hand over the medicine at patients’ home rather than asking people to collect it from the centre amidst pandemic.”When to take Ayush-64It can be taken by patients at any stage of the Covid-19 disease. However, its efficacy was scientifically studied in asymptomatic, mild and moderate patients. About Ayush-64Ayush-64 is an Ayurvedic formulation developed by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences for management of malaria. The drug has been repurposed as its ingredients showed notable antiviral, immune-modulator and antipyretic properties. The study done on Ayush-64 showed that 35 out of its 36 phyto-constituents have high binding affinity against Covid-19 virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/distribution-of-ayush-64-kick-starts-in-ludhiana-district-ayurveda-department-unaware-261132
31-05-2021||---||Covid-19: 12 more fall prey; 298 test positive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, May 30Today, 298 persons tested positive for Covid while 12 lost their life to the virus. Total positive cases in the district have now reached 83,892 while 1,991 persons have succumbed to the virus so far.There are 4,740 active cases in the district and the case fatality rate at present is 2.3 per cent. Today, 101 patients were admitted to government hospitals and 496 to private hospitals and 41 patients were on ventilator support.Those who tested positive today also include five expectant mothers while tracing of 70 is still underway. Of the 12 deceased, nine were men and three women.According to the Health Department, till date, a total of 13,57,786 samples have been taken, of which reports of 13,57,415 samples have been received. Of these, 12,62,569 samples were found negative while reports of 371 were pending.Today, 14,275 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing of mask, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently to not only save themselves but also keeping everyone around them safe.3 more cases of black fungusOn Sunday, three more cases of black fungus were reported of which one belonged to Ludhiana and two to other districts. Now, the total positive patient tally has reached 72. Eight persons have lost their lives so far of which two were from Ludhiana and six from other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-12-more-fall-prey-298-test-positive-in-ludhiana-261130
