20-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine for all adults: Maharashtra to use development funds||In a special cabinet meeting held on Tuesday, it was decided that the government will use the state’s development funds to procure vaccines, including those which may need to be imported, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said. This decision comes a day after the Centre allowed all adults to seek a vaccine against Covid-19 starting May 1, although people under the age of 45 will only be able to receive doses once private sales begin or if state governments procure stocks for distribution to these age groups. “We currently have two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, but if the need arises, we have also decided to import stock of other vaccines such as Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Sputnik from other countries. There will be no dearth of the money for the vaccine, as we have decided to use the development funds to procure vaccine stock,” Tope said after the meeting. Sputnik V made by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute, was approved formally on April 13 and its initial doses are expected to be imported. On Monday, pharma giant Johnson & Johnson applied to India’s drug regulator seeking permission to conduct Phase-3 clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India as well as for an import license. Last week India said that it would fast-track emergency approvals for vaccines authorised by Western countries and Japan, paving the way for possible imports of Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Moderna shots. None of the companies have announced plans to enter the Indian market under the fast-track routes as yet. In Maharashtra, with 73% of the state population in the age group of above 18 years, more than 90 million people are now eligible for the vaccine. “A lot of the population from the age group of 18-44 years is from the working class and is highly mobile. Thus, they could transmit the virus to others. By vaccinating this age group we could contain the transmission rate at great extent,” Tope said. Maharashtra has around 4200 vaccination centres with a daily inoculation rate of over 350,000 people. The state has so far administered 12.76 million doses on 11.32 million citizens. This means, in a month, 4 million people are being inoculated. At this rate, it would take well over a year to vaccinate the remaining 80 million. The pace needs to be augmented rapidly, a senior official of the public health department said. “We are planning to increase the number of vaccination centres to more than 6000. Our manpower in the government machinery is all set to roll out the drive. There will be large-scale participation of the private sector which will help us in effective implementation of the drive. We expect adequate supply of the vaccine as three more manufacturers are set to enter the market,” Dr TP Lahane, Director of Medical Education and Research, said. Health department officials said that they were expecting guidelines to be issued by the central government soon which would clarify specific questions on cost (how much the Centre will pay, and how much will the state have to spend); supply frequency; and pricing of vaccinations (whether the Centre would put a cap on the price, which Monday’s order said would be decided by the vaccine manufacturers). Apart from this, the state will also have to take a call on which section of the 18-44 age group it would bear the vaccination cost for, as well whether it would need to exercise control over how many vaccine doses can private hospitals buy. This will prove vital to ensure equitable vaccination for all, as well as help the state earmark the outlay for the inoculation. “We have robust infrastructure in Maharashtra with the past experience of implementation of such huge vaccination drive. We are only concerned about the supply of the doses,” said state immunisation officer Dr DN Patil. The state government had been demanding the stock of about 5 million doses per week as it had aimed to double its daily inoculation to 700,000 doses. The official said that though the state has the infrastructure with the capacity of vaccinating 1 million people a day, the health care workers in the government and private sector are fatigued. “We will have to increase the number of vaccination centres to a large number for which additional personnel will be required.” “We are also expecting the price of the vaccine to drop further amid the increase in the demand and one more player (Sputnik) likely to be added in the next few weeks. At the same time, we are also planning to rope in the private sector by allowing the corporate houses to inoculate their employees and social organisations to hold the camps,” said the official. According to the details in the PIB statement issued on Monday, vaccine makers will be able to sell half of what they produce at a price of their choosing to the open market and to state governments. If the vaccines have been imported as ready-to-use, the government will allow all of the stocks to be sold on the open market or to the states. The pricing for any doses sold in the open market will need to be “transparent”, although the government’s release did not indicate a cap. Vaccine manufacturers will still need to supply half the vaccines to the Centre for the state-sponsored component of the vaccination programme, which remains limited to the 45-and-over age group, and health care and front-line workers even after May 1. However, people under the age of 45 will only be able to receive doses once private sales begin or if state governments procure stocks for distribution to these age groups. The Centre said that the allocation of doses to states and Union territories will be on the basis of their active case load and their performance in vaccinating people, while wastage will be taken into effect as criteria that can affect a state negatively when doses are being distributed by Centre. “We never have stock for more than 3-4 days. We have been planning to ramp up the daily inoculation to 6-7 lakh people, but the short supply of the doses is causing a hindrance. Now the Centre has announced to allow the state to procure the stock directly from the manufacturers, but it remains to be seen if the manufacturers have the capacity of the production,” said another official from the health department. Both, Covishield and Covaxin are manufactured in India, by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech respectively. An executive of SII said that the company would be able to ramp up production from the current 60 million doses a month to 110 million doses by June. The Centre on Monday agreed to pay SII ₹3000 crore advance payment of two months for vaccines. J&J and Novavax already have licensed Indian companies (J&J has authorised Biological E and Novavax has authorised Serum Institute of India) to produce millions of doses. Tope said that the United Kingdom vaccinated 60% of its population within three months of the lockdown and it has helped it in bringing down the positivity and mortality rate drastically. He said that the Central government should continue to bear the financial burden for the people above 45 years. “The vaccine companies overwhelmed with the orders from other countries and the waiting period for the delivery is long. The Maharashtra government wants to register its orders for Pfizer, Moderna vaccines in advance,” a health department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-for-all-adults-maharashtra-to-use-development-funds-101618940738240.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 62,097 new Covid-19 cases as tally nears 4 million||Maharashtra’s tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose by more than 60,000 fresh infections on Tuesday as 62,097 people tested positive for the viral disease, according to a health department bulletin. There were 519 related fatalities as well, the bulletin showed, as the death toll reached 61,343. The state’s infection tally stands at 3,960,359.On Monday, the western state reported 58,924 new cases and 351 deaths.As many as 52,412 patients across Maharashtra recovered on the day, taking the overall recoveries to 3,213,464. Also, 265,925 samples were tested for the disease, which is significantly higher than the 221,626 samples tested on the previous day. So far, 24,341,736 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state.Meanwhile, Mumbai, the state capital, reported 7,192 new Covid-19 infections and 34 related deaths. With this, the case tally in the city reached 594,059 while the death toll climbed to 12,446.Also read | Covid-19: In PM Modi’s address to nation, an appeal to his ‘young friends’In Mumbai, the active caseload witnessed a decrease of 2,476 cases and currently stands at 83,934 from the 86,410 reported on the previous day, data from a bulletin released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) showed. Also, 9,641 patients have recovered from the disease on the day which took the total recoveries to 496,263, the bulletin also showed.The current recovery rate in the city stands at 83% and the doubling rate of the disease is currently 47 days, according to the bulletin. Also, between April 13 and 19, the overall growth rate of the coronavirus infections stood at 1.44%. As many as 105 active containment zones are currently in effect within the metropolis.Medical workers in the city tested 45,350 samples for the disease on the day, which pushed the total tests done to 5,027,882, the latest data showed.Amidst the ongoing 15-day curfew implemented on April 13, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday issued additional guidelines about opening of shops in the state. “All Groceries, Vegetable Shops, fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries, confectionaries, all type of food shops (including, chicken, mutton, poultry, fish and eggs), shops related to agricultural implements and farm produce, pet food shops, shops related to materials for impending rainy season for individuals as well as for organisations to be open only between 7am to 11am,” read an order signed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte. The order also says that home delivery from these shops could be availed between 7am and 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-62-097-new-covid-19-cases-as-tally-nears-4-million-101618936354846.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet has urged CM Uddhav Thackeray to declare ‘strict’ lockdown: Health minister Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday the state cabinet has requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to announce a strict lockdown in Maharashtra from tomorrow at 8pm. "This was the request of all ministers to CM, now it is his decision," Tope said while addressing reporters after a cabinet meeting was held.Echoing Tope's remarks, state minister Aslam Sheikh said the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are not going down despite imposing strict restrictions adding there is also a shortage of beds and oxygen.Maharashtra urban development minister and Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde said the situation is getting worrisome and requested Thackray to impose the lockdown "to break the chain of transmission."Also Read| Maharashtra tightens curbs, grocery shops to remain open from 7am to 11amIt was also announced after the cabinet meeting the state government will cancel the state board exams for class 10 and postpone the same for class 12.Maharashtra is currently the worst hit state from the Covid-19 pandemic across India and has clocked nearly 3.9 million cases and 60,824 deaths till now. On Monday, 58,924 new cases and 351 deaths were reported, according to the state health department's bulletin.Maharashtra is currently placed under section 144 which started from April 14, 8pm and will continue till May 1, 7am where no movement of residents is permitted without valid reasons and all essential services have to operate from 7am to 8pm.The state government on Tuesday the operational hours of shops selling groceries, fruits and vegetables, daily products and poultry will be restricted from 7am and 11am and will be imposed from today itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-to-move-towards-complete-lockdown-guidelines-to-be-out-soon-minister-101618922408321.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows opening of shops from 7-11am, home delivery till 8pm||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced restrictions on timing of functioning of shops, as the state continued to observe a 15-day curfew with the imposition of section 144 as announced by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on April 13.Also Read | Facing flak for nephew’s Covid jabs, Fadnavis’ wife calls for action, decorum“Vegetable shops, vendors, dairies, bakeries, confectionaries, and all types of food shops, including chicken, mutton, poultry, fish and eggs to open only between 7am and 11am,” said an order signed by Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte.“Shops related to agriculture implements and farm produce pet food shops, shops related to materials for impending rainy season for individuals as well as organisations, will observe the same restrictions,” the order further read.Home delivery from these shops, it added, may be allowed between 7am and 8pm, adding that the timings, however, may be changed by the local authorities.Also Read | Mumbai Police seize 2,200 vials of Remdesivir from exportersMaharashtra’s 15-day state-wide curfew began at 8pm on April 14, after an announcement by chief minister Thackeray in this regard the previous night. The western state is the worst-hit since the early days of the pandemic last year and has, in recent days, witnessed a single-day rise of more than 60,000 cases. Its capital city Mumbai has also been witnessing a rapid surge in its daily cases.However, on Monday, Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 count fell to 58,924, as per a health department bulletin, taking its caseload to 3,898,262. Also on that day, 351 people succumbed to the viral disease, taking the state’s death toll to 60,824, the bulletin showed. A day ago, there were a record 68,631 cases as well as 503 related deaths.Meanwhile, in Mumbai, 586,867 people have tested positive thus far of which 12,412 have lost their lives. On Monday, 7,381 infections were detected in the metropolis, along with 7,381 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-opening-of-shops-from-7-11am-home-delivery-till-8pm-101618912791205.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police seize 2,200 vials of Remdesivir from exporters||The Mumbai police seized 2,200 vials of Remdesivir injection from the premises of two exporters located in Andheri and New Marine Lines area on Monday. Remdesivir is used to treat serious Covid-19 patients and has been in short supply in Maharashtra, leading to a political tug of war between the state and the Centre. The Central government last week banned Remdesivir’s export till the time the domestic situation improves.Deputy commissioner of police (operation) Chaitanya Siriprolu said that teams from Mumbai Police and Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) jointly raided two locations in the city on Monday after learning that certain exporters were hiding stocks of the crucial drug despite a direction by the government to declare their stocks for domestic use.2000 vials of the injection were recovered at one exporter’s location in Marol, Andheri East, which belongs to a pharmaceutical company. These 2000 vials were taken into possession by FDA for use/distribution in hospitals, he said.Another 200 vials of Remdesivir were recovered at another exporter’s location in the New Marine Lines area. These too were taken into possession by the FDA.“These 2,200 Remdesivir vials were produced for export but were kept stocked by the exporters as there is a ban on the export of Remdesivir. FDA officials are following due procedure to make these vials available to hospitals,” said Siriprolu, who is also the spokesperson for the Mumbai Police.Officials aware of the developments said the investigators are checking if the seized vials of Remdesivir were linked to Daman-based Bruck Pharma, an exporter of the drug at the centre of a recent political controversy, involving Mumbai police and senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.Fadnavis had accused Maharashtra government of cheap politics and alleged that Mumbai police was harassing a Bruck Pharma executive over suspicion that it was hiding thousands of vials of the drug after its export was banned. Fadnavis claimed that the harassment took place at a time when the company was given permission to supply the stocked medicine to Maharashtra.The ruling coalition parties alleged in response that Fadnavis was more concerned about the pharma company than the residents of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-seize-2-200-vials-of-remdesivir-from-exporters-101618910617644.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Facing flak for nephew’s Covid jabs, Fadnavis’ wife calls for action, decorum||Under fire after Devendra Fadnavis’ 22-year-old nephew got vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Bharatiya Janata Party leader’s wife on Tuesday said “no one is above rules & law”. “Priority for any service should be on basis of decorum or prevalent policy. No one is above rules & law. The law can take its course and we stand for justice always ! We are with you on this issue, pls take action which will stop future queue breaking occurrences!” Amruta Fadnavis tweeted with a hashtag #tanmayfadnavis.Amruta Fadnavis also tagged Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi, who along with several other politicians questioned how the former Maharashtra chief minister’s nephew Tanmay Fadnavis broke the queue and got both the doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Only frontline and healthcare workers and those over the age of 45 are eligible to receive the jabs under the current phase of the nationwide vaccination drive. Those above 18 years of age will be inoculated from May 1, according to the Centre’s announcement on Monday.Priority for any service should be on basis of decorum or prevalent policy. No one is above rules & law. The law can take its course and we stand for justice always ! We are with you on this issue, pls take action which will stop future queue breaking occurrences!#tanmayfadnavis https://t.co/SgLYOAMGeeAlso read | What changes from May 1 in Covid-19 vaccination drive? FAQs answered“Like someone said, this is privilegeitis,” Chaturvedi tweeted in the morning. Before that, she posted on Twitter that she confirmed Devendra Fadnavis’ nephew did get the doses. “Confirmed @Dev_Fadnavis nephew Tanmay Fadnavis did break the queue & get both his jabs. His grandmother Shobhatai is also a Bjp leader (dynasty) asks if it is a sin to get the vaccine. What a family of rule breakers,” she said.Like someone said, this is privilegeitis. https://t.co/cwQQeZ9PAYChaturvedi was referring to Shobhatai Fadnavis’ comment after reports of Tanmay Fadnavis getting the vaccines broke. “Is it a sin to get a vaccine?” Shobhatai Fadnavis asked on Monday.Tanmay Fadnavis shared a photo of him getting the jab on Instagram and people familiar with the matter said he received the first dose of the vaccine in Mumbai and the second one at the National Cancer Institute in Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/facing-flak-for-nephew-s-covid-jabs-fadnavis-wife-calls-for-action-decorum-101618909182962.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police raid 2 exporters, recover 2,200 Remdesivir vials||The Mumbai Police and Food and Drugs Administration raided two locations in the city on Monday and recovered 2,200 vials of Remdesivir, the drug which is in high demand to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials said on Tuesday. As many as 2,000 vials of Remdesivir were recovered from an exporter in Marol in Andheri East, and 200 vials of the drug were found with another exporter in New Marine Lines.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“These 2200 Remdesivir vials were produced for export but were kept stocked by the exporters as there is a ban on the export of Remdesivir. FDA officials are following due procedure to make these vials available to hospitals,” the Mumbai Police’s spokesperson was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The development comes at a time when several states have reported a short of the drug as they are struggling to tackle the rising number of cases in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government and the opposition are at loggerheads over the supply of the drug. The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has accused Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis of hoarding the antiviral drug. The Shiv Sena alleged that the BJP was aiding the black-marketing of the medicine. The BJP, on the other hand, accused the state government of resorting to “childish politics”.The accusations come in the backdrop of Mumbai Police questioning a director of a pharmaceutical company on Saturday following information that thousands of vials of Remdesivir were to be flown out of the country, despite a ban on its export. Fadnavis and another state BJP leader Darekar rushed to the police station when they found out about the company director’s interrogation. After the incident, the Sena raised doubts about the alleged politics being played on the issue of supply of oxygen and Remdesivir injections for treating Covid-19 patients.Maharashtra is facing a shortage of 18,000 to 20,000 vials of Remdesivir injections daily, Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) minister Rajendra Shingne said on Monday. “We need at least 60,000 doses of Remdesivir daily and are currently facing a shortage of 18,000 to 20,000 doses daily. Our problem is the number of patients is increasing daily,” Shingne said.The state’s health minister Rajesh Tope has assured that the situation will improve in the coming days. “Five companies are producing Remdesivir injections and their production is being ramped up. In addition, we will give pharmaceutical companies in Maharashtra the permission to sub-contract the production of this injection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-raid-2-exporters-recover-2-200-remdesivir-vials-101618900676267.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: First 'Oxygen Express' rakes leave from Mumbai region to Vizag||The first 'Oxygen Express' departed from Central Railway's Kalamboli yard on Monday evening to ferry liquid oxygen for Maharashtra from Vishakhapatnam steel plant in Andhra Pradesh amid the worsening COVID-19 situation.In a statement, the ministry of railways informed that the Mumbai Division built a ramp overnight within 24 hours at Kalamboli goods yard to facilitate loading/unloading of tankers in/from flat wagons."The Ro-Ro (roll-on, roll-off) service with seven empty tankers departed from Kalamboli goods yard for Visakhapatnam steel plant siding at 8.05 pm on Monday."This train will move via Vasai Road, Jalgaon, Nagpur, Raipur Junction to Visakhapatnam steel plant siding in ECoR zone where it will be loaded with Liquid Medical Oxygen.On Sunday, railway minister Piyush Goyal, in an interview to ANI, had informed that the central government was creating a green corridor for fast movement of 'Oxygen Express' trains to facilities for the smooth transport of oxygen to states."A decision has been taken to start transportation of oxygen cylinders or tankers in trains. The transportation of cylinders has already started. Green corridors will be introduced to ensure a fast supply of oxygen where these trains can reach their destination at a high speed," Goyal had said."For the transportation of liquid oxygen, military wagons will be used to transport 3.3 meter high tankers. These trains will not be stopped so that they can reach their destination at a fast speed," he added.The worsening Covid-19 situation has seen a surge in the demand for medical oxygen and beds for the Covid-19 patients and many states are reporting a shortage in essential medical supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-first-oxygen-express-rakes-leave-from-mumbai-region-to-vizag-101618898207458.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis under fire as 22-year-old nephew gets Covid-19 jab||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis Monday drew flak after photos of his 22-year-old nephew getting the Covid-19 vaccination surfaced on social media.In an Instagram post, Tanmay Fadnavis shared a photo of him getting the jab. According to people familiar with the matter, Tanmay received the first dose of the vaccine in Mumbai and the second dose at the National Cancer Institute in Nagpur.After the photos were widely shared on social media, several leaders questioned how the 22-year-old received the vaccine since only frontline or health care workers, and those over the age of 45 are eligible to receive the doses.Also watch | Fadnavis accuses Maha police of harassing Remdesivir supplier; DCP refutes claimCongress leader and Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut demanded an inquiry into the matter. “When eligible persons (45+) are struggling for vaccination, how can a relative of a BJP leader who is barely 22 years old get it,” he asked. He said that persons involved in such “favouritism” should be dealt with sternly and be booked.When contacted, Fadnavis’s office expressed surprise. “Even we were shocked when it appeared in social media as to how a 22-year-old boy got vaccinated,” said Ketan Pathak, who works in the media cell at the Bharatiya Janata Party leader’s office. Tanmay’s grandmother Shobhatai Fadnavis, who is a senior BJP leader, said, “Is it a sin to get a vaccine?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-under-fire-as-nephew-gets-vaccine-101618866644809.html
