21-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to impose fresh Covid restrictions from April 22 onwards. Check SOPs here||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced a fresh series of restrictions to curb the increased spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). These restrictions will come into effect from April 22, 8pm and continue till May 1, 7am.The state government’s decision comes just a day after health minister Rajesh Tope and other ministers in the cabinet requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to impose a complete lockdown in the state.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 caseload has surpassed the 4-million mark with 61,911 deaths, 3,268,449 recoveries and 695,747 active cases. On Wednesday, 568 deaths were reported- the highest ever single spike since the beginning of the pandemic last year. While, 67,468 people tested positive for the disease on Wednesday.Here are the list of SOPs which have to been announced by the Maharashtra government:1. Office attendanceAll government offices will operate with only 15 per cent attendance apart from those for emergency services which are directly related to the management of the Covid-19 outbreak.Those offices falling under section 5 of the April 13 order can function with 15 per cent attendance or five people whichever is more, Wednesday’s order said.All offices required for essential services under section 2 of the April 13 order should work at the lowest required capacity for the same and should not go beyond 50 per cent.The attendance of all personnel delivering essential services on ground should be lowered. However it can extend up to 100 per cent as per the need.2. MarriagesOnly 25 people will be allowed to attend weddings. The marriage function cannot extend beyond two hours.Those found flouting the rules will be fined ₹50,000 and any location”which is misused or is defaulting in the spirit of the restrictions shall be closed till promulgation of Covid-19 as a disaster remains in force,” the order read.🚨New strict restrictions under #BreakTheChain🚨To be implemented from 22nd April 2021, 8pm onwards pic.twitter.com/ifyrcQCbnH3. TransportationThe order said all private passenger transport excluding buses can ply for only emergency services or other valid reasons with driver and 50 per cent of the seating capacity.Private buses can ply with 50 per cent seating capacity without standing passengers.In case of inter-city or inter-district travel, the bus operator must restrict stoppages to two. Passengers getting off at stops should be stamped on the hand for a 14 day quarantine and the bus operator will give the stamp.Thermal screening will be done and those testing positive will be moved to a hospital or a Covid care centre, the order said. Bus operators found violating these rules will have to pay a fine of ₹10,000. The local disaster management authorities (DMA) can conduct rapid antigen tests at the stops.🚨New strict restrictions under #BreakTheChain🚨To be implemented from 22nd April 2021, 8pm onwards pic.twitter.com/ifyrcQCbnHWith regard to public transport, only government and medical personnel and those needing medical treatment or specially-abled and one person accompanying the needy will be allowed to travel. These people will be allowed to use local trains, metro and mono rail.Bus owned by state or local governments will ply at 50 per cent capacity with no standing passengers.In case of inter-city or inter-district travel, passengers getting off at their stops will also be stamped with a 14-day home quarantine and they will be thermally screened too. The local DMAs may do the rapid antigen tests at the stops, according to the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-to-impose-fresh-covid-restrictions-from-april-22-onwards-check-sops-here-101619024596171.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees record jump in daily Covid deaths at 568; Mumbai’s new cases remain below 8,000||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded the highest ever-single day spike in deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with 568 succumbing in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 67,468 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the caseload to over 4 million which includes 61,911 deaths, 3,268,449 recoveries, the bulletin showed.The state capital Mumbai, however, once again reported less than 8,000 cases on Wednesday (7,654 to be exact) which took the total number of cases in the city to 601,713. More than 12,500 people have died so far in Mumbai with 62 deaths more reported in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra is currently the worst-hit state from the Covid-19 pandemic across India. According to the Union health ministry’s update on Wednesday morning, Maharashtra along with 11 other states such as Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi etc is witnessing an upwards trajectory in the number of daily new cases. Maharashtra is also the highest contributor with regard to the country’s daily death’s to, the health ministry’s update said.Also Read| 'My mother died gasping for breath,' says woman as Nashik toll rises to 24The state’s health infrastructure is in severe crisis amid the massive spike in cases and deaths. Despite the introduction of several measures to contain the spread of the Covid-19 disease such as night curfew, weekend lockdown and prohibitory orders under Section 144, the figures are not coming down and Maharashtra is staring at a complete lockdown to break the chain of transmission.On Tuesday, health minister Rajesh Tope along with several other ministers in the Maharashtra cabinet such as Eknath Shinde and Aslam Sheikh, requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to impose a strict lockdown in the state. A decision in this regard will be announced by Thackeray soon.Also Read| 'Have sufficient supply but use Remdesivir, oxygen wisely': Maharashtra ministerThe state witnessed a heart wrenching incident on Wednesday after 24 Covid-19 patients of the Dr Zakir Hussain Municipal Hospital in the Nashik district died as the supply of oxygen was interrupted due to a leakage in one of the storage tankers. CM Thackeray has ordered a high level probe into the incident and said those responsible will not be spared, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO). He has also announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakhs for the families of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-record-jump-in-daily-covid-19-deaths-at-568-67-468-new-cases-101619016479574.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Thane residents near Kopri woke up to a foul smell on Wednesday||Residents in Maharashtra’s Thane district’s Kopri area woke up to a foul smell, which spread to a radius of three kilometres around 6am on Wednesday morning. The odour was traced to the creek in Chendani Koliwada. Thane Municipal Corporation’s Pollution Control Board collected samples of the creek water after receiving complaints of uneasiness in stomach and headache due to the odour.Manisha Pradhan, pollution control officer of the municipality said the collected water samples had been sent to the laboratory for testing. “It will take a few days for the reports to arrive. Meanwhile, we also visited Patni Knowledge Park in Airoli and a similar stench was noted there. As the Kopri creek is closer towards Navi Mumbai, we had a doubt that the source could be there and hence informed the officers at Navi Mumbai as well.”While the smell subsided within a few hours, it left many feeling unwell. “The foul odour woke me up around 7am on Wednesday, even while cooking we could smell it, the stench was so strong. I started getting a headache because of the same. Some of my neighbours also complained of uneasiness in their stomach,” said Charu Sinkar, a resident of Chendani Koliwada in the vicinity.In a similar instance a few months back, the source of the foul smell was traced to a plant in Navi Mumbai along the creek. Officials said there were no other chemical or industrial units adjacent to the Kopri creek within Thane city that could pollute the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-residents-near-kopri-woke-up-to-a-foul-smell-on-wednesday-101619016523773.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Thane cops force markets to shut down by 11 am as lockdown looms||All shops in markets of Maharashtra’s Thane were shut down at 11 am on Wednesday following state government’s decision to restrict the timings of shops including those selling essential goods to four hours from 7am to 11am across the state till May 1. The decision was taken with the aim to contain the continuous surge in Covid-19 cases in India’s worst-affected state.Police men moved around the markets in Thane, Jambli Naka, Naupada, Ghodbunder, Kalyan, Dombivli and forced the shopkeepers to down shutters at 11 am. However, they said home delivery of goods was allowed between 7am to 8pm.“We are following strict norms... We have asked to close shops by 11 am. However, these shops will be able to send deliveries at home till 8pm in the night. Our teams will be patrolling throughout the day to take action against those flouting rules under the relevant laws,” a senior police officer from Thane said on condition of anonymity.With the addition of 4,599 fresh coronavirus positive cases on Tuesday, the infection count in Thane rose to 425,987, a district official said on Wednesday. As the virus claimed the life of 49 more patients, the death toll in the district went up to 7,031. The mortality rate in the district is 1.65%, the official added.Maharashtra is likely to impose complete lockdown from Wednesday evening as the strict restrictions imposed last week have not yielded desired results. State ministers have demanded a 15-day complete lockdown, with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expected to announce his decision on Wednesday evening, said state health minister Rajesh Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-cops-force-markets-to-shut-down-by-11-am-as-state-prepares-for-lockdown-101619005363203.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Have sufficient supply but use Remdesivir, oxygen wisely: Maharashtra health minister Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the state has sufficient supply of the drug Remdesivir to fulfil the demand for the day but asked doctors to properly use medical oxygen and the anti-viral drug. Demand for Remdesivir soared manifold across several states as India is facing a second wave of Covid-19 infection. The drug is listed for use to treat serious Covid-19 patients.“We have sufficient (supplies of Remdesivir) as per today’s demand but the only challenge is of distribution. I appeal to doctors to use medical oxygen and Remdesivir properly,” Tope was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party have also blamed each other over the shortage of Remdesivir. The BJP accused the Maharashtra government over mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic while the state government said that the BJP is trying to create a law-and-order situation over the supply of Remdesivir.Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur and Thane which are among the worst affected cities faced a crisis of Remdesivir injections which led to widespread fear and concern among people whose friends and families have been infected by Covid-19. They expressed concern over Remdesivir stocks not reaching small hospitals, according to a report by HT.Mumbai Police also warned medicine shops over hoarding of Remdesivir. The city police questioned Bruck Pharma director over the alleged stocking of vials and claimed the consignment of Remdesivir has been moved to a storage in Daman.The health minister said he was hopeful that the state would receive imported medical oxygen to meet its medical oxygen requirement. Along with Remdesivir, medical oxygen demand went up due to the second wave. Tope said that 15% of the active cases in the state would require medical oxygen. Maharashtra currently has 683,856 active cases.“We are anticipating that 15% of current active cases may need oxygen. We have an arrangement for 1,550 metric tonnes of oxygen in Maharashtra. We are also producing 1,259 tonnes of liquid oxygen all of which will be used for medical purposes only. We are expecting oxygen which the Government of India will import,” Tope further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/have-sufficient-supply-but-use-remdesivir-oxygen-wisely-maharashtra-minister-101618998688753.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Indrani Mukherjea, 38 other inmates of Byculla jail test Covid positive||Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in Sheena Bora murder case, and 38 other female inmates of the Byculla women’s jail have tested positive for Covid-19, senior prison officials said.It is yet not clear if any jail staffer or prison officials have also got infected. The 39 positive cases are being moved to nearby government hospitals such as JJ hospital, St George hospital, and GT Hospital, a jail source said.The Bycuall prison has the capacity of 462 prisoners (262 women and 200 men), but presently, it houses 306 female and 203 male inmates.Mukherjea, former CEO of INX Media, was arrested in August 2015 and her bail has been cancelled thrice since.Also Read | Jailed gangster-turned-politician Shahabuddin Covid +ve, admitted to Delhi hospitalAcross the 44 prisons in the state, so far 59,036 Covid tests have been conducted. “Since April 2020, a total of 3,262 prisoners have tested positive for Covid and nine have succumbed to it. Yerwada, Kolahapur and Thane prisons have the maximum active Covid cases,” the jail official cited above said.Since March 25, a total of 10,788 prisoners have been released in order to eliminate overcrowding, yet state prisons are packed full. Presently, they have 34,943 prisoners against their capacity of around 26,000.The first Covid case was reported in Byculla jail on May 31, followed by Satara prisons, and a major outbreak in Arthur Road Central Prison in June when over 180 prisoners tested positive. A prison official said that prisons cannot stay unaffected if a second wave of the infection has swept the state. “However, we managed to keep a check on mortality rate among prisoners,” said a prison official.Since the outbreak in jails in May 2020, the prison department has not been allowing any fresh inmate without Covid tests. Another prison official said that all the precautionary measures have been put in place again. This also includes ensuring no family visits are allowed at the prisons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indrani-mukherjea-38-other-inmates-of-byculla-jail-test-covid-positive-101618993242901.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra warns of strict lockdown as curbs roll out elsewhere||Maharashtra is likely to announce stricter curbs on Wednesday as a number of other states clamped restrictions on the movement and assembly of people, shut shops and popular establishments and imposed night curfews to arrest surging Covid-19 infections across India.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the cabinet recommended a “strict lockdown” to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray because of a worrisome surge in cases. With 62,097 cases in a single day, the overall tally in the state rose to 3,960,359 with 61,343 fatalities.“All the cabinet ministers expressed views in favour of a strict lockdown to minimise the spread of Covid-19. Ministers come from all corners of the state, so it also indicates that the entire state needs this measure,” Tope said, adding that Thackeray could make an announcement on Wednesday. A 15-day statewide curfew is underway since April 14 . The cabinet also decided to cancel class 10 state board exams, the minister said.The state government also directed groceries, vegetable shops and dairies to remain open only for four hours, between 7am and 11am, and banned home delivery after 8 pm till May 1.Also read: Delhi govt offers financial aid, free shelter and food to prevent exodusOther states also tightened norms. Uttar Pradesh ordered a weekend curfew between 8pm on Friday and 7am on Monday, Jharkhand imposed restrictions from April 22 to 29, Telangana announced a night curfew, Jammu and Kashmir extended existing night curbs to more districts, and Karnataka closed down most commercial establishments and clamped a weekend curfew. In Jharkhand, chief minister Hemant Soren announced a weeklong lockdown from April 22 to check the spread of the virus. The decision to shut most of establishments from April 22 to 29 was taken at a high-level meeting on Tuesday.Soren said the period will be observed as “Swasthya Surakasha Saptah (healthy safety week)” and urged citizens not to step out until absolutely necessary. “It has become necessary to break the chain of soaring infection of coronavirus in the state. So, we have taken some important decisions in this regard. I hope we will be successful in breaking the chain of the virus through ‘Swasthya Surakasha Saptah’,” he said.A curfew under section 144 of CrPC will also be in force during the lockdown to prevent gathering of more than five persons at a public place.In Jammu and Kashmir, the ongoing night curfew in eight districts was extended to all municipal and urban local body limits. “The night curfew shall be extended to all municipal and urban local body limits of all 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir. It was already in force in eight districts earlier, from 10pm to 6am,” the lieutenant governor’s office announced on Twitter. Public transport would be allowed to operate with only 50% of its seating capacity.Telangana announced a night curfew in the state from 9pm to 5am with immediate effect till April 30. All essential services will be exempted. In Chennai, the municipal corporation decided to reimplement several measures that proved to be successful last year.In the northeast, a seven-day lockdown came into force from Tuesday in Aizawl and 10 other district headquarters of Mizoram to contain the spread of Covid-19. The Karnataka government imposed a night curfew from April 21 to May 4, from 9pm to 6am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-warns-of-strict-lockdown-as-curbs-roll-out-elsewhere-101618956972824.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra SSC exams cancelled, HSC stays postponed||In a relief for more than 1.7 million students in Maharashtra and to ensure equivalence across education boards, the state government on Tuesday cancelled the SSC (Class 10) examinations, owing to the rising Covid-19 infections in the state. Class 12 or HSC exams will remain postponed as per the government’s earlier decision; revised dates will be announced later.The decision was made in the cabinet meeting held on Tuesday. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad released a statement shortly after the decision was announced by health minister Rajesh Tope. “We had earlier announced a postponement of both SSC and HSC exams. However, with rising infections in the state and the country and after national and international boards declared a cancellation of Class 10 exams, we have decided to cancel them. Students will be marked on the basis of internal assessments. Details on the same will be announced soon,” said Varsha Gaikwad. Gaikwad said the education department will also work on possible options for students who are unhappy with their scores derived from internal assessments. On April 15, CBSE board cancelled Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams across the country this year. Class 10 students will be marked based on an objective criterion to be developed by the board. The criteria for marking students are yet to be declared. On April 12, the state government had postponed HSC exams to the end of May and SSC exams to June, following which the state had written to CBSE and ICSE officials, requesting postponement in their board exams. However following CBSE’s decision and a similar decision from ICSE, IGCSE and IB there was growing pressure to cancel exams from students and parents to ensure equivalence across boards, which is key at the time of admissions to colleges. Over 1.7 million students write the SSC exams in the state every year, while around 1.5 million appear for HSC exams. Parents said they are happy with the decision. Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents Association said, “The move is in the interest and safety of students. Students are relieved and now can start planning for the next academic year.” Prasad Tulaskar, a city-based parent said, “While we welcome the decision it should have come earlier. Students were under tremendous stress of writing an offline exam under the current circumstances,” he added. Schools are now awaiting guidelines on internal assessments and hope the process of calculating scores is well thought. “Throughout the year, we have not conducted a single exam or assessment. So, we don’t know what scores will be calculated instead of exam scores. The performance of a student over the last 2-3 years can be seen because last year has been tough and many have not been able to do well due to the pandemic,” said a teacher of a school in the eastern suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ssc-exams-cancelled-hsc-stays-postponed-101618947998731.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra set for full lockdown||Maharashtra is set to go under a complete lockdown from Wednesday evening as the strict restrictions imposed last week have not seen “desired results”. State ministers have demanded a 15-day complete lockdown, with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expected to announce the lockdown on Wednesday. Ministers said guidelines for the lockdown are being chalked out, which are likely to include stricter enforcement of Covid-19 rules, sealing of inter-district borders and more curbs on public transport.Last week, Maharashtra had announced strict restrictions, including imposition of a curfew under Section 144 of the CrPC, allowing only essential services to function and allowing movement of the workforce in essential services. But the restrictions did not help contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state.Even though Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on Tuesday, said a “lockdown should be the last resort for states”, the Maharashtra government seems to have decided to go ahead with the lockdown. In the past seven days, since the state-imposed curfew and strict restrictions, Maharashtra added 323,199 infections and 2,539 deaths. The state health department has projected that there would be a shortage of beds in nearly all districts by May 2. The shortage of beds coupled with its surging demand and a shortage of oxygen has prompted the state to move towards a complete lockdown.Maharashtra ministers, in a state cabinet meeting on Tuesday, had demanded a strict lockdown to break the chain of transmission. State health minister Rajesh Tope said there was no other alternative, but to impose a lockdown as the ballooning tally of active cases has been putting a severe strain on health infrastructure, including a shortage of oxygen and anti-viral drug Remdesivir.“There is no alternative, but to go for a strict lockdown. We have requested the CM to announce a complete lockdown from today at 8pm. The cabinet has taken a decision about the complete lockdown. CM will make a final announcement,” said Tope.Tope, who was speaking after the cabinet meeting in Mumbai, further added that so far the state hadn’t used the term “lockdown” in its restriction, but now they want to break the chain of transmission through a strict lockdown. “We have not used ‘lockdown’, but now we want to truly break the chain of transmission through a strict lockdown.”Senior government officials said the guidelines are being drafted, but restrictions in timing of shops selling essential items, which was issued on Tuesday, will continue. Besides that, they are also planning to shut district borders to curb the movement between districts. Currently, there is no restriction on interdistrict travel. Similarly, they are also planning to reduce attendance of staffers in government offices.Another possible restriction that is being deliberated, include restriction on public transport. Officials said there were suggestions, regarding shutting down public transport for general public from some ministers, but it may not be feasible as many people step out for medical emergencies and even vaccination and rely on the use of public transport.“Among the restrictions being considered include sealing of district borders. Unless there is any medical emergency, inter-district wouldn’t be permitted. There were demands of shutting public transport by the ministers, but public transport could remain operational, but only for medical emergency, healthcare workers and for vaccination. So far, no final decision has been made,” an official said, requesting anonymity.Tope added that the state will study what restrictions can be put for use of public transport in the state during the lockdown. “The issue of mass transport modes is such that if we shut it then the workforce in the essential services will be inconvenienced. We will study it minutely and will take a decision by tomorrow,” he said. Unlike the period of strict restrictions that commenced last Wednesday, the complete lockdown will see stricter enforcement of rules. “The police were not asked to crack down on people’s movement. Many people flouted by claiming to have stepped out for groceries and medicines. In the lockdown, the enforcement will be much stricter,” the official added.Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said despite imposing strict restrictions, the number of cases did not go down. “There is shortage of oxygen and hospital beds, therefore after much deliberation, Maharashtra will go under full lockdown,” said Shaikh. He added, “We went on increasing the curbs on people, from night curfew to weekend curfew to the existing curfew, but people are moving about. The cases are increased, there will be more shortage of oxygen in the coming days.”Elaborating on the kind of restrictions expected on use of public transport, Shaikh said, “Last time when the lockdown was announced [by the Centre], it was done haphazardly. Since then, whatever restrictions have been put by Maharashtra government is done after careful deliberation. [So far] we have not shut the buses or trains, in the coming days, too, it will continue to run so that people are not inconvenienced.”State urban development minister Eknath Shinde said Thackeray is expected to announce the lockdown, which will come into force from Wednesday evening. “The situation is getting worrisome in the state. We requested the chief minister to put in severe lockdown to break the chain of transmission. Chief minister will announce it,” he said.Earlier in the day, the state government issued a new order, restricting the timings of essential shops such as grocery, vegetable and fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries and all type of food shops with others to four hours from 7am to 11am across the state till May 1. However, the government has allowed home delivery from these shops between 7am to 8pm.The decision was prompted as ministers and authorities felt that people were not following the restrictions on movement thoroughly. The order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said, “All groceries, vegetable shops, fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries, confectionaries, all type of food shops (including chicken, mutton, poultry, fish and eggs), shops related to agricultural implements and farm produce, pet food shops, shops related to materials for impending rainy season for individuals as well as for organisations to be open only between 7am to 11am.” The restriction on timings for the shop was criticised by retailer’s association in Mumbai. Viren Shah, president of the federation of retail trader’s welfare association, said, “This decision will create more chaos and will get crowded during morning hours. It will be difficult to control crowd for local authorities. Now another hurdle is how will the grocery shops provide home delivery after 11am when the shops will be closed? This means that local authorities will have to cooperate with the kirana stores to keep shops close for customer, but allow shops to provide home delivery from the stores.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-set-for-full-lockdown-101618947818734.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Raymond office row: Anant Singhania moves session court against magisterial order||Anant Singhania, son of Ajaypath Singhania, has approached the sessions court, challenging the process issued by a magistrate court on the complaint of Raymond Limited for not vacating the office premises at New Hind House. The dispute over the possession of some part of the first floor of the building by Anant and his brother Akshaypath arose in September 2016, when the brothers were restrained by the security guard of the company from entering the premises. The company has also filed a suit before the small causes court asking the brothers to vacate the premises. While the suit is still pending, the company on September 19, 2019, filed a private complaint before the metropolitan magistrate court, Ballard Estate, seeking criminal action against the two under section 452 of the Companies Act for wrongfully withholding the property of the company. In the complaint, the company claimed that, on September 20, 2016, the brothers were restrained by the officers of the company due to security reasons and they were asked to wait outside the premises for some time. The company alleged that the brother, however, approached the police and it was only after the intervention of the officials of the company the matter was resolved. The company claimed that by a letter dated September 21, 2016, the company revoked, cancelled and withdrew the license and possession granted to the brothers to use the premises and asked them to vacate the premises. On the complaint of the company, the court had directed the MRA Marg police to investigate the matter and submit the report. Anant in his revision application before the session’s court said that they learnt about the criminal complaint only on March 4, 2020, when they received a letter from the MRA Marg police station. He claimed that when his lawyers contacted the officers on March 6, 2020, they were informed that the report on the investigation was already submitted. The report by the police, as per the reply of the company to Anant’s petition, was submitted on March 13, last year. However, due to the pandemic, the case was not heard until late 2020. The magistrate court relying on the report of the police and the contention of the company issued process to initiate proceedings against Anant and Akshaypath on January 14.Anant has challenged the summons before the sessions court on March 11 claiming, the court failed to consider that they were not heard by the officer who investigated the case. Anant has claimed that his father used the premises from 1960 onwards till his demise till 1992 and after him, his wife – mother of Anant Veenadevi occupied the premises till date. He further claimed that around 1986, his brother Akshaypat joined the family business and in 1994 he was appointed as one of the directors of the company. Later in 1995, Anant joined the business and was appointed director in August 2000. Anant claimed that he along with his brother Akshaypat resigned from the directorship of the company in 2008, under an arrangement that arrived between his uncle Vijaypat Singhania and his son Gautam Singhania. They claimed that in return it was agreed that they would receive some shares of the company and also other benefits which included the permanent license and possession and use of the premises by Anant and Akshaypat for their independent business. Anant claimed, that suddenly on September 20, 2016, they were restrained the brothers from using the said premises. They called the police for restraining them but the matter was settled and they did not press for the criminal charges against the directors of the company including Gautam. Anant claimed that they were shocked when they first came to know about the suit filed by the company in December 2016 before the small causes court asking brothers to vacate the premises and subsequently a criminal complaint against them in 2019. It is claimed in the revision petition, that the magistrate failed to see on record that the investigating officer did not grant time to them to come and record any statement and also failed to consider records of the proceedings of the small causes court. The company recently submitted a reply to Anant petition. The company has claimed that ‘neither the accused have provided any document showing their alleged right to occupy the premises of the Company nor vacated the premises owned by the company.’ The company claimed, “The accused persons were permitted to use the premises in question only on a gratuitous basis and there was no agreement of any kind whatsoever authorising the accused persons to remain in possession of the premises. It is impermissible for the accused to wrongfully withheld the property of the company.” “The accused persons cannot be permitted access and movement in the office of the complainant-company as there is serious threat and apprehension regarding the security and confidentiality of the complainant company’s business, books and documents. Thus, by continuing to illegally occupy the premises belonging to the complainant-company, the accused persons have made themselves liable to be convicted under section 452 of the Companies Act, 2013,” reads the reply submitted by the company to Anant’s petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raymond-office-row-anant-singhania-moves-session-court-against-magisterial-order-101618946499177.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 7,192 Covid-19 cases, 34 deaths||Mumbai on Tuesday reported 7,192 Covid-19 cases and 34 deaths, taking the tally to 594,059 and the death toll to 12,446. There are 82,671 Covid-19 cases in the city at present. The overall case fatality rate in the city has now dropped to 2%. On Monday, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) conducted 45,350 tests with a daily positivity rate of 15.8%, down from the daily positivity rate of around 18% to 20% until last week. So far, the BMC has conducted a total of 5,027,882 Covid-19 tests. Meanwhile, the civic body has now decided to free up oxygen and intensive care units (ICU) beds by shifting non-critical patients to ordinary beds in its Covid facilities. Indicating that the situation in Mumbai is stabilising, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday said, “Today we have around 7,000 cases and around 45,000 tests, with a continuous decline in cases in the past five days. There are 87% asymptomatic patients today. As of 2.30pm on Tuesday, we have 3,685 Covid-19 beds vacant.”Chahal added that Mumbai has seen 947 deaths in the last 70 days, since the second wave of the pandemic started, with approximately 2.66 lakh cases during this period.This puts the case fatality rate (CFR) during this period at 0.3%. Quoting a media bulletin from New Delhi’s public health department, Chahal pointed that in contrast, Delhi city reported 240 deaths in a single day on April 19.On April 19, Mumbai reported 7,381 Covid-19 cases, on April 18, it reported 8,468 cases, April 17 it reported 8,811 cases, and on April 16, it reported 8,803 Covid-19 cases. The highest number of cases reported during this second wave of the pandemic was 11,206 cases on April 4.3,622 beds vacant As of Tuesday morning, Mumbai had a total of 21,093 Covid beds in hospitals and jumbo facilities, of which 17,471 are occupied and 3,622 are vacant. Of the 10,511 oxygen beds, 9,845 are occupied, and 666 are vacant; of the 2,798 ICU beds, 2,748 are occupied, and 50 are vacant; of the 1,426 ventilator beds, 1,405 are occupied and 21 are vacant.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department, on Monday said BMC’s step-down policy is helping the civic body with bed management. He said, “When a critical or serious patient has recovered from Covid-19 infection, such that he does not need round the clock medical assistance and does not need to occupy an ICU bed, a ventilator bed or an oxygen bed previously allotted to him, such patients will be shifted to quarantine facilities, which are equipped with doctors and medical staff. Some patients opt to be home quarantined during such a period if they have that option. This makes the bed available for another needy serious or critical patient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-7-192-covid-19-cases-34-deaths-101618946498609.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bhandup mall to be razed or repaired? Audit to tell||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ordered the administrator of Dreams Mall in Bhandup to carry out a structural audit to determine whether the mall needs to be demolished or only needs repairs. A level four fire was reported at the mall that housed Sunrise Hospital on March 25, killing nine Covid patients. The mall is being managed by Rahul Sahasrabuddhe, who was appointed as the independent administrator by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to manage the affairs of the mall, after non-payment of taxes by Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL, which owned Dreams Mall). Vibhas Achrekar, assistant municipal commissioner, S ward that covers Bhandup, said, “We have issued a notice to the administrator to carry out a structural audit of the mall. The audit will decide whether the mall will have to be reconstructed completely or will require major repair works…This exercise is being done considering the top floor of the mall was completely damaged and the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) wanted us to seal the mall. However, we do not have any powers to seal the premises without valid reason. Hence, the structural audit will be conducted.” Shopkeepers want permission to open their undamaged shops. A shopkeeper said, “Last year, there was a lockdown, and this year we had a fire followed by another lockdown. Forget about allowing us to open our shops, but we are not even allowed to go inside the shops and check if our belongings are safe.” The BMC said the fire was major and there is a possibility that the structure might be damaged. Meanwhile, the BMC’s disaster management cell is expected to conclude its report on the cause of the fire by this week. The report will also decide whether there was any negligence by any government authority in giving permissions to the mall and the hospital. On the other hand, the Mumbai Police had booked several people last month after the fire that included directors of HDIL Rakeshkumar Wadhawan, Nikita Amitsingh Trehan, Sarang Wadhawan, Deepak Shirke and directors of Privilege Health Care Services Private Limited (which owns Sunrise Hospital) Amitsingh Trehan, Nikita Amitsingh Trehan and Sweetie Jain, among others, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Sahasrabuddhe said, “The mall does not need redevelopment. Repairs are needed before restarting. I have submitted the preliminary comments of the structural auditor. I have written and submitted a letter to BMC to allow me to let people remove their belongings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaibhandup-mall-to-be-razed-or-repaired-audit-to-tell-101618946438576.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 852 cases filed for hate speech, spreading rumours on social media||A day after Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale announced colour codes for vehicles plying within Mumbai, a rumour about police instructing petrol pumps to give fuel to only those who have essential service stickers, spread like fire. After the police helpline and Twitter handles were bombarded with queries, the police officially clarified that no such orders were issued to petrol pumps.Since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic last year, the number of fake news, rumours and doctored stories and videos doing rounds on social media has increased. The Maharashtra Police have been continuously battling the menace of misinformation being spread through social media and internet platforms. As a result, a total of 852 offences have been registered during the pandemic.“All these agencies coordinated with each other and pulled down thousands of objectionable content and registered 852 offences in almost one year. Of these, 786 offences were cognisable in nature, while the rest were non-cognisable. Around 455 cases were of hate speeches,” said a senior police officer. In these cases, 308 cases were related to misinformation on WhatsApp, 338 cases with Facebook, 28 cases linked Tiktok, 25 related to Twitter, and 27 linked to Instagram.During the investigation of these cases, 342 accused were arrested and 680 are identified. Around 152 were served notice under section 41 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Preventive action has been taken as per section 107 of CrPC on 145 accused.The content pulled down by police from social media also includes Covid-related videos from other countries with false messages, manipulated videos and photos of hospitals, crematoriums, videos of doctors, nurses and patients with false narratives, and forged and edited copies of government orders related to Covid.Since Covid outbreak in March 2020, the state cyber police, special branch and cyber police station of Mumbai police are keeping a close watch on the spread of Covid and government orders related to rumours, hate message, communally sensitive content on social media platforms. All the district police in the state have also intensified vigilance on social media to prevent the spread of rumours to maintain law and order in their districts. “There has also been an increase in Covid-related hate speeches, communally sensitive and inciting messages over social media in last one week,” said a senior police officer.Sanjay Shintre, superintendent of police, state cyber police said, “As there was a buzz over Kumbh Mela gathering on social media recently and also ongoing Ramzan month, there is an obvious rise in hate speeches and increase in penetration of communally sensitive information on the internet, but we are keeping an effective check on such contents online and pulling them down before they make it to masses.” A big chunk of misinformation is related to political issues. Even the hate speeches are mostly politics related. Some politicians express their opinions by crossing the limits and this triggers mudslinging. But we keep on the filter the content on social media platforms, Shintre added.Cyber expert Ritesh Bhatia said, “Fake news has been thriving only because people have been believing in them and this is well proved by the fact that users forward such messages even without cross-checking the facts. The drop in fewer citizens getting vaccinated can be attributed to the fake news that has been doing rounds. Police and civic body both have been cautioning people about such misinformation, however, their reach is only limited to those users who are on social media.” “Police and BMC should counter the fake news by right facts on the very same platform where these messages are spreading - WhatsApp being the most popular one. Many people, especially senior citizens, are neither on Twitter nor on Instagram nor Facebook. But they get loads of such fake news on WhatsApp. So, the government needs to first broadcast factual messages on WhatsApp and then other mediums. People are thrilled about forwarding misinformation but when they realise or are corrected, they feel embarrassed to forward the facts,” Bhatia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra852-cases-filed-for-hate-speech-spreading-rumours-on-social-media-101618946378556.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Using weather forecasts, scientists develop model to water on commercial farms||Scientists at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) and the US-based University of Maryland have, in collaboration with grape farmers from Nashik, developed an irrigation management model that saved between 10% to 30% water on commercial farms. Notably, the experimental solution uses short and medium-range weather forecasts to help farmers plan their irrigation schedules.“The use of operational and medium-range weather forecasts in irrigation management across India has been limited because they typically cover a much larger geographic area. This does not help farmers who own small plots of land. Factors like varying rainfall within an area and heterogeneity of soil, among other minute differences in agro-climactic conditions, also make it hard to effectively use the weather forecast,” said Subimal Ghosh, professor at the department of civil engineering, IIT-B, and corresponding author of the study.To address these lacunae in farm-scale water management, the researchers tied up with grape farmers at Sahyadri commercial farms in Nashik, who have been using sensors to gather soil moisture data going back at least five years. They first developed a water balance model to compute daily evapotranspiration, runoff and leakage for two test plots. This is also called an eco-hydrological model since the purpose of it is to avoid water stress to crops.“Because farmers don’t have high-resolution weather forecasts, it may result in non-judicious use of water. For example, during the monsoon season, the forecast may say that it will rain for the next three days, but a farmer will still water his crops on the off chance that it does not rain at all. So the net effect is that more water than necessary is being used,” said professor Raghu Murtugudde of the University of Maryland, and co-author of the study, published in the Water Resources Research journal of the American Geophysical Union.“Previously, the farmers whom we worked with on this study were using a tank hydrology model, where the rootzone areas of the crops are thought of as a holding tank for water. When the level falls below a certain level, they irrigate more. This has maintained yield very well,” said Ghosh. However, this method does not account for changes in the soil moisture that may occur due to the weather, which is the gap that researchers have attempted to bridge.“We have used a different algorithm to analyse the weather forecast information concerning the empirical soil moisture data, and past rainfall distribution in the area, to develop a set of probable scenarios that may occur during the forecast period. This helps farmers to plan how much water to release and when,” said Ghosh. “We found that using the proposed framework, irrigation water use can be reduced by 10-30% as compared to that resulting from the conventional strategies used by the farmers, without significant loss in crop yields, by almost always maintaining the soil moisture at or above the prescribed threshold,” the authors have noted in their study,The researchers are currently planning to expand the study to other farms in Maharashtra. The challenge in scaling up this intervention, according to the experts, would be in establishing a large network of devices to monitor soil moisture across farms in an area. “You also need to work with the farmers to get them to trust your data. This is why we have co-produced this study with farmers, to demonstrate usability and credibility,” said Murtugudde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiusing-weather-forecasts-scientists-develop-model-to-water-on-commercial-farms-101618946258610.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: HC relief for woman booked on mother’s complaint under Domestic Violence Act||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday quashed the criminal proceedings initiated by a city resident against her daughter under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence (DV) Act, 2005, on the grounds that the allegations made were inherently improbable and were being made by the mother as she was unhappy that the daughter was with her estranged husband, the main accused in the case.The daughter, a 23-year-old had approached HC seeking quashing of the domestic violence case against her as the allegations were arbitrary and she wanted to pursue further education in Australia. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the writ petition filed by the daughter, was informed by advocate Kenny Thakkar that her client was unnecessarily arraigned in the domestic violence case filed by the mother against her father. It was further argued that the mother’s complaint under the DV Act had mostly highlighted the alleged atrocities by the father and there was only one instance of violence against the daughter, which showed that the daughter was being dragged into the acrimony and matrimonial discord between the wife and husband unnecessarily, and out of spite as she was staying with the father. Thakkar further submitted that her client had completed her engineering course and wanted to go to Australia to pursue further education, but due to the pending criminal case she was unable to get a visa and hence the proceedings against the daughter should be quashed and set aside.However, advocate E Moses for the mother submitted that the daughter was seeking quashing on the pretext of wanting to go to Australia to escape prosecution during trial and also place a photograph of the daughter pouring hot water on the mother’s feet as proof of the violence perpetrated by the daughter.After hearing the submissions, justice Pitale in the order observed, “The Petitioner is a young lady, who has just graduated and her future depends upon how she can improve her educational qualifications and develop her personality. It is only in the interest of justice, that this aspect of the matter is also taken into consideration. Surprisingly, her mother is hell-bent upon creating obstructions in her progress.”Justice Pitale further noted that the DV Act was for the protection of a woman against atrocities from her husband or any male member and hence the daughter could not come under the purview of the Act. The bench also noted that as the photograph was not placed before the magistrate the same could not be relied upon. In light of these observations and conclusions, the bench quashed the proceedings against the daughter in the DV case and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaihc-relief-for-woman-booked-on-mother-s-complaint-under-domestic-violence-act-101618946198599.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare case: Statement of Sachin Vaze’s driver recorded||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the Antilia security scare case and the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, on Tuesday received the statement of the driver of suspended assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze, recorded before a metropolitan magistrate. Vaze, who was arrested in the case, is a prime suspect in both cases.The said driver is a police constable and attached to the crime intelligence unit (CIU) which was headed by Vaze at the relevant time. Police sources said that the police driver was in the know of most of Vaze’s activities and his statement holds value in the case to prove Vaze’s involvement in the crimes.The driver’s statement was recorded before a metropolitan magistrate at the Esplanade court under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).NIA has not revealed any information on the development. Calls and messages to the senior NIA officers remained unanswered.So far NIA has arrested four people in the case, including Vaze, and his colleague suspended API Riyazuddin Kazi, and presently all are in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-case-statement-of-sachin-vaze-s-driver-recorded-101618946138618.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases travellers opt to postpone domestic trips: Experts||Amid the second Covid-19 wave and surge in the number of cases, domestic air travel has once again begun to face a slow down with a significant number of travellers opting to postpone their trips. Travel portals said they have witnessed a drop in bookings for the summer season. However, international bookings continue to remain unaffected for countries that have opened doors to Indians and those who are vaccinated.EaseMyTrip said the entire industry is witnessing a 30-40% booking reduction in April (as compared to March) and around 15-20% of tickets being cancelled or rescheduled, in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave. “Most of these cancellations or reschedules are voluntary, as air transport is functional, unlike the first wave of Covid in 2020,” said Nishant Pitti, co-founder and chief executive officer, EaseMyTrip.According to Yatra.com, the beginning of 2021 witnessed an optimistic rise in demand for travel where domestic destinations started seeing more footfall with travellers planning their leisure trips to make up for missed travel and pent up demand in 2020. However, there has been a slight increase in flight cancellations as consumers are cognisant about rising numbers in Covid-19 cases.“Customers are now looking to book closer to the travel date and are also prioritising health and safety measures while exploring accommodation options at the destinations. Destinations at drivable distances as well as off-beat travel destinations are still a preferred choice among the travel trends which provide necessary respite from the monotony of city life,” said Sabina Chopra, co-founder and chief operating officer, corporate travel and head for industry, Yatra.comTravel companies are, however, allowing passengers to reschedule their travel plans with no extra charges and are also offering services to ensure risk-free travel.SOTC Travel is offering a free doctor on-call 24x7 service in partnership with Apollo Clinics to provide expert guidance and assistance for safe holiday planning. However, free cancellation with exclusive deals such as full holidays at half price and companion holidays free are also being offered.“With many states imposing curbs, we have received a few requests from customers to reschedule their holiday plans. Travellers now look to maximise their experiences while minimising risk,” said Daniel D’souza, president and country head for leisure, SOTC Travel.According to Thomas Cook, having missed out on their vacation time for over a year, most Indians are preferring to defer their travel plans rather than cancel despite the current scenario and restrictions being placed by state authorities“With the increased rollout of the vaccine drive, reopening of borders/travel bubbles with countries like Nepal, Sri Lanka, Seychelles and positive announcements by international destinations welcoming vaccinated tourists, the consumer sentiment is one of cautious optimism,” said Rajeev Kale, president and country head – holidays, MICE, visa for Thomas Cook (India) Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-travellers-opt-to-postpone-domestic-trips-experts-101618946078574.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Safety measures up at institutes housing hostels||A staff member of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), on Sunday succumbed to Covid-19 and became the fifth casualty on the campus. Over the past two weeks, the institute campus in Powai has been recording 60 cases a week on average.On Monday, IIT Roorkee asked students to vacate hostels by Wednesday, given the rising cases on campus. “A supporting letter from the dean of students’ welfare is being provided to the students to facilitate their travel to their homes,” said the institute’s administration. On Sunday, IIT Delhi also advised students to return home amid a spike in Covid-19 cases as the city ran out of space in its quarantine centres. The Kharagpur campus too has put on hold its plan to bring students on campus as residential campuses across the country are turning into hotbeds for the spread of the virus.Restriction of movementIIT-B, which had started allowing students back on campus for research work, has now cancelled all approvals for incoming students.“We had been allowing research scholars, who needed access to labs, to apply for entry to the campus. The applications were approved after considering the need to come to campus. However, given the severity of the situation now, we have cancelled all prior approvals,” said S Sudarshan, deputy director, IIT-B.Restricting movement within campuses as well as out of the campus is the key, said institutes. The contact tracing team at IIT-B was quick to point out that most cases were arising among those coming to the campus from outside such as post-doctoral fellows living outside and staff members commuting from various parts of the city. “We were able to identify that more cases were among those commuting from various places in the city. So, we asked all post-doctoral and staff members, who are day scholars, to work remotely,” said Sudarshan. There are around 3,000 students and 2,000 staff members residing on campus in IIT-B. At the Institute of Chemical Technology in Matunga (ICT), around 300 Masters and PhD students are now on campus, apart from 60 families of faculty members. Currently, there are no active cases among students but there are a dozen cases among faculty members. Students on campus aren’t allowed out of the campus and outsiders aren’t allowed in. However, what has worked better for the institute is rigorous testing, said RR Deshmukh, the institute’s registrar. “We have been holding testing camps for our students over the last four-five months. We bring in doctors to the camp. Everybody on campus is tested. Rapid antigen tests are done and if there are symptoms and if the doctors decide, RT-PCR tests are also done,” said Deshmukh. Institutes amp up their prepwas to install exhaust fans and do away with the use of air-conditioners across the campus. Canteens and mess facilities have been moved outdoors. ICT has housed all its students on campus in single rooms. Here, too, canteen timings are staggered to restrict the number of students coming together. Although the number of cases has stabilised, all institutes have amped up their quarantine facilities. “Those in the quarantine facility are provided food from the canteens through no contact delivery. Staff members deputed for this work have been provided with personal protective equipment,” said Sudarshan. Some students panicDespite these measures in place, panic persists among students. “Over the last two weeks, cases have been on the rise. Resident students are worried and have stopped socialising on campus,” said a research scholar from IIT-B on the condition of anonymity.“When compared to other IITs, Bombay is doing a decent job of containing the virus. So, we don’t feel an urgent need to leave the campus,” said another student.Student representatives had written to the director of IIT-B, Subhasis Chaudhuri, requesting vaccination for students residing on campus. Chaudhuri, in turn, had written to the Ministry of Education (MoE). A note from the MoE to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare requesting vaccine for students of all central government institutes was struck down last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/safety-measures-up-at-institutes-housing-hostels-101618946020263.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Maharashtra’s Covid-19 situation may worsen soon’||While the surge in daily cases has burdened the existing health infrastructure, the situation could worsen in the coming days, according to the government’s internal assessment, which states that Maharashtra is likely to have 1,094,996 active cases by May 2, overwhelming the existing health infrastructure. Most of the districts will not be left with any beds – for isolation, oxygen or ICU beds and ventilators. Instead, many would require substantial additional infrastructure, according to the report which was presented before the state cabinet in its meeting held on Tuesday. This is the reason most of cabinet members were in favour of a complete lockdown. A decision is likely to be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray by Wednesday evening, said state health minister Rajesh Tope after the meeting. Meanwhile, the rise in daily Covid-19 cases continued on Tuesday as it recorded 62,097 new cases. It also reported 519 deaths, the highest single-day toll since the outbreak started in March last year. The earlier highest was 186 days ago on September 15, 2020, when the toll touched 515. The toll has jumped to 61,343. The surge has led to a sharp rise in active cases to 683,856 and going by the current transmission rate, the state health department has predicted that by May 2, additional 411,140 cases could be added to the tally, which will be a record 60% growth in 12 days. Currently, the state has 782,953 isolation beds, 72,869 oxygen beds, 24,986 ICU beds, 10,629 ventilators. In terms of district-wise health facilities, Thane, Pune, Raigad, Ahmednagar, Jalna, Beed, Latur, Parbhani, Hingoli, Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur are districts that will be left with nothing for any new patient by May 2. On the contrary, everyone will require additional isolation beds, oxygen beds, ICU beds and ventilators, according to the projection. In Mumbai, active cases will rise to 146,065 by May 2, from the current 82,671 cases. By then, the city will be left with only 3,837 isolation beds and will require additional 6,433 oxygen beds, 1,477 ICU beds and 121 ventilators, as estimated by the state health department. Ten districts have the highest number of active cases as they comprise 491,076 cases, which comes to 72.58% of the total cases. Pune is at the top in terms of the highest number of active cases at 125,096. Mumbai comes at second position with 82,761 cases, Thane 80,440 cases, Nagpur 78,484 cases and Nashik 44,279. Currently, the average positivity rate of cases in the state is 25.55% and there are 14 districts where the positivity rate is much higher than the average of the state. The highest is in Osmanabad (39.25%), followed by Parbhani, Hingoli, Nagpur and Gadchiroli at 36.78%, 36.70%, 35.02%, 34.30%, respectively. “Going by the circumstances, most of the ministers were of the view that complete lockdown is the need of the hour. They even want local trains to be shut down. However, some of them opined that shutting down will be trouble for employees engaged with essential services thus only trains, vegetables and milk and medical services should be allowed,” said a minister, requesting anonymity. State urban development minister Eknath Shinde called the surge worrisome and grave. “The Covid-19 cases are increasing and this is a grave situation. There is a shortage of oxygen and people are dying,” said Shinde. He said that lockdown was inevitable in the current situation. Dr Harish Chafle, consultant intensivist and chest physician, Global Hospital at Parel, attributed high mortality rate to the severity of the second wave. “We are witnessing a higher number of deaths as this mutant is more severe than the previous one,” said Chafle. Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) minister Rajendra Shingne said, “We have allowed for production of oxygen in 50-60 places at Marathwada. In addition, many of the factories have promised us supply.”The state has tested 265,925 citizens in the past 24 hours. There are currently 683,856 active cases in the state, in which Pune leads with 117,521 cases, followed by Mumbai with 82,671 cases. Similarly, of the 61,343 deaths, Mumbai leads with 12,446 deaths, followed by Pune with 8,855.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-covid-19-situation-may-worsen-soon-101618946018635.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid patient attacks nurse, escapes hospital; nabbed||A panicked Covid-19 patient recently attacked a nurse of a private hospital in the Malabar Hill area with the butt of a kitchen knife and escaped from the hospital. After a few hours, the police nabbed the patient roaming on the streets and admitted him to a civic Covid facility.The patient has been booked by the police and would be arrested once he recovers. Rajesh Shivshankar Gupta, 45, a resident of Lower Parel, was admitted to the Malabar Hill-based private hospital on April 13.At the time of admission, Gupta was suffering from cough, fever, breathing issues, headache, motions and hyperacidity. His Covid report was yet to come, but based on his CT scan report, he was admitted to the hospital. “Gupta was rude with the staff and the doctors since day one. He complained of breathlessness and asked on-duty nurse, Dipika Vasave, the complainant in the case, to shift him to the ICU (intensive care unit). The nurse checked his oxygen level which she found to be normal, hence he was not shifted to ICU,” said a police officer. On April 16, Gupta yelled at Vasave over a petty issue and alleged that he is got infected because of them (the hospital) and attacked her with the butt of a kitchen knife, the police said.A doctor and a ward boy helped her and caught hold of Gupta. Gupta, however, overpowered them and escaped from the hospital. The hospital informed the police control room, and after few hours Gupta was caught in the area. “As he didn’t want to be treated at the said private hospital, he was shifted to a Covid care facility at the Worli NSCI. His family has been informed,” said sub-inspector Gopal Shinde of Malabar Hill police station.He has been booked under sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Once he is recovered completely he would face legal action, said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-patient-attacks-nurse-escapes-hospital-nabbed-101618945910561.html
