22-04-2021||Mumbai||Fresh Covid-19 restrictions come into force in Maharashtra||Fresh restrictions on travel, attendance in offices and wedding functions announced by the Maharashtra government to check the Covid-19 spread came into force on Thursday night.Maharashtra, facing an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases, is already under severe restrictions since April 14 and the fresh "lockdown-like" curbs were announced on Wednesday to break the chain of viral transmission in the state.Prohibitory orders, banning assembly of five or more people at once place, are in force till 7 am on May 1, while non-essential activities are not being allowed.Essential services, including grocery stores, are permitted to operate only between between 7 and 11 am.The new restrictions under the government's `Break- the-Chain' programme came into force at 8 pm on Thursday and will remain effective till 7 am on May 1.In the cabinet meeting this week, several ministers demanded a total lockdown for 15 days to curb the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the state worst hit by the pandemic in the country.But Chief MinisterUddhav Thackeray decided against imposing a total shutdown, apparently after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation where he said a lockdown should be the "last resort".Now, with the new curbs the government has decided to reduce presence of people on the streets and in public transport.According to an order issued by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, government offices - central, state and local authorities - will work with 15 per cent attendance except those in emergency services directly connected to management of the pandemic.Other offices, allowed to operate as per the existing rules, will function with 15 per cent strength or five people, whichever is more, stated the order.Only government personnel and those in emergency services would be allowed to use suburban trains, metro and mono services in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, it said.All those engaged in medical services - doctors, nurses, paramedics, lab technicians and clinical staff - will be issued travel passes on basis of identity cards.However, patients needing medical treatment and specially-abled persons can travel in trains, the order said.Municipal and state transport buses will operate at 50 per cent capacity with no standing passengers.Marriage ceremonies have to be conducted as a single event in a single hall not extending beyond two hours with maximum of 25 person in attendance, the order said, adding violation will attract a fine of ₹50,000.For inter-city and inter-district travel bylong- distance trains and buses, the local Railways/state transport authorities will ensure screening of passengers, the order said.Passengers of private buses (who are allowed to travel) will have to quarantine themselves at home for 14 days after they reach their destination. Bus operators will have to stamp the passengers' hands to indicate they are supposed to stay at home for 14 days.On Thursday, police vans made rounds of the main streets in Mumbai asking people on the loudspeaker to stay home and avoid crowding.Police have put up barricades at the entry and exit gates of suburban railway stations to prevent unauthorised people from travelling in local trains.Police personnel manned the streets to check motorists and cars for the yellow, green and red stickers which are to be used for specific purpose while moving around during the period of restrictions.On Thursday, Maharashtra reported 67,013 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 40,94,840, while 568 more patients succumbed to the infection, said a health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fresh-covid-19-restrictions-come-into-force-in-maharashtra-101619115481093.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 67,013 new Covid-19 cases; Mumbai continues downward trend and adds 7,367 cases to its tally||Maharashtra on Thursday registered 67,013 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) taking the caseload to over 4.09 million, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 568 people succumbed to the disease on Thursday. This is the second consecutive day the daily death figures were at 568. Maharashtra’s total cases now include 62,479 deaths, 3,330,747 recoveries and nearly 700,000 active cases, the bulletin showed.The capital city Mumbai, however, continued to report a downward trend in its daily Covid-19 disease cases at 7,367 which pushed the city’s caseload to 609,080. Seventy-five people died on Thursday and total deaths across Mumbai climbed to 12,583.As the cases and deaths in Maharashtra have been spiraling, it was expected the state will be going into complete lockdown mode as the same was earlier hinted by health minister Rajesh Tope and several other ministers in the cabinet.However, the Maha-Vikas Aghadi led government on Wednesday night came up with new stringent regulations to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease in Maharashtra. These include restrictions on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance and marriages.Issuing an order, the government said inter-city and inter-district travel is only permitted for essential services, medical emergencies and funerals. Only 25 people are allowed to attend marriages and the function cannot extend beyond two hours.Offices run by central, states and local governments can function with 15 per cent attendance but those providing emergency services for Covid-19 management are exempted. All other government and private offices have to function with 15 per cent attendance or five people- whichever is more, the order said.As Maharashtra is suffering from an acute shortage of oxygen supplies, hospital beds and essential drugs such as Remdesivir, the Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Centre and the state government to file their replies by May 4 on the management of all these resources to fight the pandemic.A bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni told the Maharashtra government that not a single person should be denied a Covid-19 test on account of the lack of a valid doctor’s prescription for the same, according to news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-67-013-new-covid-cases-mumbai-s-daily-tally-continues-downward-trend-101619102871448.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC raps authorities for apathy in tackling shortage of oxygen, medicines||The Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench pulled up the authorities for reducing the oxygen supply to Nagpur to 60 metric tonnes and directed restoration of 110 metric tonnes immediately as it held a rare hearing across three sessions that lasted till around 11.00pm on Wednesday. It pulled up the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and pharmaceutical companies for failing to rise to the occasion to help Covid-19 patients as it directed raids against hoarders, black-marketers and supply of at least 100 antiviral remdesivir vials to the government-run Medical College and Hospital in Nagpur.The court hit out at the “callous and negligent conduct” of the authorities in complying with its directions to supply remdesivir to Nagpur. It refused to adjourn the hearing unless its April 19 order directing the supply of 10,000 vials of remdesivir injection was complied with.A division bench of justices Sunil Shukre and S M Modak expressed displeasure over affidavits of FDA and district administration “virtually washing their hands” and “passing the buck” to pharmaceutical companies. It found the affidavits to be contradictory. “You are violating fundamental rights of the people,” the bench said and asked whose business was it to procure remdesivir.Also Read | Support Maharashtra instead of doing politics: Congress to Devendra FadnavisThe court blamed the authorities for shirking responsibilities and lamented the plight of Covid-19 patients in the state. “If you do not feel ashamed of yourself, then we feel ashamed of being a part of this nasty and evil society. We cannot do anything for the unfortunate patients of Maharashtra. This is how we are shirking our responsibilities. You are neglecting and ignoring our patients. We give you [a] solution, you don’t follow it. You do not give us [a] solution. What absolute nonsense is going on here?” Lawyer MG Bhangde, who appeared for the state, told the court about the difficulties in compiling information and collating the facts.The court directed the Drug Controller of India to remain present virtually or personally on Friday in the court at 2.30 pm and directed him to explain steps taken to ensure equitable and fair distribution of remdesivir in Maharashtra and other states. The court pointed out that the drug controller had powers under Drug Control Act and several other statutes to direct pharmaceutical companies to increase production, ensure proper supply, and also take stringent action in case of non-supply or deliberate undersupply. The court noted that Maharashtra accounted for 40% of Covid-19 patients and added that the Union health ministry instead of increasing its oxygen quota reduced it. It held the second hearing in the matter in the high court auditorium and directed an immediate meeting of Nagpur’s Covid-19 Task Committee and also distributors, and stockists of life-saving drugs. The court also sought action against black marketers. Within two hours, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, district collector Ravindra Thakare and the municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B obtained assurances from the seven drug manufacturing companies about the supply of 6,752 additional vials of remdesivir by Thursday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-raps-authorities-for-apathy-in-tackling-shortage-of-oxygen-medicines-101619092430104.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||'Distance makes the heart grow fonder': Mumbai man wanting to meet girlfriend during curfew gets witty reply from police||Mumbai is grappling with a huge surge in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The administration has put in place strict curbs to check the movement of the people and stop the spread of the disease. But that isn't stopping people of the city from making requests to go out.One such request came from Ashwin Vinod, who asked the Mumbai Police what colour-coded sticker should he use to go out and meet his girlfriend. The police's reply was prompt, and courteous."We understand it’s essential for you sir but unfortunately it doesn’t fall under our essentials or emergency categories! Distance makes the heart grow fonder & currently, you healthier. P.S. We wish you lifetime together. This is just a phase," the police replied to Ashwin Vinod's tweet.We understand it’s essential for you sir but unfortunately it doesn’t fall under our essentials or emergency categories!Distance makes the heart grow fonder & currently, you healthier P.S. We wish you lifetime together. This is just a phase. #StayHomeStaySafe https://t.co/5221kRAmHpThey also used the hashtag #StayHomeStaySafe to give the message that it's safe to be at home during Covid-19.At present, Section 144 of the CrPC - that prohibits assembly of five or more people at one place - is in force in Mumbai and other parts of the state due to rising Covid-19 cases. The city police has made it mandatory for the vehicles in emergency/essential services to put up colour-coded stickers in a bid to limit the vehicular movement.The circular 6-inch stickers come in three colours: red, green and yellow.The vehicles used by doctors, medical staff (including ambulances) sport a red sticker. Those involved in transporting food, vegetables, fruits, groceries and dairy products will have stickers in green. If a person in travelling to the airport or ATM, he has to paste a yellow sticker on his vehicle.Police are implementing the prohibitory orders in a strict manner and action is being taken against the vehicles, which are out on the streets without any valid reason.Meanwhile, the reply by the police was well received and widely appreciated by the users on the micro-blogging site."Very thoughtful reply in these trying times. Each person has their own essentials. Please keep us engaged with witty responses and we are forever grateful for your service! You take care of Mumbai like no one else does! All of you stay safe and healthy!" Twitter user Satyan Israni said.Mumbai police's Twitter handle has more than 50 lakh followers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-wanting-to-meet-girlfriend-during-curfew-gets-witty-reply-from-police-101619091569544.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Support Maharashtra instead of doing politics: Congress to Devendra Fadnavis||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Thursday asked Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis to set aside political differences and support the state in its efforts to tackle the "alarming" Covid-19 situation.The need of the hour is to see how lives of citizens can be saved by providing them (Covid-19 patients) Remdesivir and oxygen, Patole, whose party shares power in the state with the Shiv Sena and NCP, said in a statement."Instead of co-ordinating with the central government to ensure the state gets adequate medical aid, Fadnavis and other BJP leaders in the state only want to work to put the state government into trouble," he alleged.Patole said instead of "behaving irresponsibly", Fadnavis and other state BJP leaders should be the "voice of Maharashtra" at the Centre.He asked Fadnavis to set aside political differences and show his commitment towards the state.The Congress leader said Covid-19 is a "national calamity" and still Maharashtra had to struggle to procure medicines and medical equipment from the Centre.Maharashtra needs 50,000 Remdesivir injections daily and the Centre has allocated only 26,000 vials per day. "Such bias is not good," Patole said."Fadnavis should become the voice of Marathi people in Delhi. If Fadnavis and other BJP leaders can show haste in getting a Remdesivir black-marketeer released from police station, they should show similar urgencyin saving people's lives," the Congress leader said.Remdesivir is listed for use in serious Covid-19 patients. In view of a sudden spike in demand of the drug due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre last week banned its export till the situation improves.The Mumbai police on Saturday questioned an executive of a pharmaceutical company following information that a large number of Remdesivir vials were going to be flown abroad by air cargo, despite a ban on the export of the drug.On learning that the pharma firm official was being quizzed, Fadnavis and another state BJP leader Pravin Darekar had rushed to the police station on Saturday night."Amid the pandemic, the Centre was exporting Remdesivir and oxygen to other countries. Instead of paying attention to constructive suggestions of Congress leaders, the BJP mocked them," Patole alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/support-maharashtra-instead-of-doing-politics-congress-to-devendra-fadnavis-101619086719885.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Another inquiry ordered against former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||The Maharashtra government has ordered another inquiry against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh two months after inspector Anup Dange wrote to the state home department and the chief minister’s office accusing the former of corruption, top officers said on condition of anonymity.Dange said his complaint has been transferred for inquiry by the director-general of police, Sanjay Pandey, while refusing to comment further. In his complaint, a copy of which HT has seen, Dange has alleged Singh suspended and ordered a departmental inquiry against him in 2020 to shield a Mumbai pub owner in a criminal case.Dange said earlier in 2019 when had gone to shut the pub for operating beyond the stipulated deadline, the owner allegedly boasted about his close ties with Singh. The pub owner later allegedly helped some accused involved in assaulting a police constable escape.Dange has claimed he got calls from senior police officers asking him not to name the pub owner and a film financier’s grandson involved in assault in the First Information Report. He added when he booked all the accused including the pub owner, they threatened him with consequences.Also Read | CBI quizzes Anil Deshmukh for 11 hours in corruption caseAfter Singh became the commissioner in 2020, he allegedly transferred Dange and suspended him pending a departmental inquiry. Dange has alleged a relative of Singh contacted him on his behalf and demanded ₹2 crore to reinstate him. He said the demand was later reduced to ₹1 crore.Dange claimed to have evidence to back his claims and demanded an inquiry.Singh is facing another preliminary inquiry by Pandey on the basis of the report submitted by Mumbai police chief Hemant Nagrale. Pandey is expected to submit the inquiry report in the next few weeks.Singh last month accused former home minister Anil Deshmukh of allegedly instructing former police officer Sachin Vaze and others to extort monthly ₹100 crore from the bars, pubs, hookah parlours, and other establishments in Mumbai.Nagrale, in the report submitted to the government, has said Vaze, who is the prime accused in the bomb scare case outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, was reporting directly to Singh. The report added Vaze’s was posted with the crime intelligence unit on Singh’s insistence.Singh did not respond to HT’s requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/another-inquiry-ordered-against-former-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-101619075809560.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra cross 4 million mark||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported its highest single-day death toll of 568 since the pandemic began, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 61,911. It also added 67,468 fresh Covid-19 cases to push its tally over the four million-mark to 4,027,827. The active case load in Maharashtra is now 695,747.Mumbai, meanwhile, recorded 7,654 fresh infections on Wednesday. The city, so far, has 601,713 confirmed cases, while the active case count in Mumbai is 83,450. Mumbai added 62 deaths on Wednesday, taking its toll to 12,508.Maharashtra, which is slated to go under a strict lockdown from Thursday evening, is projected to add another 400,000 active cases in the next 11 days. According to a presentation on the Covid-19 situation given to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday, the state’s active case count will touch 1,094,996 by May 2. The state aims to arrest the rise in cases by introducing a complete lockdown. Of the nearly 1.1 million active cases, 300,000 cases are expected to be from Mumbai and its surrounding districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad.Also Read | Fresh Covid-19 restrictions in Maharashtra from today as cases soarA health department official said the state is expected to face a shortage of hospital beds, unless the chain of transmission is broken through a lockdown. “Our projections had showed us that we would have an active caseload of 1.1 million by the end of this month. Even more worrying was the shortage of all types of beds across the state, including in major cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur,” the official said.As per the presentation, barring Amravati, Jalgaon and Kolhapur districts, Maharashtra is projected to face a severe shortage of hospital beds. Mumbai, which is projected to have an active caseload of 146,065 people, will be short of 6,433 oxygenated beds, 1,477 ICU beds and 121 ventilator beds. Similarly, Pune’s active caseload is projected to touch 185,162. It is projected to have a shortfall of 34,528 isolation beds, 13,118 oxygenated beds, 2,240 ICU beds, and 518 ventilator beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-cases-in-maharashtra-cross-4-million-mark-101619060748635.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Fresh Covid-19 restrictions in Maharashtra from today as cases soar||Maharashtra will on Thursday implement the fresh restrictions imposed in view of the rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state. The restrictions, that will be in place till May 1, were imposed amid the projection by the health department of active cases rising over 1.1 million by May 2. As much as 80 per cent of the health machinery was already under use and the system would not be able to bear the burden, the department said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to State health minister Rajesh Tope, everything except public transport and essential commodities will be shut down. “Though we are not calling it lockdown, it is a ‘break-the-chain’ initiative amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. We have been utilising 80-90% of our facilities in the health infrastructure, including beds, oxygen, manpower and it cannot bear more load...all the cabinet ministers insisted on complete lockdown. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will announce it soon,” he said.Here is all you need to know about the restrictions:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fresh-covid-19-restrictions-in-maharashtra-from-today-as-cases-soar-101619052589269.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra tightens curbs as Covid-19 cases continue to soar||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday imposed several new restrictions including a ban on inter-city and inter-district travel and curbs on office attendance as Covid-19 cases continue to rise rapidly in the state.Attendance in government and exempted-category offices has been reduced to 15%, local train travel has been restricted to the essential sector and stricter curbs have been imposed on inter-district and city travel. The order comes into effect from 8pm from Thursday.A day after the state cabinet’s decision of imposing a full lockdown in the state, the state government issued the orders late on Wednesday. To reduce the mobility between cities and districts, travelling in public buses has been reduced to 50% of the seating capacity, while travelling in local trains has been restricted only to the people working in government offices, medical sector and those who travel for health purposes.Passengers of private buses (who are allowed to travel) will have to quarantine themselves at home for 14 days after they reach their destination. Bus operators will have to stamp the passengers’ hands to indicate they are supposed to stay at home.Weddings can take place with 25 persons in attendance in a single hall. The ceremony shall not extend beyond two hours and violation of the rule will attract a fine of ₹50,000, the order said. Medical professionals and those requiring immediate medical attention and disabled people can use public transport services during the period. Disabled persons can be accompanied by another person.The local disaster management authority can obtain information of passengers of long distance travel and stamp them with “home quarantine” tag.The decision of lockdown was taken by the state cabinet on Tuesday, amid the projection by the health department of active cases rising over 1.1 million by May 2. The department expressed concerned that the health machinery will not be able to bear the burden as over 80% of it is already under use. The shortage of oxygen and anti-viral drugs such as remdesivir was another concern, after which the ministers insisted for a complete lockdown.State health minister Rajesh Tope said earlier in the day that except public transport and essential commodities, everything else will be shut down. “Though we are not calling it lockdown, it is a ‘break-the-chain’ initiative amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. We have been utilising 80-90% of our facilities in the health infrastructure, including beds, oxygen, manpower and it cannot bear more load...all the cabinet ministers insisted on complete lockdown. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will announce it soon,” he said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-tightens-curbs-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-soar-101619035724470.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Will try to import vaccines to inoculate all above 18: Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday the state will import vaccines that are available globally, including Pfizer, Moderna and Sputnik, to enable the vaccination of those between 18 and 45 years, following a decision by the Centre to open up vaccination for all adults starting May 1.“I have come to know that Covishield has fixed ₹400 per vial for government hospitals and ₹600 per vial for private hospitals… The state has decided to use all the vaccines available be it Covishield or the imported ones for the age group of 18-45 years,” Tope said.Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday announced it will sell Covishield for ₹400 to state governments, and ₹600 to private hospitals in the country, adding that in next 4-5 months the vaccines will be made available in retail and free trade.On Tuesday, Tope said following a state cabinet meeting that Maharashtra will import vaccines.“We have also decided to import stock of other vaccines such as Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Sputnik V from other countries. There will be no dearth of the money for the vaccine, as we have decided to use the development funds to procure vaccine stock,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-will-try-to-import-vaccines-to-inoculate-all-above-18-tope-101619034879208.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra imposes full lockdown from today||The Maharashtra government imposed a full lockdown, almost one on the lines of the one that was in place last year, amid the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases.From reducing attendance in government and exempted-category offices to 15%, local train travel has been restricted to essential sector and stricter curbs have been imposed on interdistrict/city travel. The order comes into effect from 8pm on Thursday. This would mean, people can’t step out unless for medical reasons or to buy essential commodities (between 7am and 11am) or if they are working in essential sector. Majority of restrictions have already been announced on Tuesday. A day after the state cabinet’s decision of imposing a full lockdown in the state, the state government issued an SOP late on Thursday. To reduce the mobility between cities and districts, travelling in public buses has been reduced to 50% of their sitting capacity, while the travelling in local trains has been restricted only to the people working in government offices, medical sector and ones who are travelling for health purposes. The inter-district/city travel has been made strict by making 14 days quarantine and stamping their hands mandatory. The public transport buses, including BEST in Mumbai, will ply for all, but at 50% of the sitting capacity. The passengers travelling inter-city/district in public transport buses will have to mandatorily undergo the quarantine period of 14 days, while a rapid antigen test on them at alighting point can be considered by local authorities, the order has said. The decision of lockdown was taken by the state cabinet on Tuesday, amid the projection by the health department of active cases rising over 1.1 million cases by May 2. The department had expressed concerned that the health machinery will not be able to bear the burden as over 80% of it has already under use. The shortage of oxygen and anti-viral drug such as Remdesivir was another concern expressed, after which all the state cabinet ministers insisted for the complete lockdown. The wedding ceremony, which is proved to be the super-spreader event in the past, has been allowed in the presence of only 25 attendees. The ceremony has to be completed in two hours, while the flouting of the condition may attract the fine of Rs50,000 to the family and action against the operator by shutting down the facility till the end of the pandemic. “The offices from exempted category, including banks, mediclaim, insurance sector, too, will have to reduce the attendance to 15% from existing permission of 50%. However the offices dealing in essential services including hospitals, clinics, pharmaceutical companies, posts, ports, petrol pumps, petroleum companies, e-commerce companies etc can operate at 50% capacity,” the order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said. The private offices have already been directed to switch to work-from-home (WFH) mode. The private passenger vehicles, except buses, have been allowed only for essential and emergency services or for valid reasons at 50% of their sitting capacity. The inter-district travel of such vehicles, too, has been restricted only for essential and emergency services. The private buses are allowed to ply intra and inter-city/district at 50% of their sitting capacity. “The passengers travelling in such buses will have to go through a 14-day quarantine. A rapid antigen test at the alighting point can be considered by local authorities. The passengers will be stamped for ascertaining the quarantine period. Flouting of rules will attract a fine of Rs10,000,” the order has stated. State health minister Rajesh Tope said earlier in the day, which except public transport and essential commodities, everything else will be shut down. “Railways and bus services will not be shut down, under the new curbs expected to be announced soon. Though we are not calling it lockdown, it is a ‘break-the-chain’ initiative amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. We have been utilising 80-90% of our facilities in the health infrastructure, including beds, oxygen, manpower and it cannot bear more load. Against the backdrop of it, all the cabinet ministers insisted on complete lockdown. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will announce it soon,” he said. The minister said that although prime minister Narendra Modi has said that the lockdown should be the last resort, the state government has no other option, but to go for it amid pressure on the infrastructure. Tope said that there would not be complete ban on inter-district travel.“The inter-district travel will be allowed only for essential and emergency services. Police administration will ensure at the borders that outsiders are not entering the district without a valid reason. The entry will be given with valid prior permission. We, however, do not want to impose complete ban on an inter-district travel,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-imposes-full-lockdown-from-today-101619034644371.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Home Covid vaccine not an option: UoI affidavit to Bombay HC||The ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) told the Bombay high court (HC) that door-to-door vaccination is not feasible, as it would be difficult to ensure that the vaccine is maintained at the optimal temperature required and further, help a patient in case of in Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI). The detailed affidavit filed by under secretary Satyendra Singh on Tuesday cited five reasons for why such a vaccination policy does not exist.“In case of any AEFI, case management may not be proper and there will be delay in reaching health facility; Challenges in maintaining protocol of observation of beneficiary for 30 minutes after vaccination; The vaccine will be place in and out of Vaccine Carrier for each vaccination thereby increasing chances of contamination and exposure beyond recommended temperature which could affect vaccine efficacy and cause AEFI which will be detrimental to vaccine confidence and programme performance; High vaccine wastage due to increased time going from door to door taking more time for reaching out to each beneficiary; Following protocols for physical distancing and infection prevention and control may not be possible during door to door campaign,” it stated.Two advocates, Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, had filed a Public Interest Litigation on April 7 seeking that the vaccination of senior citizens above 75 years, differently abled and those who are bed-ridden should be carried out in their homes. The PIL stated that since the vaccination drive, which began on January 16, many politicians had got the vaccine at home. However, on April 9, the state of Maharashtra opposed the plea on the grounds that as per vaccination protocols issued by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration, which guides on all aspects of the vaccination drive, did not have any mention regarding door-to-door vaccination. Purnima Kantharia, representing the state, submitted that supervision is a must after vaccination and the doctors have to observe how the body reacts to the jab. The lawyer representing the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation submitted that as per guidelines, three rooms including waiting room, vaccination room and observation room are required in any vaccination centre. The lawyer submitted that as a result of this vaccination had to be carried out close to an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) facility in case of any emergency. A bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni of the Bombay HC sought a response from the MoHFW, and also asked whether a policy for door-to-door vaccination could be put in place by the Centre. In an exhaustive affidavit filed on Tuesday, the Centre said that it was not mandatory to have an ICU facility for administering the Covid-19 vaccines. The affidavit stated that as the vaccine would be constantly removed from the carrier for each shot to be administered, it would be difficult to maintain the correct temperature needed for their storage, and the chance of contamination and exposure to temperatures that are beyond what is recommended would affect vaccine efficacy and may cause Adverse event Following Immunization (AEFI). Singh also stated that in case of an AEFI in door-to-door vaccination, it may not always be possible to take a patient to a health facility on time, and that the mandatory observation for at least 30 minutes after vaccination, would not be possible at home. The affidavit also states that after receiving requests from several state governments, more vaccination centres had been approved for special consideration of senior citizens. The case is scheduled to be heard on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/home-covid-vaccine-not-an-option-uoi-affidavit-to-bombay-hc-101619033924285.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Indrani Mukerjea, 38 inmates of Byculla jail test positive for Covid-19||Indrani Mukerjea, prime accused in Sheena Bora murder case, and 38 other inmates of the Byculla women’s jail tested positive for Covid-19 and were moved to a Covid care centre in Byculla for treatment, senior prison officials said on Wednesday.This comes in the wake of an outbreak in the state’s 44 prisons, which have seen the number of active Covid jump from 284 to 385 (of which 285 are prisoners) in the week between April 14 and 21. The number of active patients in the state prisons was 42 on March 3. The jail official quoted above said that a random anti-gen test of the prisoners revealed 39 positive cases on Tuesday night, including Mukerjea, the former chief executive officer of INX Media, who was arrested in August 2015. Mukerjea was arrested after her driver, arrested under the Arms Act, accused his employer of killing Sheena Bora, Mukerjea’s daughter, three years earlier. Peter Mukerjea was also arrested later in this case. The Central Bureau of Investigation told the court that he was the “silent killer” in this case. According to the prosecution, Indrani had been against the relationship between Sheena, Indrani’s daughter from a previous marriage, and Rahul, Peter’ son from a previous marriage. Last June saw a major outbreak in Arthur Road Central prison when over 180 prisoners tested positive for Covid-19. The Byculla district prison has a capacity of 462 prisoners (262 women and 200 men) but houses 306 women and 203 men. Some women prisoners also have children living with them.The authorities have conducted 59,036 Covid tests so far. “Since April 2020 a total of 3,262 prisoners have tested positive for Covid and nine have succumbed to the infectious disease. Yerwada, Kolahapur and Thane prisons have maximum active Covid positive prisoners,” the jail official said.In view of the surge in cases of Covid infection among prisoners and jail staffs across Maharashtra prisons, the jail authorities have started setting up 36 temporary prisons (Covid Centres for prisoners) across the state. “These temporary prisons (mostly educational institutes which are shut due to lockdown) were discontinued last year as the Covid cases had gone down drastically; 14 temporary prions (Covid Centres) have already started while requests have been made to local authorities for 22 others,” Sunil Ramanand, additional director general (prisons), said. Prison officials also said that the principal reason for spread of the virus in jails is overcrowding as lower courts have not released prisoners on bail across the state. The prison authority also wants the quarterly (three-monthly) meeting of district-wise Under-Trial Review Committees, which are headed by a Sessions Judge, to be conducted weekly to enable the regular review of de-congestion exercise at the prisons.Since March 25, 2020, 10,788 prisoners have been released to reduce overcrowding in the prisons in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. However, state prisons continue to remain highly overcrowded. At present, they have 34,943 prisoners against the capacity of 24,000 prisoners.The prison authority also taking efforts to prevent the spread of virus among its jail staffs. So far 3982 tests have been conducted on staffs following which 759 detected positive for Covid-19. Among these, eight jail staffers died. At present state prisons have 102 active Covid cases among staff members.The first case of Covid-19 was reported in Byculla jail on May 31, 2020.Another prison official requesting anonymity said that all the precautionary measures which came into effect during the peak of the pandemic last year have been put in place again. This also includes ensuring no mulaqats (visits of prisoner’s relatives to jail to meet prisoners).The prison authorities have also been conducting random testing not only of prisoners but also of the staff members working in various prisons throughout the state. No new inmate is being admitted without a Covid tests since last May. Taking cognizance of the April 16 report of Hindustan Times the Bombay High Court initiated a suo motu public interest litigation and directed authorities to compulsorily subject prisoners to RT-PCR tests and a vaccination shot 24-hours prior to being admitted to the prison. The High Court is likely to pass more orders in this regard on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-indrani-mukerjea-38-inmates-of-byculla-jail-test-positive-for-covid19-101619033684259.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||At 568, Maharashtra sees highest single-day deaths||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported its highest single-day toll of 568 since the Covid-19 pandemic, taking the toll to 61,911. It also added 67,468 fresh Covid-19 cases to push its tally over four million-mark to 4,027,827. The active case load in Maharashtra is now at a touching distance of 700,000 at 695,747.Mumbai, meanwhile, added 7,654 fresh infections to go over the 600,000-mark on Wednesday. The city, so far, has 601,713 confirmed cases, while the active case count in Mumbai climbed to 83,450. Mumbai added 62 deaths, taking its toll to 12,508.Maharashtra, which is slated to go under a strict lockdown from Thursday evening, is projected to add another 400,000 active cases in the next 11 days. According to presentation on the Covid-19 situation given to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday, the state’s active case count will touch 1,094,996 by May 2. The state aims to arrest the rise in cases by introducing a complete lockdown. Of the nearly 1.1 million active cases, 300,000 cases are expected to be from Mumbai and its surrounding districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad.A health department official said the state is expected to face a shortage of hospital beds, unless the chain of transmission is broken through a lockdown. “Our projections had showed us that we would have an active caseload of 1.1 million by the end of this month. Even more worrying was the shortage of all types of beds across the state, including major cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur,” the official said. As per the presentation, barring Amravati, Jalgaon and Kolhapur districts, Maharashtra is projected to face a severe shortage of hospital beds. Mumbai, which is projected to have an active caseload of 146,065 people, will be short of 6,433 oxygenated beds, 1,477 ICU beds and 121 ventilator beds. Similarly, Pune’s active caseload is projected to touch 185,162. It is projected to have a shortfall of 34,528 isolation beds, 13,118 oxygenated beds, 2,240 ICU beds, and 518 ventilator beds.Fourteen of the 35 districts in Maharashtra have a high positivity rate on a week-on-week basis, as per the presentation of the state health department. The positivity rate in these 14 districts is higher than the state’s overall positivity rate of 16.36%. Osmanabad topped the districts with a high positivity rate at 39.25%, followed by Parbhani and Hingoli at 36.78% and 36.7%, respectively. Pune district had a positivity rate of 30.43%, while Thane district had a positivity rate of 30.67%.Since April 14, Maharashtra has added 3,107 deaths and the senior health department officials attributed the jump in fatalities to late admission to hospital. They, however, dismissed shortage of oxygen and remdesivir as contributors to deaths. “Late arrivals continue to be the main factors. Besides, the sheer number of infections, we are bound to get high number of deaths. We do not think oxygen shortage or drug shortage is a factor,” said a health department official, who did not wish to be named.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director general of health services in the state and advisor to the state on Covid-19, said, “With more and more people getting infected, we will see a high number of patients land up in hospital. Roughly 10% of the cases are clinical. Late arrivals make it difficult for doctors to save the person. There could be some stray cases of deaths due to oxygen shortage but it is not the main factor.”He added that the case fatality rate in the state is under control. The CFR stood at 1.54% on Wednesday. “Had the CFR shown an upward graph we would have been in a really bad position.”Of the 568 deaths reported on Wednesday, 303 occurred in the past 48 hours and 160 in the past week. The remaining 105 deaths are from the period before past week. Area in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region cumulatively reported 88 fatalities in the past 24 hours. Pune district saw 36 deaths, while Nashik and Ahmednagar reported 29 deaths each. Nagpur district added 41 deaths, Bhandara 23 and Nandurbad 24. Osmanabad and Beed districts added 17 and 12 deaths, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-568-maharashtra-sees-highest-single-day-deaths-101619033624326.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||SSC exams cancelled: Real test for Maharashtra board now||In the absence of a standardised mechanism to assess the year-round performance of state board students, the Maharashtra government’s decision to cancel the senior secondary certificate (SSC) Class 10 exams has thrown up challenges for the state education department. The cancellations On April 15, CBSE cancelled Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams across the country. Students of Class 10 will be marked on the basis of objective criteria to be developed by the board. The criteria for marking students are yet to be declared. On April 12, the state had postponed HSC exams to the end of May and SSC exams to June, following which the state had written to CBSE and ICSE officials requesting postponement of board exams. However, following CBSE’s decision and a similar decision from ICSE, IGCSE and IB, there was growing pressure from students and parents to cancel exams to ensure equivalence across boards, key at the time of admissions to colleges. On Tuesday, Class 10 exams were cancelled by the state government. The challenges While state education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that students of Class 10 will be marked on the basis of internal assessments, it seems like a herculean task for a board with over 17 lakh students across different geographical and social backgrounds appearing for the exams every year. Schools said while they were awaiting guidelines, they were unsure about the efficacy of internal assessments as they were conducted at the school level and their format and frequency varied in each school. Jagdish Indalkar, principal, KVK School, Ghatkopar, said while the school has conducted prelim exams, some students did not write them. “Some students have not submitted any of the assignments we had asked them to and did not even appear for the exams. Now, if internal assessments have to be considered, we will have to give another chance to such students. Besides, students wrote their prelims only for practice and did not know that these marks are likely to be considered in the future. Hence, we cannot say that these marks indicate the real potential of a child,” he added. Schools said in the absence of government guidelines on internal assessments throughout the year, they continued conducting short tests, prelims etc. as per their understanding and requirement. “Some conducted a single prelim, while others took three to four exams. Those who could afford conducted exams using high-end proctoring software, while those who could not, used Google forms, email and other such means. Where is the consistency? How can two students from two different schools who are evaluated on completely different criteria compete for a college seat with their marks? This will be unfair,” said a teacher from a school in the city’s eastern suburbs. How others do it The heads of CBSE and ICSE boards said both the boards have a process for internal assessments and have data for it. “We have a meeting with the board in a few days and will wait for instructions to send data. We have conducted year-round assessments,” said an ICSE board principal. CBSE, too, has four-five assessments throughout the year and schools have sent the data to the board on Tuesday. Vasant Kalpande, former chairperson of the state board, said we need to understand the differences between students of the state board and those from other boards. “These schools have a majority of students from middle- and high-income groups and many schools are in towns and cities with basic online infrastructure already in place. For the state board, there are many challenges because there is the rural-urban gap and then a large number of students are also first-generation learners. Thus, the decision-making process here is likely to be more complex,” he added. While a majority of schools in the state did not conduct any internal assessments for Class 10, some schools in parts of the state where schools had reopened for a few months before the second wave, physical exams were conducted for Class 9 and 10. This has raised concerns over equivalence of marks as some students wrote physical exams while others did not. “We held our practice exams for students and almost all attended. We prepared them for 2-3 months and then took exams. Hence it was a very well-planned exercise here,” said Balu Bhoyar, principal, Karamveer Vidyalaya in Chandrapur. The state education department allowed schools in the state to reopen for Classes 9 to 12 from November 23, 2020 and for Classes 5 to 8 from January 27, 2021. Many schools closed in March and April owing to the rising Covid-19 cases. On Tuesday, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad held a meeting with experts and officials of the education department. “Several ideas and possibilities were discussed and explored. We are trying to get feedback on them from various stakeholders and experts,” said a senior educationist who was present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssc-exams-cancelled-real-test-for-maharashtra-board-now-101619033564285.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Thane: Police enforces lockdown, shuts shops after 11am||With curbs on timings for shops selling essential goods, the Thane Police forcefully closed shops in Thane markets on Wednesday afternoon. Markets across the city wore a deserted look since afternoon as all shops remained closed. Police officers from each police station closed the shops in their jurisdiction after 11am. Action was taken in popular markets of Jambli Naka, Naupada and Ghodbunder along with those in Kalyan and Dombivli. As per state guidelines, grocery shops, dairy shops, fruits and vegetable shops and vendors, meat shops, bakery shops and all other essential shops can function only between 7am and 11am every day. A senior police officer from Thane said, “We will ensure that these curbs are strictly followed. Our teams will be patrolling through the day to take action against shops found flouting these directives.” A grocery shop owner from Jambli Naka, Jitesh Gala, said, “We used to start our shop around 9am. But as per new rules, we have to start it at 7am and close at 11am. During this time, very few people shop for groceries. Most of them come to shop around 10am. The situation was same today, but we asked them to form a line. The timing is too short and not suitable for business.” Jagannath Gupta, a dairy shop owner from Naupada, said, “Our milk business is not affected, but the business of milk products such as cheese and paneer is hit as we cannot produce it in large quantities like earlier. It will not be sold in the four hours allotted to us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-police-enforces-lockdown-shuts-shops-after-11am-101619033445541.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||FYJC admissions: Maharashtra government discusses entrance exams, increasing seats||After the state government cancelled Class 10 - SSC exams on Tuesday, it is now mulling various options for conducting first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions in a free and fair manner. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Wednesday held a meeting with education experts and officials of the education department, in which, several possible ways of conducting FYJC admission were discussed. Some options discussed included holding entrance exams for junior college admissions, increasing the number of seats at prominent junior colleges and calculating the performance of students for Class 10 based on their marks for two-three years. “Several options were discussed. There was an opinion that since there will be no exams, a fair mechanism for admissions to colleges is needed. One of the ideas was conducting entrance exams in junior colleges where there is competition and more takers than seats. Sought after colleges are numerically smaller. In other colleges, admissions can be given to students easily as there is no fight for seats,” said an expert present at the meeting. Every year, admissions to FYJC begin after the results of board exams are declared. While SSC students join junior colleges in the state, many from CBSE, ICSE, IB and other boards apply for seats too. In the state, admissions are conducted online in six regions- Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Amravati. In other parts of the state, offline admissions are held at the college level. Experts are now worried that not having SSC exams might have long term repercussions on future careers of students. “We are worried that this batch should not be termed as Covid batch because they did not have any exams. Similarly, students need to be realistically assessed and not having exams will make the task difficult for the state board. These students have studied all year and subjecting them to another uncertain format for admissions will be unfair,” said Basanti Roy, former secretary of the Mumbai divisional board. “We already have a surge in the cut-offs every year. Now with internal assessments, we are worried that there might be too many high scorers and very few seats in comparison,” said the principal of a city-based junior college. Possible scenarios for admission-Calculation of average marks of students from their scores of the last 2-3 years. Students will then be given cumulative scores which will be considered for admissions-Pre-admission entrance tests to be conducted by junior colleges or centrally by the education department. Scores of the exam to be considered for admissions.-Increasing the number of seats in prominent junior colleges to accommodate more students||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fyjc-admissions-maharashtra-government-discusses-entrance-exams-increasing-seats-101619033444905.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dharavi reports fewer cases than Dadar, Mahim||Since the beginning of 2021 including the second wave of Covid-19 outbreak in Maharshtra that began mid-February, Dharavi has contributed 24.3% of Covid cases in its administrative ward area, which is considerably less than neighbouring areas of Dadar (36.5%) and Mahim (39.1%). This year, Dharavi has reported a total of 2,220 cases till April 20, Dadar reported 3,341 cases, and Mahim 3,574 cases. Dharavi has contributed to 0.7% of Mumbai’s total cases reported during this time.In the beginning of the pandemic last year, Dharavi was a major hot spot of Covid-19 cases, with the highest single-day spike reported at 94 on April 8. G-North ward, with jurisdiction over these areas, has reported a total of 22,238 Covid-19 cases so far since the beginning of the pandemic, with a doubling rate of 59 days and growth rate of 1.22%. Dharavi has contributed 5,740 of these cases till April 20, with a doubling rate of 90 days and average growth rate of 0.89%. On the other hand, so far Dadar has reported a total of 8,016 cases, and Mahim 8,019.The trend of Dadar and Mahim, characterised by residential buildings, reporting more cases than Dharavi is in line with the general trend seen during the second wave, where more number of cases are being reported from residential buildings than from slums and chawls. As of Wednesday, there are 114 containment zones in slums and chawls, and 1,198 sealed buildings across the city.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G-North ward, said, “The overall trend of the second wave is seen in Dharavi as well. But in January and February, when we noticed cases in Dharavi were increasing even slightly, we immediately took stringent preventive measures to ensure a second outbreak is mitigated. We started mobile testing vans, fever clinics, tracing high-risk contacts. We were able to control the cases in Dharavi to an extent.”On Wednesday, Dharavi reported 30 new Covid-19 cases. Presently, there are 930 active cases in Dharavi, 2,168 in Dadar, and 2,353 in Mahim. In G-North ward, beneficiaries have received a total of 8,715 vaccine doses, which includes first and second dose for some beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-dharavi-reports-fewer-cases-than-dadar-mahim-101619033444273.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Conduct second-year medical offline exams as per schedule, says NMC||Days after the state health education minister and the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) postponed second and third-year MBBS examinations to June, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has released an advisory for medical institutions directing them to conduct second-year exams as well as supplementary exams for first and second semesters only in the offline mode.“The universities are advised to adhere to the existing norms for conducting theory exams. However, considering the risk stratification of the areas where medical colleges are located, all necessary precautions including staggering of small batches must be adhered to,” states the recent circular released by the Undergraduate Medical Education Board of NMC. Last week, after discussions with various stakeholders including state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Amit Deshmukh, the state minister for medical education tweeted the decision to postpone all undergraduate medical exams to June first week. Rising Covid-19 cases across the state was one of the main reason for this move. Along with MBBS, this decision also affects students from Ayurveda, homoeopathy and similar courses affiliated with the university.Over the past few days, second-and third-year medical students from the government and private medical colleges in Maharashtra had been requesting authorities to postpone exams especially at a time when the state is recording 50,000-60,000 cases daily. The exams in question were originally scheduled to take place in February, but were deferred first to March and then to April by the MUHS due to increasing Covid-19 cases and complaints of several medical students.NMC however said delaying exams further will have a larger impact on the next academic year, and therefore a decision has been taken to conduct pending exams in smaller batches, starting with second-year MBBS and supplementary exams.“If external examiners are not available due to the current pandemic situation, such examiners can overlook the theory exams online but internal examiners have to be physically present in the examination hall. Practical/clinical examinations may be conducted in laboratories with due precautions,” states the NMC circular. It further states that students who are unable to appear for these physical exams due to whatever reasons Will be allowed to take the examination with supplementary batches. “This will not be counted as an additional attempt for them,” said the circular.The circular has invited mixed reactions from students at present. “Medical examination will be impossible to conduct in the online mode and with correct precautions, medical institutions can conduct the said exams. The NMC has also clarified that students who are unable to appear for exams can participate in supplementary exams so students need not worry,” said Brijesh Sutaria, parent of an MBBS student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-conduct-second-year-medical-offline-exams-as-per-schedule-says-nmc-101619033384259.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Restricted timings in Mumbai: Shopkeepers unhappy; citizens blame state||Amit Maru, who runs a small bakery shop in Kurla, was in for a shock as the police arrived sharp at dot 11am on Wednesday asking him to close his shop. When Maru argued that he came under essential services which are allowed to operate, the police personnel sternly told him he is allowed to operate for only four hours—7am to 11am only. Maru closed his shop to adhere to the new rules.This was the scene repeated across Mumbai a day after the state government ordered that all essential shops except medical stores could operate just for four hours. Their contention was that citizens were roaming around citing they were going to buy groceries and eatables and hampering their efforts to contain the Covid-19 virus.“There is no way I can sustain by keeping my shop open for four hours,” said Maru asking, “How can I call my workers to work for just four hours?”Urban Greens, a mini supermarket specialising in groceries which operates in Lalbaug and Byculla, opened early at 8am instead of its usual 9.30am in view of the new timings. “We are concentrating on home deliveries, but that is not a big source of income for us. Our business has fallen by 50% due to these new rules,” said Anil Parekh, owner, Urban Greens.The state government on Tuesday issued a new order, restricting timings of essential shops such as grocery, vegetable and fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries and all types of food shops among others to four hours from 7am to 11am across the state till May 1. However, the government has allowed home delivery from these shops between 7am to 8pm.The scene at Dadar vegetable market early morning was as chaotic as always as consumers crowded disregarding all social distancing norms. “This is a very narrow stretch of road and it is not possible to keep distance. I request my clients to keep distance but they don’t listen,” said Anna Padwal, who comes from Palghar to sell vegetables outside Dadar station.Mitesh Mody, secretary of Chamber of Association of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT) which represents traders, said there was confusion over this new order. “On one hand they ask us to shut shop at 11am, and then tell us to continue with home deliveries. How can we send deliveries when our shops are shut?” questioned Mody.Citizens have criticised there rules saying restricted timings will in fact encourage crowding. “7am is a very unrealistic timing, and in the coming days we will see people crowding to get their essentials; thus defeating the very purpose of containing the virus,” said social activist Vidyut Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/restricted-timings-in-mumbai-shopkeepers-unhappy-citizens-blame-state-101619033324199.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra begins Covid management orientation programme for MBBS graduates||On Wednesday, final year medical (MBBS) students sat through day one of the Covid-19 pandemic management orientation programme, following a recent circular from the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) directing mandatory attendance for the online course. The purpose of the programme, said MUHS, is to train final year medical students for the ongoing pandemic and immediately put to use their knowledge and skills for Covid-19 patient management during their internship training programme. To be conducted in the virtual mode and relayed on YouTube till April 24, students will also be allowed to put forth their questions on the chat window that will be answered by experts.“Our country is currently suffering from an infectious disease and the state of Maharashtra, in particular, is facing a shortage of trained medical manpower to manage the present situation,” read the circular released by MUHS this week. Last year, after much deliberation, the board of governors (BoG) of the Medical Council of India (MCI now National Medical Commission) had released a pandemic management module to be implemented across all medical institutions starting August 2020.Put together by a team of experts and the academic cell of MCI, the module has been designed to ensure MBBS students acquire competencies in handling not only the illness but also the social, legal and other issues arising from disease outbreaks. “The emergence of Covid-19 and its rapid spread across the globe has further underlined the need to develop these skills in our graduates. One of the desirable outcomes of the competency derived education program is to enable a medical graduate to be able to understand, investigate, treat and prevent new and emerging diseases,” stated the BoG released last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-begins-covid-management-orientation-programme-for-mbbs-graduates-101619033264240.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccination drive disrupted in Thane, Navi Mumbai, Panvel||The vaccination drive in Thane, Panvel and Navi Mumbai was affected owing to shortage of vaccines on Wednesday. While the drive in Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) was completely suspended apart from one centre administrating second dose of Covaxin, the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) too had to shut 22 vaccination centres following a shortage of vials. TMC received 3,000 doses of Covishield on Wednesday evening after the drive was suspended for an entire day. With the new stock, around eight vaccination centres with Covishield vaccine will be functional on Thursday. Majiwada vaccination centre, which administered only Covaxin booster dose, saw some chaos with several citizens claiming that despite waiting in long queue, they did not get the jab. “They should have asked us to wait according to the available dosages of vaccine; I waited for almost an hour with my aged mother for her booster dose. This is my fourth visit and attempt to get her the second dose but did not help. There is no clarity and proper announcements made on behalf of the civic body,” said Ashwini Salatry, 44, resident of Vrindavan society.Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske said, “We did not have any stock of Covishield vaccine till Wednesday evening. Only 300 dosages of Covaxin were available only for booster dose. The post-Covid care centre in Majiwada administered only second doses of Covaxin.” Last month, opposition leaders had made allegations that TMC was permitting many, including politicians, civic officials and their family and friends, to take vaccine out of turn. They cited similar instances of mismanagement to be the reason for the shortage of vaccine in the city. “Depending on the number of doses that we have received and based on the requirement, we are providing vaccines to the respective municipal corporations. On Wednesday evening, we provided few vials to all civic bodies,” said a senior official from Thane District. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Wednesday claimed that it would run out of vaccine on Thursday and will have to suspend the drive on Friday if no fresh stock is distributed to them. “We have stock till Thursday. Later on we will have to suspend the vaccination as there will not be any enough vaccine left to continue. We have appealed for more stock, but have no clue when it will arrive,” said a KDMC official, who did not wish to be named. As of Wednesday, the civic body has a stock of 7,718 vials of Covishield and 8,022 of Covaxin. In a day, the civic body carries out around 4,500 inoculations. Several residents, however, complained that private hospitals are not administering the second dose of Covishield citing lack of stock. “I have been trying to get my second dose of Covishield since the past three days, but none of the hospitals in Dombivli MIDC have it. My second dose is due and with the increasing number of cases I wanted to get it without delay,” said Raju Nalawade, a resident of Dombivli MIDC. PCMC, too, suspended vaccination drive on Wednesday. Around 2,000 Covishield vials are expected to reach PCMC on Thursday, following which the centres will start operations for the second dose of Covishield. Meanwhile, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) received 3,000 vials of Covishield on Wednesday. “Some of the urban primary health centres had to be shut by 12pm and some by 5pm due to lack of stock. If we do not get new stock on Thursday, we will only have NMMC-run hospitals and jumbo facilities to administer vaccination till the stocks last,” said NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccination-drive-disrupted-in-thane-navi-mumbai-panvel-101619033204223.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Family court refuses relief to IT graduate against wife based in Australia||A woman cannot be restrained from pursuing her case in a foreign country when she and her estranged husband are already before a foreign court for partial settlement of the issues between them, a family court at Bandra held recently and dismissed a petition filed by an information technology (IT) graduate.The IT graduate had last year approached the family court for divorce on the ground of cruelty and adultery. Along with the divorce petition, he had also moved an application seeking to restrain his wife from filing a divorce petition before the court in Australia and also to restrain her from pursuing other cases filed before an Australian court.The couple has been residing out of the country for the past 10 years and now are permanent residents of Australia. Both are presently residing in Australia. However, the husband has filed a divorce petition before the family court in Mumbai.Meanwhile, the wife has approached the court in Australia for disclosure of properties of the parties for distribution of assets among them. However, before the filing of the respective litigations, the couple had already signed consent terms with regards to the custody of their child before the Family Relationship Centre, a government institution in Australia.The wife’s lawyer Shraddha Dalvi had opposed the plea contending that the husband had already submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the Australian court, therefore it was not open for him to seek restraint against the wife at Mumbai.The family court after perusal of the case record observed, “On perusal of documents, it is very apparent that not only respondent (wife) but the petitioner (husband) had subjected himself to the jurisdiction of the court at Australia, but they have agreed for parenting plan before the institution or agency of Australian Government.”“So, in this background, it is not proper for the petitioner to question the jurisdiction of the court at Australia, when he has subjected to the order of Australian court and he has obtained consent order from the said court even before presentation of this petition or even before presentation of the petition filed by wife in an Australian court,” said the family court at Bandra.The court further held, “Both the parties reside in Australia when the child is in Australia when most of the properties are in Australia, a petitioner cannot say that without there been a divorce, Australian court would divide assets and liabilities of the parties. He can initiate a similar proceeding for divorce on the ground similar to Hindu Marriage Act and the decree would be valid if it fulfils requirements of the Civil Procedure Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-family-court-refuses-relief-to-it-graduate-against-wife-based-in-australia-101619033085567.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shiv Sena corporator threatens doctors, apologises later||A video went viral on Wednesday over an argument between Shiv Sena corporator and education committee chairman Sandhya Doshi with healthcare staff of civic-run Bhagwati Hospital. Doshi in the video is seen claiming a staff member from the hospital misbehaved with a Covid-19 patient from her electoral ward.Doshi, who is a corporator from Gorai and second-time chairman of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) education committee is said is heard saying in the video, “There was misbehaviour by the doctor with the patient, and hence I have come here. I can make 10 doctors like you stand here at the hospital.”The incident took place on Tuesday. In response to this, the healthcare staff at Bhagwati Hospital released a separate video threatening to resign, protesting Doshi’s behaviour. A doctor in the video is heard saying, “We are working under constant stress and are daily seeing our colleagues falling ill to Covid-19. In all this, if someone expects us to pay attention to a particular patient, it will not be possible. We request whoever claims that they can get 10 doctors like us to get them. We will resign post this.”However, both the staff at Bhagwati Hospital and Doshi later said that they have sorted the issue. Dr P Jadhav, head at Bhagwati Hospital, said, “The issue has been sorted out between the doctors and the corporator. All doctors are on duty and there is no question of any strike or resignation.”Doshi told HT, “I had gone to Bhagwati Hospital due to inappropriate behaviour with a Covid-19 patient from my ward. My ward has the highest number of cases, and it is my duty to handle them. However, whatever is seen in the video has taken place in the heat of the moment. Post that, the patient was hospitalised, I have apologised to the staff. We both exchanged something that was out of panic, and hence I apologised to the staff.”Meanwhile, BJP on the other hand has demanded action against Doshi. Pratik Karpe, BJP Corporator and education committee member of the BMC said, “Such language with doctors in this critical time when doctors are giving their best to save lives is unwanted, and also the person accompanying Doshi was not wearing a mask inside a Covid-19 Hospital. I have written to the BMC chief to taken action in the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-shiv-sena-corporator-threatens-doctors-apologises-later-101619033024850.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 5-million Covid tests, 2 million conducted in 2 months||The city crossed the five-million mark of testing Covid-19 samples, one year after testing took off on February 3, 2020. Of the five million samples tested as of Tuesday, around 1.9 million samples were tested in the past two months as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) ramped up its testing.According to the figures, Mumbai was testing around 20,000 samples daily till February. However, Mumbai’s testing capacity has gone up to around 50,000 daily on weekdays since March 23. As of Tuesday, Mumbai had tested 5,075,152 samples and the overall positivity rate is 11.70%.The 100,000- mark was crossed in May, 200,000 in June, 500,000 in July, followed by one-million mark in September last year. In February this year, the number further crosses the three-million mark, and the four-million mark in March. In terms of Maharashtra, a total of 24 million tests have been conducted in the past one year.Mumbai was the first city in the country to liberalise testing starting July 2020. Under this, any citizen wanting to get tested for Covid-19 was allowed to get tested. Before this, only symptomatic patients or those having prescription from a doctor were allowed to get tested.Since July 2020, BMC also started usage of rapid antigen kits that give results in 30 minutes but are less reliable. BMC initially maintained the ratio of 30% of the tests being conducted daily via rapid antigen kits and remaining via RT-PCR kits. Later, it went up to 50% in December 2020. Currently, 60% of the tests are conducted using RT-PCR method and 40% using rapid antigen kits.On Wednesday alone, 47,270 samples were tested of which 7,654 were found to be positive with a positivity rate of 16.19%. The city also reported 62 deaths on Wednesday. This took the city’s case tally to 601,713 and toll to 12,508. The city’s recovery rate is 83% with 504,466 recoveries and fatality rate is 2.07%. There are 83,450 active cases in the city.Further, owing to the surge in cases, the daily positivity rate in the city had gone up to 25% in the first week of April, which has since come down to around 15%. However, though the number of testing in Mumbai has increased drastically in the past one month, there is a huge difference in the number of tests conducted in Mumbai and Delhi. Mumbai conducted around 45,000 tests on Tuesday whereas Delhi conducted tests on around 86,000 samples.Experts maintain that though the city’s testing has been scaled up drastically, Mumbai requires more. Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at BYL Nair Hospital, said, “If tests are not increased beyond 50,000 per day, we must ensure that the results are given to the patient at least within 24 hours after sample collection. Also, more tests should be done in those parts of Mumbai where very few RT-PCR tests are done daily. An attempt should be made to increase the test number up to 60,000 to 70,000 tests per day, and the motto should be to trace early, test fast and treat immediately.”Meanwhile, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Wednesday, while talking to reporters, said, “I request citizens in Mumbai to not lower their guard. We are witnessing that daily cases have stabilised in the city, but we need to ensure that our cases remain under control by following Covid-appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-5-million-covid-tests-2-million-conducted-in-2-months-101619033024266.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||No green corridor given to Oxygen Express, alleges Shiv Sena; CR denies allegations||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday alleged that the Railways did not provide green corridor to the Oxygen Express dispatched to bring oxygen from Visakhapatnam as Maharashtra is facing shortage of oxygen for Covid-19 patients. Sena chief spokesperson and former Union minister Arvind Sawant slammed the Centre for its “cruel politics” over supply of oxygen, alleging that the train that left Kalamboli on April 19 night was at Akola in Maharashtra 24 hours after its departure. He also demanded resignation of railway minister Piyush Goyal.A passenger train journey between Mumbai’s Lokmanya Tilak Terminus and Visakhapatnam takes a little over 28 hours to complete. With a green corridor, the journey was expected to be faster. Sawant said there is “no guarantee when oxygen will reach us”. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Sawant said the Centre has set a precedent to indulge in politics at such a difficult time for the country. “Tankers left from Kalamboli on April 19; last night (Tuesday) at around 8.30 the train was at Akola — 24 hours after it left. Around 2-2.30am [on Wednesday] it reached around Nagpur. Later [on Wednesday evening] it was near Raipur, when it has to go to Visakhapatnam. You (Goyal) are saying green corridor is being made, but so far it has not reached there. The train has to come back as well. We do not expect it to arrive in next three days. This kind of politics is cruel... The railway minister should resign for this negligence,” Sawant said. He further added that the government was playing with the lives of thousands of people. Sawant is expected to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Goyal’s resignation and an inquiry into the delay to transport oxygen to Maharashtra.While Goyal was not available for reaction, the Central Railway (CR) denied the allegations. “The train is running as per the pre-determined route and there is no delay or change of route. The train is now running in the East Coast Railway Zone and will soon reach Visakhapatnam Steel Plant Siding. Oxygen Express is being run with priority,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.Senior railway officials also stated that the Oxygen Express, which has tankers, cannot be moved from the railway ghat (mountain pass) sections and have to be moved by railways goods section.“The express is being given priority, but we cannot operate the train from the ghat areas like other passenger trains are operated. The train went through Vasai and will be reaching Visakhapatnam in some time. The routes were already defined. There are also particular speeds at which goods or roll-on roll-off is operated,” said a senior railway official who did not wanted to be named.The train is likely to reach Visakapatnam at Wednesday night, after which the tankers will be moved towards the steel plant.Sawant also alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre had “stooped down” to show Maharashtra in bad light. He said, “Maharashtra chief minister put in restrictions to control the cases. For the past few days, cases in Mumbai have come down. If these restrictions are increased, cases will further decrease. But to not allow Maharashtra government to be seen as progressive and doing good work, they have stooped down to low level of politics, which is seen in the past few days in the matter of Remdesivir and vaccination. All these things are condemnable.” Responding to the allegations, Maharashtra BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said there are attempts to hide state government’s failure to tackle the Covid-19 situation. “The Union government has provided all assistance the states require. This is nothing but a weak attempt to shift the blame of their failure on the Centre,” Upadhye said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-green-corridor-given-to-oxygen-express-alleges-shiv-sena-cr-denies-allegations-101619032964236.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects Afghan woman’s plea for custody of four grandsons||The Bombay high court (HC) recently rejected the habeas corpus petition of a grandmother from Kabul, Afghanistan, who sought directions to her widowed daughter-in-law to come and live with her along with her four sons as it would be beneficial to the development of the four children. The court, while rejecting the grandmother’s petition, held that the best interest of the children was to be with their mother and due to the situation in war-torn Afghanistan, the daughter-in-law had a right to stay back in India. The court, however, granted visitation rights to the grandmother and paternal aunt while dismissing the petition. The daughter-in-law who was originally an Indian had married an Afghani man who had come to Mumbai for education in 2010 and had moved to Afghanistan and had borne four sons. However, she was widowed in 2018 after which she returned to India with her four sons and started living with her parents and brother in Kalyan. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition of the 79-year-old grandmother was informed by advocate Mohammad Adenwala, that his client was not seeking to separate the children from their mother, hence the petition sought that the mother and four children accompany them to Kabul where they could live a life of comfort and ease as opposed to the life she and her children were living in Kalyan. The grandmother further claimed that the four brothers and a sister of the deceased had agreed to take care of the financial needs of the widow and her children if she returned to Kabul. After marriage in India, the couple had shifted to Kabul. However, in 2018 the husband was killed in a bombardment by government forces, while the fourth child was still in the womb. All four children had an Afghani passport even though two were born in India. After her return to India in 2018, the woman started residing with her brother and parents at Kalyan allegedly in a single room tenement. This was the reason why the grandmother and paternal aunt of the children approached the HC seeking directions to the woman to return to Kabul with the children. However, advocate Uzair Kazi for the woman, her parents and brother informed the court that the woman was financially secure, hence the assumptions by the grandmother were misplaced. Kazi further submitted that due to the warlike situation in Afghanistan, the woman feared for the lives of her children and hence believed that staying in India would be more beneficial for the safety and prospective future. He also submitted that as per Muslim Law, the mother had a paramount right to have custody of the children and hence the prayers of the grandmother and aunt be rejected. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “We believe that on the test of best interest and welfare of the children, it would be appropriate that they continue in the custody of their mother i.e. respondent No.2. In any case, the custody of the children with their mother is neither illegal nor improper and therefore, we are not inclined to issue a writ of habeas corpus as prayed by the petitioners.” While dismissing the petition the court directed visitation rights to the grandmother and aunt when they come to India and weekly interaction with the children through video calling on weekends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-afghan-woman-s-plea-for-custody-of-four-grandsons-101619032904333.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar undergoes postoperative procedure after gallbladder surgery||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar underwent a postoperative procedure at Breach Candy Hospital on Tuesday evening. His condition is stable and he is recuperating at the hospital. He may be discharged after a day, party leaders said on Wednesday.“Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb was admitted at Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai last evening for a follow up procedure post his gallbladder surgery. The procedure has been conducted and he is now recuperating in the hospital,” said Nawab Malik, NCP chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister.On April 12, Pawar had undergone a surgery after being diagnosed with multiple stones in the gallbladder. The 80-year-old veteran leader underwent laparoscopic surgery, also known as keyhole surgery, which requires minimal invasive surgical procedure.Since Pawar’s was not in a condition to go for gallbladder surgery immediately as there was swelling in his pancreas, a strain was put up by the doctors then to prevent more stones from slipping into the bile duct.“Doctors have removed a strain that was put up to stop gallstones from slipping into the pancreas. It was done after one of the gallstones slipped into his bile duct that caused jaundice and pancreatitis,” said a NCP functionary, privy to the development.Prior to the gallbladder surgery, doctors had to conduct an emergency endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedure on the NCP chief on March 30 to remove the gallstone that had slipped into his bile duct, causing blockage to the flow leading to immense pain, mild jaundice and pancreatitis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-undergoes-postoperative-procedure-after-gallbladder-surgery-101619032784166.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Procuring Covishield: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray meets SII chief||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a preliminary meeting with senior state officials and with SII chief Adar Poonawalla (over video conference) to discuss the quantities of Covishield vaccine that Maharashtra could procure from the vaccine manufacturer even as health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the state would import vaccines that are available globally, including Pfizer, Moderna and Sputnik to enable the vaccination of those between 18 and 45 years, following a decision by the Centre to open up vaccination for all adults starting May 1.“The chief minister sought to know the supply of doses SII can provide to the state considering their current commitments. Based on assurances from [SII], the chief minister will now devise a strategy that will include price, who would be considered for free vaccination, the financial burden on the exchequer among other things,” an official aware of the developments said requesting anonymity.Serum Institute of India on Wednesday announced it will sell its anti-Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Covishield, for ₹400 to state governments, and ₹600 to private hospitals in the country, adding that in next 4-5 months the vaccines will be made available in retail and free trade.The media statement also provided a price comparison with other vaccines available in the global market, including American, Russian and Chinese vaccines.“I have come to know that Covishield has fixed ₹400 per vial for government hospitals and ₹600 per vial for private hospitals. Besides, US vaccines are available at ₹1500 per vial, Russian vaccine at ₹750 per vial and Chinese vaccine at ₹750 per vial. The state has decided to use all the vaccines available be it Covishield or the imported ones for the age group of 18-45 years,” Tope said. On Tuesday, the minister said following a state cabinet meeting that Maharashtra would import vaccines.“We have also decided to import stock of other vaccines such as Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Sputnik from other countries. There will be no dearth of the money for the vaccine, as we have decided to use the development funds to procure vaccine stock,” he said.The health minister clarified on Wednesday that those above 45 will continue to be vaccinated under the national drive run by the central government – making the two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin available free of cost at government centres, and at a subsidised price in private hospitals.“We have decided to postpone some (development) works that are not so urgent and hold a successful large-scale vaccination drive in the state to cover maximum people,” he said.“We want to ramp up the ongoing vaccination drive as well and continue to demand stock for at least eight days so that we can send the supply in time. Geographically Maharashtra is a large state and vaccine supply at certain places takes a day or two,” he added. At present, the state is holding the vaccination drive at nearly 4,000 centres and has covered 12.9 million beneficiaries that include health care workers, frontline workers and all those above 45 years of age. Of them, 188,778 have received one dose, while 86,991 have received both doses of the vaccines.Thackeray is likely to hold a meeting with health department officials after the state receives further guidelines from the Centre on the vaccination drive for adults above the age of 18.The health department officials on Wednesday also held a video conference with officials from the union ministry of health and family welfare to discuss modalities of the vaccination drive, officials said.In Maharashtra, with 73% of the state population in the age group of above 18 years, more than 90 million people are now eligible for the vaccine. The state has 10,000 health sub-centres, 1,828 primary health centres, 365 rural hospitals, 100 sub-district hospitals and around 40 district and general hospitals.“With this network we can hold a big vaccination drive and cover maximum people in less time. We also have staff that is trained for vaccination as we have conducted a vaccination drive for measles-rubella in 2018. The only thing is the availability of vaccines, if we could get them, then holding a large-scale drive is possible,” a senior health official said.“A strategy can be devised only after the Centre sends a communication with details on what they have planned, the allocations, and supply. Without this we cannot devise our strategy,” a senior official said.A PIB statement issued on Monday stated that vaccine makers will be able to sell half of what they produce at a price of their choosing to the open market and to state governments. If the vaccines have been imported as ready-to-use, the government will allow all of the stocks to be sold on the open market or to the states. The pricing for any doses sold in the open market will need to be “transparent”, although the government’s release did not indicate a cap. Vaccine manufacturers will still need to supply half the vaccines to the Centre for the state-sponsored component of the vaccination programme, which remains limited to the 45-and-over age group, and health care and front-line workers even after May 1.Sputnik V made by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute, was approved formally on April 13 and its initial doses are expected to be imported. On Monday, pharma giant Johnson & Johnson applied to India’s drug regulator seeking permission to conduct Phase-3 clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India as well as for an import license. Last week India said that it would fast-track emergency approvals for vaccines authorised by Western countries and Japan, paving the way for possible imports of Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Moderna shots. None of the companies have announced plans to enter the Indian market under the fast-track routes as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/procuring-covishield-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-meets-siichief-101619032724846.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: IIT-B’s design for solar-powered housing wins big in international competition||A team from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), won the first runner up position at the Solar Decathlon, a competition by the United States department of energy for designing affordable, high-performance and low-carbon buildings that mitigate climate change. Team Shunya, a group at IIT-B started in 2012, is the only one to represent India in the competition. The team of around 46 students has conceived a cluster-level design of a community of houses that can be powered by solar energy. The Artist Village at Belapur in Navi Mumbai was considered as the base for the design. The team has designed a community-dwelling of 10 housing units—four single bedroom houses, four double bedroom and two triple bedroom houses—over an area of around 16,000 square feet (sqft), all powered by solar energy. “The design incorporates a self-designed automation system and application, cluster-level heating, ventilation and air conditioning system with radiant panels, creating a net positive energy cluster efficient by all standards,” said Bhavya Kasagni, student team head, Shunya. The cluster can be constructed for ₹2,718 per sqft. What’s unique about the design is that it is that of a cluster of 10 houses that generate their own energy needs through solar panels. The design also comes with a do it yourself (DIY) concept that allows occupants to select different styles of windows, doors, railings from a catalogue to make their house unique from others. While Shunya has always participated in the Decathlon for the design and build category, this year, for the first time the team went for the design category alone. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, we were all working remotely. We couldn’t actually build the houses and therefore we decided to go for the design category,” said Kasagni, who is a research assistant in the department of electrical engineering. This meant assigning tasks to members in each of its six subgroups of architecture, civil, mechanical, electrical, communication and sponsorship and market analysis. Several rounds of simulations were done to achieve an optimum design. “The Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown posed a challenge, unlike previous years when we were on campus and could work together. This year, we attended classes virtually all day, complete our assigned tasks and then meet virtually every night to take stock of the work,” said Kasagni. The team plans to file a patent for their design.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-iit-b-s-design-for-solar-powered-housing-wins-big-in-international-competition-101619032604277.html
