23-04-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Of Quiet Rage and Silent Screams||Let’s face it, there have been times during these harrowing past few days, weeks and months when you have felt, as if like Alice, you’ve fallen into a bottomless rabbit hole from which you may never emerge. Or as if you are trapped in an endless re-run of a dystopian science fiction series such as the Twilight Zone or Black Mirror, where dark irony, morbid suspense and mounting horror lurk behind the most ordinary and everyday aspects of our lives. After all what else can you say about a time in which ‘being negative’ is the best piece of news you can receive; in which the constant wail of ambulance sirens convey profound despair, rather than hope; in which oxygen cylinders, meant to save lives, become the cause of mass deaths; in which doctors, nurses and other medical personnel face breakdowns and sickness and critical exhaustion; and above all, in which the leaders we put our faith in are the very ones who let us down? Today, the world as we know it, in the vice like grip of the Covid-19 pandemic, seems as if it’s been placed wrong side up or inside out. As if we woke up on January 1, 2020 to a parallel universe, one where the rules had been changed overnight and all that we once took for granted, suddenly seemed distorted, awry … set asunder. So how else to describe these strange times except in oxymoron, those figures of speech that combine two seemingly contradictory or opposite ideas, to cunningly reveal a deeper truth, through their quirky nuance? In fact, could there be another time which would lend itself so gloriously to the confounding polarity of the oxymoron? To begin with, consider the ‘fine mess’ we’re in, locked as we all are, ‘alone together’, like the ‘living dead’, surrounded by a ‘deafening silence’ as we attempt to carry on with our lives and ‘work from home’, while constantly worrying in our ‘wakeful sleep’ about everything, including if our test results the next day will turn out to be ‘false positive’. How else to describe ‘ feeling numb’ at the sight of endless queues of ‘anxious patients’ outside hospitals and the crush of bodies ‘packed loosely’ outside morgues, waiting their turn? And above all else, what are we supposed to do when it’s an ‘open secret’ that our leaders are ‘clearly confused’ and ‘definitely undecided’ about how to save lives, and that the situation from the ‘ground up’ appears to be getting ‘progressively worse’? Meanwhile, solutions appear to be ‘growing smaller’ by the hour and we seem ‘far closer’ to the real and present danger. Who will know of the ‘quiet rage’ we feel at the ‘foolish wisdom’ of banging pots and lighting diyas to ‘flatten the curve’? Who will hear our ‘silent screams’ at the sight of ‘small armies’ of ‘barely dressed’ men congregating at the Kumbh or unmasked multitudes gathering at political rallies, which ‘any one’ will tell you is a ‘sure bet’ of spreading infection. Indeed, the ‘true story’ of this ‘tragi- comedy’ is that ‘almost exactly’ a year after it began, it’s as if life has played a ‘cruel joke’ on us and ‘once again’ it seems as if we are forced to go back on a ‘working vacation’, with hand washing and ‘social distancing’ becoming ‘one more’ ‘unusual routine’ and ‘new tradition’ in our daily lives. As the dangers of disease and death seem ‘incredibly real’, the ‘only choice’ we have is to lump it (which, in my ‘unbiased opinion’, is an ‘unacceptable solution’). After all, it is ‘hardly easy’ in ‘human nature’ to remain ‘hopelessly optimistic’ and say the glass is ‘half full’ in the face of ‘increasing losses’ and ‘negative growth’ ( Not forgetting the ‘additional reduction’ in the country’s GDP). ‘Good grief’, how on earth are we expected to ‘act natural’ at a time of such ‘controlled chaos’? ‘Small wonder’ then that we feel a ‘conspicuous absence’ of empathy when our leaders appear on ‘live recordings’ mouthing ‘essentially useless’ platitudes and ‘false truths’, which only convey to the general public that they do not have any ‘action plan’ for ‘disaster relief’; and as if this were not ‘seriously funny’, we find ourselves ‘crash landing’ into a ‘pretty ugly’ situation where nearly every one we know is ‘highly depressed’, and the only ‘unsung heroes’ are the ‘extra-ordinary’, ‘back room, front line’ workers, and the ‘uncrowned king’ through it all is none but the ordinary long-suffering ‘private citizen’. How much more can we take? After all, even the most ‘painfully beautiful’ sunsets cannot distract from the fact that we are now the ‘waking dead’ and that ‘modern history’ will record that a cosmic ‘practical joke’ seems to have been played on us, with an ‘apparently invisible’ virus upending our lives; and that there’s ‘nothing much’ to do but ‘scale down’ our expectations, because in the end, there is ‘very little’ accountability and it is ‘quite unlikely’ that any one will ‘stand down’ or display a ‘little more’ empathy or even some ‘conventional wisdom’ during the course of this dystopian, ‘virtual reality’ ‘war game’ we are currently experiencing. What else to do in such times but try and hold on to our ‘forgotten memories’ of the bad old good days, when going viral was an aspiration and when being positive was a virtue?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-of-quiet-rage-and-silent-screams-101619192161344.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports record 773 Covid-19 deaths, 66,836 cases||Maharashtra on Friday reported 773 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in the highest-ever daily spike, and 66,836 cases, according to the health department’s bulletin, which have pushed the tally to 41,61,676 in the state, which is under strict restrictions to stop the transmission of the infections. Maharashtra currently has 691,851 active cases of the coronavirus disease, the highest in the country, and 74,045 patients recovered from the Covid-19, according to the bulletin. There were 67,013 Covid-19 cases and 568 people succumbed to the viral disease on Thursday in the state, which is the worst-hit by the pandemic. Maharashtra so far has reported 41,61,676 cases and 63,252 deaths due to the coronavirus disease, the bulletin showed.Maharashtra’s capital city of Mumbai recorded 7199 Covid-19 cases and 72 deaths after registering 7367 infections and 75 fatalities a day before, the bulletin also showed. The new infections and fatalities have taken Mumbai's tally to 616,279 and its death toll to 12,655, according to data.Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate is at 81.81 per cent and its fatality rate 1.52 per cent, according to official data. The state's positivity rate is 16.53 per cent, it also showed.During a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the day, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanded additional medical oxygen for the state, adequate supply of vaccines and permission to import Remdesivir to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases. Thackeray also demanded that oxygen be airlifted if possible, an official release said.The Maharashtra government has imposed stringent regulations to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease, including restrictions on inter-city and inter-district travel and attendance in offices and weddings. The new restrictions under the government's “Break- the-Chain” programme came into force at 8pm on Thursday and will remain effective till 7 am on May 1.Also read | Mumbai locals step up checking as stricter curbs come into forceThe government said inter-city and inter-district travel is only permitted for essential services, medical emergencies and funerals. Under the new order, only 25 people cans attend wedding ceremonies, which cannot extend beyond two hours. Prohibitory orders, banning the assembly of five or more people at one place, are in force till 7am on May 1 and non-essential activities are not being allowed. Essential services, including grocery stores, are permitted to operate only between between 7am and 11am.Also read | Five districts in Maharashtra report highest Covid CFRThe latest curbs came after several ministers demanded a total lockdown for 15 days to curb the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. Maharashtra, facing an unprecedented surge in coronavirus disease cases as the pandemic’s second wave, is already under severe restrictions since April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-66-836-covid-19-cases-773-deaths-101619187822396.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Amid Covid crisis, Mumbai Dabbawalas call for help; raise over ₹20 lakh in 4 days||Hit hard by yet another coronavirus pandemic-induced lockdown and struggling to make ends meet, Mumbai’s iconic Dabbawalas reached out for help. And, their appeal was met with equal enthusiasm. The dabbawalas have raised over ₹20 lakh in just four days with the help of a fundraiser organisation as more than 1000 people have donated so far through Milaap.“When I first spoke to the dabbawalas, I got to know that more than 2000 of them are struggling to make ends meet. I sensed the urgency of their appeal and felt that a campaign on Milaap can be of great help for them. The response has been great so far with more than 1000 donations in less than a week,” Debosmita De, a marketing operations associate with Milaap, said.Ulhas Shantaram Muke, the president of the Mumbai Tiffin Box Suppliers Charity Trust, thanked everyone who came forward and showed their support. “The campaign on Milaap has raised over ₹20 lakh in just 4 days. This is a great ray of hope for us to procure ration and pay off our rents in this challenging time,” Muke added. “We have worked hard every single day to build this system. Dabbawalas are in a lot of trouble now. The situation is such that a 100 ₹note is equivalent to ₹10,000,” Sopan Laxman Mare, a Dabbawala, said.As the 130-year-old delivery network has seen the business plunge by nearly 90% with many offices in Mumbai still closed, the Dabbawalas have also urged the Maharashtra government for financial help. “Out of the 5000 Dabbawalas, only 400-500 were working. With new lockdown restrictions, only 200-250 are now left. We are again urging the government for financial help,” Vishnu Kaldoke, Mumbai dabbawala spokesperson, told news agency ANI earlier this month.The Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced fresh restrictions on travel, attendance in offices and wedding functions to check the Covid-19 spread. The effect came into force from Thursday night.Maharashtra, facing an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, is already under severe restrictions since April 14. On Thursday, Maharashtra recorded 67,013 fresh coronavirus cases and 568 fatalites, taking the tally to 40,94,840, said a health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-covid-crisis-mumbai-dabbawalas-call-for-help-raise-over-rs-20-lakh-in-4-days-101619181348820.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai civic body frames procedure to prevent oxygen-related emergencies||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday announced that it has fixed a procedure to prevent any emergencies due to oxygen supply amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The BMC has asked all hospitals in the city and various departments of the civic administration to strictly follow the protocol, an official release stated.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here As per the procedure, chief engineers of the mechanical and electric departments will prepare a data sheet containing ward-wise details of all private Covid-19 hospitals, their oxygen suppliers and types of cylinders they have.The release further stated that the information will be made available to the BMC's ward controls and the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA).Hospitals will have to register their demand for oxygen at least 24 hours before or as per their agreement, whichever is the earliest, it was stated."Hospitals will have to inform ward control rooms if the oxygen supply is not made available within 16 hours," the release stated.The procedure also contains detailed information about what needs to be done if suppliers failed to deliver oxygen well within the stipulated time, it was stated.The administration has also asked all ward offices, the public health department and hospitals to strictly follow this procedure.The move has come after the civic body encountered two oxygen-related emergencies in a week's time, when it had to arrange for cylinders for a private hospital in Ghatkopar and shift 168 Covid-19 patients from six civic hospitals due to supply issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-mumbai-civic-body-frames-procedure-to-prevent-oxygen-related-emergencies-101619175530361.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Passes for inter-state, inter-district travel available at local police stations’: Maharashtra Police||The Maharashtra Police on Friday said that those who wish to undertake inter-state or inter-district travel for any medical emergency or other unavoidable work can get a pass from the local police stations besides getting it online. Director general of police, Sanjay Pandey, on Friday said that besides getting passes online, citizens can also get them from local police stations. “The basic idea is that those who do not have internet access can also get it by just visiting the nearest police station. Policemen will help them in filling the form and get the pass. This arrangement will help people from the lower strata of the society,” Pandey said.For inter-state and inter-district emergency travel, one can apply for an e-pass at https://covid19.mhpolice.in. The applicant while visiting the police station must take along the relevant and supporting documents to justify their reason for the emergency travel. After the verification, the police will issue a pass to those who wish to travel.The applicants will have to also furnish details of their destination, vehicle details, number of passengers, etc., and follow Covid appropriate behaviour during their travel, the police said. Maharashtra is under a strict lockdown from Thursday 8 pm till 7 am on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/passes-for-inter-state-inter-district-travel-available-at-local-police-stations-maharashtra-police-101619168695898.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai locals step up checking as stricter curbs come into force in Maharashtra||As stricter restrictions came into force in Maharashtra from April 23, local train services of Mumbai were shut for the general public and checking for identity cards was intensified on Friday. According to the new restriction that came into effect from 8pm on Thursday, only government officials, health workers, people requiring medical treatment and disabled persons are allowed to travel by local trains. People who were earlier considered as essential workers in previous orders of the government has not been included in the modified list under the Maha Vikas Aghadi government's 'Break-the-Chain' programme. This restriction will be in place till 7am on May 1.Accredited media personnel were also excluded from the list.Maharashtra imposes full lockdown from todayAs announced before, the railways limited the number of entry and exit points at stations to prevent crowding. Preparing for the new restrictions, the Central Railways earlier said that train tickets will be issued only at ticket counters during this period. All other modes of bookings like ATVMs, JTBS (Jan Sadharan Ticket Booking Seva) and UTS will remain disabled till future orders.Travellers coming from outstation trains are also not being permitted to travel in local trains.This is the first time after February 1 that Mumbai local services have been curtailed because of the rise in the number of Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra. After being partially suspended for 10 months since March 2020, the suburban railway services resumed from February 1 and since mid-February, the cases started rising.As Mumbai Police came to the rescue of Mumbaikars finding themselves in a quandary because of the fresh restrictions on Twitter, it received several queries on Mumbai local services.Sorry but it’s not allowed. According to govt notification, only govt officials and medical officials/medical emergencies are allowed to use local train. Long distance trains can be used by others subject to conditions given in the notification. https://t.co/DYULTE28pDSince February, the state government has been trying to avoid a lockdown in the state as it endangers the livelihoods of people. In March-April, as Covid-19 cases in the state spiralled, the state started taking containment measures by gradually announcing night curfew, weekend lockdown, the imposition of Section 144 etc.In its latest order, which is officially not being called a lockdown, the government has mandated that Mumbai local tickets will be issued only to government staff, medical staff, people needing medical treatment and disabled after checking their documents. Public buses too are plying at 50 per cent of their capacity with no standing passengers from today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-locals-step-up-checking-as-stricter-lockdown-begins-in-maharashtra-101619166485492.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra brings back Covid-19 e-pass for inter-state, inter-district travel: Here's how to apply||In view of a recent surge in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra has reintroduced its e-pass system for inter-state and inter-district travel amid the ongoing coronavirus disease-necessitated curfew restrictions. According to the Maharashtra Police, the e-pass will be necessary only for travel in "extreme emergency" situations and citizens can apply for the e-pass with from the government portal with relevant documents related to the purpose.Maharashtra recorded 67,013 new cases on Thursday, taking its total tally to over 4 million. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state announced stringent restrictions, along with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), on Wednesday night, which will remain in effect till 7am on May 1. No travel is allowed by public or private transport, unless for essential services, medical reasons or vaccination, according to the government order.The Maharashtra Police, in a tweet from its official account on Friday, said that citizens can apply for an e-pass at covid19.mhpolice.in for inter-state and inter-district emergency travel. Citizens can also walk in to the nearest police station for assistance, the post detailed. "We urge all citizens to apply for an e-pass only in the case of extreme emergencies," the police said.For interstate and inter-district emergency travel, you can apply for an E-Pass at https://t.co/jR6ROcBcPUYou can also walk in to your nearest Police Station for assistance.We urge all citizens to apply for an E-Pass only in the case of extreme emergencies.#EPassForTravelHere's how to apply for an e-pass in Maharashtra, in five steps:It is to be noted that the Covid-19 e-pass will only allow travel under "extremely emergency" circumstances for citizens not involved in essential work or emergency response. Essential service providers shall not require the travel pass either for inter-state or intra-state travel.The authority for approval or rejection of the application for the Covid-19 curfew pass will reside exclusively with the respective district superintendent of police office and the zonal deputy commissioner office in the cities.Once verified, the e-pass will contain the individual's details, vehicle number, validity, and a QR code. A hard or soft copy of the e-pass should be kept while travelling and presented to the police when asked. The Maharashtra Police has warned that it is a punishable offense to copy, misuse or use the pass after the valid date without proper authorisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-brings-back-covid-19-e-pass-for-inter-state-inter-district-travel-here-s-how-to-apply-101619161303652.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare, Hiran murder case: Another Mumbai Police officer arrested||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested one more Mumbai Police officer in connection with the Antilia bomb scare and Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder case.An NIA officer said they had called in police inspector Sunil Mane for interrogation in connection with the cases and placed him under arrest late Thursday night. Mane will be produced before the special NIA court for remand on Friday.Mane, a 1995-batch Maharashtra police service officer, was in-charge of Unit 11 of the Mumbai Police crime branch in Kandivli. NIA officials said he was under the cloud of suspicion since March 13, when controversial Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze was arrested in the case, so much so that the team had inspected several official vehicles assigned to the Unit 11.Also Read | Hiran murder: Naresh Gor applies for bail, claims he was never contacted by VazeIncidentally, the caller who had contacted Hiran on March 4, had also identified himself as crime branch officer Tawde from Kandivli, and drawn him out of his Thane residence for a meeting along Ghodbunder Road.Hiran went missing after he stepped out at about 8.30pm on March 4. The next day, his body was found dumped in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered with a scarf.NIA suspected Mane was involved in the murder. Sources said he was present at the Criminal Intelligence Unit, which was then headed by Vaze, along with one more police officer on March 3, when the plan to eliminate Hiran, linked to the explosive-laden Mahindra Scorpio found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25, was allegedly hatched.NIA, which is investigating both the cases, has so far arrested Vaze, his former colleague at CIU, assistant police inspector Riyazuddin Kazi, former policeman Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-hiran-murder-case-another-mumbai-police-officer-arrested-101619158015369.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Assessing student performance a challenge in the online mode: Experts||In early March this year, Sunita Kadam, a Class 8 teacher from a civic body school in Mumbai was busy drawing up a list of academically weak students. With her class being conducted online since March 2020, Kadam said that it was becoming a big challenge for the students. “Last year, all these students passed without proper assessments and this year too, the same will repeat. However, there are a few students who are lagging behind their other counterparts in terms of learning key concepts. We are now working on these students to bridge the learning gap that has been seen due to online learning,” said Kadam. As schools and colleges remain online for more than a year now, understanding and evaluating the academic performance of students and taking corrective action is becoming one of the biggest challenges for teachers and schools. In 2020, students from Classes 1 to 8 were promoted based on internal assessments conducted at the school level. Class 9 and 11 students underwent tests and exams online. Those who failed to clear these exams had to undergo another round of tests in the days to come. Students in colleges and universities had to undergo online multiple-choice questions (MCQ) to pass their semesters. This year, students of Class 1 to 12 barring Class 10 and 12 will be promoted to the next class without any exams. ‘Can have disastrous consequences’Experts said that not being able to conduct assessments of students can have disastrous consequences on their overall learning outcomes of students. Sudam Kumbhar, former principal of Shailendra High School in Dahisar said that the consequences are particularly alarming for students from low-income households. “In families with low economic means, the children have already suffered a lot due to the pandemic. There are anxieties about employment and overall existence. In online classes, nearly 50% of students are often absent because they are accompanying their parents to their workplaces or have no access to phones and gadgets. It thus becomes crucial to assess the learning levels of such students which will not happen systematically because there are no exams and assessments,” added Kumbhar. Over the last year, a large number of students from colleges and universities who were previously struggling to get their backlogs cleared have managed to pass, said colleges. This is particularly a cause of concern because there is no way to know whether these students have merely passed the exams or have understood the subject during this time.“Every year, some students in every class end up with ATKT (allowed to keep terms) which they carry forward to the next semester. In some cases, students carry forward their KTs for two years but all this changed with the MCQ format of exams. While students have passed the exam, we are doubting how much of the subject they’ve realistically understood,” said the principal of a suburban college. Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College in Bandra said, “Even though most students in our institute have scored very well, teachers are worried that students have not understood basic concepts and this will affect their ability to understand larger concepts in the future courses/subjects.”Lack of learning continuityIn December 2020, Leadership for Equity, a Pune-based NGO that works closely with the state education department conducted a community survey to assess the impact of the pandemic on learning. The sample survey conducted across six districts in the state (Pune, Akola, Satara, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Nashik) revealed that one of the biggest repercussions of prolonged school closures was the lack of learning continuity among students. A large number of parents and teachers expressed concerns about learning losses as only about two of the 10 students surveyed, reported having access to a phone during their study time. In eight of the 10 households, more than one person was sharing a phone thus raising concerns about the reach of online learning. Standard guidelines are importantFrancis Joseph, a city-based educationist and the co-founder of SLN Global Network said that in the days to come, it is important to have consistency and universality in strategies used for bridging the learning gaps. “Right now, each school is working on addressing issues arising out of online learning at its level as per its understanding. We need to understand that school leaders are not necessarily experts in pedagogy and thus boards need to come up with a set of standard guidelines for this. We need to understand that under the current circumstance, the entire schooling system needs to slow down a bit and rework its entire structure to make it easier on students for the coming 2-3 years. The repercussions of the losses during the pandemic will have to be dealt with even in the years to come,” he added. Trial by error learningThe sudden change from regular classes to the virtual mode affected teaching as well as learning modules across higher education institutes. Several colleges started training teachers before starting regular lectures but for a large chunk of teachers, learning was trial by error. “Most colleges were waiting for the University of Mumbai to announce the course of action, and once the announcement to start classes in the virtual mode came through, colleges were unprepared. Many of us understood the virtual classroom on our own by making many mistakes and learning from them,” said a senior professor from a suburban college. While theory sessions were conducted smoothly by colleges, practical sessions were a challenge for many. “We used the best technology possible and recorded videos of practical sessions for students, which were shared regularly. In case some students did not understand the concept, we allowed them to physically report to the college and conducted practical sessions keeping social distancing in mind,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal of KC College, Churchgate. She added that students preferred depending on virtual classes as compared to physical classes as many were back in their hometowns and travelling would’ve been a problem. Increase in learning inequalitiesEducationists said while assessing the performance of students is a tough task without conducting periodic tests and exams, governments need to understand that learning losses due to the pandemic is a very critical concern. “Like always, it is going to increase learning inequalities. Those who can afford the best tutors and help will sail through. For families where retaining children in schools is a challenge, these learning losses would pose challenges in future as students have to compete for various exams,” added Kumbhar.“For the poor, their marks are the only gateway to a good education and if learning is not equal, we cannot test students on the same levels for sure,” said a teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/assessing-student-performance-a-challenge-in-the-online-mode-experts-101619121171571.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Teachers urge education dept to declare summer break dates||Teachers in schools and junior colleges across the state have urged the education department to declare the dates for concluding the current semester and start of summer break this year.Many teachers have recently urged officials to give clarity about ending the current semester after the government announced that students from Classes 1 to 8 and 11 shall be promoted to the next class without exams. “Now that all students have been promoted, we are hoping that the end of semester is announced soon. We are seeing a very low attendance as it is. We hope here is some break in between before the new semester begins,” said Rajesh Pandya, vice-president of Teachers Democratic Front.The Mumbai Regional Junior College Teachers’ Organization (MRJCTO) also wrote to state education minister Varsha Gaikwad requesting the declaration of summer break for teachers. “As you are aware that many states have declared summer vacation for teachers and students, but the government of Maharashtra has not declared it yet. We request you to ensure that summer vacation is declared for junior college teachers with immediate effect,” stated the letter.Officials from the education department did not respond to calls and messages.Usually, summer vacations begin for teachers from May 2 and schools under the state board reopen for the new academic year from the second week of June. With the cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponement of Class 12 exams, teachers might have to work in May and June this year. “We hope that at least we get a few days off before that,” said a teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-teachers-urge-education-dept-to-declare-summer-break-dates-101619121111492.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra varsities to conduct exams only in online mode: Higher education minister||All state public universities will conduct their exams, including final-year exams, in the online mode, said state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant, in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases across Maharashtra.“While most of the university exams were anyway being held online, there were a few places where offline options were also available. But considering the strict restrictions of lockdown from April 22, this will not be possible. Such universities had approached the department seeking permission to hold all exams completely online, following which the decision was taken. All universities and colleges have been instructed to ensure that no student misses the online examination,” said Samant adding that this decision was taken after discussing the options with the chancellor of all state universities, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari.Recently, several scheduled examinations had to be postponed due to the surge in Covid-19 cases across the country. School education boards including Maharashtra state, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) as well as Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) decided to cancel their Class 10 board exams and postpone Class 12 exams this year. Similarly, the National Testing Agency (NTA) postponed all-India competitive exams indefinitely.University of Mumbai (MU) had released a circular in March clarifying that all university exams will be conducted in online mode in multiple choice questions (MCQ) format. “Not just theory exams, but affiliated colleges have also ensured that practical exams are conducted online. So, we have nothing to worry about,” said a senior official from MU. Similarly, most state universities have already announced that exams will be held in the online mode owing to the latest lockdown situation across the State.“Safety of staff and students is our focus, and we will make sure no student is at a loss due to the current situation. We have also been in talks with the authorities to get all teachers and other non-teaching staff to get vaccinations on priority so that the examination and results process is not hindered,” said Samant. He added that the education department also hopes to get all 3.7 million students pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate courses in state universities vaccines on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-varsities-to-conduct-exams-only-in-online-mode-higher-education-minister-101619121112119.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||1,860 Covid-19 cases recorded in Maharashtra Police force in a week||Maharashtra Police recorded 1,860 new cases of Covid-19 infection in the past one week and a dozen personnel succumbed to the disease during the period. Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur and Wardha districts witnessed maximum cases. Senior police officers, however, said the infection in police department was under control.As per the latest report, in the past 24 hours, 254 new cases were reported which included 41 officers and 213 constables. On an average, 229 new cases of infection were reported daily in the state police force in the past seven days, the police said.So far a total of 39,000 police personnel contracted the disease and 390 (35 officers and 355 constables) have died since April last year. Currently, there are 3,874 active cases. Around 34,735 police personnel have recovered. An additional director general said nearly 90% of police personnel have taken the first dose of the vaccine and 45% have got the second dose as well.“All unit heads have been instructed to restart the measures taken during the peak of the pandemic last year as per the requirement. But the situation is very much in our control,” the senior IPS officer said.In Mumbai Police, a total of 8,372 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 and 103 of them succumbed to the infectious disease. Currently, there are 671 active cases. The city police force also expedited the vaccination drive for its personnel. The Mumbai Police has a strength of 45,000 personnel, of whom 75% have received the first dose of vaccine and 43% have got both the doses. “Compared to the November-February period, cases of police personnel getting infected daily in March and April have gone up. But due to vaccination, the number of serious patients is very low,” said a senior police officer from Mumbai Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1860-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-maharashtra-police-force-in-a-week-101619121051458.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai logs 7,367 Covid-19 cases, 75 deaths; positivity rate dips||The city on Thursday reported 7,367 new Covid-19 cases and 75 deaths, taking tally to 609,080 and toll to 12,583. There are 82,616 active cases in Mumbai currently and the case fatality rate is 2%. Mumbai conducted 46,874 Covid-19 tests on Wednesday, pushing its total test count to 5,122,026. The daily positivity rate on Thursday dropped to 15.7%, from 18% recorded in the past week. Over the past month (since March 23), around 45,000 to 50,000 tests were conducted in Mumbai daily. Around 25% to 30% daily tests are being conducted using rapid antigen test while the remaining are RT-PCR tests. For the past three days, Mumbai’s positivity rate has been around 16%, down from 18% to 20% last week and over 20% in the beginning of the April. Positivity rate is the number of people who test positive as a per cent of the total tests done.About 78% of Mumbai’s active cases, as of Wednesday, are stable asymptomatic patients, 21% are stable symptomatic patients, and 2% are critical patients.Of the 21,331 Covid-19 hospital beds in the city, 17,519 are occupied and 3, 812 are vacant; of the 10,773 oxygen beds, 853 are vacant; of the 2,834 ICU beds, 42 are vacant; and of the 1,452 ventilator beds, 21 are vacant.Mumbai currently has a recovery rate of 84% while the overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases stands at 1.35%. Doubling rate has gone up to 50 days, from 36 days reported two weeks ago. Over the past week, around 7,000-8,000 cases were reported in the city daily. The highest number of cases reported during the second wave was 11,206 on April 4. On Thursday, the city also witnessed vaccination of a total of 48,152 beneficiaries, of which 26,162 received their first dose and 21,990 the second dose, across 132 vaccination centres in the city. So far, 1,814,389 beneficiaries have received their first dose and 313,706 received their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-logs-7-367-covid-19-cases-75-deaths-positivity-rate-dips-101619120997816.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Postponed board and competitive exams leave class 12 students anxious||Eighteen-year-old Aarya Tendulkar used to spend at least 12 hours a day studying and preparing for her Class 12 exams as well as the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) until March this year. NEET is an exam that over a million students take every year for admission to undergraduate medical courses in medical institutions, including premier ones like All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), among others. Last year alone, 1.6 million candidates registered for the exam; less than half qualified. Tendulkar and several like her are well aware of how competitive the entrance exam is. This has been her routine since 2019: “My day would start at 6am and I would study continuously till 9am. After a 30-minute break I would once again start at 10am and study till 2.30pm. My coaching institute lectures are scheduled in the afternoon till 7pm, following which I would have my dinner and then revise what was taught in class for an hour or two before calling it a day.” However, the Ghatkopar resident feels in a bit of a limbo right now. On April 18, the National Testing Agency announced that Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains is postponed until further notice while the status of NEET, scheduled for August first week, is yet unknown. “I feel this preparation time will never end and that is leaving me more anxious than ever,” she said.Rising Covid-19 cases across the country has forced state and national school boards to cancel Class 10 board exams and postpone exams for Class 12 students. Similarly, entrance exams to all undergraduate professional courses have been pushed forward. IIT-Joint Entrance Exams (JEE-Mains) are usually held in April, followed by JEE-Advanced in May. NEET-UG too is scheduled for May every year. However, due to the national lockdown imposed last year, the exams were conducted between September and October 2020. This year, of the four sessions of JEE-Mains, two were held in February and March while April session has been postponed. Last year, by the time the national lockdown was imposed, most Class 10 and 12 students had been able to finish most of their board exams: Maharashtra state board Class 12 exams had finished; only one paper remained for those in Class 10; Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 and 12 board exams were done; and Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) board students were promoted based on the exams already held. As a result, students sitting for competitive exams this year worry that they may now have to take multiple exams in a stretch. “My daughter has not taken a vacation in over two years because her focus was to prepare herself best for Class 12 and NEET exams. But last year has been tough for her physically and mentally, and the fact that exams have once again been postponed is leaving her more anxious with every passing day,” said Dr Bharat Shah, father of Manashvi Shah, 18. Shah joined integrated coaching classes after clearing Class 10 and has dedicated much of the past two years preparing for the all-India medical entrance test in the hope of becoming a neurosurgeon in the future. “Children have spent the last one year in front of a computer, and the constant postponement of exam dates are adding to the stress levels of already tired teenagers. As parents, we feel helpless,” said Nisha Parmar, mother of Advait Parmar, 17. Parmar could not appear for the second session of JEE-Mains in March as he was in quarantine after his father tested positive. “I re-registered for the April session and wanted to tick-off at least one exam of my list but now, the April session has been postponed and I am unable to focus on studies anymore,” he said. “Many Class 12 students are living in fear of falling sick during exams or not faring well in exams as many have lost the concentration to focus on exams with so much happening around them,” said Mumbai-based psychologist Seema Hingorrany. “Postponement of exams has calmed the nerves of many. However, students are also worried about the seemingly never-ending wait,” said Vinay Kumar, MD and CEO of Rao Academy, a city-based coaching institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/postponed-board-and-competitive-exams-leave-class-12-students-anxious-101619120997059.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Five districts in Maharashtra report highest Covid CFR||As Maharashtra recorded 67,013 new cases on Thursday, taking the total cases to over 4 million, five districts have emerged as areas of concern with respect to the case fatality ratio (CFR; the percentage of deaths per 100 cases) and in at least three of the districts where data is available, test positivity rate (TPR; number of positive cases per 100 tests) as well.In the period from April 15 to April 21, as Maharashtra recorded its highest seven-day average in both cases as well as fatalities, the CFR of five districts posed the most concern. Of them, Ahmednagar recorded the highest at 1.4%, followed by Nagpur (0.95%), Mumbai (0.64%), Nashik (0.62%) and Pune (0.33%). The TPR, however, was the highest in Nagpur with 34%, while Pune district recorded 26.64% and Mumbai posted 17.21% in the same period. Nashik and Ahmednagar did not reveal their tests, and therefore the TPR could not be calculated. State-wide, the average daily cases touched 64,238, while daily deaths averaged 443 -- highest ever in the pandemic in the country – in the same time period. The state’s TPR averaged 24.81%. The CFR was 0.69% in the same period.To be sure, the CFR in Maharashtra has been consistently falling since January 31. On that day, the overall CFR stood at 2.52%. This fell to 1.54% on April 21. The main reason for this was that deaths have not increased in the same proportion as cases. On January 31, Maharashtra recorded 2630 cases and 42 deaths. On April 21, it recorded 67,468 cases and 568 deaths, its highest one-day death toll.Ahmednagar faces a huge shortage of oxygen cylinders, and all the hospitals are full. The local authorities on Tuesday sought oxygen from Chakan in Pune. When the tanker reached the border, it was stopped by the Pune based authorities and made to halt for two hours. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had to intervene to offer reprieve to the patients.The Maharashtra Government announced a total lockdown which will come to force on Thursday night to contain the virus.The high number of cases in these places has resulted in the burdening of the medical infrastructure which means the shortage of hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and medicines.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has requested for supply of medical grade oxygen for the hospitals, following which the Centre has made a road map on supplying oxygen to the state.The Centre has earmarked 1661 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen to reach the state from various states, but it is as yet unclear when the oxygen is scheduled to reach.“We have taken various steps to ease the solution and would like the central government to cooperate with us to get out of this crisis. The Centre needs to increase its quota of oxygen cylinders and Remdesivir for Maharashtra,” Tope said.In Pune, the total deaths due to Covid-19 have now reached to 8890 ever since the outbreak of the virus. Many of the small hospitals have stopped admitting patients due to the lack of oxygen. On Wednesday, the district recorded the largest number of cases and there are now 121,284 active cases.In Nagpur, a shortage of Remdesivir, an anti-viral injection, and medical grade oxygen prompted the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court (HC) to take suo moto cognizance of the shortages. On Wednesday night, at a late hearing, it pulled up the Centre for lessening the supply of oxygen from a Bhilai-based supplier, from 110MT to 60MT in a communication dated April 18.At a time when the supply of oxygen should have been increased it was reduced instead, the HC noted and ordered that the supply be restored. The region, it noted, was facing a shortfall of at least 100MT.Earlier in the week, it had asked the Central Controller of Drugs in India to ensure that 10,000 vials of Remdesivir be given to Nagpur. Two days later, the Court rapped the Maharashtra Government for its failure to comply fully with its order.Nashik has become another hotspot for the virus as there are currently 46,253 active patients on Wednesday and has registered a total number of 2701 deaths. The city is facing huge shortage of oxygen and families of patient are frantically searching for Remdesivir injections. “We need at least 125 metric tonnes but are getting only 85 metric tonnes. Even that is very erratic as it sometimes gets caught in various problems,” said senior NCP Minister Chhagan Bhujbal.On Wednesday, one of the tankers supplying oxygen to patients receiving treatment for the coronavirus disease at Dr Zakir Naik Municipal Hospital malfunctioned, which led to the death of 24 persons.In Mumbai which has 84,450 active cases, the government is pulling all stops to beat the shortage. “We are making all efforts to save the lives of the people,” said Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, said the people in metros are getting the virus due to various reasons.“These election rallies were super spreaders and thousands of people are coming from there in flights and railways. This has played a major role in hike in numbers,” said Shaikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-districts-in-maharashtra-report-highest-covid-cfr-101619120991618.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra taking urgent steps to combat Covid surge, HC told||The Bombay high court, while hearing a PIL questioning the mismanagement of the second Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra, was assured on Thursday by the state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) that appropriate measures were being taken to ensure equitable distribution of life-saving drugs and oxygen.As the hearing was on, additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni that a web portal had carried a report that the Chief Justice of India had taken suo motu cognisance of all Covid-related PIL being heard by high courts and decided to hear all petitions together on Friday, with senior advocate Harish Salve as the amicus curiae.Singh informed the court that it could not continue hearing the case further and that the Supreme Court will deal with the supply of oxygen, essential drugs, method and manner of vaccination and powers of the state to declare a lockdown. However, as the SC was yet to issue an order staying the hearing in the high court or seeking transfer of petitions, the HC bench continued the hearing.The bench, while hearing the PIL filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the state was taking urgent steps to combat the spread. Pointing to the shortage of oxygen and key drugs such as remdesivir, he submitted that the Centre had announced it would take care of it from May 1. On a query by the court on the availability till April 30, Kumbhakoni submitted that measures such as asking suppliers to hand over the medicines directly to the collector who, in turn, would distribute it to hospitals, were put in place. To this, the court said there has to be a portal on availability of essential Covid-19 drugs.Referring to a news report from last year, which said that people need to be cautious about the spread of Covid till June 2021, the HC said, “Had we not lowered our guard at least till June 30, 2021, this situation would not have been arisen.”“You should realise this is an emergency situation,” said the bench, adding that black-marketing and profiteering should be stopped. The state submitted the concerns and suggestions of advocate Simil Purohit for the petitioner to allow more labs for testing, and having a uniform rate for the medicines, would be considered.The state submitted the concerns and suggestions of advocate Simil Purohit for the petitioner to allow more labs for testing. The court also stressed on the need for a faster way of testing, asking the state whether RT-PCR tests could be made more affordable and accessible to all. Addressing the issue of availability of beds, both Kumbhakoni and senior advocate Anil Sakhare for the BMC submitted there were sufficient beds in the state and statistics showed there were more beds than existing patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-taking-urgent-steps-to-combat-covid-surge-hctold-101619120725480.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra expects hiccups in its 18+ vaccination drive||With eight days to go for universal Covid-19 vaccination to start in the state, Maharashtra could witness hiccups in the inoculation drive from May 1 due to inadequate supply of vaccine shots. Three days after the Centre announced the decision to start vaccination for all adults in the country from May 1, the state government said it will start negotiations with foreign vaccine manufacturers as the two Indian companies have either not released prices or have their production booked by the Centre for a month. Meanwhile, the state government is also deliberating on the proposal to make the vaccine doses available for free for the poor in the 18 to 44 age group. The Centre on Monday announced vaccination for all adults in the country from May 1, but the states and Union territories have to procure the doses from manufacturers. The manufacturers would supply 50% of the ordered doses to the Government of India and 50% to the state governments and the open market. Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said a plan is being chalked out to procure vaccines. “A plan is being worked out… since foreign import is now allowed and there is Bharat Biotech, we will get in touch with them. The vaccination drive for [age] 18 to 44 will start on May 1, but the stock is expected to be limited. In that age group, there are roughly 55 or 57.5 million people. So, we will require about 120 million doses, including the wastage, over a span of four to five months, depending on how soon we get the stock,” said Kunte.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held an online meeting with Serum Institute of India’s Adar Poonawalla on Wednesday, where he was told that the company’s production has been booked till May 24. In light of that, the state will start negotiations with manufacturers of imported vaccines as it will not be able to purchase stock from Serum Institute of India, which makes Covidshield, till third week of May, and Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, as it has not released its prices.“Adar Poonawalla [during a meeting] told the chief minister that their entire production has been booked by the Centre till May 24. It is April 22 today, so, it is clear that for an entire month we will not be able to purchase [vaccine] for the 18-45 age group. Senior officials are in touch with Bharat Biotech, but so far, they have not released the price for state governments. If that happens in a day or two, we will be able to place order with them,” Tope said.However, the Centre refuted the claim and said that Serum Institute has not contracted all its production of vaccines to the Centre till May 25. A statement from the PIB said, “State governments are free to procure Covid-19 vaccine doses from the vaccine manufacturers as per the Liberalised Pricing and accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy.” It further added, “A key feature of the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy is that the “Vaccine manufacturers would supply 50% of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to Govt. of India and would be free to supply remaining 50% doses to state governments and in the other than Govt. of India channel”. The state governments are free to purchase doses from the vaccine manufacturers. Therefore, it is very clear that every month out of the total CDL cleared doses available with any vaccine manufacturer, 50% doses would be available for other than Government of India channels.”Earlier in the week, deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar had said that the state would use certain development funds, but not hamper the procuring of imported vaccines, if need be. Tope added that the state would negotiate with the companies including Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Sputnik V to buy the “extremely expensive” imported vaccines. “Sputnik V, Moderna, American and the Chinese vaccines are extremely expensive compared to our vaccines. These vaccines are about seven to 10 times costlier than then Indian ones. But we can carry out a negotiation at the highest level with them. Chief minister and deputy chief minister have already made it clear that our government will consider [purchasing] it, if they reduce the prices since we are going to purchase in a huge volume,” he added. Kunte added that the state will also hold talks with Bharat Biotech soon. “There will be a wide range of choice,” he said.The health minister also said that the state government would consider providing free vaccines to “poor and extremely poor” section of the society in the age group of 18 to 44 years. He said such a proposal will be mooted by the health department and the State Cabinet will take a call on it soon. He however ruled out free vaccines for others who can afford the jab.“We will be taking up the matter of providing vaccines for free in the upcoming cabinet meeting. The government will definitely think of the poor and extremely poor sections of society. But who can afford the vaccines in the 18 to 44 age bracket must pay for the vaccine shot. The health department will put up a proposal to give vaccines for free to the poor, but the final decision will be taken by the Cabinet,” he said. Currently, the vaccination is free for all in those who are 45 and above. For those who want to pay for the vaccine, have an option to get vaccinated from selected private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-expects-hiccups-in-its-18-vaccination-drive-101619119312447.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Willing to touch Centre’s feet for oxygen supply, says Maharashtra health minister||With hospitals still turning away patients owing to shortage of oxygen supply, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said he was in touch with the Central government to solve the problem, and was even willing to “touch their feet”. “We want the Centre to facilitate a green corridor to provide a safe transport system for our oxygen supply. We are making a humble request to the Central government and are ready to even touch their feet. We urge the Centre to provide a maximum supply of oxygen to Maharashtra,” said Tope.Mumbai is currently receiving 235 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, although its daily requirement is 300 MT; Nagpur is getting 155 MT daily, despite its need of 180 MT; Pune needs 375 MT, but can garner just 300 MT daily; while Nashik, which needs 125 MT, gets just 85 MT daily. As of now, the state requires 1,500 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen daily, against its production capacity of 1,250 MT. The state is procuring 300 MT from other states, namely Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Chhattisgarh. The government has requested the Centre to increase the Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) supply from other states to 500 MT daily. It is also expecting 105 MT oxygen by way of Oxygen Express train from Vishakhapatnam.There are reports that many Covid patients who are unable to get oxygen beds are now procuring oxygen cylinders at home as a temporary measure. To deal with the shortage, the state is considering using oxygen being produced at steel and thermal power plants. Tope said that Covid-19 centres can be built near the four thermal plants of Parli, Paras, Koradi and Khaparkheda and oxygen supply can be made by connecting a pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/willing-to-touch-centre-s-feet-for-oxygen-supply-says-maharashtra-health-minister-101619117332440.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Railways, BEST to ensure lockdown norms are followed in Mumbai||The Railways and Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) officials will be undertaking measures to ensure lockdown guidelines are being followed and unauthorised travel is restricted.Maharashtra government on Wednesday had announced that no travel by public or private transport will be allowed unless for essential services, medical reasons and vaccination.The passengers requiring medical treatments or are specially-abled, along with one person to accompany, central, state and local government personnel and medical staff, including doctors, paramedics, lab technicians, hospital and medical clinic staff will be allowed to travel by local trains on the Central and Western Railway.The railway authorities have restricted the entry and exit to railway stations. The government railway police (GRP) and railway protection force (RPF) personnel have been deployed to check identity cards and documents of passengers.Railways have also decreased the number of local trains. The Central Railway will operate at 80% of its capacity on the mainline and harbour railway. Passengers will have to take tickets through railways ticket counters. “We will be taking all restrictions to avoid unauthorised travel by local trains,” said a senior railway official.BEST officials have stated that bus conductors would ensure that only 50% passengers travel. “No standees will be allowed to travel,” said a BEST official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-best-to-ensure-lockdown-norms-are-followed-in-mumbai-101619117211157.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Deploy cops to impose complete lockdown: Maharashtra CM||The Maharashtra government’s complete lockdown came into effect on Thursday evening, with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directing the state police to impose restrictions strictly, even as the state continued to report over 60,000 cases for three days in a row. As part of the notification for strict restrictions on movement of people, generally called lockdown, people can’t step out unless they need medical attention or are working in an essential sector or want to buy essential commodities, that too for restricted timings — between 7am and 11am. While local train and metro train travel have been restricted to essential sectors and those in need of medical attention, other public transport modes such as buses have been allowed to ply, but at 50% of the seating capacity. Even those going for vaccination would be allowed to travel. The fresh restrictions will continue till 7am on May 1. The state government may extend the restrictions in case the daily cases don’t dip. The state will take a decision after reviewing the situation by the end of this month, the officials said. Thackeray held a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, home minister Dilip Walse Patil and director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pande over strict implementation of the restrictions. “The DGP was directed to deploy the police force in substantial numbers at places to deter people from stepping out of their homes unnecessarily. They were asked to avoid using force and engaging in arguments and instead book offenders using provisions of the existing laws,” said a senior official, privy to the development.State health minister Rajesh Tope said they have decided to strictly restrict people’s movement. “Breaking the chain of infection is necessary to bring down the cases, hence it has been decided to impose a lockdown. We have decided to strictly curb movement that includes restrictions on inter-district movement and internal district movement as well. People will be allowed to step out if there is a death or a medical emergency, else they won’t be allowed to travel,” Tope said. “Free movement of people will not be allowed in this period.” Attendance in government and exempted category offices has also been reduced to 15%, while those coming under essential category have been allowed to work at maximum 50% capacity.Public transport buses, including BEST in Mumbai, will be allowed to ply for all, but at 50% of the sitting capacity. Besides, taxis and autorickshaws will remain operational at 50% capacity and strictly following Covid protocols. To reduce mobility between cities and districts, travelling in public buses has been reduced to 50% of their sitting capacity. Passengers travelling inter-city/district in public transport buses will have to mandatorily go in quarantine for 14 days, with mandatory stamping on their hands, while a rapid antigen test on them at alighting point can be considered by local authorities, stated the order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Thursday. The decision for complete lockdown was taken in a special cabinet meeting held on Tuesday. The state health department had expressed concern over the surge in daily cases as going by their projection the tally of active cases is likely to go up to 1.1 million cases, which will overwhelm the entire health infrastructure and situation may go out of control. More than 80% health infrastructure is already occupied. As the state is struggling with shortage of oxygen and anti-viral drug such as Remdesivir, ministers insisted on a complete lockdown in the cabinet meeting. “All shops related to groceries, vegetables, fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries and confectionaries, including those of chicken, mutton, poultry, fish and eggs, have been allowed to operate between 7am and 11am. Home delivery from the said shops; hotels, restaurants and bars and from e-commerce websites have also been allowed till 8pm,” said Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, disaster management and relief and rehabilitation department said. “We have brought restrictions only on public transport, offices, marriage functions and private vehicles,” he added. The wedding ceremony, which has proved to be a super-spreader event in the past, has been allowed in the presence of only 25 attendees. The ceremony has to be completed in two hours, while flouting of the condition may attract a fine of ₹50,000 to the family and action against the operator by shutting down the facility till the end of the pandemic. Flouting of rules will attract a fine of ₹10,000, stated the order. “The offices from the exempted category, including banks, mediclaim, insurance sector, too, will have to reduce the attendance to 15% from the existing permission of 50%. However, offices dealing in essential services, including hospitals, clinics, pharmaceutical companies, posts, ports, petrol pumps, petroleum companies, e-commerce companies etc. can operate at 50% capacity,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deploy-cops-to-impose-complete-lockdown-maharashtra-cm-101619117152346.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Relook at decision of not allowing door-to-door vaccination for elderly, kids, Bombay HC tells Centre||Expressing concerns over the lack of any policy by the Central government for vaccinating specially-abled and senior citizens with severe disabilities, the Bombay high court (HC) observed that such persons cannot be left to die and directed the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) to relook at its decision of not allowing door-to-door vaccination for elderly and find a solution and way to get them vaccinated. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Mumbai-based lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari seeking directions to the Centre, the state government and BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination facility for people over 75 years of age, the disabled and the bedridden, was informed that the MoHFW had filed an affidavit in response to the court’s direction in the earlier hearing. The affidavit stated that there could not be a door-to-door vaccination policy as it would lead to “high vaccine wastage and contamination leading to a reduction in efficacy”, and that the protocols on physical distancing and infection prevention, including a 30-minute observation period, would not be followed.The MoHFW affidavit had also stated that in the case of adverse event following immunization (AEFI), there could be a delay in reaching the health facility and managing that case may not be as per requirement. The affidavit also stated it was not mandatory to administer the vaccine close to an intensive care unit ( ICU), “The occurrence of serious/severe AEFI is very rare, which may not necessarily require admission into ICU. Hence, there is no such requirement for an ICU for the administration of vaccines.”After perusing the affidavit the court questioned, “There are ICUs in ambulances, you cannot keep a refrigerator? Where is the study that shows there will be wastage due to the time taken to reach the beneficiary? We expected a better affidavit with more facts and figures from the Centre. There needs to be a solution. You need to have a relook at it.”When additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh for the Union of India submitted that in case of co-morbidities, there would be a risk in door-to-door vaccination to senior citizens. The court observed, “This is choosing between the devil and the deep sea. You do not want patients with comorbidities to be given vaccines without supervision, but because they cannot come to the vaccination centre, you want them to suffer?... In our country, old people and children should be taken care of on priority...We cannot leave old people to die...It is upon us that our near and dear ones get vaccinated.”Thereafter, Kapadia urged the HC to pass orders to waive off mandatory documents like Aadhaar or PAN card for vaccination, however, ASG opposed it and said that some document was required for it. The court then observed, “If some person is living under the bridge, then will not he/she carry the disease? Then what do we do? Unless you start a drive to get an Aadhar card for everyone.” The court directed the MoHFW to have a relook at its decision and said that it would give ‘prima facie’ opinions on the five reasons given by the Centre for not being able to have a door-to-door policy for vaccination and posted the hearing of the PIL to May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/relook-at-decision-of-not-allowing-door-to-door-vaccination-for-elderly-kids-bombay-hc-tells-centre-101619117031063.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Long queues outside civic-run vaccination centres in Mumbai||Around 10 days before the Covid-19 vaccination opens up for all above the age of 18 years, long queues were witnessed outside government and civic-run vaccination centres. The burden on government vaccination centres has increased as there are frequent closures of vaccination centres and many private hospitals have discontinued vaccination owing to shortage of stock.On Thursday, 48 private vaccination centres were shut owing to shortage of vaccine doses. As a result, long queues were seen outside civic-run vaccination centres. The scene was the same on Wednesday when around 40 of the total 129 vaccination centres could not carry out vaccination. Several jumbo centres like Dahisar Jumbo Centre, NESCO and civic hospitals in the city are witnessing long queues for vaccination.The daily number of people being vaccinated has come down to 25,000 to 40,000 from 50,000 to 60,000 about two weeks ago.Ashish Mhatre, a Dahisar resident said, “I had gone to Dahisar Jumbo Centre for vaccination, but there was a long queue and no social distancing was followed. I will now register and go at a later stage after taking a prior appointment.”The BMC on the other hand aims to have 500 vaccination centres in the city in the coming months, as vaccination for everyone above 18 years of age starts from May 1, 2021. As of Wednesday morning, the BMC had around 180,000 vaccines in stock that may go down to around 100,000 by Friday morning. On Thursday, 48,152 citizens were vaccinated of which 21,762 were senior citizens above the age of 60, 22,104 were between the age group of 45 to 60, 1,491 were health care workers and 2,795 were front line workers. Overall, 2,128,095 of citizens have been vaccinated in the city, so far. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have been getting vaccine doses from the Centre, but they are not in bulk.” The BMC has a storage capacity of stocking around 12 million vaccine doses at the central vaccine storage facility in Kanjurmarg, and the same is expected to be utilised starting May 1. Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, city-based physician said, “The crowding in the form of long queues outside civic vaccination centres will only prove dangerous considering the virus is mutating and its new variants are spreading faster. In all this, the long queues outside vaccination centres only add to the spread.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/long-queues-outside-civic-run-vaccination-centres-in-mumbai-101619116911032.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Taking steps to give drugs, oxygen: Mumbai civic body tells HC||On a day when the Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday took suo motu cognisance of the Covid-19 situation in the country and issued a notice to the Centre, the Bombay high court (HC), while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) questioning the mismanagement of the second Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra, was assured by the state and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) that appropriate measures were being taken to ensure equitable distribution of life-saving drugs and oxygen. As the HC hearing was on, additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni that a web portal had carried a report that the Chief Justice of India had taken suo motu cognisance of all Covid-related public interest litigations (PIL) being heard by high courts and had decided to hear all petitions together on Friday, with senior advocate Harish Salve as the amicus curiae. Singh informed the court that it could not continue hearing the case further and that the Supreme Court will deal with supply of oxygen, essential drugs, method and manner of vaccination and powers of the state to declare a lockdown. However, as the SC was yet to issue an order staying the hearing in the HC or seeking transfer of petitions, the HC bench continued the hearing. The HC bench, while hearing the PIL filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the state was taking urgent steps to combat the spread. Pointing to the shortage of oxygen and life-saving drugs like Remdesivir, he submitted the Centre had announced that it would take care of it from May 1. On a query by the court on the availability till April 30, Kumbhakoni submitted that measures such as asking suppliers to hand over the medicines directly to the collector who, in turn, would distribute it to hospitals were put in place. To this, the court said there has to be a portal on availability of essential Covid-19 drugs. Referring to a news report from last year which said that people need to be cautious about the spread of Covid till June 2021, the HC said, “Had we not lowered our guard at least till June 30, 2021, this situation would not have arisen.” “You should realise this is an emergency situation,” said the bench, adding that black-marketing and profiteering should also be stopped. With regards to availability of Covid-19 tests, the state submitted the concerns and suggestions of advocate Simil Purohit for the petitioner to allow more labs for testing and having a uniform rate for the medicines would be considered. The court also stressed on the need for a faster way of testing, asking the state whether the RT-PCR tests could be made more affordable and accessible to all.Addressing the issue of availability of beds, both Kumbhakoni and senior advocate Anil Sakhare for the BMC submitted there were sufficient beds in the state and statistics showed there were more beds than existing patients. “The shortage is because the middle class and upper class are now affected and they want a bed in a hospital of their choice. When the same is not available, it is depicted as shortage, while closeby hospitals may have vacant beds,” said Kumbhakoni. The court accepted the suggestions of Purohit and advocate Rajesh Inamdar, for an intervener, on the use of print and electronic media to spread awareness on the measures and to curb panic.The court also sought to know from the state the effects of Covid-19 on smokers and said that till the virus was not eradicated completely, the state and Centre should consider banning smoking and consumption of tobacco products. Reacting to the Nashik oxygen leak that claimed 24 lives on Wednesday, the court said, “How can this happen in a civilised society? While the oxygen supply is less, there is leakage. It is of concern. This is not what we expect from a responsible government.” The HC said the Centre and state should set aside politicking and concentrate on tackling the problems. The court has scheduled the next hearing on May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/taking-steps-to-give-drugs-oxygen-mumbai-civic-body-tells-hc-101619116850965.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Decide on jail transfer pleas in 48 hours, Bombay HC directs magistrates||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed magistrates to decide applications by prison authorities seeking transfer of undertrial prisoners from crowded jails to lesser crowded ones amid the prevailing Covid-19 situation within 48 hours. The court issued the directions to ensure ‘equitable distribution’ and to decongest jails some of which were having more prisoners than their capacity thus making the inmates susceptible to contracting the infection. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish S Kulkarni issued the directions in the suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation (PIL) on the issue of overcrowding in the state and district jails which had resulted in almost 200 prisoners and 76 prison staff testing positive for Covid in the past month. In the previous hearing on April 20, the court had asked the state government to respond to its concerns over the surge in Covid-19 cases across prisons and provide suggestions on measures to prevent the same. According to the data furnished by the state to the HC about 35,124 prisoners are lodged across 47 jails in Maharashtra, which can house around 23,217 inmates only. The court on Tuesday had directed the state to provide details about the crime rate and the number of persons arrested after the April 13 ‘break the chain’ circular of the state government and inform whether there was any drop in the crime rate compared to the first 12 days of April 2021. On Thursday, after perusing the crime data submitted which it had sought from the state, the bench noted that offences of dacoity, robbery, kidnapping and theft were on the decline in 2020. However, it expressed its dissatisfaction with the data and said, “What has been placed before us does not serve the query of the court. The chart provided by the government is showing the crime rate in 2019 and 2020.” The court granted time to the state government to furnish a relevant response to its query during the next hearing. Thereafter, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed the court that the procedure for decongesting jails and transferring prisoners required a judicial order, which the concerned magistrates could decide after hearing the prisoner and prison authority, and pass a reasoned order on the transfer. After senior advocate, Mihir Desai who had represented the Peoples Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), an NGO which had sought various reliefs for prisoners during the outbreak of coronavirus in jails last year informed the court that transferring prisoners to other prisons could be a good option the bench said, “We do not doubt in our mind that having regard to the critical situation prevailing now, the state government may to ensure equitable distribution of undertrial prisoners, have to decide upon shifting some of them from overcrowded correctional homes. We have expressed hope and trust that the magistrate decides application as earliest possible, preferably within 48 hours of making such application.” HC will hear the PIL next on Tuesday, April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-decide-on-jail-transfer-pleas-in-48-hours-bombay-hc-directs-magistrates-101619116670980.html
