24-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to quash rape case, calls marriage illegal||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has refused to accept illegal second marriage of a lawyer as grounds for striking down his prosecution for raping one of his clients, a woman embroiled in matrimonial dispute.The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice BU Debadwar on Monday dismissed the petition filed by the Jalna-based lawyer praying for quashing of the rape case against him on grounds that he had married the complainant.Jalna Taluka police station had on October 11, 2020, booked the lawyer for rape on the basis of a complaint lodged by the woman who said she had engaged with the lawyer to seek divorce from her husband.As they started meeting each other for the purpose of the divorce proceeding, the lawyer informed the woman that he, too, was embroiled in matrimonial dispute with his wife and was seeking divorce from her. She alleged that the lawyer lured her to reside with him and raped her after promising marriage, and subsequently, started beating and illegally confining her and her son from the first marriage. She said she managed flee from the illegal confinement and approached police.However, later they settled the dispute amicably, and the lawyer moved HC in December 2020 for quashing of the rape case on that grounds. It was argued on behalf of the lawyer that the petitioner and the complainant thereafter got married and had a girl child. The woman, too, filed an affidavit supporting the lawyer’s claim for quashing the rape case.HC, however, refused to accept the marital tie as a valid settlement, noticing that both of them — the lawyer and the complainant — had performed the second marriage though their earlier marriages were subsisting.“In the instant case, the petitioner, alleged rapist, and the informant still have subsisting first marriages, and therefore, we cannot recognise the alleged second marriage between the petitioner and the informant,” said the bench while rejecting the petition.It added, “We find it quite serious that the petitioner, being an advocate and representing the informant in her divorce petition, claims that the informant is his legally wedded second wife.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-quash-rape-case-calls-marriage-illegal-101619288941293.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Source of 12,511 cases in slums could not be traced: Mumbai civic body data||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) contact-tracing in slums has revealed that 12,511 Covid cases in slums are not among high-risk contacts of other positive cases. The source of infection in the case of such patients has not yet been traced. This is as per data between June 3, 2020, and March 14, 2021, reveals BMC’s Covid-19 dashboard. In slums, BMC traced an average of 13 high-risk contacts per positive patient. The norm set by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal last year is tracing up to 15 high-risk contacts per positive patient and moving them to institutional quarantine facilities, to break the chain of the spread of Covid-19. So far, BMC has moved 1,61,830 high-risk contacts from slums to quarantine facilities between June and March 14. A senior official from the health department said, “These are patients who tested positive for Covid-19 but were not high-risk contacts of positive patients. Effectively, it only means they would have come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient, but were not identified as a high-risk contact during BMC’s enquiries and contact tracing efforts, as they were probably not immediate family or neighbours.” The highest number of positive cases in slums who are not high-risk contacts of positive patients are 1,668 cases from the K/West ward of Andheri (West), followed by 1,551 in the L ward of Kurla, and 1,511 of G/North ward, which has Dharavi under its jurisdiction. The K/West ward has traced a total of 23,412 high-risk contacts of cases in slums so far to send to institutional quarantine facilities, L ward has traced and quarantined 28,179 high-risk contacts of cases in slums, and G/North ward has traced and quarantined 20,462 high-risk contacts in slums.Until Friday, 5,740,196 Mumbaiites have completed quarantine, of which, 658,385 have completed home quarantine. Presently, 984 are in institutional quarantine centres. Mumbai has 122 containment zones and 1,211 sealed buildings. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 5,867 Covid cases, the lowest since March 31, 2021, when Mumbai reported 5,399 cases. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 71 deaths. This has taken the tally to 622,146, and the toll to 12,726. There are 78,226 active cases in Mumbai at present. The highest number of cases reported in Mumbai in a single day so far was 11,206 cases on April 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/source-of-12-511-cases-in-slums-could-not-be-traced-mumbai-civic-body-data-101619288881203.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Oxygen Express reaches Navi Mumbai; tankers sent to plants||The Oxygen Express carrying tankers of liquid oxygen reached Nashik in Maharashtra on Saturday morning. Four oxygen tankers were offloaded from the Roll-on Roll-off (RORO) and then transported to oxygen plants via road.The freight train carrying seven oxygen tankers had left Navi Mumbai on April 19 and returned to Nagpur on Friday 8pm after filling the tankers with oxygen at Vishakhapatnam. Three of the tankers were downloaded at Nagpur while the remaining were delivered to Nashik around 10am on Saturday. Ruling Shiv Sena has said the train took much more time (to reach Nashik) when the state needed the oxygen on urgent basis for Covid-19 patients. Central Railway (CR) which ran the train, however, clarified that the shortest route possible could not be availed due to technical problems. CR said the route of the RORO service — in which goods vehicles are put on freight train — had to be planned considering various constraints like ghat sections, road overbridges (ROB), tunnels, curves, platform canopies and over-head equipment (OHE).“Height is an important aspect in this movement. Railways mapped the route via Vasai. The distance between Kalamboli and Vizag is more than 1,850 kms, which was completed by these tankers only in about 50 hours. Transportation of oxygen through trains is faster for long distances than road transport. Trains can run 24 hours in a day but truck drivers need to take halts etc. The green corridor is created for faster movement of these tankers, and monitoring of movement was done at the apex level,” said a statement from CR. The Oxygen Express reached Nagpur in Maharashtra with seven liquid medical oxygen tankers on Friday evening. Three tankers were unloaded at Nagpur railway station. Of the three tankers, two headed for Nagpur city and one headed to Amaravati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/oxygen-express-reaches-navi-mumbai-tankers-sent-to-plants-101619288761284.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Only 37 vaccination centres remain open today||A total of 57 private vaccination centres in Mumbai were closed on Saturday, due to a shortage in vaccine stock. On Sunday, only 37 centres, including 30 municipal and government, and seven private vaccination centres will remain open for vaccination, until their stocks last.There are a total of 132 vaccine centres in Mumbai, of which 73 are private, 42 are municipal centres and 17 are government or state-run centres. Mangala Gomare, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) executive health officer said on Saturday night, “For Sunday’s vaccination drive, we may have approximately 40,000 vaccine vials left, and we are yet to calculate the exact figure. We received 50,000 vials on Friday night and distributed them in municipal and government centres. BMC is following up to receive more vaccine doses.” Previously, on April 20, Mumbai received 110,000 doses. Some private centres did not completely exhaust their vaccine stock on Saturday, but if they have very few shots left, they will not be able to conduct a full-fledged drive on Sunday, Gomare said. On Saturday, BMC vaccinated a total of 37,489 beneficiaries of which 18,846 received their first dose, and 18,643 received their second dose. So far in Mumbai, 1,857,439 beneficiaries have received their first dose, and 356,425 have received their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-only-37-vaccination-centres-remain-open-today-101619288701219.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records lowest rise in Covid-19 cases in 25 days||Mumbai on Saturday recorded 5,888 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest daily rise in infections since March 30.Increased testing and isolation of patients alongwith the exodus of migrant labourers may have led to the decline, said an official.Also, for the first time since April 12, when the city had reported 6,905 cases, the daily rise in infections in the country's financial capital fell below 7,000 on Saturday.The caseload in the city stands at 6,22,109.The city on March 30 had reported 4,758 Covid-19 cases, after which the figures had risen."Apart from increased testing and tracing and early isolation, the migration of over six lakh workers may have played a role in the reduction of numbers," said a senior civic official.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had given several hints that the state was considering the reintroduction of lockdown-like measures which prompted migrant labourers to leave the city, he added.The Central and Western Railways had run almost 500 special trains in last some weeks and most of them ran at full capacity.The fall in cases on Saturday also brought down the positivity rate from 18 per cent to 15 per cent compared to the last week.The overall growth rate of cases in the city is 1.26 per cent.On Saturday 8,549 patients were discharged after treatment, taking the tally of recoveries to 5,29,233."The strict lockdown-like measures further discouraged people from stepping out. The rising infections too must have persuaded some people to stay at home," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-lowest-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-25-days-101619287108771.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Maharashtra: Districts that are driving the surge in second wave||Five districts in Maharashtra are contributing the most number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to the state’s rising infection tally as it has been reporting record high infections and deaths. On Saturday, Maharashtra reported 67,160 new Covid-19 cases and 676 fatalities in a time span of 24 hours, pushing the state’s tally to 4,228,836 and its death toll to 63,928, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The active caseload in the state currently stands at 694,480, according to the bulletin.Since the beginning of the second wave of the pandemic, daily new infections reported from the state have remained upwards of at least 40,000 cases from April 1. In the week, except on April 19, Monday (58,924 new cases), the daily new cases have stayed above the 60,000-mark. The Union ministry of health and family welfare earlier in the day red-flagged Maharashtra as the top contributor to the national tally of active cases. According to the data shared by the ministry, the state with 693,632 active cases of Covid-19 contributed 27.17 per cent to the 2,552,940 active cases in the country.Also read | Daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra again soar past 67,000Here is a list of districts that are the current hotspots of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, with the maximum number of active cases in the state -Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on April 21 announced new stringent restrictions in the state from 8pm on April 22 until 7am on May 1 to curb the transmission of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-in-maharashtra-districts-that-are-driving-the-surge-in-second-wave-101619281626029.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra again soar past 67,000, death toll drops to 676||Maharashtra witnessed 67,160 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 676 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state’s health department bulletin on Saturday. The caseload of the worst-hit state of the country rose to 422,8,836 and the death toll to 63,928, the health bulletin showed. The number of patients discharged in the state on Saturday was 63,818, a decrease of over 10,000 from Friday.The number of new cases in the state on Saturday increased, as the state reported 66,836 cases on Friday. However, the number of deaths decreased as the state reported 773 deaths on Friday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The number of active cases in the state now stands at 694,480, as per the bulletin.The state capital Mumbai reported 5,888 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, a decrease of 1,311 cases from Friday. The number of deaths reported in the financial capital of the country in the last 24 hours is 71, which took the death toll in the metropolitan to 12,719, the health bulletin data showed. The Covid-19 tally in Mumbai now stands at more than 622,000, as per the data.The number of samples tested in the state on Saturday in the last 24 hours amount to 286,412. There is a rise in testing by over 8,000 in the last 24 hours. The number of total tests done to date in the state amounts to 25,460,008, as per the dashboard.The current recovery rate in the state stands at 82.02 per cent, and the fatality rate stands at 1.51 per cent. The fatality rate slid by 0.01 percentage points from Friday. The recovery rate in Mumbai stands at 85 per cent, with 8,549 recoveries reported in the last 24 hours, as per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation(BMC).The number of active containment zones in the capital city stands at 122 with more than 1200 sealed buildings. The doubling rate of the virus in Mumbai stands at 54 days.Maharashtra is the major contributor to the active Covid-19 caseload of the country.Maharashtra with nine other states accounts for more than 75 per cent of the new Covid-19 infections reported in the country on Saturday. The western state also contributed the most to the number of fatalities. India reported 346,786 fresh coronavirus disease cases and 2624 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-again-soar-past-67-000-death-toll-drops-to-676-101619274365830.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Please pay for Covid-19 vaccines, if you can: Maha deputy CM Ajit Pawar urges||Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday people who can afford the vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) should pay even as the government is preparing to inoculate all adults in the state in the next phase of vaccination from May 1. “We may appeal from tomorrow that if somebody can afford to pay for the vaccine, they should pay for it. And for those poor people who can't afford it, the government will do it for them,” Ajit Pawar said, according to news agency ANI.“Remdesivir and vaccine supply will be streamlined only when the Centre allows import from outside. We are of the opinion that when vaccination starts we will try to purchase vaccines from India as much as possible but if the Centre allows and helps to import, it will be helpful. We will pay,” he added.Also read | Getting vaccinated in Thane. Check list of vaccination centresThe state has 57.1 million people in the 18-44 age group and will be vaccinated next in the country’s drive to battle the second, deadly wave of the pandemic. Officials have said Maharashtra will need more than 110 million vaccine doses for those under this age group and the government will have to procure them. They are apprehensive about the availability of doses and also about the high rates ascertained for the vaccines.Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday that they demanded One Nation One Rate of the vaccine during the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi “so we could easily implement the vaccination drive aggressively.” “Not only Maharashtra's, but most chief ministers who attended the video conference have also demanded this. The state has its own financial constraints, although we will bear the cost of inoculation for the poor. The reduction in rates will help us vaccinate more people for free, otherwise, we will have to restrict free inoculation to the poor. In that case, we will try and rope in corporate houses and the private sector,” Rajesh Tope added.Also read | Maharashtra expects hiccups in its 18+ vaccination driveThe state may not be able to achieve its target of aggressive inoculation in the absence of availability of stock, Tope also said. “The Serum Institute of India has expressed inability to supply the stock until May 24. We have been talking to Bharat Biotech. The decision over implementation of the third phase of inoculation and free vaccination for the poor based on the financial burden will be taken in the cabinet meeting,” he said.Also read | Steel plants in Maharashtra should divert oxygen for Covid patients: HCMaharashtra has said it has been facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, which has put a brake on its aim of inoculating more than 600,000 people daily and has forced many centres in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and other parts of the state to shut down. The daily average of inoculation dropped to 291,961 over the last week, from 370,058 in the first week of the month. The state has so far received, 14,416,780 doses from the Centre till April 20, against which 13,980,023 doses have been administered to 12.17 million people till 5pm on Friday.As the western state, which is the worst hit in the country, has also been battling a shortage of oxygen, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said plants that were closed in Maharashtra have been restarted. “So far we used to get 240-250 MT of oxygen but now we got the information that it has been reduced to 125 MT. We request them (the Centre) to not reduce our 250 MT quota from Jamnagar,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Maharashtra’s caseload rose to 41,61,676 and its death toll reached 63,252 on Friday as the state reported 66,836 cases of the coronavirus disease and 773 fatalities. On Thursday, the state logged 67,013 Covid-19 cases and 568 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/please-pay-for-covid-19-vaccines-if-you-can-maha-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-urges-101619271130268.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police rolls back order on colour-coding of vehicles||Mumbai Police has withdrawn its decision of compulsory colour-coding for the vehicles plying in the city during the lockdown. As per people aware of the matter, the decision caused confusion and it did not serve the intended purpose, therefore the move was cancelled on Friday night.On Thursday alone the police had booked at least 57 motorists for flouting colour-code norms. Deputy commissioner of police (operation) Chaitanya Siriprolu on Friday night issued an order to all police stations in-charges across Mumbai, regional controls rooms, zonal police and other police units, declaring that the “colour code” order was cancelled. He instructed all police units not to take action against motorists for plying without colour-coded stickers. Director-General of Police, Sanjay Pandey, was also not happy with the mandatory colour-coding of vehicles for plying in Mumbai, the people cited above said.On April 17, Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale introduced the new requirement of colour-coding of vehicles to keep a check on motorists coming out on roads for casual or trivial reasons and causing traffic jams amid the statewide lockdown.He issued the order after the entry-exit points at Dahisar, Mulund and Vashi, and some other parts of the city on severe traffic jams during the morning rush hour on April 17. The traffic jam had interrupted movements of ambulances and other essential service vehicles. Hence, to impose stricter restrictions on the movement of non-essential vehicles Nagrale introduced colour-coding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-rolls-back-order-on-colour-coding-of-vehicles-101619260800302.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||'Nobody above law': NCP, Shiv Sena on CBI action against Anil Deshmukh||With the CBI conducting searches at the premises of former Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh, the NCP on Saturday said nobody was above the law, but added that the truth behind the "political conspiracy" against him and the state government would come out through the high court-ordered probe.Talking to reporters, NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said, "Nobody is above the law. Anil Deshmukh is cooperating with the agencies."He said he was not aware if any FIR has been registered against Deshmukh.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is yet to reveal for whom suspended police officer Sachin Waze was working when he planted explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, Malik said."What was the role of former Mumbai police commissioner (Param Bir Singh) in the case. All these actions are taking place based on the ex-commissioner's letter," he alleged."This is nothing but misuse of power to malign the state government and Anil Deshmukh. We have full faith in the judiciary and know that the truth behind the political conspiracy will be exposed through the probe," he said.The CBI on Saturday conducted searches at Deshmukh's premises in Mumbai and his hometown Nagpur after registering a case against him in connection with allegations of corruption levelled against him by Param Bir Singh.Deshmukh, an NCP leader, had resigned as a minister earlier this month after the high court asked the CBI to probe the allegations against him.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut also said that nobody was above the law."It is not correct to comment on CBI's action. Anil Deshmukh had already given his statement in the case. CBI is doing its work, similarly high court and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government are doing their own work," he said."If there is a political agenda in the case against Anil Deshmukh, then the MVA government will take a stand. Hope the action against Deshmukh is restricted to directives of the high court," he said.On March 25, Param Bir Singh had filed a criminal public interest litigation seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh, who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Waze, to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants.The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress share power in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nobody-above-law-ncp-shiv-sena-on-cbi-action-against-anil-deshmukh-101619255441588.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Getting vaccinated in Thane. Check list of vaccination centres||Thane which has been reeling under a severe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surge opened 51 centres to boost the number of vaccinated people in the district. The Thane Municipal Corporation’s information centre DigiThane on Saturday tweeted with the hashtag ‘LargestVaccinationDrive’ announcing a list of sites which will be open for vaccination. The vaccination drive is currently underway and will go on till 4pm. The list showed that the government or civic body owned centres have Covishield vaccine doses.#LargestVaccineDrive: FIND A #COVID19 VACCINATION CENTER NEAR YOU!@TMCaTweetAway updated list of Vaccine Centers Open on Saturday, 24 April 2021@ThaneCityPolice @Info_Thane1 @ThaneCollector @thaneliving @citizens_thane @CommunityThane @WeAreThane @explorethane @ThaneCity pic.twitter.com/c2ZNCorS6B#LargestVaccineDrive: FIND A #COVID19 VACCINATION CENTER NEAR YOU!@TMCaTweetAway updated list of Private Vaccine Centers Open on Saturday, 24 April 2021 https://t.co/xIKUNP1Vjj pic.twitter.com/x8SUGIeeXADigiThane also shared a list of 14 private centres which are open for vaccination, along with the list of 37 government or civic body-run centres. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Wednesday had to suspend its vaccination programme for an entire day after it faced vaccine shortage, according to a report by HT. The vaccination drive began once it received 3,000 doses of Covishield later that evening. Panvel and Navi Mumbai also faced vaccine crunches following which they stopped their vaccination programme on Thursday.Thane district reported 5,092 new cases on Friday taking the tally in the district to 441,184. The district also reported 56 fresh fatalities which took the toll to 7,186 and taking the mortality rate to 1.63%, an official with the Thane district told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/getting-vaccinated-in-thane-check-list-of-vaccination-centres-101619252764165.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||CBI files FIR against Anil Deshmukh over corruption allegation||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday filed a first information report (FIR) against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh over allegations of corruption levelled by ex-Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The agency invoked the Prevention of Corruption Act and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) in filing the FIR and also raided his residence along with three other places in Mumbai in connection with the case.The former minister was summoned by the probe agency for questioning into the matter on April 14 after Param Bir Singh, in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, accused him of directing his subordinates to collect money from bars, restaurants and hotels in Mumbai.Watch: CBI files FIR against ex-Maha minister Anil Deshmukh over corruption allegation﻿﻿According to Singh, Deshmukh told police officer Sachin Vaze, now suspended and arrested in connection with Mukesh Ambani security threat case, to collect Rs100 crore a month from these sources.As part of its preliminary enquiry, the CBI also questioned Anil Deshmukh’s personal assistants Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde, former cop Sachin Vaze’s two drivers, bar owners, Mumbai Police officers, and people close to the former minister in connection with the alleged corruption case.The investigation was taken up by the CBI after the High Court of Bombay directed it on April 5 to conduct a preliminary investigation into the case within 15 days. On April 8, the Supreme Court ruled 8 that the allegations levelled against the former minister were "serious" and needed probe by the central agency."Allegations are serious, the home minister and police commissioner are involved. They're closely working together till they fall apart, and both are holding a particular position. Should the CBI not probe? The nature of allegations and the persons involved require independent probe," said the SC bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-files-fir-against-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101619235911925.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||'Had SC taken note of PM's rallies, Kumbh...': Saamna's take on Covid-19 crisis||Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna said that the crisis the country is facing today due to the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) could have been averted had the Supreme Court taken note of the public rallies held by political leaders and the Kumbh Mela in time, news agency ANI reported. "The SC has now taken cognisance of the Covid situation in the country. If the court had taken into consideration the roadshows done by many political leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, and the Haridwar Kumbh Mela at the right time, such a situation would not have arisen," it said.SC has now taken cognizance of COVID situation in the country. If SC had taken into consideration the roadshows done by many political leaders, Prime Minister, Home Minister and the Haridwar Kumbh at the right time, then, such a situation would not have arisen: Shiv Sena's SaamnaSeveral politicians came under fire for holding large rallies as part of their campaigning for the ongoing assembly elections. After hundreds of people were seen flouting Covid-19 norms in such rallies, the Election Commission of India (ECI) banned roadshows and vehicle rallies for the remaining phases of the West Bengal elections on Thursday. No public meeting having more than 500 people will be allowed, the poll body said.Following the order, PM Modi, Amit Shah and West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee were among the top leaders to cancel their rallies in the state. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had suspended all his rallies in West Bengal on April 18 and had urged other leaders to follow suit. "In view of the Covid situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal. I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding large public rallies under the current circumstances," he tweeted.Meanwhile, the Kumbh Mela, underway in Uttarakhand' Haridwar, saw thousands of people who had assembled to take a holy dip on the occasion of shahi snan (royal bath). However, after PM Modi appealed to Swami Avdheshanand Giri last week to turn Kumbh Mela into a "symbolic" event in view of the rapidly spreading virus and key ‘akhadas’ of seers began pulling out of the Maha Kumbh, crowds in Haridwar thinned down "drastically", according to PTI.India on Friday registered  332,730 fresh cases of Covid-19. With this, the total infection tally went up to 16,263,695. As many as 2263 new deaths pushed the toll to 186920.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/had-sc-taken-note-of-pm-s-rallies-kumbh-saamna-s-take-on-covid-19-crisis-101619234488900.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Colour-coded stickers not required anymore, but checks will be on: Mumbai Police||After almost a week of restricting the movement of private vehicles in Mumbai, the Mumbai Police on Saturday said the categorisation of the red, yellow and green emergency stickers will be discontinued going further. But thorough checks will continue and all non-essential and non-emergency movement will be restricted as before.Mumbai Police earlier introduced three colour-coded stickers to allow the movement of private cars during the curfew.Dear Mumbaikars.The red, yellow, green #EmergencyStickers categorisation is being discontinued. However, thorough checks shall continue & we hope you will stand by us in #TakingOnCorona & avoid all non-essential / non-emergency movement outside home #StayHomeStaySafeUnder this colour-coded sticker scheme, vehicles belonging to doctors, medical staff, ambulances and those engaged in supplying medical equipment were required to sport red stickers on the road, while cars transporting food, vegetables, fruits, groceries, dairy products, etc., were supposed to use green stickers.Employees falling in other essential categories apart from these two, such as municipal officials, electricity department staff, bank staff, advocates, telephone and press departments were asked to stick yellow stickers on their vehicles.The Mumbai Police authorities urged people to make such stickers on their own before getting out of their homes. The police also distributed such stickers at certain junctions.The restriction created some confusion among Mumbaikars as to which stickers to be used for which category of people, though Mumbai Police on its Twitter handle guided people regarding the colour of the stickers.The number of daily Covid-19 infections in Mumbai has been settled around 7,000. On Friday, the city reported 7,199 new cases and 72 fatalities, taking the case tally to 6,16,279 and the toll to 12,655.As the health infrastructure of the city is coming under stress, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has decided to first examine symptomatic Covid-19 patients at home and then admit them in hospitals, if required. The home visits to examine symptomatic patients will take place between 7am and 11pm, while those needing attention urgently in hours other than these can approach the jumbo Covid centres, the BMC release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/colourcoded-stickers-not-required-anymore-but-checks-will-be-on-mumbai-police-101619228123897.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Press in Air Force to transport O2 tankers: Maha CM||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, raised the demand to press in the Air Force to reduce travel time for transporting oxygen tankers. The CM sought adequate supply of oxygen, vaccinations and Remdesivir from the Centre. The state, which requires 1,250 metric tonnes of oxygen daily, is facing a severe shortage of oxygen supply. It is procuring around 300 metric tonnes from other states and industries. In a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO), Thackeray said the state would need an additional 250-300 metric tonnes of oxygen, looking at the increasing number of patients in hospital that require oxygen supply. The CM said the Air Force could airlift empty tankers to oxygen plants, which can be brought back by other mode of transport to save travel time.“If it is not possible to airlift oxygen, the empty tankers could be sent to the oxygen plants by Air Force, to save time, and it can be brought by other modes of transport…,” Thackeray said according to a statement. “We tried to bring oxygen by train, but considering the travel time taken and distance, the Air Force and National Disaster Management Authority need to be pressed in.” He further added, “There are more than 60,000 patients on oxygen supply in the state, while there are 76,300 oxygen beds in the state… Instead of distant states, if the oxygen supply could be arranged from neighbouring states, it would be available early.” Maharashtra has also sought 13,000 jumbo oxygen cylinders and 1,100 ventilators from the Centre. With a week to go for vaccination of all adults to start across the country, Thackeray also sought clarity from the Centre on the extent of the vaccine supply to the state. As per the announcement by the Centre, the state government has to purchase vaccine stock from manufacturers for inoculation of citizens between 18 and 44 years. The CM also sought clarity if the states can import the foreign vaccine to increase the pace of vaccination, given the limited manufacturing capacity of the two Indian companies. “The large-scale vaccinations in Britain have prevented the virus from spreading further. With the limited capacity of our vaccine manufacturers, we need guidance on whether we can increase vaccination by importing vaccines from other countries,” the CM said. Maharashtra, according to senior government officials, require around 120 million vaccine doses for the two rounds of jab for its 57 million population in the 18-44 age bracket. Thackeray said that there needs to be more clarity on the extent of vaccine supply to the states. “If the state asks permission to import vaccines, it should be granted,” the CM said, adding, “We will require 12 crore (120 million) doses to vaccinate this group. Our vaccine manufacturers will not be able to produce the required doses in a short time. The corporate sector should also be given permission to purchase vaccines through their Corporate Social Responsibility initiative.” Health minister Rajesh Tope, who was a part of the meeting, said all chief ministers also sought one price for vaccine provided to the state and the union government. A row erupted after Serum Institute of India announced the open market private of its vaccine against Covid-19, Covishield, with several political parties claiming different price for the Centre and state. The state, according to the Pune-headquartered company, will have to pay ₹400 per dose of vaccine, while the Centre was earlier supplied the stock for ₹150. But the company had clarified that the rate for Centre was an old contract which was fixed without knowing if the vaccine will work. “From May 1, the state government can procure vaccine for inoculation of 18-44 age group. All chief ministers, in the meeting, demanded there should be ‘one nation, one rate’ for the vaccination. We want to aggressively implement vaccination because countries such as Israel and the UK have become either Covid-free or have extremely few cases because of vaccination,” said Tope after the meeting. The chief minister said the supply of vaccines by the Centre for inoculation of people over the age of 45 is moving at a “very slow pace”. He said, “As of now, the state only had a stock of 500,000 doses. Maharashtra has been the top performer in vaccinating citizens. So, the state must get an adequate supply of vaccine doses to keep the same pace of vaccinating the people.” Stating that Remdesivir reduces patient time in hospital and frees up beds, Thackeray said adequate supply of the drug must be provided to Maharashtra, looking at the number of patients. According to the CM, the state needs 70,000 vials per day, while the Centre supplies only 27,000 vials. “It is not possible to say how useful Remdesivir is, but it is definitely reducing the hospital stay of the patients. So, the state should get an adequate supply, considering the number of patients in the state. Maharashtra needs 70,000 vials of Remdesivir every day, but is getting only 27,000. The state should be allowed to import Remdesivir,” Thackeray demanded in the meeting. Thackeray, during the meeting, also justified the lockdown imposed in the state, saying the situation demanded such stringent steps. Earlier this week, the state has further restricted movement of people in public transport including trains, metros, buses, etc. “PM said the lockdown was the last resort to break the chain of Covid. The situation in the state needed restrictions, but we are ensuring the economy does not suffer,” Thackeray said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/press-in-air-force-to-transport-o2-tankers-maha-cm-101619211120768.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Fire breaks out in hospital near Mumbai: 3rd such incident in Maharashtra in a week||Friday’s fire in a hospital, which led to 15 deaths in Virar, is the third such incident in a week in Maharashtra. Earlier this week, 24 Covid patients died after a leakage in an oxygen tank in Nashik led to disruption in the supply of oxygen. On Wednesday, 11 patients reportedly died due to lack of oxygen in a hospital in Beed district.In Virar, 14 Covid patients were charred to death as a fire broke out on the second floor of a four-storey private hospital, Vijay Vallabh Covid Care Hospital, at 3.15am on Friday. A relative of one of the victims, who was also suffering from Covid, died of shock.Opposition leader and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis said, “This has been the fifth such case related to hospitals in the past six months. We have witnessed tragic incidents at hospitals in Bhandara, Nagpur, Nashik, Bhandup and now at Virar. After every incident, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray says that a fire safety audit would be conducted, but nothing comes out of it. Covid-19 hospitals are currently under tremendous pressure and in such a backdrop, the state should set up a mechanism for fire safety.”“Orders have been given to the administration to undertake a thorough inquiry and those found responsible will not be spared. The government has already announced a financial assistance of ₹5 lakh each to the families of those who lost their lives,” said Eknath Shinde, urban development minister and Shiv Sena leader.“The incident is unfortunate and it is the responsibility of everybody to ensure such incidents do not occur in the future. We will know the cause of the fire after the inquiry. However, it would not be correct to blame the government as it happened at a private hospital. All the process and SOPs are in place; no permissions are given without a fire and safety audit,” said Nawab Malik, minority affairs minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) spokesperson.Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said the state government should ensure that such incidents do not occur again. Patole, who visited the Virar hospital along with his party colleague and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, said, “Action would be taken against those who are responsible for the negligence.”Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray described the incident as heart-wrenching. He tweeted “I understand, there is a tremendous strain on the state machinery, but these tragic incidents are overwhelming. It’s crucial for the government to take immediate corrective measures and look into the overall functioning and the fire safety of hospitals. A thorough audit needs to be done and if any shortfalls or errors come up, they need to be rectified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-in-hospital-near-mumbai-3rd-such-incident-in-maharashtra-in-a-week-101619205056785.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s worry: How to get 110 million vaccine doses for all?||With 57.1 million people from the 18-44 age group added to the existing list of 33.8 million Covid vaccine beneficiaries, the biggest worry for the state government is procuring the stock to put the drive on fast track. The state will need more than 110 million vaccine doses for inoculation of the age group, the onus of procurement of which is on the government. The authorities, after tapping the possibilities of procurement from two vaccine manufacturing companies, are apprehensive about the availability of doses. The state authorities are also wary about the high rates ascertained for the vaccines. “During our meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, we have demanded One Nation One Rate of the vaccine, so we could easily implement the vaccination drive aggressively. Not only Maharashtra, most chief ministers who attended the video conference have demanded this. The state has its own financial constraints, although we will bear the cost of inoculation for the poor. The reduction in rates will help us vaccinate more people for free, otherwise we will have to restrict free inoculation to the poor. In that case, we will try and rope in corporate houses and private sector,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope. Tope said in the absence of availability of stock, the state may not be able to achieve its target of aggressive inoculation. “The Serum Institute of India has expressed inability to supply the stock until May 24. We have been talking to Bharat Biotech. The decision over implementation of the third phase of inoculation and free vaccination for the poor based on the financial burden will be taken in the cabinet meeting,” he said. Congress leader and public works department minister Ashok Chavan has demanded the same rate of vaccine for states and Centre. He said that if the states are forced to buy the vaccines at ₹400 a dose, the burden on the state exchequer will be more than ₹4,000 crore. According to the officials from the public health department, the decision over the cover of free vaccination will depend on the rates finalised after discussions with manufacturers. “Covishield will cost ₹400 a dose, if the negotiations fail, but the rates for Covaxin are not known as yet. Similarly, we will have to check the burden of imported doses too. If the Centre does not help us on negotiation of rates, we will have to cover a limited number of families in low-income groups. The cabinet will take a call on whether to cover only 2.5 million families in Antyoday scheme under the National Food Security Act for free vaccination or extend it to more families. In that scenario, we will rope in private sector to a large extent to reduce the burden, but it will hamper our target of aggressive vaccination,” the official said. The official said the state expects the Centre to bear the cost of inoculation of all above 45 years and health care as well as frontline workers from all age groups. Tope said the Maharashtra government has already demanded permission from the Centre for import of vaccines such as Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Sputnik to tide over the shortage of the ones in domestic markets. According to officials, the import of the vaccines may take a few more months as manufacturers have orders lined up from other countries. Maharashtra has been facing a shortage of the vaccines, hindering its aim of inoculating more than 600,000 people every day. Amid the shortage, the inoculation rate in the state has dwindled. From 2,590,405 doses administered in the first week of the month (April 2-8), the number dropped to 2,053,123 (April 9-15) and further to 2,043,725 over the last one week (April 16-22). This means, the daily average of inoculation dropped to 291,961 over last week, from 370,058 in the first week of the month. The shortage has resulted in shutting down of many centres in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and other parts of the state. The state has so far received, 14,416,780 doses from the Centre till April 20, against which 13,980,023 doses have been administered to 12.17 million people till 5pm on Friday. The officials said the infrastructure for vaccination would not be a problem for the government. “We have a robust network of inoculation centres which can be ramped up to 9,000 from the existing 4,200 by converting the sub-centres to full-fledged centres. We have sub-centres at every four villages, with trained community health officers and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives,” said the official. He said the modalities about the charges at public and private facilities for inoculation and the ratio of the supply of vaccines between these two are yet to be finalised. Tope said the state has a daily capacity of inoculation of 8 lakh against which they are restricted to less than 3 lakh doses a day, due to unavailability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-worry-how-to-get-110-million-vaccine-doses-for-all-101619204636829.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body’s new protocol: Covid bed only after check-up at home||In order to ensure effective bed management, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday decided to allocate symptomatic Covid-19 patients a bed only after examination by its medical staff at the patient’s home. For this, BMC issued a new protocol to be followed on admitting Covid-19 patients at hospitals.According to BMC officials, all 24 wards have been directed to form a team of 10 medical staff including doctors who will visit patients’ houses and check their parameters in order to understand the type of bed required for admission.In a statement issued on Friday, BMC said, “From Sunday onwards, all symptomatic Covid patients will be allotted beds only after medical examination, which will be carried out by civic doctors and officials who will visit the patient’s home. The new protocol for Covid patient’s hospital admission was issued by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal.”The statement added, “The coordination for the visit of doctors to Covid patient’s home will be done by the respective ward war room. The team of 10 medical staff in each ward will also be provided with a separate ambulance. The visit will be done between 7am and 11pm. However, for the period of 11pm to 7am, the patient will be brought to the nearest jumbo Covid-19 centre and will be tested and admitted, accordingly.”According to BMC officials, this way, patients will be allotted beds as per their need and medical condition, and not just based on their explanation or narration of their medical condition.A BMC official said, “In the past few days, the number of Covid-19 patients has increased and there are reports that patients are having difficulty getting a bed. The BMC helpline number 1916 was earlier getting around 2,500 calls daily, but that has now gone up to around 5,000 calls a day. This step will help in ensuring effective bed allocation.”According to BMC’s dashboard, of the total 21,331 beds in dedicated Covid centres and hospitals, 3,812 are available. In terms of occupancy ratio, the occupancy rate for ICU beds is 98.51%, ventilators is 98.55% and oxygenated beds is 92%.However, doctors claim that the process of allocating a bed only after a medical check-up might not be feasible in case of emergencies. Dr Siddarth Paliwal, city-based physician, said around 240 staff will have to visit every symptomatic patient which is around 1,000 patients daily. In this case, if the patient is facing an emergency situation, we might be losing crucial time in making him wait at his or her home. The BMC will have to make exceptions in case of emergency for those who need urgent stabilisation process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-s-new-protocol-covid-bed-only-after-check-up-at-home-101619204216673.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||At 773, Maharashtra sees highest one-day Covid-19 death toll||The state on Friday recorded 66,836 new Covid-19 cases and 773 deaths — the highest one-day toll since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state last year. Meanwhile, in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases and the recent oxygen leakages and fires in hospitals, the state government has ordered fire and oxygen audit for all the hospitals across the state.In addition, the state government has also given oxygen tankers the status of an ambulance, to facilitate faster movement of oxygen.The decision for audit was taken due to two major incidents, oxygen leakage at a Nashik hospital which claimed 24 lives and the Vasai fire incident where 13 patients were found dead.Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte in a meeting on Friday ordered all hospitals to undertake fire audit and immediately rectify all the defects pointed in the audit. In addition, he also ordered an oxygen audit to ensure that leakages are plugged and that there is a proper upkeep of all the parts of the equipment. He has also mandated police security for all vehicles transporting oxygen cylinders and prohibited officials from diverting them.The shortage of hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen as well as Remdesivir, an antiviral drug, continued to hassle Covid-19 patients.At Buldhana, a farmer family took the Covid-19 patient in an ambulance to the zilla parishad office after failing to get a hospital bed in that region. They went through seven such hospitals but to no avail. The act of taking the ambulance at the office sent shockwaves and the patient was finally able to secure a bed in a local hospital.There was a virtual fight for oxygen tanker as both Satara and Kolhapur staked claim for it. The tanker which was stationed at Satara border saw verbal duet between officials of both the cities.Currently, there are 691,851 active patients across the state; of which Pune tops with 116,602 patients followed by Mumbai with 81,174 active patients. The death toll has now reached 63,252 with Mumbai leading with 12,655 deaths followed by Pune 8928.The state government has imposed a total lockdown from Thursday night to contain the surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths.Dr Ameet Mandot, director of Gut Clinic at Parel, said lockdown will only serve to give breathing space to the administration. “The lockdown will serve to put a break on the surge and allow the government to beef up their medical infrastructure. However, this lockdown needs to be implemented stringently along with a crackdown on violations,” said Mandot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-773-maharashtra-sees-highest-one-day-covid-19-death-toll-101619204157363.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body prepares to avoid oxygen emergencies||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for hospitals to follow to prevent emergencies due to shortage in oxygen availability. BMC also said that oxygen is available in all hospitals in Mumbai, but asked hospitals to use it efficiently.The current demand of oxygen in Mumbai is between 240 metric tonnes and 250 metric tonnes a day. Oxygen storage in city hospitals is replenished every day from two suppliers — Inox and Linde. While municipal hospitals have their own large or mega storage facilities where oxygen is replenished every day or twice a day, depending on demand, private hospitals purchase it directly from suppliers in the market, or can approach BMC from time-to-time in case of emergency.BMC, in its SOP, has asked chief engineers of mechanical and electrical department to prepare a ward-wise data chart of private hospitals, their oxygen suppliers, and quantity of available dura, jumbo and small oxygen cylinders at the hospital. This list will be shared with BMC’s ward war rooms and Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) Covid control room.Each hospital has to inform their oxygen supplier of the demand 24 hours in advance, or as per their agreement (whichever is earlier). If the supplier does not delivered oxygen within next 16 hours, hospitals have to inform the BMC control room, following which BMC will try to contact the supplier and make oxygen available to the hospital. If it cannot be done within two hours, BMC will inform the FDA control room, which will try to get oxygen delivered from the supplier to the hospital. If this cannot happen in two more hours, FDA will inform the divisional coordinating officer to make oxygen available to the private hospital.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told HT, “I had informed all hospitals last week itself to conduct an audit of oxygen supply system, oxygen storage and other related things.”On April 21, HJ Doshi Ghatkopar Hindu Mahasabha Hospital in Ghatkopar informed BMC around 5pm that it had oxygen left to last only till 6.30pm. At the time, all 61 patients were on oxygen support. BMC’s N ward delivered 15 jumbo oxygen cylinders and S ward delivered nine jumbo oxygen cylinders to the hospital by 6.15pm, restoring its supply and backup. Meanwhile, the private supplier associated with the hospital also provided four oxygen cylinders. BMC also had ambulances on stand-by in case patients needed to be shifted from the hospital.The next day, BMC officials from N ward held an emergency meeting with the hospital administration and chalked out a plan for setting up oxygen storage facility in its premises, to ensure such a situation does not arise again.Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital, told HT, “Sion hospital has an oxygen storage facility with an original capacity of 15 MT. We doubled this capacity during the pandemic. Oxygen storage is replenished every day or twice a day, as need arises. But we have do not ever exhaust our full storage capacity. In fact, our buffer storage can ensure we will have enough supply to last all patients even if supply is not filled for a day.”P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects) who created the SOP, said, “Even for suppliers to augment supply to BMC, we are looking for new sources of oxygen procurement.”A spokesperson from LH Hiranandani Hospital said, “We procure our own oxygen from the market.”Dr Bhavik Patel, assistant manager medical operations, Bhatia Hospital in Grant Road, said, “In such a crisis, supply of oxygen is challenging and we formed a strategy to combat it. We, along with our supply vendor, started to monitor the levels on an hourly basis, which helped us avoid shortage as we have enough buffer time in placing orders and getting delivery. We also kept a manifold system which gives back up for six hours. Also, we changed focus on reducing oxygen consumption in our hospital. This was done by us as we are postponing elective surgeries and elective diagnostic procedures which contributed sustainably in daily oxygen consumption.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-prepares-to-avoid-oxygen-emergencies-101619204037395.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Oxygen Express reaches Nagpur, 3 tankers unloaded||Indian Railways’ first Oxygen Express reached Nagpur in Maharashtra on Friday evening. The Roll-On Roll-Off (RORO) express reached Nagpur with seven liquid medical oxygen tankers at 8.10pm.However, it took over 90 hours for the Oxygen Express to reach Nagpur. It had left from a steel plant in Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh for Maharashtra on Thursday evening. The express had left from the Central Railway’s Kalamboli railway yard on Monday evening. Of the three tankers unloaded at Nagpur railway station, two will be for Nagpur and one will head to Amravati.According to the district collector’s office, the tankers will be moved to an oxygen plant in Nagpur. “The tankers will be moved via road to oxygen plants in the city and will then be headed to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and then to private hospitals in the city.” Ravindra Thakare district collector Nagpur.Further, the express departed for Nashik Road railway station and is expected to reach by Saturday morning, wherein the remaining four tankers will be unloaded.“The remaining tankers will be unloaded at Nashik Road railway station and then be transported by road by the state government to different districts of Maharashtra.” said a senior railway official.The train moved via Vasai Road, Jalgaon, Nagpur, Raipur junction to Visakhapatnam steel plant, siding in the East Coast railway zone. The RORO flat wagons can accommodate up to 32 tankers.A second Oxygen Express for Maharashtra is also likely to be operated soon from Boisor railway yard in the Palghar district of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/oxygen-express-reaches-nagpur-3-tankers-unloaded-101619203257196.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Steel plants in Maharashtra should divert oxygen for Covid patients: HC||Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed Nagpur divisional commissioner to requisition all the liquid oxygen, being produced by four steel plants in Maharashtra, for catering to the needs of Covid-19 patients across the state. The directors of the four plants at Bhandara, Thane, Pune and Dolvi in the Raigad district have been requested to agree to the arrangement to avoid compulsory requisitioning.The court also directed requisitioning of cylinders to bottle the oxygen being brought through the railway route in tankers. The court further directed the state to place a request before the central-level committee to fulfil the requirement of Remdesivir and posted a hearing of the suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation (PIL) on April 27. The division bench of justices Sunil Shukre and SM Modak, while hearing the suo motu PIL and two other PILs, was informed by advocate MG Bhangde for the state and other state authorities that as per the order of the bench, the data on the distribution of Remdesivir in Nagpur district showed that there was no shortage of the drug. He, however, added that the indiscriminate use of the drug should be avoided. The court observed that while it had received information about Nagpur, there was none about Amravati, and hence directed the addition of the divisional commissioner Amravati and its joint commissioner of FDA as respondents. The officials were asked to file affidavits with data on the present position of continuous supply of life-saving drugs such as Remdesivir, Favipiravir, Tocilizumab, Ivermectin and also the supply of oxygen throughout Covid care centres in their division. The court then sought information on oxygen supply in Nagpur and asked advocate Aditya Goel, who filed an interim application, informing the court that the Lloyd steel plant and other steel plants had their oxygen-producing units and they could also be asked to divert the oxygen for overcoming the short supply. The court accepted the suggestion and directed the divisional commissioner of Nagpur to place a request before the directors of the plants. “We request him to consider suggestions made by advocate Goel and examine if, under section 36 of Disaster Management Act, it can be requisitioned or not.” The court then observed, “In fact, we have full faith in the directors of this company that given the receipt of a humble request from the divisional commissioner of Nagpur, they would readily agree to submit the oxygen plant of their company and would not let any situation of compulsory requisitioning in any manner.” When informed of the problem of bottling the oxygen coming on railway tankers from various parts of the country including Visakhapatnam due to a shortage of empty cylinders. The bench was informed that while the 11 oxygen distributors had 20,000 cylinders in circulation, there were manufacturing units and smaller plants that also used oxygen cylinders and around 3,400 additional cylinders could be easily requisitioned for bottling and distributing the oxygen coming from outside Maharashtra. The court directed the Nagpur divisional commissioner to requisition the cylinders and said, “If required, form a team of officers who would be personally visiting units, and empty cylinders available can be taken with help of police and state reserve police force (SRPF). Needless to say, appropriate rent would have to be paid for owners of cylinders requisitioned in the public interest.” With regards to the supply of Remdesivir, the bench was informed by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) that the Central government through the central level committee had asked all manufacturers to ramp up production of the drug to 2.69 lakh vials per day. The court then said, “We direct the state of Maharashtra to review the provisions regarding requirement of Remdesivir vials in state and if it is found more vials are required than those allotted, appropriate request with proper justification be made to the central level committee.” The court while warning against the indiscriminate use of Remdesivir by doctors by not following Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) laid down by the State Covid Task Force the court said, “As long as no such instances of manifest misuse of the drug are brought to the notice of nodal officers and unless they seem to be completely in violation of mandatory SOP, the state machinery would not be in a position to take any action against medical experts who are wrongly prescribing a drug, this is the area which remains largely in the discretion of experts in the medical field and as such we would request all doctors treating Covid patients to try to scrupulously follow SOP unless, in their opinion, departure is necessary to save the life of patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/steel-plants-in-maharashtra-should-divert-oxygen-for-covid-patients-hc-101619203196648.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||IITs ease exam, online class stress for students as cases surge||With Covid-19 cases on the rise across the country, the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are doing their best to ease the burden of students, especially those whose family members have tested positive for the virus.IIT-Bombay on Thursday announced that students, whose close family members have been infected, will be allowed to take the end semester exams at a later date. The semester exams will be held online and kick off on Monday. All undergraduate courses are being held online and around 3,000 postdoctoral and research fellows are currently on campus. “The health and wellbeing of all students are more important than the exams they write. In the senate meeting held Thursday, it was decided that no student should suffer from exam-related stress during this extremely difficult time of the pandemic in the country,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-Bombay.The senate has decided that any student, who falls sick or whose family member falls sick, will be given the chance to take the end-sem exams at a later date. On Wednesday, the IIT-Delhi administration sent an email, reviewed by HT, to all its students announcing similar measures. The institute is allowing students to withdraw from a course or examination for the course for any ‘situation created because of Covid’ such as their health or that of family members.The institute has a provision for an ‘I grade’ wherein students can choose to defer or withdraw from the exams for the said course. Among other interim measures announced by Shantanu Roy, dean, academics, IIT Delhi, the institute has relaxed its mandate for attending online classes till the end of April.“We have our senate meeting coming up next week and some more measures will also be discussed in there,” said V Ramgopal Rao, director, IIT Delhi.While IIT Madras always allows make-up exams to students, who are unable to write exams on the scheduled date, the institute is also permitting the students absent in online classes to download and view the recorded lectures. Even if the student views the recorded lecture (at any time /day) attendance is granted.IIT Mandi, too, has removed the mandatory attendance criteria for online courses. “The majority of courses are taught in a live mode online, and subsequently, the video recordings, lecture transcripts, and notes are made available to the students to ensure that they have full access to the course material. This also ensures that course offerings cater to students with different internet bandwidth accessibilities,” said Srikant Srinivasan, associate dean, courses, IIT Mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iits-ease-exam-online-class-stress-for-students-as-cases-surge-101619203137275.html
24-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 240,349 Covid-19 cases in a month||One month after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) intensified testing in the city to over 40,000 samples daily, it detected 240,349 cases which is around 39% of the total 609,800 caseload in the city, as of Thursday. During the same time, Mumbai also reported 979 deaths. Further, in the plast one month, the number of containment zones and sealed buildings have also doubled.According to BMC’s dashboard, in the past one month, over 1.03 million tests were conducted in the city, of which 56% were RT-PCR tests and around 43% were tested via rapid antigen kits. The average daily tests before March 23 was around 18,000 to 22,000 tests daily in the city that went above 45,000, post-March 23.As of April 21, Mumbai has tested 5,122,026 samples of which 11.75% have been tested positive. In terms of daily positivity rate, the same has gone down to around 15% from around 26% in the first week of April.The spike in Covid cases also resulted in the number of cases going up in the city on a month-on-month basis.According to the state health department data, the city reported 16,614 cases in February, 88,001 in March and 186,381 in April (up to April 22.) Deaths toll have also increased in the city from 114 in February, 211 in March and 875 between April 1 and April 22.On Friday, the city reported 7,199 cases followed by 72 deaths. The city total caseload stands to be 616,279 and the toll is 12,655. The city’s recovery rate is 84% with 521,104 recoveries followed by city’s mortality rate is 2.05% and there are 81,174 active cases in the city.Dharavi - city’s former hot spot reported 50 cases on Friday taking the total tally to 6,260. There 943 active cases in Dharavi and 4,973 have been discharged.Further, in the past one month, the number of containment zones and sealed buildings have also doubled. In the case of containment zones that cover chawls and slums, the number has gone up from 39 on March 22, to 114 as of April 21. The number of sealed buildings has gone up from 432 to 1,198 and sealed floors have gone up from 5,896 to 10,975 in the same period.According to BMC officials, the number of cases in the city has become steady, as between 7,000 to 9,000 cases are being reported daily.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had last week said that though cases have become steady in the city, the next 15 days (up to April 30) period is crucial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-240-349-covid-19-cases-in-a-month-101619203077779.html
