25-04-2021||Mumbai||‘To not cause confusion’: Aaditya Thackeray deletes tweet on free Covid-19 vaccination in Maharashtra||Maharashtra tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted on Sunday the government will not charge any resident of the state for the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) only to delete the post later. “The Govt of Maharashtra has decided to vaccinate its citizens free of cost. This is not something that we think of as a choice, but a duty that we consider of utmost importance: protecting the citizens from Covid,” Thackeray said in his initial tweet.However, minutes later he deleted the tweet and said in another post that he did not want to create any confusion regarding the “official vaccination policy of Maharashtra that would be fully ensuring fast, efficient vaccination and would leave nobody behind.”“The official policy of vaccination will be declared by the empowered committee and we must await it’s recommendation for a fair policy for all sections of society. My apologies for the confusion if it all it may have caused,” the Maharashtra cabinet minister said in the follow-up tweet.However, before Thackeray, Maharashtra’s minority minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday the Maha-Vikas Aghadi led-government will vaccinate the entire state’s population above the age of 18 years free of cost and that global tenders will be invited for the vaccination drive. The state currently has 57.1 million residents between the ages of 18 to 44.On the other hand, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday those beneficiaries who can afford the vaccine dose should pay for it and the government will pay on behalf of the poorer sections.I have deleted the earlier tweet as to not cause confusion regarding the official vaccination policy of Maharashtra that would be fully ensuring fast, efficient vaccination and would leave nobody behind.Maharashtra has so far administered vaccine doses to 14,230,213 of which more than 12.3 million people have been given the first dose and 1,903,207 have been given both doses, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 7am. The state worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic has added over 4.22 million cases, 63,928 deaths and 3,468,610 recoveries till now. On Saturday, 676 people died while 67,160 more people were found to be infected.Maharashtra, apart from being placed under Section 144 which will remain valid till May 1, is also under strict restrictions on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance and weddings from April 22 till May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-vaccinate-all-residents-against-covid-for-free-aaditya-thackeray-101619352773597.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||Businessman's vanity vans help police, healthcare workers amid Covid-19 curbs||In an effort to help fight the COVID-19 pandemic, Mumbai-based businessman Ketan Rawal has provided his vanity vans to the Mumbai police free of cost in order to facilitate the personnel serving amid the partial COVID-19 lockdown in the city.Speaking to ANI, Ketan Rawal said, "I am providing these vanity vans to the police personnel so that they can take rest, eat food and use the washroom while on duty."Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"These vanity vans are equipped with a bed, washroom, dressing table, and AC, similar to a bedroom," he added.Elaborating on how he is helping the health care workers, Rawal said, "I have also provided three vanity vans, which have three rooms each, to the COVID-19 care centres for doctors and nurses who have been working for 24 hours.""The vans are sanitised once every day in the morning," he added.Rawal further said that he is ready to provide his vanity vans to hospitals as well. "I am also ready to provide my vans to hospitals to save peoples' lives provided COVID-infected patients get required treatment," he added.Currently, he has provided 12 out of the 50 vans he owns to the police and health care workers.Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 5,888 new Covid-19 cases, 71 deaths and 8,549 on Saturday. The case tally in the city stands at 6,22,109.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/businessmans-vanity-vans-help-police-healthcare-workers-amid-covid-19-curbs-101619338907501.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||Adar Poonawalla has assured 'maximum support': CMO Maharashtra on vaccination||Serum Institute of India (SII) has assured Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray of 'maximum support' in vaccinating the people in the state at the earliest, chief minister's office (CMO) said on Saturday. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in the country with 6,94,480 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)."CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray has been assured of maximum support by Mr Adar Poonawalla and the Serum Institute of India to ensure maximum vaccination at the earliest in the State of Maharashtra," the CMO tweeted.CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray has been assured of maximum support by Mr. @adarpoonawalla and the Serum Institute of India to ensure maximum vaccination at the earliest in the State of Maharashtra."We are proud to have a world-class institution like Serum Institute of India in our state and we look forward to a strategic partnership for the safety of our citizens from Covid-19," it said in another tweet.Covishield, the Covid-19 vaccine produced by the SII, is one of the three anti-coronavirus vaccines approved for use in India. The other two are Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and the Russian manufacturer Gamaleya Research Institute's vaccine Sputnik V.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMaharashtra's daily Covid-19 count has been over 60,000 for some time now and the state recorded  67,160 fresh infections on Saturday. With this, the total active cases in the state reached 6,94,480. As many as 63,928 people have died due to the virus in the state so far, according to the state health bulletin.To curb this surge, Centre has asked states to ramp up their vaccination drive and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has on several occasions reiterated the need to spread awareness among the masses and ensure people get both their doses of the vaccine.May 1 onwards, everyone above the age of 18 will be considered eligible for getting a vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/adar-poonawalla-has-assured-maximum-support-cmo-maharashtra-on-vaccination-101619321529059.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||More antibodies in women to fight Covid-19: BMC sero survey||A sero survey by Mumbai's civic body has found that women have more antibodies than men to the fight the coronavirus.It also showed that sero positivity in non-slum areas was increasing, while it was decreasing in slum areas, which matches the current trend that a large number of patients are being detected from the former in the current Covid-19 surge, officials said.Sero positivity entails a blood test showing a positive result for a particular antibody, a civic official explained.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation survey, details of which were revealed on Saturday, showed sero positivity among women was 37.12 per cent as against 35.02 per cent in men."In the sero survey, 41.61 per cent sero positivity was found in blood samples taken from municipal dispensaries in slum areas. Overall, 36.30 per cent sero positivity is found in 10,197 blood samples collected from citizens from all 24 wards in Mumbai," it said."The samples were tested for antibodies in BMC's molecular biology laboratory in its Kasturba Hospital premises. The first survey in July last year had found 57 percent sero positivity in slum areas of three wards, while the one in August showed 45 per cent sero positivity in slum areas," an official said."Blood samples taken from private laboratories in non-slum areas showed sero positivity of 28.5 percent in the current survey. In the first survey conducted in July last year, this figure was 16 per cent for three wards and 18 per cent in the one held in August," he added.The sero survey, held in March this year, was carried out using the "unlinked anonymous sampling method" with blood samples collected from those who had not been vaccinated, and was the third after similar exercises in July and August last year, a BMC release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-antibodies-in-women-to-fight-covid-19-bmc-sero-survey-101619317467409.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||CM Thackeray thanks PM Modi after Centre approves supply of 4.35 lakh vials of Remdesivir to Maharashtra||Chief minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray expressed his gratitude towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the Centre gave its nod to the supply of 4,35,000 vials of Remdesivir to the state. "The Central government today has approved the supply of 4,35,000 vials of Remdesivir to Maharashtra till April 30th. CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray has thanked the Hon'ble PM Narendra Modi for accepting his request," the chief minister's office (CMO) said in a tweet. Earlier 2,69,000 vials were being sent to the state, a statement by the CMO said.CM Thackeray had intimated PM Modi about the problems caused by the shortage of Remdesivir and requested him to approve a consignment of the antiviral medication to the state, according to the CMO.Last week, Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) minister Rajendra Shingne also said that the state was facing a shortage of Remdesivir due to the increase in the number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.  “We need at least 60,000 doses of Remdesivir daily and are currently facing a shortage of 18,000 to 20,000 doses daily. Our problem is the number of patients is increasing daily,” said Shingne.A day after this, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has sufficient supply of the drug Remdesivir to fulfil the demand for the day. “We have sufficient (supplies of Remdesivir) as per today’s demand but the only challenge is of distribution. I appeal to doctors to use medical oxygen and Remdesivir properly,” Tope was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Maharashtra reported 67,160 cases of Covid-19 disease and 676 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin on Saturday. With this, the total active cases in the state reached 6,94,480. As many as 63,928 people have died due to the virus in the state so far. Maharashtra, which continues to be the worst-hit state by the pandemic, now has 42,28,836 infections in total and 34,68,610 patients have recovered from the disease so far. (with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-thackeray-thanks-pm-modi-after-centre-approves-supply-of-4-35-lakh-vials-of-remdesivir-to-maharashtra-101619316211657.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||State’s CFR sees sharp rise in past three days||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) has seen a marked increase in the past three days — it was 1% between April 22 and April 24, up from the 0.40%-0.70% recorded in the previous three weeks. The CFR is the percentage of deaths per total cases.The state on Saturday recorded 67,160 new Covid-19 infections and 676 deaths, taking the tally and toll to 4,228,836 and 63,928.The state recorded its highest single-day toll of 773 on Friday, indicative of the increase in CFR from 0.69%, 0.53% and 0.48% in the third, second and first weeks of April respectively.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state government on the management of Covid-19 cases, attributed multiple reasons to the high death toll. “The patients are being admitted late after developing complications, in addition to the shortage of beds and oxygen,” said Salunkhe. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 694,480.According to Dr Jeevan Jain, a leading physician Lalbaug, the problem is the delay in diagnostic reports and treatment. “The diagnostic centres are overburdened and it takes four to five days to get reports. In this, precious time is lost and complications set in. After this, there are no beds and this has contributed to the high number of deaths,” said Jain. Jain who has treated more than 15,000 Covid-19 patients says he looks at every patient with fever as potential Covid-19 patients and hence starts treatment on those lines.“I start with mild antibiotic, anti-inflammatory drugs and immune boosters so that precious time is saved,” he added. In addition, the state continued to face shortage of oxygen, hospital beds and Remdesivir injections.Meanwhile, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that state will float global tenders for Remdesivir and vaccines.In view of the shortage of Remdesivir injections, the Central government will provide 435,000 vials to Maharashtra by April 30.Previously, the central government used to provide 269,000 vials to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/states-cfr-sees-sharp-rise-in-past-three-days-101619291041375.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||BMC’s third sero survey: 36.3% of 10,197 samples have Covid-19 antibodies||The third sero surveillance conducted by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in March revealed an overall 36.3% seropositivity in the city, registering an uptick of seropositivity among residents of non-slum areas and a decline in residents of the city’s densely populated slums.Among the 10,197 samples collected in March, the third serological survey found that 41.6% of the residents of slums had been exposed to the virus while 28.5% of people living in non-slum areas like high rises, chawls and other residential areas, had been exposed to the coronavirus.A serological survey indicates a population-level prevalence of antibodies against Sar-CoV-2, the virus causing the Covid-19 pandemic. It indicates that a person has been exposed to the virus and has recovered from it, but it does not detect the level of antibodies in the person.Mumbai, which recorded 5867 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday night taking the total to 622,146 persons infected with Covid-19, conducted 838,500 tests in March. The total number of cases registered by March end was 385,661 with a case fatality rate of 3%.The first sero surveillance was conducted in the city in July 2020 and the second was conducted a month later, in August.In the first survey, 57% of samples collected from population residing in slums were seropositive, while in the second survey, 45% were seropositive. In contrast, 16% of samples collected from residents of non-slum areas showed sero positivity in the first survey, which increased to 18% in the second survey.“It is clear that the percentage of sero positivity in slum areas is decreasing and in non-slum areas the sero positivity is increasing. Considering that currently patients are being found in large numbers from non-slum areas during the second wave of Covid infection, the findings from the Sero survey show that this corresponds to the relevant situation,” the BMC issued a statement on Saturday.Samples for sero testing non-slum population for are collected by BMC from private laboratories and samples for sero testing in slum population are collected by BMC from municipal laboratories. During the third survey, blood samples were taken from people who have not yet received the Covid-19 vaccine. They were tested for antibodies at BMC’s Molecular Biology Laboratory at Kasturba Hospital.While 35.02% sero positivity was found among men, 37.12% positivity was found among women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmcs-third-sero-survey-36-3-of-10-197-samples-have-covid-19-antibodies-101619290981338.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||Hiran case: Mane suspended from police force||The Mumbai police on Saturday suspended inspector Sunil Mane, a day after he was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, additional commissioner of police (armed police) Virendra Mishra said.His suspension order was issued in the morning, the official said.A team of officials from NIA on Saturday, took Mane to the spots where Hiran is suspected to have been smothered to death and a Mumbra creek where his body was found on March 5. The agency is conducting a probe into the murder and the recovery of an explosives-laden vehicle outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February.After Mane’s arrest, a special NIA court in Mumbai remanded him to the central probe agency’s custody till April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hiran-case-mane-suspended-from-police-force-101619290362119.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Online classes without break taking toll on teachers||A typical day in the D’Sa household starts at 6am when Belinda D’Sa, 42, a college professor starts her day with preparing breakfast for her family of three, before waking up her daughter for her classes. By 7.30am, D’Sa is ready to start back-to-back lectures for undergraduate students of a Vasai college where she teaches Bachelor of Arts students. “Before the pandemic, I would wake up at 6am and be off to college by 7am; our maid would cook and ready my daughter for school. Now I end up doing all the work and conduct classes at the same time. My lectures go on till around 11.30am, following which I focus on household chores. The list of things-to-do is never ending,” said D’Sa.Her routine resonates with several teachers who have spent a large part of last year understanding technology from scratch in order to be able to teach virtually and ensure that lectures are kept interactive enough so students do not lose focus during class. “After lunch, I take a small break before I start helping my daughter with her studies as well as prepare PowerPoint presentations (PPTs) for my next day’s lectures. I teach seven different batches of students and end up preparing at least four to five PPTs every day,” she added. Meenal Bhole, a teacher from Vidya Bhawan High School and Junior College in Ghatkopar, said that soon after schools moved online, teachers started experimenting with various online learning tools. “We learnt how to make videos and edit them, made study material and used various tools to make our teaching interesting. With time, we realised what needs to be improved. For instance, we first made 30 to 40-minute explanatory videos. Slowly, as we realised that students have a very short attention span even to see these videos, we made small clips of 10-15 minutes,” she added. Most schools require teachers to teach for two-three hours every day. However, in actuality, teachers end up working almost throughout the day. “I have a class from 8 to 10 in the morning but after that I quickly finish my chores and take an extra class for students to solve their doubts between 2pm and 4pm. Evenings are spent in making content for the following day — PDFs, PPTs and videos. We also have assessments to do and projects to check,” said a teacher from an ICSE school in the city. The pandemic forced education institutes to think on their feet and immediately embrace technology, and while online classes threw challenges in front of teachers and students alike, the worst hit were students on the margins who needed extra attention, especially in the virtual mode. In some cases, teachers now had to take over the role of a counsellor as well.“I have set aside an hour every evening and informed students and parents that they can call me during that time to discuss their issues or anxieties. Many parents had tested positive in the past few months and were worried that their children would lose out on studies as they had their mobile phones in hospitals. We gave them assurance and spoke to the children to ease their pressure,” added Bhole. Besides teaching, the real challenge for teachers was to keep students engaged in the online mode. “Every day we struggle to make teaching interesting and try to innovate so that students stay on their screens and listen to the classes. Especially with the younger kids, it’s a challenge to keep them away from distractions. There have been instances where children have put their screens off, removed someone from the class or played pranks. We need to be patient yet vigilant to address these issues,” said Ruiee Kapoor, a teacher from St Elias School, Khar. The worst-hit have been first-year undergraduate students of professional courses with delayed start to the academic year, many of whom started their first lectures as late as in March and April this year. The bigger challenge has been for teachers who have already been busy conducting lectures and examinations for other UG batches, and have now started from scratch with the first-year batches. “Usually all classes and exams would be over by May end and teachers would get at least two-three weeks of break before starting the next academic year. This year, while the second, third and fourth-year students finish their classes, teachers are busy with the first-year batch which will continue till July-August 2021 at least,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College in Bandra. He added that while teachers have the advantage of conducting classes from home, many are reaching the point of exhaustion. “If this continues, and teachers don’t get a break, they will reach a breaking point and we will have to think of ways to ensure they get ample rest before the start of the next academic year,” added Thampi. Over the past one year, teachers have been working relentlessly, working on holidays, keeping their personal priorities aside. This year, as summer breaks are just a few days away, the state education department is yet to announce vacations for teachers. “We have not taken a break for an entire year and wish to get just a few days off. We hope the government takes a call on this soon and announces vacations,” said Rajesh Pandya, vice-president of Teachers’ Democratic Front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-online-classes-without-break-taking-toll-on-teachers-101619289121282.html
25-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to set up 16 oxygen plants at 12 hospitals||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday announced to set up 16 oxygen plants at 12 hospitals across the city. These plants are estimated to produce 43 metric tons (MT) of oxygen on-site itself, from atmospheric air. It will take one month for the plants to be commissioned, as the tendering process for the same is ongoing, the BMC said. Once completed, the plants will have a life span of a minimum of 15 years and a maximum of 30 years. The project is estimated to cost ₹90 crore. The civic body announced on Saturday, “Once commissioned, these plants will decrease BMC’s dependency on third parties for oxygen supply. It will also cut cost by more than half if compared to the cost of the acquiring equal amount of oxygen as Jumbo cylinders from the market.” P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects) will be in charge of implementing this project. Mumbai presently utilises 240 to 250 MT of oxygen per day across hospitals in the city. BMC has two suppliers on board to meet this demand. However, in its statement, the civic body said on Saturday, “Considering the increasing demand of oxygen for the rising number of Covid-19 patients, many of whom require constant and measured oxygen supply, the government and administration find themselves in a tight spot to ensure supply from market always meets demand. To decrease this dependency, such oxygen plants will be set up.” This will also ensure the civic body has permanent infrastructure for the manufacture of such an important resource, the statement said.Presently, BMC has an oxygen generating plant with a capacity of about 500 cubic meters per day at Kasturba Hospital, set up two years ago, and a project at Hindu Hridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Trauma Hospital in Jogeshwari with a capacity of 1,740 cubic meters per day, set up a year ago. “Oxygen generation projects in both these hospitals are functioning well and they are becoming very valuable during the period of Covid-19 infection. Both of these projects are based on the technique of generating oxygen from atmospheric air,” BMC said.When supplying oxygen to patients using the pressure swing absorption technique, the air is first compressed at the appropriate pressure in the plant and then filtered. This removes impurities from the air such as dust and other particles. The purified air available after this process is collected in an oxygen generator. Both the nitrogen and oxygen gases are separated from this pure air by a chemical mixture called zeolite, ​​in the oxygen generator. Separated oxygen is stored at an appropriate pressure. It is then supplied to the patients through ducts or pipes.On April 18, the Twitter handle of the health ministry tweeted that of the sanctioned plants, 33 had been installed in various states and Union territories, including Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Bihar and Maharashtra, among others. “In addition to the 162 plants already sanctioned, [states] have requested Government of India for more than 100 such additional plants, which are also being sanctioned,” the verified ministry handle stated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-set-up-16-oxygen-plants-at-12-hospitals-101619289061300.html
