26-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai may be gaining the upper hand in fight against Covid-19: Health expert||Mumbai may have turned the corner in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic as only 3,792 cases were reported on Monday despite 41,000 tests being conducted to detect the infection, a senior health expert said.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Maharashtra government's Covid-19 task force and a renowned endocrinologist, said the turnaround was due to the metropolis tacking the surge with the "ATM strategy", which is 'Assess, Triage and Transfer, and Management'."Mumbai drops to 3792 cases on 41 k tests clearly we r turning around with ATM strategy of Assess Triage and Transfer and Management congratulations team MCGM." he tweeted.As of Sunday, the country's financial capital had a caseload of 6,27,651 cases, including 12,783 deaths, with the active cases being 75,740.While Mumbai saw an addition of a record 11,163 cases on April 4, the numbers started dropping over the past few days, with Sunday seeing 5,542 cases.Dr Joshi, who was mentioned in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme on Sunday, told PTI that Mumbai's second wave peak may be over and the flattening phase could have begun."During the first wave, Mumbai used to hardly conduct 15,000 to 18,000 tests. However, during the second wave, the test numbers range between 40,000 and 50,000. Mumbai has passed the peak as cases are plateauing, but the plateau could be longer," Joshi said.He added that the second wave the country is facing is "more furious" than expected, which has been the trend worldwide, and appealed to people to adhere to Covid-19 norms strictly even after current restrictions in the state are relaxed.He said people must follow Covid appropriate behaviour and stressed the need to continue masking policy, zero tolerance for violators of norms etc even after the numbers dip, as "we cannot say the worst is over".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-may-be-gaining-the-upper-hand-in-fight-against-covid-19-health-expert-101619448903620.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees dip in Covid cases with fewer tests, records 48,700 infections||Maharashtra on Monday reported 48, 700 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections and 524 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health department’s bulletin. The number of new Covid-19 cases witnessed a steep decline of 17,491 infections in comparison with Sunday when 66,191 people were found positive. The Covid-19 caseload in the state now stands at 4,343,727, while the death toll increased to 65,284 after more than 500 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the bulletin also showed. On Sunday, Maharashtra recorded 832 fatalities, the highest single-day deaths since the pandemic hit the country.The worst-hit state discharged 71,736 patients in the last 24 hours, a rise of 10,286 from Sunday. Total 222,475 samples were collected to detect the virus in the state on Monday. Testing in the state has decreased in a day as 289,525 samples were collected on Sunday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The state capital of Mumbai witnessed a rise of 3876 new infections in the last 24 hours. The number of cases in Mumbai, which is also one of the major hotspots districts of the country, saw a steep fall in the number of cases for the second straight day. The number of deaths in the financial capital was reported to be 70 on Monday, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC’s) data.On Sunday, Mumbai reported 5542 fresh Covid-19 cases in a single day. The fall in the number of new cases reported on Monday can also be attributed to less testing as more than 40,000 samples were collected on Sunday, in contrast, to merely over 28,000 in the last 24 hours, as per the data.Mumbai has more than 70,000 active cases as of Monday with a recovery rate of 87 per cent, which rose for another day in the last 24 hours, BMC data showed. The number of active containment zones (slums and chawls) also fell to 104 on Monday--against 114 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-dip-after-48-700-infections-recorded-in-last-24-hours-death-toll-reaches-65-284-with-524-fatalities-101619445123342.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||BMC receives 1.5L vaccine doses, distribution to govt, private centres starts||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday informed that it has received one lakh 58 thousand doses of COVID-19 vaccine, and its distribution to government and private vaccination centres has started.According to a press release issued by the BMC, this will help in smooth vaccination in Mumbai for at least three days from April 26 to 28.Meanwhile, it said that the stock of Covaxin is very limited in the available vaccine stock and the vaccine will be given with preference to those who are to take a second dose at few centers.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageUnder the Covid-19 Prevention Vaccination Campaign, 59 vaccination centres have been set up by the corporation and government and a total of 132 vaccination centres have been set up in 73 private hospitals.However, due to the limited availability of the COVID-19 vaccine, vaccination has to be temporarily stopped at some centers from time to time.The vaccination campaign is being planned on a daily basis keeping in view the available stocks of vaccines as the priority is given to the second dose recipients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-receives-1-5l-vaccines-distribution-to-govt-private-centres-starts-101619398388789.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects bail of man who fleeced couple of ₹2.53 crore||The Bombay high court (HC), while observing that though a couple had not been diligent in verifying the person to whom they were paying money on the pretext of helping a widow living in Iran and transferred her husband’s wealth of 1.8 million dollars to India, refused to grant bail to the accused who had extracted ₹2.53 crore from the couple in the name of the Iranian woman. The accused, a foreign national, who was arrested in February 2019, sought bail on the grounds that there were other accused who pocketed the money. The single bench of justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the bail application of David Markas, was informed by advocate Ashish Baraskar that his client was a foreign national but had a valid visa and all his documents were in order in the year when the alleged offence took place.Baraskar further submitted that in their complaint the couple had not mentioned the name of the applicant and he had not played any part in the offence as he did not receive anything from the spoils of the crime. In light of these submissions, Baraskar sought regular bail for his client.According to the couple, they had been to Bangkok in 2017 and on their return, the husband befriended a woman claiming to be from Iran on Facebook. The woman claimed to be an American citizen but was living in Iran after her husband had died in a war. She further convinced the man that her husband had left $1.8 million for herself and her 12-year-old son but her deceased husband’s brother was forcing her to marry him. Hence, she sought help to transfer the amount to India which the couple agreed.The couple was contacted by different people asking them to deposit various amounts to different processes and parcels sent by the Iranian woman. It was only after the couple transferred around ₹2.53 crore to various accounts mentioned by the callers and visitors to their homes, did they realise that they were being cheated.The police laid a trap when the applicant called the couple to the domestic airport to hand over ₹16 lakh for a machine they had been told about earlier.Additional public prosecutor PN Dabholkar opposed the bail application and said that the mobile phone used by the accused was the same from which the couple was contacted regularly, hence his complicity in the offence with three others could not be ruled out; therefore his bail application should be rejected.After hearing the submissions the court observed, “Undoubtedly, the informant and her husband should have been diligent and careful but the fact remains that both of them were misled and with clear deceit they were made to part with their huge amount.” The court further said, “There is no doubt that the applicant himself had called the informant to the domestic airport to collect the amount. Therefore, he is a party to the larger conspiracy of extracting money from the informant by cheating her. In light of this, the court said that as the offence was serious and as such cases were on the rise it was not granting bail to the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-bail-of-man-who-fleeced-couple-of-2-53-crore-101619378407269.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases dip: Is Mumbai’s second wave curve flattening?||As the number of cases in the city has been on the decline on a week-on-week basis (between April 4 and April 24), state Covid-19 taskforce member Dr Shashank Joshi said that the flattening of the curve has started in the city. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has maintained that the situation will have to be monitored until April 30, before claiming that the decline of the second wave in the city has started. The worrying part is the number of deaths going up on weekly basis.As the testing in the week between April 18 to 24 has gone down, the positivity rate too has gone down simultaneously. The positivity rate in the first week between April 4 and 10 was around 20% that went down to around 18% between April 11 to 17, followed by around 17% between April 18 to 24.According to the state health department data, between April 4 and April 10, 69,037 cases were reported followed by 190 deaths. During the same period, 341,614 tests were conducted. Further, in the next week between April 11 and April 17, 60,506 cases were reported followed by 357 deaths. During the same period, 335,187 tests were conducted. In the last week, between April 18 and April 24, 51,128 cases were reported followed by 425 deaths. In this period 297,738 tests were conducted.During this period, the active cases went up from 73,281 on April 4 to 91,110 on April 11 and then recorded a decline to 86,443 on April 17, to 78,226, as of April 24.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Thursday said, “Although the daily number of patients in Mumbai has stabilised between 8,000 and 10,000 in the last 15 days, the next 15 days are even more important.” According to Chahal, it is only after April 30 one will be in a position to say whether the number of cases being reported in the city is witnessing a downfall or not.On Sunday, 5,498 cases were reported in the city followed by 64 deaths. This took the total case tally to 627,644 and toll to 12,790. The recovery rate in the city is 85% with 537,944 recoveries, and mortality is 2.03%. There are 75,498 active cases in the city. Dharavi reported 37 cases taking the total to 6,325.Meanwhile, Dr Shashank Joshi, said, “Whenever there is a peak, the number of deaths tends to increase. However, this all will come into control within the next two weeks. For now, we can say that the flattening of the curve has started in the city and pockets of the state. However, we do not need to be relaxed but only be prepared and cautious anticipating the third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-cases-dip-is-mumbai-s-second-wave-curve-flattening-101619378347781.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Aurangabad bench initiates suo motu PIL on Covid-19 issues||After the principal seat of the Bombay high court (HC) at Mumbai and Nagpur took cognisance of various issues like the supply of oxygen, Remdesivir and mismanagement of the second Covid wave, the Aurangabad bench took note of several news reports related to issues of cremation of Covid-19 patients, shortage of medical oxygen and black marketeering of Remdesivir drug. The court has initiated a suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation (PIL) and will hear responses from the state on April 26.A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Bhalchandra Debadwar on April 22, while referring to 14 newspaper reports, observed that relatives and kin of deceased Covid-19 patients had to run from pillar to post to collect various certificates for performing the final rites of their loved ones. Hence, a single-window system for such victims should be deliberated upon.While announcing that it was initiating a suo motu PIL, the court appointed advocate Satyajeet Bora as amicus curiae and directed the central and state government, municipal commissioner and district collectors from Marathwada and north Maharashtra to be made respondents in the PIL.The court then went on to enumerate the reasons for the PIL and referred to a news report which stated that the oxygen plant in the government medical college and hospital premises in Aurangabad was likely to face an accident similar to the one at Nashik on April 21. The bench also pointed to the news report which stated that apprehensions were cast on the proposal of the divisional commissioner of the Marathwada region to allow private hospitals to erect oxygen generation plants. Another report showed that some districts in the Marathwada region were receiving only a 50% supply of medical oxygen compared to their requirements.In light of the above, the court said that it would also deal with the black marketeering of Remdesivir injections that are being sold at ₹22,000, whereas the costs range between ₹850 to ₹2,500. The HC will hear the suo motu PIL on April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aurangabad-bench-initiates-suo-motu-pil-on-covid-19-issues-101619377627185.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Second Oxygen Express likely to reach Kalamboli on Monday||The second Oxygen Express, a train carrying liquid oxygen, is likely to reach Maharashtra on Monday. The train coming from Gujarat is expected to reach Kalamboli railway yard of Central Railway on Monday morning. The Roll-On Roll-Off (RORO) service carrying three tankers with nearly 44 tonnes of liquid oxygen and departed from Hapa railway goods shed of Western Railway’s Rajkot division on Sunday evening. The liquid oxygen tankers for Maharashtra are coming from Reliance Industries in Jamnagar plant, Gujarat as part of Centre’s allocation. “The RORO service departed from the goods shed on Sunday evening and will reach Kalamboli railway yard on Monday morning, covering a distance of 860 kms. The tankers will then be moved to respective districts via road,” said a senior railway official. “Liquid oxygen, being a cryogenic cargo, has many limitations like maximum speed at which it can be carried, maximum acceleration and deceleration and loading restrictions like availability of liquid oxygen tankers and loading ramps. Route mapping also takes care of the maximum clearances available along the route,” read a statement from Western Railway.The first Oxygen Express departed from Kalamboli railway yard on April 19 and reached back to Nashik in Maharashtra on Saturday morning, carrying liquid oxygen from a steel plant in Visakhapatnam. Four oxygen tankers were offloaded in Nashik and then transported to oxygen plants via road. The express had first reached Nagpur in Maharashtra where it unloaded three liquid medical oxygen tankers on Friday evening. Of them, two headed for Nagpur city and one headed to Amravati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrasecond-oxygen-express-likely-to-reach-kalamboli-on-monday-101619377568831.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Will transport oxygen and Covid medicines for free: Association||The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), a transporters body, will be providing free transportation, distribution and warehousing facilities for medical oxygen cylinders along with medicines used to treat Covid-19 patients.The free transportation facilities began in Mumbai and Nashik on Sunday and will be provided pan-India.The AIMTC has also released two contact numbers — 9711498337 and 9820022547 — wherein people can contact them for free movement of oxygen cylinders and medicines.“Our members are extending assistance to the people of the country to deal with the pandemic by providing a network of warehousing facilities for medicines and essential commodities as well as providing trucks for the supply of oxygen cylinders and Covid-19 relief materials. We will offer all possible assistance in terms of logistics support —transportation, distribution and warehousing facilities pan-India, free of cost,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, AIMTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-transport-oxygen-and-covid-medicines-for-free-association-101619377567211.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC receives 150,000 doses of Covidshield; all centres to be operational from Monday||After a shortage of vaccine doses for a week, all vaccination centres in the city are expected to remain operational starting Monday as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has received a fresh stock of 150,000 vaccine doses on Sunday. In the coming days, the city is also expected to get vaccine vans that will be parked in several areas for carrying out vaccination drive aggressively in the city.There are 132 vaccination centres in the city, however, only around 30 vaccination centres, majorly private centres, were shut owing to running out of stock. On Sunday, a mere 38 of the total 132 vaccination centres were operational in the city, owing to a shortage of vaccine doses.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “We have received 1.5 lakh stock of Covishield today. All vaccination centres in Mumbai shall be functional tomorrow. However, Covaxin will be available only at select centres for the second dose due to extremely limited existing stock.”According to BMC officials, there is a possibility that few private hospitals may not begin vaccination or start it late on Monday. This, as few private hospitals are yet to purchase the doses from BMC. The purchase process will start at 8am on tomorrow (Monday).Further, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Sunday said that as phase three of the drive, for vaccinating those between the age of 18 to 45, starts from May 1, the BMC plans to have vaccine vans visit in several areas of the city.Pednekar said, “We are not able to conduct door-to-door vaccination for now, but we are exploring to have vaccine vans in the city. These vans will go to different areas and cover the population by vaccinating them. The ground-level workers of political parties can help the administration in getting citizens to come out and get vaccinated.”Pednekar said, “In the coming days, crowd management will be a challenge, considering vaccination for the age group between 18 to 45 will begin. Hence, in the next two days, the state government will declare its strategy, based on which, the citizens may get vaccinated after registration or appointment.”Meanwhile, on Sunday 23,419 citizens were vaccinated, of which 1,175 were healthcare workers, 1,523 were frontline workers, 9,802 were above the age of 60 years and 10,919 were between the age of 45 to 59. Overall, 2,237,283 citizens have been vaccinated so far, since January 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-receives-150-000-doses-of-covidshield-all-centres-to-be-operational-from-monday-101619377507780.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Oxygen supplied on time, shifting of patients from Bhagwati Hosp deferred||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run Bhagwati Hospital in Borivli went into panic mode on Sunday after its oxygen supplier did not reach on time due to a technical glitch at a facility. Owing to this, as a backup plan, the hospital authorities planned to shift few patients, out of the total 98 patients, to the Dahisar jumbo centre.According to BMC officials, the technical fault at the supplier’s end was resolved by the afternoon and oxygen was supplied in a nick of time.If the supply would have been hit, it would have affected private and civic-run hospitals in the city.According to an official from the hospital, it got four dura cylinders and had three in back up, but when the supply van did not arrive as per schedule, we had to plan a backup. However, the supply van was in before we could shift patients.Dr Shantaram Kawade, superintendent of the hospital, said, “We received four dura cylinders on Sunday evening, and more are expected to be in by tonight. Hence, we have good stock for tomorrow also. We would like to reiterate that no patients were shifted out of Bhagwati Hospital on Sunday.”Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Sunday said, “All issues relating to oxygen supply under BMC stands resolved, and the supply situation is normal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-oxygen-supplied-on-time-shifting-of-patients-from-bhagwati-hosp-deferred-101619377388800.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: How to choose between SIPs and lump sum for better returns from mutual funds?||The stock market is on an upswing right now. This has prompted many investors to look at the market with a lot of anticipation. However, experts maintain that markets will soon enter a correction phase wherein prices of stocks will decline from their current peak to a level that would trend over a long period.Many investors are unsure of when or how to park money in mutual fund investments as these are market-linked and hence do not promise guaranteed returns. Mutual funds contain investments in both debt and equity. The proportion of these asset allocations decides the risk profile of the fund, thus, allowing people to decide between more risky and less risky investment options.While the choice of a mutual fund depends mostly on its past performance and the risk appetite of the investor, many are still unsure of whether they should opt for a systematic investment plan (SIP) or make a one-time investment of a lump sum. Both the investment methods have their benefits.How SIPs workThis method involves a great deal of financial commitment as the predetermined investment amount gets deducted from your savings account every month. Investing through the SIP method is simple. You just have to decide how much you wish to invest every month; it could be as low as ₹1,000 or ₹2,000. The second step is choosing the fund that you wish to invest in. Regular and forced investments will keep you invested in the fund, irrespective of the highs and lows of the market. Depending on the net asset value (NAV) of the fund on the predetermined date, a specified number of units are allotted to your name. During market downturns, when NAV is low, you benefit from more units.Sahil Arora, director of Paisabazaar.com, a virtual debt syndication services, said, “Market timing of mutual fund investments needs a sound understanding of macro-economic situations, geopolitical trends, policy impact, fundamental analysis, technical analysis, etc. Tracking these may not be an easy task for most retail investors. As SIPs ensure regular and automatic investment, opting for SIP mode will average out the investment cost during market corrections and thereby, save investors from the dilemma of timing their equity fund investments.”Investing a lump sumThis is like shopping for mutual funds when you have enough money in your hand. If you are inclined to allocate a large portion of your earnings to mutual funds or have benefited from a windfall gain that you would like to divert towards mutual funds, a lump sum investment may be the best option. All you have to do is to choose your fund(s) and decide how much you would like to invest in it. Archit Gupta, founder and CEO, ClearTax, an online e-Filing website, said, “You may invest a lump sum amount in debt mutual funds rather than equity funds. It is suitable for people looking to attain short-term financial goals. For instance, if you invest for a short time of around two to three years, the safety of the capital is vital, and debt funds are a relatively safe fixed-income investment.”Most people choose to make lump sum investments in mutual funds when the market and stock valuations are low, ie, reeling under the effect of a bearish market. This is because low NAVs of mutual funds allow them to garner more units that they can later sell when the market is high.Which one’s better?Investments in both SIPs and lump sum have their benefits. Contrary to lump sum investors who have to eye the market movement regularly, SIP investors can rest as their investments ride through the market cycle. Harshad Chetanwala, co-founder of MyWealthGrowth.com, a financial and wealth planning company, said, “Stock markets are not meant to move in a straight line, it is this volatility that creates opportunities to invest as well as create wealth over a period.”To grow wealth with time, investments must be methodical and regular. Adhil Shetty, CEO, BankBazaar, an online marketplace for financial products, said, “Compounding interest yields better results when money is saved over longer durations. If you start a SIP of ₹5,000 every month at the age of 25, at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 12.5%, you will have with you funds worth about ₹1 crore by the time you reach the age of 50. If you stay invested for another 5 years at the same CAGR, your corpus will double to ₹2 crore. However, if you start with the same amount and return rate of interest at the age of 35, your retirement fund will amount to only around ₹26 lakh when you hit 50.”CAGR helps evaluate returns from investments whose value rise and fall with time. Though this method cannot be used to gauge risk, it can assess how one kind of investment performs against another or against the market index.If you have the necessary market experience, lump sum investments can help you earn a sizeable corpus over time. You must wait for the market to adopt a bearish attitude during which you can invest a large amount in a lump sum and stay invested for a prolonged period. Tarun Birani Founder and CEO of TBNG Capital Advisors, a SEBI registered investment advisor, said, “If mutual fund investors make a lump sum payment, their job is to then simply periodically review the funds and hold them for a longer time horizon. For example, consider an investor who invested a sum of ₹10 lakh in a certain set of mutual funds expected to grow at a CAGR of 12%. If he remained invested for 10 years, at the end of 10 years he would have built a sizeable corpus of approximately ₹31 lakh. Now compare that with another investor who invested ₹15 lakh with the same growth assumption of 12% compound annual growth rate. However, if he remained invested only for five years, then at the end of that period, he would have built a corpus of only ₹26 lakh even though 50% more amount is being invested. Thus, the power of compounding lies in remaining invested for longer periods and thus leading to sizeable wealth creation.”The key to earning from the market is to invest when the market is low and sell when the market is high. Investors new to equity schemes can opt for SIP investments as it relieves them of the worry of having to time the market. Lump sum investments suit best those who know how to time the market accurately.Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-how-to-choose-between-sips-and-lump-sum-for-better-returns-from-mutual-funds-101619377388325.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||At 832, Maharashtra sees highest deaths in a day||Maharashtra on Sunday reported its highest single-day deaths – 832 – due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 64,760. The state continued to report over 60,000 new cases for the sixth day in a row, with 66,191 fresh infections, taking the tally to 4,295,027. Nagpur’s rural areas reported the highest toll on Sunday, with 69 deaths, followed by Pune district, which comprises Pune city, its rural areas and Pimpri-Chinchwad, with 69 deaths. Solapur district reported 62 deaths. Nanded district reported 59 deaths, while Nashik district saw 57 fatalities. Yavatmal and Aurangabad districts saw 45 deaths. Ahmednagar district saw 44 deaths. Of the 832 deaths reported on Sunday, 360 occurred in the past 48 hours and 244 in the past week. The remaining 228 deaths are from the period before last week, state health department said. Health experts attribute the rise in deaths to late arrivals at the hospital. However, they maintain that the case fatality rate of the state is in control and the virus is less virulent than the first wave. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director general of health services in the state and advisor to the state on the Covid-19, said with sheer number of infections a large chunk of them, will land up in hospitals. “Roughly 10% of the cases usually are clinical cases. In that, there are late arrivals which make it difficult for doctors to save the person. There could be some stray cases of deaths due to oxygen shortage, but it is not the main factor.” Dr Shashank Joshi, state Covid task force member, said the sheer load on the healthcare infrastructure could hinder providing treatment to all, which could result in deaths. “The deaths, in absolute numbers have gone up, but compared to last year, our case fatality rate is lower. When you see the healthcare infrastructure clobbered, due to lack of ability to provide health-care deaths, tend to go up. It is less virulent compared to last year,” he said. Mumbai, meanwhile, continued to see a dip in daily cases, with 5,498 fresh cases on Sunday. Over the past three days, the city saw a decline in cases 7,367 (April 22), 7,199 (April 23), and 5,867 (April 24). It also reported 64 deaths, pushing death toll to 12,790. While Mumbai has shown a decline in its numbers, the rest of the state is still hovering around the 65000-mark in daily figures. The numbers in the state, excluding Mumbai, have not reduced even after the state government imposed a curfew, restricting movement of people, from April 14. Twelve days since, the state has added a whopping 775,819 cases, at a daily average of 64,651. In the first 13 days—before the curfew was imposed—the state had added 706,228 Covid-19 across the state. Dr Joshi said that while Mumbai is declining, but Maharashtra [figures] is “static”. He also pointed out that the testing capacity in Mumbai and the state has “saturated”. “Mumbai is definitely seeing a decline. Mumbai is flattening, but Maharashtra is static, but it is not growing. The testing both for Maharashtra and Mumbai has saturated. We cannot expand the testing beyond this point. Mumbai is testing between 40,000 and 50,000 daily, while Maharashtra tests about 250,000. The cases in the state have been hovering around 65,000,” Dr Joshi said. Experts believe that poor health infrastructure, inadequate following of Covid protocols, and lack of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in parts of Maharashtra could be the reasons behind the spike. “Our testing isn’t going up, while its turnaround time has gone to two days, which is an issue. Only when we test up to 300,000 for a few days, we will know the extent of the spread; if the positivity rate continues in proportion to the higher tests, we will take more time. Another factor is that the curfew was not followed as we desired. We will wait another week to assess the situation,” said a senior health department official, requesting anonymity. Dr Joshi added that protocols are largely being followed by the people and district administration. “The geometric progression of this wave has brought in sheer numbers. People need to self-test, self-isolate, get connected with a health-care provided at the earliest and not delay their treatment. Breaking of the chain will happen.” He added that Mumbai could come out of the second wave by next month-end, while Maharashtra could take a couple of more weeks. “Mumbai probably will come out of this in about 10 days. Overall, we will see Mumbai come out [of the wave] with a thick tail by May-end. The cases in Maharashtra are expected to linger around longer. It will depend upon how it handles the testing and infrastructure ability. Maharashtra will take two to three more weeks than Mumbai,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-832-maharashtra-sees-highest-deaths-in-a-day-101619377278339.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra may import 25,000 tonnes of oxygen||Amid the shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir in Maharashtra, the state health department has put up a proposal to import 25,000 tonnes of oxygen and 10 lakh vials of Remdesivir, an antiviral drug. The health department officials said that as the number of Covid cases are increasing, they want to keep oxygen and the drug stock ready. Besides that, the state also wants to import oxygen tankers and concentrators.While Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has alleged a lack of or delayed assistance from the Centre to Maharashtra in its fight against Covid-19, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday claimed that the state government has not set up oxygen generation plants from the sum allocated to Maharashtra from PM Cares funds.BJP legislator Prasad Lad said that had the state added these plants, the shortage of oxygen would not have been acute and some lives would have been saved.“We have sent a proposal to the chief secretary (Sitaram Kunte) to import 25,000 tonnes of oxygen, 10 lakh Remdesivir, oxygen tankers, and oxygen concentrators. A decision on this will be taken by the high-power committee by Monday,” confirmed N Ramaswami, commissioner, health services (Maharashtra).With 1,750 metric tonnes of supply there is no shortage of oxygen in the state as of now, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said. “The state produces 1,250 metric tonnes and is getting 500 metric tonnes of oxygen from the allocation made by the central government. Though we are utilising the entire stock, there is no shortage of oxygen in the state as of now.”Meanwhile, former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the Centre has increased its supply of oxygen to the state to 1,784 metric tonnes. Till last week, the supply was 1,661 metric tonnes. “Thank you Hon PM @narendramodi ji for such strong support to citizens of Maharashtra. Maharashtra got allotment of 1784 MT oxygen supply which is more than double as compared to any of the major states including Gujarat, UP, Karnataka, MP,” Fadnavis said in a tweet.He shared the information in response to MVA allegations that the Centre has been allocating less oxygen supply than what is required by the state. As the BJP and the MVA spar over oxygen supply, the Centre allocated funds to set up 551 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants inside public health facilities in the country. Earlier, the Centre had released ₹201.58 crore to set up 162 dedicated oxygen plants in government hospitals.While speaking to the media on Sunday, Lad slammed the Thackeray government on various issues including handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Modi government had in January 2021 released ₹201 crore to set up 10 oxygen plants in Maharashtra. Five months on, the state government could not even utilise it properly when the oxygen is much needed to treat the Covid-19 patients. The question arises here, Has the fund released for the oxygen plants been siphoned off by this extortionist government?” he questioned.Countering Lad’s claim, Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that no funds were given by the Centre to MVA. Instead, the installation was to be done by the engineers of the appointed agency by the Centre. “BJP is the biggest liar party. Let us expose this blatant lie. No funds were given by GOI to MVA government; agency [was] finalized by GOI. Machines supplied after 5th April 2021 on different dates. Installation is done by the engineer of the agency appointed by GOI. State govt has no role but still, BJP has audacity to level false allegations. Modi govt has clarified that out of 162 plants only 33 commissioned. Now they have declared additional 551plants. Only Modi ji knows their fate (sic.),” Sawant said in a series of tweets.Meanwhile, state urban development minister Eknath Shinde has taken the initiative to set up 14 oxygen generating plants in local bodies falling under the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. These plants will be operational in the next few days in Thane, Kalyan Dombivali, Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, Badlapur, Mira Bhayander, Vasai Virar, Navi Mumbai and Panvel Municipal Corporations, said Shinde. The oxygen plants are expected to add 2 metric tonnes of production daily, which can support 200 beds daily.The administration will replicate the Pressure Swing Absorption Technology (PSA) technology which has been successfully adopted by the district authorities of Gadhinglaj town in Kolhapur district and other parts of the state and country to generate oxygen directly from atmospheric air.Considering the oxygen requirement in MMR, three plants have been started in the Thane civic region, two each in Kalyan Dombivali and Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas and one each in Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, Badlapur, Mira Bhayander, Vasai Virar and Panvel.Once operational, the plant will not only eliminate the hospitals’ complete dependence on oxygen refilling companies for cylinders and tankers, it will become a personal asset of the civic body to treat Covid-19 patients and also for other cases of respiratory illness in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-may-import-25-000-tonnes-of-oxygen-101619377028271.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Researchers document 150 Warli shrines dedicated to big cats||Wildlife researchers documented the presence of a total of 150 shrines dedicated to Waghoba — the Warli deity representing big cats — across Mumbai (suburban), Thane and Palghar districts. The term Waghoba comes from the Marathi word “wagh” (tiger and/or leopard), and “ba” (a suffix denoting respect, usually for the elderly).These findings build on existing research published in 2018 which had recorded the presence of 20 Waghoba shrines in and around Mumbai, largely in Aarey Colony. Some shrines have also been documented in Goa, Gujarat, Pune and south Maharashtra. So far, a total of 176 such Waghoba shrines have been documented across this larger region, though several others are sure to exist, researchers believe.The new research paper, which is yet to be published, titled Sharing Spaces and Entanglements with Big Cats: The Warli and their Waghoba in Maharashtra was helmed by first authors Ramya Nair and Dhee of Wildlife Conservation Society, India. Over six months between November 2018 and April 2019, Nair and team travelled approximately 2,125kms to villages in Dahanu, Palghar, Talasari, Boisar, Vasai, Wada and Jawhar in pursuit of these artefacts.Crucially, Nair said, this led her to personally discover the vast extent of the Waghoba myth (geographically and culturally) in northwest Maharashtra. Nair and her colleagues also found that reverence for Waghoba was more prevalent in multi-use landscapes, where indigenous and even urbanising populations share space with leopards, than in protected areas (like Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) and Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWLS).“We were honestly a bit surprised. Nearly every Warli village we visited had at least one Waghoba shrine where prayers were being offered regularly,” said Nair, whose work also identifies at least four other Indigenous groups — namely Mahadeo Kolis, Malhar Kolis, Thakkers and Dublas — in the study area who also worship Waghoba.Though documented as a powerful cultural and social institution in the community, the concept of Waghoba (and the broader Warli cosmology) does not figure prominently in conservation literature. But through an ethnographic rather than ecological approach, this study affirms mounds of anecdotal evidence, scientific inquiry and media reports about leopards (and even tigers) in the study area. The last tiger sighting in the selected region, the authors pointed out, dates back to 2003.But modern taxonomy — with its focus on separation of species — may not account for how the Warlis who live in the closest proximity to these big cats perceive them. For example, Nair explains, “These areas were historically home range to both tigers and leopards, though today in a large part of these areas, only leopards remain. For people in such communities, biodiversity may be perceived as a whole rather than through the eyes of modern taxonomy, resulting in both the tiger and leopard being referred to as wagh.”Mainstream conservation literature, for its part, also abides by the theory that predators (like lions and tigers) originally ate wild animals in their natural habitat, and then transitioned to hunting livestock. This also perpetuates the view that “livestock depredation is a new phenomenon that we have just had to start making sense of”. But the Warli belief system, particularly that of Waghoba which is rooted as much in the human-livestock equation as the human-wildlife one, pre-dates mainstream conflict discourse “by at least a few hundred years”.In as much, the paper suggests, a purely biological approach to leopard conservation within the study area would have inherent limitations. Conservation need not follow only a “techno-managerial” approach, it argues, but can also rely on “socio-cultural drivers” of coexistence.“When conservationists focus on only the ecological aspects of conservation without engaging with its social dimensions, it leaves local communities (who face direct impacts) feeling neglected and often pitted against the species being conserved… This can perhaps result in uncooperative responses... Acknowledging these beliefs and integrating them into bureaucratic practices lends these communities the respect and justice they deserve,” the authors note.Information was gathered for this study using three methods. The first included tracking down individual shrines, geo-tagging and photographing them, and analysing their iconography. The visuals that the authors discovered were predominantly that of “a feline under the sun and moon, carved on either stone or wood (specifically teakwood) slabs covered with a bright vermillion paste”.“Some participants explained that the sun and moon symbolised energy. Many villages had Waghoba shrines built at the entrance of the village indicating that Waghoba might be considered as a gatekeeper, protecting the entire village,” the authors noted.The second approach involved semi-structured interviews with 34 individuals and gathering information through “snowball sampling”, an interview method commonly used in sociology and cultural studies. Both Warli and non-Warli subjects were interviewed, largely elderly or middle-aged men.“Even though we also aimed to interview women, many factors restricted this,” the study clarifies.Researchers also gathered information using “participation observation”, using “direct observations, group discussions, and off-the-record conversations”. For example, first-hand observations recorded (mainly by Nair) at annual Waghbaras or Wagh festival celebrations at three locations have also been interpreted to arrive at the study’s conclusions.Held annually as an appeasement for Waghoba, Waghbaras festivities typically take place on the day of Vasu Baras, which marks the first day of Diwali on the Hindu lunar calendar. The occasion, as observed by researchers, can last up to two days, and are marked by ritual animal sacrifice, shamanic rituals, feasting, singing and dance.“Participant observations revealed that members of the community who have converted or expanded their religious beliefs continue to worship Waghoba as one of their chief deities and take part in Waghbaras festival. This indicates that Waghoba is not just a deity who is worshipped within the confines of one belief system but is an integral part of the cultural fabric, entwined with the traditions and social life of this landscape,” the study notes.The larger dominant narrative of Waghoba is one of a protector who is prayed to for protection from human-animal conflict, as well as disease and other natural disasters. “Participants spoke of the wagh as the junglacha raja (king of the jungle). One participant also called Waghoba the main boss,” the authors noted, highlighting that these perceptions stem from a mix of fear and awe.Another oral tradition which lends credence to the notion of Waghoba as a protector is the anecdote of leopards following people back home in the dark. “This narrative is present not only in our study site but also in other parts of India and South Asia,” states the study.“The thing to remember is that the idea of Waghoba is in fact born out of conflict,” Nair emphasises. But, as her research reveals, Waghoba also embodies the trust that indigenous populations wilfully place in the animal (and in nature) — a necessary prerequisite to establishing co-existence.One of the study’s interviewees, quoted in the paper, said, “About 35 years ago, my father was going to my mother’s village before they got married by road, on foot. He saw a wagh right in front of him. Now what do you do in these situations? The person cannot attack it, right? So my father said, “If you are going to eat me then go ahead. You are our god.” Then he closed his eyes. The wagh just walked away, did not do anything.”BOX:Waghoba origin story:The Waghoba does not have one single origin story but a common thread uncovered through interviews. It involves a woman who gives birth to a baby out of wedlock. The child shape-shifts into a tiger and eats livestock of the village. When the villagers decided to kill the animal, the mother asked that her child be sent to the forest. In exchange, people would install shrines for the wagh and give an offering once a year. While some participants, especially shamans, shared elaborate origin stories, most of the other participants narrated fragments of these stories, containing similar underlying beliefs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtraresearchers-document-150-warli-shrines-dedicated-to-big-cats-101619376848278.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Change in ‘course’ of action: Rise in students applying to foreign varsities||On Thursday, 17-year-old Bengaluru resident Praajna GB received a conditional offer from the University of British Columbia, Canada, for admission to its Bachelors of Applied Sciences course. Almost a month ago, he received a similar offer from University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. Both offers will stand only if he secures a certain score in his class 12 board exams. However, on April 14, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal announced that Class 12 board examinations for CBSE students would be deferred till June in light of the exponential rise of cases.On June 1, the ministry will review the situation and announce fresh dates for the exams that were earlier scheduled to be held from May 4 to June 14. Praajna is now unsure if he can make it to either of the universities for the fall session that starts in August. “I am watching the news constantly,” said Praajna. iSchoolConnect, an artificial-intelligence-powered digital platform that facilitates university admissions around the globe, has registered a spike in the number of inquiries for study abroad, its head of Alliances and Marketing Vaibhav Gupta said. “While earlier, we courted around 5,000 inquiries about admissions a month on an average, they’ve climbed to 10,000 inquiries now,” he said.OnCourse Vantage Pvt Ltd, an education consulting and test-prep company that guides students with applications, also reported a similar trend, chief executive officer and co-founder Alisha Mashruwala Daswani said. “This spike can be attributed to two factors. Last year as Covid-19 cases surged and travel restrictions were imposed by countries, many prospective students decided to defer their admission by a year. Another reason could be that with uncertainties over admission and entrance exam schedules in India, students want to keep their options open and are applying abroad,” she said. Last year, most universities around the world struggled to fill their foreign student quotas as travel restrictions and uncertainty over classes made prospective students defer their plans. To attract more international students, universities are now waiving off application fees, lowering their criteria for standardised entrance tests or even doing away with tests altogether and offering scholarships, making it relatively easier to apply. Admissions to universities in most countries are based on marks secured in standardised tests such as the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) for business administration courses and Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) for science and technology courses. Additionally, prospective students may be required to take language proficiency tests such as Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). “Many universities in the United States of America, including the one I secured admission in, have relaxed their entry criteria. Some have waived off GRE scores or reduced the minimum score to attract more students,” said 30-year-old Yash Nayak from Bhilai, who graduated as a civil engineer in 2013. Having secured admission in the State University of New York at Buffalo for a Master of Science in Management Information Systems, Nayak aims to join the fall session. While study abroad is a preferred choice among those wishing to pursue higher education such as Masters and postdoctoral work, this year, many prospective students are applying for undergraduate courses, too, owing to ambiguity over admission schedules in India. Last year, common entrance exams such as the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) were delayed by several months; this year, too, they have been deferred. NEET-UG, usually conducted in May, is scheduled to take place in August this year. The third session of JEE Mains was scheduled to take place in the last week of April but has now been postponed indefinitely. Maharashtra common entrance test (CET) cell has not yet announced registrations for entrance exams to professional courses, which would usually be held in the month of May. “As cases are rising every day, many parents have expressed concern about delays in entrance exams for admissions to undergraduate courses. They are worried their ward will lose precious time waiting for admissions to begin in India. Meanwhile, most universities abroad have been able to stick to their timelines and parents find it a more pragmatic option,” said Gupta. While the pandemic has made it slightly easy for Indians to apply for and secure a seat in a foreign university, physically making it to the campus continues to remain a challenge as the Covid-19 pandemic has so far affected more than 145 million people across the globe, as on Sunday.Growing anxiety over travel plans Nayak has been trying to schedule a visa appointment with the US embassy for weeks now with no luck. “The embassies in New Delhi and Mumbai are shut because of the lockdown. There are very few slots available for visa appointments and they get booked very fast. Most of my time is spent online keeping track of the slots,” he said. Nayak, like many such students, doesn’t want to take the course online. “I am applying to a foreign university to get world-class, hands-on training. I am investing a considerable amount for this through my fees, for which I am taking a loan. I don’t think online classes can match up the experience one has on campus,” he said. Sakhi Dua, 26, had applied to six universities in the US last year for pursuing MBA in finance. After delaying her plan by a year due to the lockdown situation, Dua is now worried she may end up losing another year. “The universities are still contemplating hybrid course-plan (mix of online and offline) for the first-year batch, but that defeats the purpose of applying for the course altogether,” said Dua, a Mumbai resident, who is currently working with a multi-national company. She has already decided to opt for the February-intake session instead of the September session in the hopes that the situation would have improved by then. “My friends, who got admission last year, are currently attending online lectures, and are facing a lot of trouble due to the time difference. If the situation doesn’t change, I might opt for a one-year certificate course in a foreign language in India and opt for my Masters course only next year, when hopefully the situation will be back to normal,” said Anuj Patel, 23, who wants to pursue a degree in Data Science in London. Most universities in the US have made it mandatory for students to take both vaccinations before coming to campus, making Indian students worry about their turn to get the jab. Although the Centre recently opened up vaccination to all adults, those between the ages of 18 to 45 can only get the jab once states procure them from vaccine makers, in India and abroad. “Many universities in the US are now asking students to come to campus and get the vaccine there,” Gupta said. As countries such as Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Singapore put India on a ‘red list’ that restricts travel from here to these countries, students have another reason to worry. Ayush, a 28-year-old from Mumbai, was admitted to the Parsons School of Design for a Masters course in Strategic Design Management in New York last year. Having completed his first year online, he intends to fly to New York ahead of the classes in the fall semester. “My visa appointment keeps getting cancelled and there is no certainty of flights,” said Ayush. Aviraj Singh, 27, had secured admission for the February session this year for a master course in Data Science at RMIT University in Melbourne. Unable to go to campus, Singh is now taking online classes. “Since the pandemic seems to be severe in many parts of the world still, it looks like my entire year will be spent online. The point of attending an MBA programme in Australia was to be able to pursue internships between semesters and gain work experience there but now, I’m stuck at my home attending lectures, which defeats the purpose of joining this course in the first place,” said Singh. Student-run portal to help aspirants with applications A group of Indian students studying in various foreign universities in different parts of the world have come together to help students who wish to get help with the application process to these institutes. Founded by Devika Ghosal, a student of the University of Warwick, and Yash Gulati, a student of Queen Mary University of London, Inforens is an online platform that connects aspirants to existing students and helps them with their applications free of cost. Both Ghosal and Gulati are the first generation of students in their family to study abroad and wanted to help many like them reach good universities without having to shell out a lot of money. “A lot of money is being charged by private educational consultants, so only rich people reach up to them. Talented students, who have skills but are not rich, don’t even dream to go abroad for education so we want to change this and help them get scholarships in good universities across the world,” said Gulati.With the pandemic and the resultant restrictions around the globe, Gulati said the entire university experience has changed, as institutes have adopted a blended approach that is likely to continue to some extent even in the future. “While in-person teaching is likely to start as soon as the pandemic settles, universities will continue to use online examinations, programmes, etc to allow flexibility to the teaching faculty as well as students. Thus, international students can use this as an advantage as they have more time and flexibility to focus on career development, job applications, or future planning,”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/change-in-course-of-action-rise-in-students-applying-to-foreign-varsities-101619376667232.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Activists offer ₹15,000 reward for info on animal attackers||On Saturday evening, Bandra police registered a case against an unidentified serial killer of animals for allegedly mutilating six cats since March 24. Animal activists have also announced a reward of ₹15,000 for information about the accused. The case was filed based on a complaint by an employee of Dr Jyotsna Changrani, a resident of Perry Cross Road in Bandra (West), who said she has been feeding street animals since the past 10 years and it is for the first time that she noticed six cats injured on the mouth and jaws, which appear to be done deliberately. According to Changrani, three of the six cats have succumbed to injuries.Changrani’s employee Shaam Kevat, 40, who feeds around 130 cats and dogs in the vicinity, said the first incident took place on March 24. When he went to feed the cats, he saw that a cat, named Lockdown, was brutally beaten up and had injuries on his mouth. Kevat took the cat to the local veterinary, but the cat died shortly. The second incident took place on the same day with another cat sustaining injuries.The third incident and fourth incidents were reported on April 18. One of the two cats succumbed to the injuries on April 22. After two more such incidents on April 22 and on Saturday (April 24), Dr Changrani approached Bandra police to file a complaint under section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.“We want to create awareness among Bandra residents to keep a lookout for the animals around them and people who take out their frustration and anger on mute and helpless animals,” said Vijay Mohnani, an animal activist. Mohnani said they are trying to help the police in nabbing the accused as fast as they can, to protect other animals. “We know police personnel are overworked in enforcing the lockdown, so we want to help them in catching this serial killer,” added Mohnani.According to animal activists, brutality on animals has increased during and post lockdown last year, as at least eight animal abuse cases were registered in Mumbai every day, as compared to three to four cases daily in 2019. Last year, despite the lockdown, 886 cases were registered, with maximum cases registered after September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-activists-offer-15-000-reward-for-info-on-animal-attackers-101619376547190.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mercury rises slightly, light shower possible this week||There was a slight uptick in temperature in the city on Sunday, rising to a maximum daytime reading of 34.8 degrees Celsius, up from 33.2 degrees Celsius a day prior, as per India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station in Santacruz. According to IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, the mercury will continue to rise steadily in the last week of April, touching a daily maximum of around 36 degrees Celsius on May 1.Sunday’s maximum daytime temperature was 1 degree Celsius above normal. Mumbai’s minimum temperature on Sunday stood at 25.8 degrees Celsius, also one degree above normal.Temperature readings throughout this past month have been near normal or just above normal without any occurrence of heat waves (as typically happens in April), shows IMD data. IMD officials said there is a slight chance of rain in Mumbai and Thane districts this week, under the influence of a weather system passing over parts of central India. “Isolated rainfall, thundershowers may be felt in the eastern part of the state. Mumbai may get some drizzle this week, which may cause a day or two of high humidity after,” said an IMD spokesperson.“A north-south trough runs from Marathwada to south coastal Tamil Nadu across north interior Karnataka, Telangana and Rayalaseema (Andhra Pradesh) in lower tropospheric levels. Under its influence... isolated to scattered rainfall/thunderstorm over Maharashtra and remaining parts of south Peninsular India during next four-five days,” IMD noted in its operational all-India weather forecast on Sunday.A yellow-alert has also been sounded over the Konkan region, specifically for April 27 and 28. “Severe weather warnings issued by IMD today for coming five days for all India. Most of the central India and southern peninsula looks to remain active with possibilities of thunderstorms and lightning with rains, including Maharashtra place,” tweeted KS Hosalikar, a scientist with IMD in Pune.IMD’s weather station in Colaba, meanwhile, recorded a daytime maximum temperature of 33.8 degrees Celsius, down from 34.8 degrees Celsius the previous day. As per the seven-day forecast, the temperature in south Mumbai, too, will hover around 36 degrees Celsius by May 1. The highest temperature this month was 35.3 degrees Celsius on April 22. Last year, the highest reading for April was 37.1 degrees Celsius on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mercury-rises-slightly-light-shower-possible-this-week-101619376307166.html
26-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha likely to provide free vaccine shots to all||Maharashtra may give free vaccine shots to all those in the 18 to 45 age group. State minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said a consensus was reached by the ministers in the last cabinet meeting that the state should give free vaccines to all in this category. He said a global tender will be called and the bidder that will provide the best vaccine at a lower price will be chosen by the state.State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray in a series of tweets, too, said the state has decided to vaccinate its citizens for free, but later deleted the tweets and apologised, adding that the official policy of vaccination will be declared by the empowered committee.Taking the nationwide vaccination drive into the next phase, the Central government allowed all those in the 18-45 age group to get vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1. Declaring a change in its policy, it has asked the states to vaccinate this age group by procuring doses from the open market.“The issue was discussed in the state cabinet meeting and there was consensus among all the ministers that the state should give free vaccines to all those between 18-45 years of age … The state will require around 140 million vials to get this done and are planning it accordingly… deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday has said that they will call a global tender and will select the bidder that will provide the best vaccine at a lower price,” Malik said.Another NCP minister Jitendra Awhad said that they have taken a major decision of vaccinating all for free. He also deleted the tweet after a few hours. “We all had urged that the vaccine should be free for all. However, the decision has to be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” said revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Sunday.“The Govt of Maharashtra has decided to vaccinate its citizens free of cost. This is not something that we think of as a choice, but a duty that we consider of utmost importance: protecting the citizens from Covid,” tweeted the environment minister.“We are also ensuring that the procurement happens at the earliest so that we have ample vaccines to keep the momentum of efficient, smooth and fast vaccination of all citizens of Maharashtra. A safer Maharashtra is our way to ensure a safer India! Likewise for other States,” he added in a series of tweets.He also deleted the tweets in the next few hours and issued a clarification. “I have deleted the earlier tweet as to not cause confusion regarding the official vaccination policy of Maharashtra that would be fully ensuring fast, efficient vaccination and would leave nobody behind. The official policy of vaccination will be declared by the empowered committee and we must await its recommendation for a fair policy for all sections of society. My apologies for the confusion if it all it may have caused,” Thackeray said.The state has formed a five-member committee which has been tasked to draft a tender to purchase vaccines from global vaccine makers. Headed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, the committee will facilitate the process of purchasing vaccines as well as drugs like remdesivir, an antiviral drug that is part of the Covid-19 treatment protocol, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday.The state is expected to float the global bid by early next week by taking the cabinet’s nod or the expenditure.“The decision over giving free vaccines has to be taken by the state cabinet,” said a senior official, privy to the development.Last week, Kunte had said a plan is being worked out as foreign import is now allowed and there is Bharat Biotech, we will get in touch with them. The vaccination drive for [age] 18 to 44 will start on May 1, but the stock is expected to be limited. In that age group, there are roughly 55 or 57.5 million people. So, we will require about 120 million doses, including the wastage, over a span of four to five months, depending on how soon we get the stock.Additional chief secretary of finance department Manoj Saunik, principal secretary of public health Dr Pradeep Vyas, secretary of medical education department Saurabh Vijay and principal secretary of industries department Baldev Singh will be part of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-likely-to-provide-free-vaccine-shots-to-all-101619376247187.html
