27-04-2021||Mumbai||Understanding Mumbai’s downward Covid-19 trend||Amidst an explosive second wave of the pandemic, the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has started showing a gradual, downward trend. From touching a single day high at 11206 cases in the first week of April, the daily case count dropped to 3999 on Tuesday. But this comes with an all-important caveat: The number of tests has declined from 51263 on April 7 to 30428 on April 27. What’s more, the number of deaths has gone up and so has the Case Fatality Ratio (CFR) --- the daily CFR on April 7 was 0.23%; on Tuesday, it was 1.47% --- and, significantly, hospitals across the city are yet to record a reduction in demand for beds. “The lockdown-like measures have definitely worked in the city, but this is also a typical trend in the pandemic waves. You record a sudden surge and then a slump,” said Dr Avinash Supe, member of the task force of Covid-19 deaths. He said that Mumbai’s situation is expected to stabilise by May 15. RISE IN DEATHS In the first week of April, Mumbai’s daily case average stood at 9737. In the following week, the daily average dropped slightly to 8879 and to 8074 in the third week. In the ongoing fourth week of the month, the daily case average has further declined to 5628. On the other hand, the number of deaths has shown a rise. In the first week of April, the average daily deaths were 23. In the fourth week, the daily average is 68. To be sure, the overall CFR has declined marginally between April 7 and April 27, from 2.45% to 2.03%. “The deaths that we are recording now are of people who have been hospitalised when the number of cases was high,” said Supe. “In this wave, we have seen few deaths within a day or two after hospitalisation. Almost 80% of people who have succumbed have battled the virus for a week or two a week in the hospital.” The declining trend in cases is yet to reflect as the demand for beds in city hospitals has not gone down as yet. The civic-run 1,850-bedded SevenHills Hospital, which is an exclusive Covid-19 facility, continues to have full occupancy. “We are still admitting anywhere between 150 to 200 patients every day,” said Dr Maharudra Kumbhar, an officer on special duty at the Seven Hills Hospital. “The reduction in daily demand for beds would be a fair parameter to analyse the situation. But we haven’t experienced any reduction as yet,” he said. “The occupancy in our centres remains full,” said Dr Prince Surana, who runs a 75-bed Covid-19 hospital in Chembur and a 50-bed one at Malad. Both the hospitals have 100% occupancy. “The number of calls asking for beds may have slightly reduced, but the demand for Intensive Care Unit beds and ventilator beds remains the same,” he said. At the NESCO facility in Goregaon, all the 200 ICU beds were full. Of the 2015 ward beds, 1426 were occupied. “We have been admitting 220 to 250 patients daily and the number of admissions has not come down as yet,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the facility. Another 1,500 beds including 700 beds will be added to this centre on Wednesday. According to Andrade, the demand continues to be high for oxygen and ICU beds. On Tuesday, 1,096 oxygen beds and 51 ICU beds were available in the city, according to the BMC’s dashboard.SLUMP IN TESTS, NOT JUST ON WEEKENDS This indicates that reports about Mumbai turning a corner are premature. But the biggest indicator for this is that the city is now testing fewer people. A state-wide curfew is underway since April 14, and on April 21, the state announced stricter curbs on movement of ordinary citizens. One of the reasons for this downward trend, experts say, is that laboratories are flooded with samples; many only provide home sample collection appointments with a five-to-six-day lag. Doctors say that a large number of patients in the city were prescribed chest CT scans (to detect infection in the lungs), as they could not get appointments for RT-PCR swab tests. “The number of tests may fluctuate, and the numbers drop on weekends. But Mumbai has not reduced the tests drastically,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a critical care physician at Fortis Hospital and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. However, the numbers don’t bear this out. The average daily tests in Mumbai in the first week of April were 46,315. The average improved slightly to 49,582 in the second week and again dropped to 45,829 in the third week. There has been a steady downward trend in testing in the city: starting April 22, the number of tests has ranged from 41,826 to 30,428 (April 27). Typically, daily tests fall during the weekend. For instance, on April 18 (a Sunday), 36,556 tests were conducted, and on the following day, 45,350 tests were conducted. By comparison, the number of tests conducted in Mumbai on Sunday (April 25) was 28,328. According to Pandit, the daily cases in Mumbai are likely to plateau and stabilise in another two weeks. “But we can’t let our guards down. Covid appropriate behaviour is essential and the number of tests should not decrease at any cost,” he said. Experts have also pointed that aggressive vaccination will help in controlling the third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/understanding-mumbai-s-downward-covid-19-trend-101619547330961.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Tribal rights activist Stan Swamy moves Bombay HC for bail||Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, has approached the Bombay High Court for bail on health grounds.Swamy (83), in his appeal filed in the HC on Monday, has challenged an order passed by a sessions court here last month refusing him bail.The jailed activist is seeking bail citing his old age and on the ground that he is suffering from multiple ailments.The sessions court, while refusing bail to Swamy, had noted that factors like old age and sickness will not go in favour of the accused considering that there was a prima facie case against him for hatching a "conspiracy to overthrow the government".Swamy's appeal in the high court will come up for hearing in due course.In his petition, Swamy has said he apprehends contracting COVID-19 as over 40 inmates of the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai (where he is lodged) have tested positive for the infection.Swamy was arrested from his house in Ranchi on October 8, 2020.The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the 'Elgar Parishad' conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon- Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts.The Pune Police claimed the conclave was backed by people having links with Maoists.The NIA later took over the probe into the case in which over a dozen activists and academicians have been named as accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-tribal-rights-activist-stan-swamy-moves-bombay-hc-for-bail-101619544808395.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 895 Covid-19 deaths in last 24 hours, highest since onset of pandemic; Mumbai adds 3,999 new cases||Maharashtra on Tuesday witnessed the highest ever single-day spike in deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at 895, taking the death toll to 66,179, according to the state health department's bulletin. As many as 66,358 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday and the caseload has now climbed to 4,410,085, the bulletin showed. The total recoveries in Maharashtra are at 3,669,548 while the active cases are nearing 673,000. The state capital Mumbai, however, continued to report a downfall in its daily tally with 3,999 cases and 59 more deaths on Tuesday. The city's caseload has reached 635,483 of which 12,920 people have succumbed to the disease.Maharashtra- which is the worst hit state since the beginning of the pandemic last year has been contributing the maximum towards India's daily cases and deaths. According to the Union health ministry, Maharashtra along with nine other states reported 69.1 per cent of the new cases recorded in the country on Tuesday. The state has been placed under Section 144 of the CrPC till May 1 in order to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease and stringent restrictions have also been placed on office attendance, marriages and inter-city and inter-district travel from April 22 till May 1.With just few days left for the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive from May 1 where doses will be administered to all citizens above the age of 18, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will soon take a decision on providing free vaccinations to all residents above 18, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Tuesday. Health minister Rajesh Tope, meanwhile, said the availability of vaccine doses is still a challenge in Maharashtra adding the state may receive its supply of 'Covishield' doses only after May 20. He pointed out that Maharashtra alone needs 12 crore vaccine vials to inoculate the population of 5.71 crore in the age group the between ages of 18-44, according to news agency PTI. The health minister also said on Tuesday the Maha-Vikas Aghadi led government has floated the global tenders for oxygen concentrators, Remdesivir vials, and oxygen PSA (pressure swing adsorption) plants in order to tackle their shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-record-single-day-jump-in-deaths-at-895-mumbai-adds-3-999-new-cases-101619538538034.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to soon make a decision on free Covid vaccines: Deputy CM Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will soon make a decision over whether the state government will allow the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to be administered free of cost to all residents above the age of 18 under the third phase of the vaccination drive from May 1, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Tuesday.“I have signed a proposal for free vaccines. The chief minister will decide based on the interest of the people. Tomorrow, in the cabinet meeting, we will discuss the issue of global tenders for vaccine procurement,” Pawar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. On Sunday, the Maharashtra deputy chief minister said that only those beneficiaries who can afford the vaccine dose should pay for it, while the state government will pay on behalf of the poorer sections.The announcement of vaccinating all beneficiaries above the age of 18 was first made by Maharashtra minority minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Sunday, when he said that the idea was discussed in the state cabinet. He added that global tenders will also be invited for the vaccination process.CM will take a decision on the free vaccination for all, soon. I have signed a proposal for free vaccines. CM will decide on it in the interest of the people...Tomorrow in the cabinet meet, we will discuss the issue of the global tender for vaccine procurement: Maharashtra Dy CM pic.twitter.com/aPJupEEpuDMaharashtra environment minister and Shiv Sena leader Aditya Thackeray had also confirmed the development on Twitter, but he later said in a new post that it was not his intention to create any confusion over the state’s official vaccination policy. He said Maharashtra would be ensuring fast, efficient vaccination, and would leave no resident behind.Also Read: Aaditya Thackeray tweets vaccines to be free for all in Maha, then deletes itA dispute had broken out within the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over Nawab Malik’s announcement of free vaccines. Congress expressed discontent over the announcement and labelled it an attempt to take credit, while leaders of the Shiv Sena are also not content with the minority minister’s actions.Maharashtra has so far vaccinated 14,906,543 beneficiaries against Covid-19, of which 12,768,755 have received the first dose and the remaining 2,137,788 have been given both the doses, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 7am. The state, worst hit in India by the ongoing pandemic, saw a dip in its daily infection tally on Monday after 48,700 fresh cases and 524 deaths were recorded. However, the low figures can be attributed to a lesser number of tests on Sunday (222,475). The caseload has, however, climbed to 4,343,727. The death toll has mounted to 65,284, with the state clocking 3.6 million recoveries.Section 144 of the CrPC remains applicable in Maharashtra till May 1, in view of the Covid-19 situation, while strict restrictions have also been placed on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance, and weddings from April 22 till May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-cm-to-soon-make-a-decision-on-free-covid-vaccines-deputy-cmpawar-101619518070205.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra phone-tapping row: IPS officer Rashmi Shukla summoned by cyber cops||Mumbai cyber police have summoned Rashmi Shukla, a senior Indian Police Service officer of Maharashtra cadre, in connection with the illegal phone tapping and confidential report leak matter.Shukla, who is presently on a central deputation and posted in Hyderabad, has been asked to appear before assistant commissioner of police (Cyber) Nitin Jadhav at 11am on Wednesday, April 28, to record her statement.On March 26, the cyber police station had registered a case on the complaint of the State Intelligence Department (SID) against unknown persons for leaking a report submitted by Shukla in August 2020, then commissioner of intelligence, over purported payments for transfers within the police department.The complaint stated that some unknown person had obtained the classified report and information from the department, following which the police registered a First Information Report under Section 30 (fraudulently retaining a message delivered by mistake) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, Sections 44(b) (failure to furnish information in time) and 66 (computer related offence) of the Information Technology Act, 2008 and Section 5 (wrongful communication of information) of the Official Secrets Act, 1923.Home department officials said that the copy that was reportedly leaked was the SID’s office copy and did not bear Shukla’s signature on it.Earlier, state chief secretary Sitaram Kunte had submitted a report to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, detailing the circumstances in which Shukla created the report. His report said that Shukla intercepted calls of six persons in the name of “public safety” and thus “misguided the authorities”. It said that no transfers of police officials took place between June 27 and September 1, 2020, the period in which the calls were intercepted.Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has claimed that Shukla “sought proper permissions from then additional chief secretary (home) and intercepted phone calls of several police officials and politicians.”Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayHe also said that he had a pen drive with 6.3GB of data from the intercepted calls, which contained the voices of police officers and politicians closely related to the home minister and home department.Kunte’s report, however, pointed out that no pen drive was attached to Shukla’s report. It further raised doubts on whether the IPS officer had leaked the report and if that was so, she would be liable for “strict action”.“The leak of the report had led to breach of privacy of the officers whose names have been mentioned in the report. It has also led to their defamation. The so-called deals for the transfers mentioned in the report and actual transfers done by the government differ. This proves that there was no question of any scam in the transfers,” Kunte’s report stated.Meanwhile, Shukla’s report named senior politicians, middlemen and police officers, who allegedly sought transfers and postings of their liking. While the report did not state that any direct transfer of money to these politicians took place, it did refer to “monetary exchange” between police officers and middlemen acting in close connection with politicians.Shukla did not respond to HT’s phone calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-phone-tapping-row-ips-officer-rashmi-shukla-summoned-by-cyber-cops-101619500583373.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls free vaccine shots only for poor||With four days to go for the vaccination of all adults to kick off, Maharashtra is unlikely to roll the drive out for those in the 18-44 age category in a big way from May 1, owing to challenges related to supply and lack of clarity on whether it would provide free vaccines to all. A day after Maharashtra ministers announced that the government will provide free vaccines to beneficiaries over age 18, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that it may not be possible, adding that the department will move a proposal to provide free vaccine jabs to the poor only.Maharashtra has around 53-55 million people in the 18-44 category and the cost to inoculate them is expected to be around ₹7,000 crore, according to Tope. With vaccines available in short supply, Maharashtra could kick off the drive in a staggered manner, senior government officials said. A panel of senior officials, headed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, is working on negotiations with manufacturers, ensuring adequate and uninterrupted supply and also deciding the beneficiaries for free vaccines.Meanwhile, Tope said his department is moving a proposal for the state cabinet meeting, that is expected to be held on Tuesday or Wednesday, seeking free vaccines for the poor in the 18-44 category.Tope admitted that there are two views within ministers seeking free vaccination for all. “We have proposed that the economically backward class or the weaker sections of the society should be given free vaccinations at government hospitals. There are two views on this; some are of the opinion that 100% [of vaccines] should be given free of cost, but I do not think it is possible. The vaccination programme for 18-44 ages will require about ₹7,000 crore to ₹7,500 crore. It is not a small amount,” Tope said.Senior ministers are also saying that there is no agitation from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over providing free vaccine shots for all. However, a final decision will be made by Wednesday and announcement is likely before the drive kicks off. On Sunday, minority affairs minister Nawab Malik announced that state will provide free vaccines. Another NCP minister Jitendra Awhad also tweeted the same. Shiv Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray, too, announced free vaccines, but later deleted the tweet. Since then, the party has tread cautiously on the topic. Sena leader and chief spokesperson of the party Sanjay Raut refused to comment on free vaccines, stating that it is the government’s decision.A senior bureaucrat said that the committee under Kunte is also looking at how to manage the funds by diverting it through other schemes. He also added that the start to the vaccination for all adults later this week is expected to remain “symbolic”. “We are still to negotiate with any of the foreign manufacturers only then we will know the cost of the inoculation. The chief minister and finance minister have both said that cost is not a hindrance as vaccination is a priority. Besides the cost, they should be able to provide adequate stock without any delay… The vaccination of 18-44 will start from May 1, but it will remain symbolic due to short supply,” the bureaucrat said requesting anonymity. They state is also preparing to handle the crowds at the centres, for it to not result in chaos or a super-spreader event, considering cases are still high across the state.Speaking about the state’s preparations for May 1, Tope said no manufacturer has committed to delivering stock so far. He said the state will procure stock of Indian companies as well as negotiate cost with foreign brands to bring it around the rates of Indian vaccines, he said. “There could be a law-and-order issue and huge queues at every centre. People want to get vaccinated now looking at the deaths, but the availability of vaccine is a real challenge. None of them [manufacturers] have vaccines now. They are offering stock after a month; that too 10 million every month, but it is very slow,” Tope said.He further added, “We will procure the vaccines available in India, similarly, we will negotiate with the foreign manufacturers, will try and bring it down Indian vaccine prices. We will need foreign vaccines as well to inoculate people faster.”The health department is also planning to procure vaccines to inoculated people the remaining citizens over age 45. Tope said the Centre is not “supporting” the pace of the inoculation state intends to. As of April 25, the state has administered first dose to over 10 million people under the category, while 923,971 people from the category have taken their second jab.Tope said, “A high number of people still remain to be vaccinated in above 45-category. The Government of India is not really supporting to the extent it should have. Our demand [for vaccine] is 800,000 daily, but they are providing 100,000 or 200,000. Many centres are kept closed or we have to function on alternative days. These are vulnerable groups; we have to ensure that they get vaccinated first and faster.“Though, this is a national programme and that Mr [prime minister Narendra] Modi has assured adequate supply for this category, but the rate is very slow. We are proposing to spend to procure vaccines for this category as well. It will expedite the programme so that they are safe. The Cabinet will consider this proposal.”Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already announced free vaccination for all, but there is one-upmanship going on among MVA ministers. “PM has made it clear that Centre will vaccinate all eligible people free of cost. However, the states that want to carry out vaccination in an accelerated manner, they can procure vaccines from the market. There is one-upmanship going on in three ruling parties and therefore, there are such demands [of free vaccines], there are tweets on it and later being deleted. The government should prepare a proper policy as the drive will start from May 1. There is no coordination between the ministers,” Fadnavis said.Maharashtra achieved a landmark by inoculating over 500,000 beneficiaries in a day on Monday. The state is expected to go past 15-million mark soon, the state health department said. the state has vaccinated 14,342,716 beneficiaries. Maharashtra’s previous high was recorded on April 3 when it vaccinated 462,735 people in a day.An epidemiologist who is attached to PD Hinduja Hospital, Dr Lancelot Pinto, said that the Centre and State governments have to work on collaboration to achieve the feat of flattening the curve and achieve herd immunity.“India’s median age is 27, so we cannot achieve herd immunity by only focusing on the 45+ age group. We need to aggressively immunise the young population. Therefore, the governments definitely need to work closely,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mulls-free-vaccine-shots-only-for-poor-101619474319182.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||IIT KGP: Video emerges of prof allegedly abusing SC, ST students, institute promises action||An associate professor at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur (IIT KGP) who verbally abused students purportedly belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities and those with physical disabilities during a preparatory class is likely to face institutional action after videos of her online classes went viral on social media, following which student bodies sought her termination for alleged casteist slurs. The recordings, which are under review of the institute, were posted on Sunday afternoon anonymously on the confessions page of IIT KGP, an informal group of students on social media. The clips are of online preparatory classes taught by Seema Singh, a professor of English from the department of Humanities and Social Sciences, which were attended by several students and parents. In it she can be heard repeatedly hurling abuses at them. The Mumbai chapter of the Ambedkar Periyar Phule Study Circle (APPSC)—a student organisation with chapters in various IITs -- demanded that the professor be terminated and booked under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. “She is in complete cognisance of her actions and proclaims immunity from any disciplinary actions and consequences,” said APPSC in a statement. IIT Kharagpur registrar Tamal Nath said that the institute was reviewing the veracity of the videos and the claim that she made casteist slurs, brought forward by student bodies. “The incident has come to our notice. We are reviewing the veracity of the claims. The institute does not tolerate such behaviour. Action will be taken,” he said. Singh remained unreachable for comments.The institute’s director Virendra Kumar Tewari also did not respond to calls, messages and emails. “[Tewari] has expressed his support to the students and their parents during an online meeting on Monday evening. Meanwhile the professor concerned has been referred to a review committee,” an official from the institute said on the condition of anonymity. The official confirmed that the video was of the preparatory classes taken for students belonging to SC/ST communities and persons with disability (PWDs). However, the students that HT reached out to refused to comment on the video as they were afraid of possible repercussions. HT has not been able to independently verify the video.IITs offer preparatory courses for two semesters to aspirants of SC and ST communities as well as PWDs. The preparatory courses are offered against vacant seats reserved for the students who missed out on admissions through the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE). At the end of the two semesters, the students can either take the JEE again or seek admission based on their performance during the preparatory course. In the video clips, Singh can be heard verbally abusing both students and their parents for not attending classes, and keeping their cameras switched off during the class. Singh also castigated a student for sending an email stating that they would not be able to attend the class for a few days due to the death of their grandparent. “The professor at IIT KGP is all-powerful… What I have to do, I will do. You can go to ministry of women and child. Go to ministry of SC, ST and minorities (sic). Nothing can prevent me from doing what I have to do to you,” Singh can be heard telling the students in one of the clips. It was not immediately clear whether the recordings were of the same class, or of different classes. “The words used by her such as “dumb” and “bastard” have casteist connotations, especially since she uses them in plural. There is an inherent assumption that students belonging to the reserved categories are somehow lacking merit,” said a member of the APPSC, IIT Bombay chapter. The APPSC has also demanded that a permanent SC, ST, Other Backward Classes cell be set up at IIT KGP and other IITs, which will act as anti-discrimination cell to take action against “structural forms of caste discrimination”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iit-kgp-video-emerges-of-prof-allegedly-abusing-sc-st-students-institute-promises-action-101619467699115.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||TISS to give extra time to complete academic work to students affected by Covid||Taking into consideration the current situation, the management of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) has reached out to all their first-year students and given them a concession on completion of fieldwork, examination and project submission. This concession, said authorities, is only for students affected by Covid-19.“We are fully cognisant of some serious challenges that some of you are currently facing, and would like to accommodate such situations, as much as possible, keeping in mind your overall academic interests,” said a statement signed by dean of academic affairs PK Shajahan. Through its statement, the institute has urged students to try and complete their academic work within the scheduled time, especially those who are capable to do so. It further states that students who cannot complete their semester requirements before May 25 are requested to inform their course heads, while those with serious limitations in completing the required academic work by May can do so by June 15 and after careful assessment of the cases may be granted concession in regular submission of work.“Any submission or completion of academic work after June 15 will be accepted on a strictly case to case basis with due documentation...on successful completion of and assessments, the student will be allowed to move to the next semester. It is to be noted that in such cases, students will have to meet the academic requirements of the new semester in addition to the pending completions,” said the statement.In case of courses with compulsory field work and internships, necessary steps will be taken by the dean or program coordinators in the future, said Shajahan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tiss-to-give-extra-time-to-complete-academic-work-to-students-affected-by-covid-101619467459641.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Aadhaar card must for walks beyond limit: Aurangabad high court||Mumbai: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court said on Monday that it was averse to directing the supply of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and medical oxygen to specific districts, and asked that the state and Centre ensure timely supply following the laid down distribution plan. The division bench of justices Ravindra Ghuge and Bhalchandra Debadwar was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation on the Covid-19 situation in Northern Maharashtra and Marathwada region. “We are not intending to grab share of Remdesivir injections, medical oxygen from any other district in Maharashtra. In our order, we ask the state and centre to follow their distribution policy and ensure timely supply,” the bench stated. Last week, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay HC had directed the state government to provide 10,000 vials of Remdesivir within eight hours of passing the order, and also pulled up the Centre for reducing the supply of medical oxygen from 110 metric tonnes (MT) to 60 MT from a Bhilai-based oxygen manufacturer, causing a shortfall of 100 MT of medical oxygen to Nagpur and other Vidarbha districts. The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay HC issued further directions on movement of people during the holy month of Ramzan and also made it mandatory for everyone who ventured out beyond the hours permitted during the lockdown (7am to 11am), to carry their Aadhar card, failing which an offence would be registered against the errant persons. “Barring relaxation of four hours, any person using vehicle during restriction period shall carry Aadhar card with him, failing which concerned road traffic police would register offence against such persons. We do not find any difficulty that even doctors and medical staff should carry their Aadhar card with them.” The court made an exception from 5pm to 8 pm for Ramzan and directed the police authorities to not take action suggested by the court against such persons. The court however added that the exception would be applicable only till Ramazan not beyond it. The directions which are an addition to the existing SOPs are applicable to citizens, officials and public representatives of 13 districts from Marathwada and North Maharashtra. The HC also came down heavily on politicians who were providing parallel medical services like the state and also pulled up public representatives who shielded lockdown rule violators. The Court also directed a clamp down on black-marketing and profiteering resorted to by some individuals while facilitating the funeral rites of Covid-19 victims. The division bench observed that while within the court premises everyone wears masks and exercises precaution, beyond its walls there is anarchy as people did not wear masks and three to four people are seen riding on a motorcycle. “We as citizens, if we show some loyalty to our place and decide not to go out, it would help. We see college students in Aurangabad are loitering on road despite colleges are closed. Before blaming government, society should also do its duty,” said the bench. “Prima facie makes us form view that residents under our jurisdiction need to practice restraint and discipline,” noted the bench and said, The PIL was instituted by the bench following numerous reports of the problems being faced by people during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is reported that person in charge of funeral ghats are seeking bribes for performing the last rites. In some places kerosene or petrol is used for setting the funeral pyre. Wood that is being used for performing the final rites is being sold at exorbitant prices which amount to black marketing. All divisional commissioners are to erect electric crematoriums. There shall be a constant check of the concerned authorities to ensure that the relatives of the dead person and monies are not extracted from them for performing funeral.” On the allegation of ‘illegal’ procurement of Remdesivir by an Ahmednagar MP which was being distributed parallel to the state government facilities and a prayer seeking confiscation of such injections, HC said it would deal with the aspect on April 29. “Meantime, respondent authorities are at liberty to take effective steps, as they would have taken in the event of such eventuality and do what a call of duty demands them to do,” said the bench. With regards to media reports of adulteration of the Remdesivir drug and unauthorized seeling of the same the bench said, “Person involved in adulteration of Remdesivir injections shall be booked under the relevant provisions of IPC and criminal offences shall be registered against them.” The court added that if any employee of state or state instrumentalities was involved in such acts criminal offences be registered against such persons. Establishment may initiate disciplinary inquiry against them.” The court also took cognizance of politicians, people’s representative and authorities exerting pressure or influence on any police officer or law enforcing agency from extricating any violator from being booked and said that such person, shall also be booked for offences punishable for causing interference in the discharge of duties by public servants. It shall also apply to public servant who is not on duty, the bench noted. Bombay HC (principal seat) > On April 22, a bench led by the chief justice of the Bombay HC hearing a PIL filed by a city lawyer issued a slew of directions to the Centre, state and civic authorities to ensure that Remdesivir was available > It ordered an increase of RT-PCR testing laboratories to avoid delay in receiving test results >Asked authorities to create awareness about the availability of beds, oxygen and Remdesivir through print and electronic media as well as through government web portals > The next date of hearing is May 4 Bombay HC (Nagpur bench) >On April 21, the bench took cognizance of reports of shortage of Remdesivir drug and oxygen in Vidarbha region and directed the state government to provide 10000 vials of Remdesivir within eight hours of order being passed >In a later hearing, the court ordered requisitioning a oxygen manufacturing plant in a steel factory > It directed authorities of Nagpur and Amravati to requisition empty cylinder with private entities for refilling of medical oxygen > It directed the restoration of 110MT of oxygen supply from a Bhilai-based oxygen supplier which had been reduced following a Central government circular dated April 18 >Next date of hearing on April 27||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ensure-timely-supply-of-remdesivir-and-medical-oxygen-aurangabad-high-court-101619467399142.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Nod for online assessment for UG medical practicals||Days after the National Medical Commission (NMC) clarified that exams for undergraduate medical courses should continue without any delay, the authorities have allowed virtual invigilation by external coordinators for practical exams. In a statement released late last week, the Postgraduate Medical Education Board (PMEB) of NMC has allowed this concession after many medical universities approached the apex authority with complaints of several teachers declining to be external examiners.“The board has therefore decided to permit examiners from outside the state to participate in the practical examination process through video conferencing. The two internal examiners, who may be from the same institute or from different institutions under the same university, should be physically present,” said a statement released by the PMEB on April 22.Last week, days after the Maharashtra state government postponed second and third year UG medical exams owing to increasing Covid-19 cases, the NMC released an advisory for medical institutions asking them to conduct second-year exams as well as supplementary exams for first and second semesters offline.“The universities are advised to adhere to the existing norms for conducting theory exams. However, considering the risk stratification of the areas where medical colleges are located, all necessary precautions, including staggering of small batches must be adhered to,” stated the circular dated April 19, released by the Undergraduate Medical Education Board of NMC. However, after receiving contradictory views from several states regarding conducting of physical exams for students in the current scenario, NMC also released a disclaimer in its latest circular. “The concerned universities may decide the time and the method of the examination taking into consideration the pandemic situation in the area,” stated the latest circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nod-for-online-assessment-for-ug-medical-practicals-101619467339144.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||City sees lowest daily Covid cases in a month||The city on Monday reported 3,840 new Covid-19 cases, its lowest in one month, with a positivity rate of 13% and 28,328 tests. Despite the drop, the city may not see relaxation of curbs, indicated Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, maintaining they are preparing for the third wave. On March 23, the city had reported around 3,500 cases. Starting March 24, the city saw cases between 5,500 and around 11,000. The positivity rate which was around 10% in March went up to 26%. However, for one week, it is between 13% and 17%. Also, the testing has gone down in the past couple of days, from around 45,000 to 50,000 it went down to as low as 28,328 tests on Monday, but the positivity rate has remained stagnant. Mumbai reported 71 deaths on Monday. The city’s case tally is 631,484 and toll is 12,861. The recovery rate is 86%, with 544,958 recoveries. The fatality rate in the city is 2.03% and there are 72,230 active cases in the city. Dharavi, the city’s former hot spot, reported 25 cases on Monday taking the total to 6,350. There are 970 active cases in Dharavi and 5,036 have been discharged. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal in an interview with CNBC TV 18 on Monday said, “Restrictions are common for the entire state of Maharashtra. But still in many parts of the state, especially Vidarbha, cases are still increasing. Unless things become better in the state, the government can’t think of easing restrictions. This is because you cannot have an island of fewer restrictions...We have seven jumbo centres in the city that have around 9,000 beds, and now we are working to have four more jumbo centres. We are preparing for a third wave, if it comes in June, July or August.” Chahal said second wave started on February 10, 2021, and the total number of cases reported in this is 3.09 lakh followed by deaths at 1,319. This, Chahal added, means mortality rate for second wave is 0.4%, which is lowest in the world. Chahal shared this message in his broadcast message hinting that BMC is on bed capacity augmentation mode despite cases going down. Industrialist Anand Mahindra tweeted: “More good news from Mumbai that people—around the world—should see. A report from BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. Evidence that crisis management skills are alive & well. Thumbs up for the preparation for any 3rd wave.”HT reported on Monday that Maharashtra Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said the flattening of the curve has started in the city. Meanwhile, Reliance Industries in a statement on Monday said that it will manage 650 beds at NSCI Worli Jumbo Covid-19 centre. At Seven Hills Hospital in Marol, it will add 25 additional ICU beds. In a statement it said, “All together Reliance Foundation Hospital will manage 875 beds at NSCI Worli, Seven Hills and Trident Hotel in BKC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-sees-lowest-daily-covid-cases-in-a-month-101619467279061.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||BJP says MVA failed to utilise central aide; Congress calls it a lie||A day after leader of Opposition in state Assembly and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis said the Central government provided oxygen supply of 1,784 metric tonnes (MT) to Maharashtra, state Congress called it a “blatant lie”. The Congress said the Centre has been giving only 345MT oxygen a day to the state, while the list of companies released by Fadnavis comprises ones which are in Maharashtra producing oxygen for years.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said besides its own production capacity of 1,250 MT, Maharashtra is getting 345MT oxygen a day from four states after the Central government’s intervention. “We have been getting 110MT from Bhillai (Chhattisgarh), 50MT from Bellary (Karnataka), 125MT from Jamnagar (Gujarat), and 60MT from Vizag (Andhra Pradesh) in addition to our own generation of 1,250 MT every day. This takes the total daily supply to 1,595MT, but Fadnavis has been claiming that the Centre has been providing 1,784MT oxygen daily to Maharashtra. Fadnavis, in his bid to give the credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has lied and misguided the people of Maharashtra,” Sawant said.Fadnavis on Sunday tweeted a list of plants from which Maharashtra has been getting oxygen and added, “Thank you Hon PM@narendramodiji for such strong support to citizens of Maharashtra. Maharashtra got allotment of 1,784MT oxygen supply which is more than double as compared to any of the major states including Gujarat, UP, Karnatka, MP.” On Monday, while interacting with media after inaugurating a jumbo Covid centre at Andheri, he said, “Leaders from Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government keep targeting the Centre, but it’s a fact that Maharashtra has been given more than double the allocation than any other state. Similarly, Maharashtra has been given 435,000 vials of Remdesivir and 1,100 ventilators by the Centre.”The Congress trained guns on the BJP for its claim that MVA government failed to install pressure swing adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants from ₹201 crore allocated by the Centre in January this year. “Of 153 plants planned by the Centre, 33 are under the process of erection, but none of them are completed yet. The plants are being installed by Central Medical Supply Store controlled by ministry of health and family affairs. It is the failure of the Centre for not being able to erect even a single plant, despite of which BJP is targeting the MVA government,” Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said.He also demanded action against BJP leader Prasad Lad under the Disaster Management Act for spreading false information and alleging corruption in the government.On Sunday Lad had slammed the Uddhav Thackeray government for its failure in utilising the funds allocated by the Centre for PSA plants. “Modi government had in January 2021 released ₹201 crore to set up 10 oxygen plants in Maharashtra. Five months on, the state government could not even utilise it properly when oxygen is much needed to treat Covid-19 patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-says-mva-failed-to-utilise-central-aide-congress-calls-it-a-lie-101619467219034.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra students urge government to cancel HSC exams||A few days after the Maharashtra government announced the cancellation of Class 10 (SSC) exams in the state, students of Class 12 (HSC) are now requesting the government to give them a similar relief. Over the past few days, several students have taken to social media requesting that HSC exams be cancelled in view of the surge in Covid-19 infections and the resultant lockdown in the state. On Sunday, the Maharashtra Students Welfare Association, a statewide body of students, wrote to state education minister Varsha Gaikwad to consider alternate methods of assessment and cancel offline exams. “HSC exams have already been postponed several times. If the situation worsens, in the coming days, postponement or conduct of offline exams will not be a good option,” states the letter. Students have requested the education department to consider alternate methods of assessments, such as internal assessments, online exams or promoting all students to the next class. “The safety of students is of foremost importance as the government has been saying repeatedly. Then why is it not cancelling exams when it is almost certain that physical exams cannot be held in such circumstances?” asked a student. Over 1.7 million students write SSC exams in the state every year while around 1.5 million appear for HSC exams. “If CBSE decides to cancel Class 12 exams, it will be easier for the state board to do so as then there would be equivalence. Hence everyone is waiting for a decision,” said an official from the state education department.On April 12, the state government had postponed HSC exams to the end of May and SSC exams to June. However, following CBSE’s decision to cancel Class 10 exams and a similar decision from ICSE, IGCSE and IB, there was growing pressure to cancel exams from students and parents to ensure equivalence across boards which is key at the time of admissions to colleges. On April 20, Class 10 exams were declared cancelled by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-students-urge-government-to-cancel-hsc-exams-101619467169000.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination Day 101: No end to chaos, woes in Mumbai||Nalin Mehta, 58, who went to take his second dose at a private hospital in Parel on Monday was turned away, saying that vaccines are in short supply. Ten kilometres away, Mohit Patil had to stand in a queue for two hours at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo centre to take his second dose. This was the scene across Mumbai, on the 101st day of the vaccination drive which kicked off on January 16, as many above the age of 45 rushed to get their doses. The reason: the government has announced that in its third phase from May 1, all citizens aged above 18 years would be allowed to get vaccinated. “It will be chaos and mad rush from May 1 once the new set of people is allowed,” said Patil. He was taking his first dose as many of his neighbours were testing positive. The relatives of 73-year-old Bharti Shah were anxious as her second dose appointments have been getting cancelled at private hospitals for the past seven days. “She had stopped her blood thinners for four days, but it extended to eight days. Our family doctor warned that she should take her vaccine fast as she cannot afford to be without the tablets for days together,” said her daughter Pinky Parikh. “We went to multiple centres but they were either closed or there was a waiting period of four hours. As my mother suffers from a lung ailment, it was not possible for her to stand for so long,” added Parikh. On Monday, many centres turned citizens away citing lack of vaccines while many who were open also exhausted their stock by the day. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal talking to the media said, “In the past eight to 10 days, there have been hiccups in the supply and it has been erratic. This has made people restless. In addition, there were many who did not make up their minds for the past few months, but are now rushing to get vaccinated.” Chahal said the situation will be eased as the whole process is decentralised. “We have 227 wards and we will open vaccination centres in each ward. Each ward has a population of approximately 50,000 people and this will speed up the process,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-day-101-no-end-to-chaos-woes-in-mumbai-101619466979110.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra clocks 1.5 million Covid cases in 26 days; dip likely in 15 days||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 48,700 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the count to 4,343,727. The comparatively low cases can be attributed to less number of tests as the state conducted 222,475 tests in the past 24 hours, as compared to 289,525 tests on Sunday and 286,412 on Saturday.The tally of active cases reduced to 674,770 as 71,736 recoveries were reported in a day, which comes to 15.53% of the total cases reported till date.Death toll breached the 65,000-mark as 524 casualties were reported on Monday, taking tally to 65,284. Mumbai reported the highest toll with 71 deaths, followed by Aurangabad city with 57 deaths.The surge in Covid-19 cases has continued in Maharashtra for more than two months. And the state has recorded more than one-and-a-half million cases (1,530,663) in the past 26 days and the figure is likely to reach close to two million cases by the end of this month, officials said.To contain the spread, the state imposed partial lockdown from April 14 and complete lockdown from April 22, but its effect is yet to reflect in daily cases as they continue to hover around 60,000 to 67,000 over the past few days, except Monday.While Mumbai, which was contributing the maximum cases in daily figures, has seen a dip in new cases, the numbers of the state is yet to come down. In the city, daily cases have reduced by 4,000-5000 a day. On April 14, the city reported 9,931 cases, whereas on Sunday 5,498 cases were recorded.Officials said the districts contributing a high number of daily cases have yet to register decline. Besides, peak in cases have come late in a few districts. Officials said these are the two major reasons preventing improvement in average daily cases of the state.Pune district and city showed some improvement as cases reduced to 7,929 on April 25, from 9,943 on April 18. However, there is also a slight rise in cases since April 22 when 7,388 cases were recorded, pointed out a senior official from the state health department. On Monday, it recorded 4,877 cases.Nagpur, including the city and district, has also not shown any improvement with daily cases hovering around 8,000 for the past few days. On Sunday, it reported 7,948 cases and 5,879 cases on Monday.Nashik, too, is contributing around 5,000 cases each day. On Sunday and Monday, 4,756 and 4,778 cases were reported, respectively. It saw a slight dip on Monday with 4,437 cases.Aurangabad, Satara, Chandrapur, and Yavatmal districts also have been seeing a rise in cases in the past few days.In Aurangabad, cases have increased to 1,853 on Sunday from 1,191 cases on April 21. In Satara, daily cases rose to 1,879 on Sunday from 1,175 on April 19. Chandrapur is experiencing a spike with 1,823 cases recorded on Sunday, whereas on April 20, the district clocked 1,106 cases. Daily cases in Yavatmal jumped to 1,539 on Sunday from 549 cases as on April 19, according to the data released by the state health department.Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state-appointed task force for the clinical management of critical Covid-19 patients, said it will take around 15 days for the daily numbers of the state to come down. “As per the early trend, the cases in Mumbai have started reducing, but there are many districts in the state that are experiencing a peak in cases in the last few days. As a result, the average daily cases of the state is not declining. The peak in those areas is likely to last for another 15 days, till then the state’s daily tally may not come down,” said Dr Pandit, who is also the director of critical care at Fortis Hospital, Mulund.Though the city is showing fall in daily cases, the administration should not put their guards down, he stressed.On Monday, Mumbai recorded 3,840 fresh cases and its tally rose to 631,484. The city’s active case count was 72,230.With 5,879 cases, Nagpur recorded the second highest cases across the state. Nagpur city and district recorded 3,799 and 2,080 cases, respectively.Meanwhile, the state set a record of vaccinating over 500,000 beneficiaries on Monday. With this, the state has covered around 14,901,336 beneficiaries till Monday evening. It is expected to cross the 15,000,000-mark of beneficiaries on Tuesday, said Dr Pradip Vyas, principal secretary, state health department. Earlier, the state had vaccinated a highest of 462,735 citizens on April 3.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that 442,466 patients recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged in the past six days. On Monday alone, 71,736 patients were recovered, of them a maximum of 13,674 patients are from Pune alone, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-clocks-1-5-million-covid-cases-in-26-days-dip-likely-in-15-days-101619466679643.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Veteran actor from Palghar dies of Covid-19||Veteran dramatist and Marathi stage actor Tukaram Naik died due to Covid-19 in a Covid care hospital at Boisar on Monday morning. He was 79 years old and is survived by his wife, son, and three married daughters.Naik, who retired as principal of a government school in Satpati, Palghar, 21 years ago, is remembered more for his activities regarding theatre. Naik founded a drama society so that drama lovers of Palghar and Thane get to see Marathi classics on stage. He was known for playing the titular role of Natasamrat, famous Marathi play written by late Jnapeeth award winner VV Shirwadkar. He acted in Morushi Mavshi, Aaho Mala Jagaaycha, Vasuchi Sasu, Saujanyachi Aishi Taishi and a host of classic Marathi plays. The actor also directed a few stage plays. He took particular interest in staging plays in mofussil areas of Palghar and Thane districts so that the common man, who cannot afford to pay for costly theatre tickets, could view the classic Marathi plays for free.Naik was admitted at the hospital a few days ago for Covid-19 treatment and died due to complications on Monday morning. His mortal remains were consigned to flames at his ancestral home in Satpati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-veteran-actor-from-palghar-dies-of-covid19-101619466618997.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Free Covid vaccine: NCP’s move spells trouble in Maharashtra govt||The free vaccination announcement by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik has led to friction within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) ruling parties. The Congress has expressed its discontent over the unilateral announcement, while leaders in the Shiv Sena are not very happy with the act of the NCP leader, insiders said.Malik, while speaking to media on the Sunday, said the state government has taken the decision to provide free vaccination to all above 18 years. He said the decision was taken during the state cabinet meeting last Tuesday with chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, who gave his nod for the same. Sena leader and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, too, on Sunday tweeted about the announcement, but deleted them within minutes saying official announcement will be declared by the empowered committee. He said, “I have deleted the earlier tweet as to not cause confusion about the vaccination policy of Maharashtra that would be fully ensuring fast, efficient vaccination and would leave nobody behind,” he said.Congress leader and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Monday expressed his discontent over the announcement, calling it an attempt of grabbing credit. “The Congress has been demanding free vaccination for all since the beginning. We have put up the demand with the CM, and as part of the cabinet, we are part of the deliberation over it. It is uncalled for to announce it for the sake of credit. The Congress is not happy over the unilateral announcement,” he said.When asked for his reaction, Malik on Monday said, “I would not like to comment on Balasaheb Thoratji’s statement.”The Congress believably conveyed their discontent to CM Thackeray. “There is a coordination committee of senior leaders from all three ruling parties. The policy of free vaccination for all is being framed and the group has already had a couple of meetings over it. The CM wants it to be announced on May 1, Maharashtra Day, after formally discussing it in the cabinet meeting in the next two days. In such a backdrop, the premature announcement was uncalled for,” said a Congress leader.The leader added that Aaditya deleted his tweet to avoid breach of protocol by announcing a policy without its formal approval. Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said CM Thackeray will announce the decision.Meanwhile, leader of Opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the state government should chalk out a policy instead of making an announcement out of one upmanship. “People will be flocking for the vaccine in the third phase beginning from May 1 and the state government should chalk out a strategy for it. Instead of that, cabinet ministers are busy making announcements, sending out tweets and then deleting it. There is no coordination within the state cabinet. Since Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, has already announced to vaccinate all free of cost, no question arises of free vaccination by the states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/free-covid-vaccine-ncp-s-move-spells-trouble-in-maharashtra-govt-101619466559609.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Hospital claims oxygen shortage, TMC says supply sufficient||On Monday, Rajesh Shetty, a Waghbil resident in Thane, received a call from Horizon Prime Hospital to make provisions for oxygen. Shetty’s uncle has been admitted to the hospital since the past fortnight. He was told to shift the patient or make arrangements for oxygen.Meanwhile, the patient checked with Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) war room that claimed there was enough oxygen with the said hospital and there was no need to shift. “All through the day, I was busy going back and forth with the hospital staff and TMC to understand the situation. The hospital also gave me in writing that there was an oxygen shortage. However, the treatment was going on,” said Shetty.Meanwhile, Dr Hrushikesh Vaidya, medical director of Horizon Prime Hospital, said, “There is a perennial shortage of oxygen everywhere. We are facing a similar situation, and hence, alerted the patient’s relatives. Those who wish to shift, we are giving them that option.” Vaijanti Deogekar, TMC health officer, said, “We are in the process of conducting an oxygen audit of all the hospitals and Covid centres. In the next three days we shall complete the audit, after which the oxygen issue will be resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hospital-claims-oxygen-shortage-tmc-says-supply-sufficient-101619466318983.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||4 Covid patients die at Thane hospital; kin allege oxygen shortage||Following the death of four patients at Vedant Hospital in Vartak Nagar, Thane early on Monday morning, relatives of patients alleged these deaths were due to lack of oxygen supply in the hospital. Thane district collector has initiated an inquiry into the incident by forming a special committee, led by IAS officer and Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation chief Pankaj Ashiya. The team will consist of officers from the district and the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). The relatives gathered at the hospital premises since around 4am and demanded an inquiry into the deaths. Sadhna Patil, relative of 57-year-old Vijay Patil who lost his life on Monday morning, said, “My brother-in-law was admitted to this hospital on Saturday afternoon as he was not feeling well. His Covid test report arrived on Sunday afternoon stating he was positive. When we spoke to him on Sunday night, he said he was okay. But around 4am, we got a call from the hospital staff using the patient’s mobile to inform that my brother-in-law expired. We were shocked and reached the hospital at the earliest, but there was no response or information regarding his health from the hospital staff till 10.30am. We repeatedly called them and also requested them to let us in, but to no avail.” With the presence of mourning relatives, the hospital had to beef up its security around 11am. Additional police were at the spot and civic officials visited the hospital. By noon, all the bodies were taken to the crematorium. Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar said, “An inquiry committee has been formed. It will first collect information about patients who lost their lives and the health status since they were admitted at the said hospital. They will find out the reason for their death and the precise time, they will also inquire if their death is related to oxygen supply. If yes, we will find out who is responsible for the same. Moreover, if any medical negligence was involved in the death and the committee will inquire as to who is responsible for the same. It may also look into other details if necessary as part of the inquiry.”Dr Ajay Singh from Vedant Hospital said, “We have an oxygen facility in the hospital. After checking our internal resources if we feel the need for additional oxygen, we ask TMC. We did the same on Monday and made use of the oxygen facility, there was no shortage. In a span of 12 hours, four patients have died and these are Covid-related deaths. We are ready to submit all details or necessary documents to the committee.” Like Patil, there were three others who lost their lives around the same time. “My aunt, Aruna Pashte, 67, was admitted on Sunday evening. We were told by night that her oxygen was around 95 and her condition is stable. However, around 2am we received a call that the patient is critical and on oxygen. Around 4am, we were told she died,” said Roshan Pashte. Eknath Shinde, urban development minister and guardian minister of Thane city, has ordered all government and private hospitals within Mumbai Metropolitan Region to conduct fire, electric and oxygen safety audit. This has to be done under the supervision of the district collector and municipal commissioner through a third-party expert body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-covid-patients-die-at-thane-hospital-kin-allege-oxygen-shortage-101619466200163.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||Inspector accuses ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh of cheating, corruption||A serving inspector of Maharashtra police force has levelled serious allegations of corruption against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, in yet another twist to the saga of charges and counter charges that have roiled the department over the past months.Inspector BR Ghadge, posted at Akola, wrote on April 20 , a 14-page complaint (HT has a copy) against Singh to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackerey, home minister Dilip Walse Patil, the Director General of Police Maharashtra, Sanjay Pandey and DG Anti-Corruption Bureau, alleging that while serving as Commissioner of Police, Thane, Singh indulged in several illegal acts and made crores of rupees.Pandey confirmed receipt of the letter: “A complaint has been received by my office and as per legal procedure it is being looked into.”Singh did not answer phone calls and messages seeking comment.Ghadge’s letter claimed that as Thane CP, Singh gave orders to police officers to extricate some influential people from criminal cases registered against them, allegedly in return for huge sums of money.The letter further alleged that Singh accepted ₹50 lakh to ₹1 crore for posting of senior inspectors, and that he insisted on being gifted gold biscuits on Diwali from all zonal DCPs, ACPs and senior inspectors of Thane police .The letter specifically mentions a cheating and forgery case from 2013 where Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation officials gave extra FSI to builders in dead people’s names and claimed that Ghadge was asked to drop the name of 22 government officials from the case. It also mentions the case involving a fake call centre on Mira road and several others.Ghadge alleged that because he refused to drop the case against the 22 in the KDMC case, four false cases were registered against him.Ghadge has furnished details of the FSI case along with his complaint.According to the complaint, Singh bought 21 acres in Sindhudurg district in someone else’s name. He also alleged that Singh was using two government residences at one time, which amounts to criminal misconduct.Inspector Ghadge said that all these complaints were also previously made by him on September 21, 2015, March 17, 2016, May 30, 2016 and June 8, 2016, but that no action was taken. He added in the letter that he has also filed five write in the Bombay High Court in this regard over the years.Singh was removed as commissioner for what the state government claimed was his mishandling of the Antilla explosives case, and the murder of Mansukh Hiran, the man in possession of the vehicle in which the explosives were found, outside the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani. Hiran reported the vehicle stolen around a week before it was found with the explosives in late February. He himself was subsequently found dead. Mumbai policeman Sachin Vaze has been named as the main accused in both cases by the National Investigation Agency. After his removal as commissioner, Singh wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that the state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh instructed Vaze to extort money from restaurants and bars in the city. He also approached the courts with his complaint, following which the Bombay High Court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, a move that forced Deshmukh’s resignation.Singh is already facing two enquiries being carried out by DGP Sanjay Pandey.In the first, Pandey is checking whether there was any dereliction of duty on part of Singh in not apprising the government about the Antilia bomb scare . The second inquiry pertains to corruption allegations made against him by police inspector Anup Dange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/inspector-accuses-ex-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-of-cheating-corruption-101619465304456.html
27-04-2021||Mumbai||State mulls free vax shots only for poor||With four days to go for the vaccination of all adults to kick off, Maharashtra is unlikely to roll the drive out for those in the 18-44 age category in a big way from May 1, owing to challenges related to supply and lack of clarity on whether it would provide free vaccines to all. A day after Maharashtra ministers announced that the government will provide free vaccines to beneficiaries over age 18, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that it may not be possible, adding that the department will move a proposal to provide free vaccine jabs to the poor only.Maharashtra has around 53-55 million people in the 18-44 category and the cost to inoculate them is expected to be around ₹7,000 crore, according to Tope. With vaccines available in short supply, Maharashtra could kick off the drive in a staggered manner, senior government officials said. A panel of senior officials, headed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, is working on negotiations with manufacturers, ensuring adequate and uninterrupted supply and also deciding the beneficiaries for free vaccines. Meanwhile, Tope said his department is moving a proposal for the state cabinet meeting, that is expected to be held on Tuesday or Wednesday, seeking free vaccines for the poor in the 18-44 category.Tope admitted that there are two views within ministers seeking free vaccination for all. “We have proposed that the economically backward class or the weaker sections of the society should be given free vaccinations at government hospitals. There are two views on this; some are of the opinion that 100% [of vaccines] should be given free of cost, but I do not think it is possible. The vaccination programme for 18-44 ages will require about ₹7,000 crore to ₹7,500 crore. It is not a small amount,” Tope said.Senior ministers are also saying that there is no agitation from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over providing free vaccine shots for all. However, a final decision will be made by Wednesday and announcement is likely before the drive kicks off. On Sunday, minority affairs minister Nawab Malik announced that state will provide free vaccines. Another NCP minister Jitendra Awhad also tweeted the same. Shiv Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray, too, announced free vaccines, but later deleted the tweet. Since then, the party has tread cautiously on the topic. Sena leader and chief spokesperson of the party Sanjay Raut refused to comment on free vaccines, stating that it is the government’s decision.A senior bureaucrat said that the committee under Kunte is also looking at how to manage the funds by diverting it through other schemes. He also added that the start to the vaccination for all adults later this week is expected to remain “symbolic”. “We are still to negotiate with any of the foreign manufacturers only then we will know the cost of the inoculation. The chief minister and finance minister have both said that cost is not a hindrance as vaccination is a priority. Besides the cost, they should be able to provide adequate stock without any delay… The vaccination of 18-44 will start from May 1, but it will remain symbolic due to short supply,” the bureaucrat said requesting anonymity. They state is also preparing to handle the crowds at the centres, for it to not result in chaos or a super-spreader event, considering cases are still high across the state.Speaking about the state’s preparations for May 1, Tope said no manufacturer has committed to delivering stock so far. He said the state will procure stock of Indian companies as well as negotiate cost with foreign brands to bring it around the rates of Indian vaccines, he said. “There could be a law-and-order issue and huge queues at every centre. People want to get vaccinated now looking at the deaths, but the availability of vaccine is a real challenge. None of them [manufacturers] have vaccines now. They are offering stock after a month; that too 10 million every month, but it is very slow,” Tope said.He further added, “We will procure the vaccines available in India, similarly, we will negotiate with the foreign manufacturers, will try and bring it down Indian vaccine prices. We will need foreign vaccines as well to inoculate people faster.”The health department is also planning to procure vaccines to inoculated people the remaining citizens over age 45. Tope said the Centre is not “supporting” the pace of the inoculation state intends to. As of April 25, the state has administered first dose to over 10 million people under the category, while 923,971 people from the category have taken their second jab. Tope said, “A high number of people still remain to be vaccinated in above 45-category. The Government of India is not really supporting to the extent it should have. Our demand [for vaccine] is 800,000 daily, but they are providing 100,000 or 200,000. Many centres are kept closed or we have to function on alternative days. These are vulnerable groups; we have to ensure that they get vaccinated first and faster. “Though, this is a national programme and that Mr [prime minister Narendra] Modi has assured adequate supply for this category, but the rate is very slow. We are proposing to spend to procure vaccines for this category as well. It will expedite the programme so that they are safe. The Cabinet will consider this proposal.”Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already announced free vaccination for all, but there is one-upmanship going on among MVA ministers. “PM has made it clear that Centre will vaccinate all eligible people free of cost. However, the states that want to carry out vaccination in an accelerated manner, they can procure vaccines from the market. There is one-upmanship going on in three ruling parties and therefore, there are such demands [of free vaccines], there are tweets on it and later being deleted. The government should prepare a proper policy as the drive will start from May 1. There is no coordination between the ministers,” Fadnavis said.Maharashtra achieved a landmark by inoculating over 500,000 beneficiaries in a day on Monday. The state is expected to go past 15-million mark soon, the state health department said. the state has vaccinated 14,342,716 beneficiaries. Maharashtra’s previous high was recorded on April 3 when it vaccinated 462,735 people in a day.An epidemiologist who is attached to PD Hinduja Hospital, Dr Lancelot Pinto, said that the Centre and State governments have to work on collaboration to achieve the feat of flattening the curve and achieve herd immunity. “India’s median age is 27, so we cannot achieve herd immunity by only focusing on the 45+ age group. We need to aggressively immunise the young population. Therefore, the governments definitely need to work closely,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-mulls-free-vax-shots-only-for-poor-101619464278801.html
