28-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine shortage: 40 centres to remain shut in Mumbai on April 29||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Wednesday announced 40 private vaccination centres will remain shut as they have run out of their vaccine stocks. Another 33 private vaccination centres will also be limited to administering second doses as they have limited stock. Announcing that a fresh stock of Covishiedl will be received at night, the civic body said that all government and municipal vaccination centres will be functional after 12 noon on Thursday.The municipal body also provided a list of centres that will remain closed on Thursday.#MyBMCVaccinationUpdate CVCs that have exhausted their stocks:Worli KoliwadaMaa HospitalRamabai ThackerayVD SavarkarMithagharMT AgrawalWockhardtPrince Ali KhanLilavatiShree Balaji (Malad)Zen MultispecialityCAMARCF (Chembur)#MyBMCUpdate #MumbaiVaccinationUpdate https://t.co/P3S28dYGWbOn Wednesday, the Bandra Kurla Complex jumbo Covid-19 vaccination centre ran out of vaccine stock and became inactive. "It will open for vaccination as soon as the stock is replenished," Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.Good News Mumbai! We are receiving a fresh stock of #Covishield tonight to be distributed only in Gov & MCGM hospitals/ centres (not Pvt) tomorrow morning. So, all Gov & MCGM CVCs will be functional but only post 12 PM See you getting #Vaccinated #MyBMCVaccinationUpdateThis comes at a time the third phase of the vaccination for people between the age group of 18 and 44 years is all set to begin from May 1. The Maharashtra government, however, clarified that the third phase drive can not be launched in the state from May 1 as the state does not have sufficient doses of vaccines.Countering the Maharashtra government's claims, the Union health ministry on Wednesday said the state still has over five lakh vaccine doses with it and another five lakh doses will be delivered to the state in the next three days."It is clarified that the total Covid vaccine doses received by Maharashtra as of April 28, 2021, (at 8 am) are 1,58,62,470. Of this, the total consumption including wastage (0.22 per cent) was 1,53,56,151. Balance of 5,06,319 vaccine doses is still available with the state for administration to the eligible population groups," the ministry said.Though registration for the 3rd phase of vaccination began on April 28, slots for people in the age group between 18 and 44 years could not be booked as state government hospitals and private hospitals are yet to add their capacity to cowin.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-shortage-40-centres-to-remain-shut-in-mumbai-on-april-29-101619625686539.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||With 985 deaths, Maharashtra sees record jump in daily Covid-19 toll, Mumbai’s new cases increase||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded the highest toll due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with 985 deaths, while 63,309 more people were detected positive, according to the state health department’s bulletin. The caseload has now climbed to 4,473,394, including 67,214 deaths and more than 3.73 million recoveries, the bulletin showed.The state’s capital Mumbai, which was seeing a fall in its daily cases also recorded a rise on Wednesday with 4,926 people testing positive, taking the caseload to 640,409. The city’s death toll is nearing 13,000 with 78 deaths seen on Wednesday.The lockdown-like restrictions in Maharashtra are likely to get extended by another 15 days, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday adding that many other ministers in the cabinet agreed for the extension in order to break the chain of transmission.Also Read| Maharashtra likely to extend Covid-19 lockdownThe restrictions were imposed from April 14 to May 1 banning the movement of people, closure of movie halls, auditoriums, malls, gyms etc. Only essential services are exempted. On April 22, another set of restrictions were introduced by the Maha Vikas Aghadi-led state government on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance, and weddings till May 1.Tope pointed out these restrictions have helped in bringing stability in cases hoping they will start declining in the near future.Maharashtra on Wednesday joined the list of states which will provide free vaccination to all residents between the ages of 18-44 in the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive, scheduled to start from May 1. All residents will have to register themselves on the CoWin app in order to get inoculated, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office said.Also Read| Covid-19: Maharashtra to vaccinate all citizens between 18 and 44 years for freeThey will be further divided into three categories- 18-25 years, 26-35 years and 39 to 44 years in order to avoid any inconvenience, Tope said on Wednesday.However, Maharashtra is still continuing to report a shortage of vaccine doses. Health minister Tope said a full-fledged roll-out of the May 1 vaccination drive is not possible due to this shortage and the state government is unlikely to get vaccine doses from both Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech before May 20.According to news agency PTI, health experts have warned a slowdown in Maharashtra’s vaccination drive can pave the way for a third wave of the Covid-19 disease in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-record-jump-in-daily-covid-deaths-at-985-mumbai-s-new-cases-increase-101619623131174.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra vaccinates more than 1.53 crore||With over 3.88 lakh more people receiving the COVID-19 jabs in Maharashtra, the overall immunisation count in the state has crossed 1.53 crore, a health official said on Wednesday.At least 3,88,247 eligible people were inoculated on Tuesday, the official said.Of them, 4,017 healthcare workers received the first dose of the vaccine, while 9,899 were given the second dose, he said.As many as 20,276 and 13,753 frontline workers were administered the first and second jabs, respectively, on Tuesday, the official said.In the above 45-year category, 2,12,699 people received the first dose and 1,27,603 the second dose, the official said, adding 65,140 people were inoculated in Mumbai alone.According to the Maharashtra health department, the state has inoculated a total of 1,53,37,832 people so far, including 25,15,076 in Mumbai alone.As many as 10,99,415 healthcare workers had received the first dose, while 6,09,790 had received their second dose, it was stated.Similarly, 12,74,492 frontline workers have received the first dose, while 4,58,586 have taken the second dose.In the 45 plus category, 1,06,71,093 people have got their first dose and 12,24,456 the second dose so far.Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 66,358 fresh cases and 895 fatalities that raised the tally of the infections to 44,10,085 and the toll to 66,179. The state currently has 6,72,434 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-vaccinates-more-than-1-53-crore-101619621681985.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare, Hiran murder case: Sunil Mane’s NIA custody extended to May 1||A special court here on Wednesday extended till May 1 National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody of Mumbai police officer Sunil Mane, arrested in connection with the Antilia bomb scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran.Mane was arrested on April 23 after he was called for interrogation in connection with the Antilia and Hiren murder cases. He was remanded to NIA custody till Wednesday, when the federal agency sought his custody further.Claiming that Mane played a role in the conspiracy of Hiran’s murder, the agency said they wanted to confront Mane with certain documents related to vehicles seized and also with call data record related to the case.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia, the South Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note, and a case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day.Sachin Vaze was in charge of the case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, and had reported it stolen on February 17. Hiran himself was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it in early February.Also Read | Suspended Mumbai cop Sunil Mane was in area when Mansukh Hiran was killed: NIANIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and the murder case on March 24. Vaze was named the main accused in both and was arrested by NIA on March 13.The Maharashtra government transferred then police commissioner Param Bir Singh over his management of the case. Singh wrote a letter to the chief minister, alleging that home minister Anil Deshmukh instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants, hookah parlours per month and when no action was forthcoming approached the courts.The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, the central agency registered an offence against Deshmukh on April 24 after a preliminary probe.Meanwhile, Vaze, who is presently in judicial custody, has asked the court to permit him to have a chair and mattresses in prison as he has difficulty in sitting on the floor. He further claimed that he has been suffering from dental issues. The court has asked the prison authority at Taloja jail to provide him necessary medical assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-hiran-murder-case-sunil-mane-s-nia-custody-extended-to-may-1-101619609798205.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's BKC jumbo center runs out of Covid-19 vaccines: Report||Just two days ahead of the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, Mumbai's Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo Covid-19 vaccination center has run out of vaccine stock. The vaccination center is inactive.Boards reading 'Vaccine out of stock' were put up outside the BKC center on Wednesday.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here "It will open for vaccination as soon as the stock is replenished," Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.However, despite it being out of stock, people gathered in huge numbers outside the center.The vaccination drive at the vaccination center was earlier halted for the same reason on April 20.Under phase three of the vaccination drive, everyone above 18 years of age will be eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1, the central government said on April 19. The registration for the same will begin at 4 pm on Wednesday.According to official data, there are 6,74,358 active cases of Covid-19 in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-bkc-jumbo-center-runs-out-of-covid-19-vaccines-report-101619591967036.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||PG medical students to continue as resident doctors till new admissions||The National Medical Commission (NMC) issued a circular, asking medical students in post graduate colleges across the country to continue doubling up as resident doctors to help healthcare apparatus deal with the massive rise in Covid-19 cases seen during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic.Final year PG medical examinations have been stalled in most states due to the deterioration of Covid situation. Similarly, no fresh admissions to PG medical and diploma courses were done due to the postponement of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-PG) exams. Students of most PG colleges were roped in last year to augment trained manpower for treatment of Covid and non-Covid patients. The fresh NMC directive seeks to ensure that the current batch continues to serve as resident doctors to help deal with the present crisis until fresh admissions are made to PG courses and final year examinations are held.NEET-PG exams are generally conducted in the month of February every year and the final year examinations are generally held between April-May in Maharashtra colleges.“The start of the 2021-2022 academic session will be delayed and the new batch of first year PG students will join only after NEET-PG examination is held, followed by counselling to allocate colleges,” the NMC circular released on April 27 said. It further states that the students continued deployment as residents will help ensure there is no shortage of hands to deal with the surge of Covid-19 cases.Originally scheduled to take place on April 19, the National Board of Examinations (NBE) postponed the entrance examination to PG medical courses earlier this month after a fresh Covid surge in several states. Similarly, all under graduate (UG) and PG medical examinations were postponed in several states, including in Maharashtra.With no new students joining medical institutes anytime soon, the NMC has also advised colleges to continue providing accommodation and stipend to the PG students during this extended period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pg-medical-students-to-continue-as-resident-doctors-till-new-admissions-101619588977088.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses immediate relief to hospital where fire killed 11 Covid patients||The Bombay high court on Tuesday refused an urgent hearing on a petition filed by Sunrise Hospital challenging the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s order revoking its provisional occupancy certificate after 11 Covid patients died in a fire there on March 25.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was informed by senior advocate Aabad Ponda that the hospital has 250 beds and sufficient arrangement of oxygen supply to treat Covid-19 patients. Ponda cited the current situation and the capacity of the hospital and said it should be permitted to reopen. He added that the decision of BMC was arbitrary as it did not give the hospital a hearing.Also Read | HC takes note of chaos at crematoriums, calls for a report from MaharashtraOn April 11, the BMC cancelled the certificate granted to Sunrise Hospital on May 6, 2020.Senior Counsel Anil Sakhare for the BMC submitted that a notice had been issued to the hospital owners to attend a hearing but as they did not appear, the decision to revoke the certificate was taken ex-parte. Sakhare added that after the fire, the no objection certificate and nursing license of the hospital was cancelled. He added that as the electricity supply of the hospital was cut off and the building is sealed by the police, the hospital could not be allowed to restart.After hearing submissions, the bench said, “We do not want the hospital to start at this stage. It will have to wait.” The bench posted the matter for further hearing in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-immediate-relief-to-hospital-where-fire-killed-11-covid-patients-101619581056118.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||4 dead in hospital fire in Maharashtra’s Thane||At least four persons died after a fire broke out at a private hospital in Maharashtra’s Thane district in early hours of Wednesday, said officials. Twenty patients were under treatment at Prime Criticare Hospital, a non-Covid healthcare facility in Mumbra area of the district, when it caught fire. Six of these patients were admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation said the deaths took place “after” the patients were “shifted to various other hospitals”.Santosh Kadam, chief of Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) of Thane Municipal Corporation also confirmed that all patients including those in the ICU were shifted from Prime Criticare Hospital to different nearby hospitals.“The fire broke out at 3.40 am on Wednesday, two fire engines, two water tankers, five ambulances and one rescue vehicle were rushed to the spot. We rescued all the 20 patients admitted in the hospital and shifted them to nearby hospitals. All of them were alive when we shifted them; they [the four] died in the respective hospitals after shifting.”A fire department official said a short circuit in the meter room of the hospital could have triggered the fire. The exact cause of the fire will only be known after detailed investigation.Maharashtra housing minister and Mumbra MLA, Jitendra Awhad, said at least “three to four” people died in the fire. “The RDMC and the fire brigade team were in the process of extinguishing the fire. Six patients in the ICU of the hospital on fire were shifted to nearby hospitals. The fire will be investigated by the police.”Prime Criticare Hospital was located around 40 kilometers north-east of Mumbai. Last week, 15 patients died in a fire at a Covid hospital at Virar in Maharashtra’s Palghar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-dead-in-hospital-fire-in-maharashtra-s-thane-101619577875936.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination for all: 3 main challenges for Mumbai’s hospitals||On Tuesday state health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state will need 120 million doses for 57.1 million residents in the ages of 18-44. The state currently has a few hundred thousands as part of the national Covid-19 inoculation drive, which is currently open to those above 45, health care and frontline workers. It remains uncertain that the drive, which was to open to all adults starting May 1, will begin. However, vaccine stock is not the only challenge that Mumbai faces. The expanded rollout will nearly double the city’s target population, requiring the government as well as the private sector to add more centres, decentralise procurement and ensure crowd management. Mumbai currently has 132 vaccination centres including 42 civic-run, 17 state-run and 73 privately run centres. Its current target population above 45 years is around 4 million. With the addition of the population between 18 to 44 years, another 4 million people will be added to this pool. Mumbai has so far administered over 2.8 millon doses – nearly 60,000 on Tuesday itself. HT spoke to several experts and asked them one main question: What will it take to ensure effective vaccination of all adults?DECENTRALISING EFFORTS “Mumbai’s current vaccination capacity is 85,000 doses per day,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of BMC. “We have administered a maximum of 67,000 doses in a day. As the vaccination stock gets streamlined, we can achieve the total capacity and expand further,” she said. According to Gomare, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) has now allowed states to directly sanction private hospitals as vaccination centres, where earlier, proposals needed to be sent to the ministry for approval. “As more private hospitals are added, vaccination drive will be decentralised gradually,” she said. The guidelines issued by the Centre last week also confirmed that manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccines will be free to supply 50% doses to states and in the open market – which can be procured by hospitals or corporates directly – and the manufacturers will have to make an advance declaration of the price before May 1. States will, however, need to monitor the hospitals that have procured stocks, and declared them on the COWIN app. Thus, apart from the vaccination drive that the state will carry out, procuring stock from the Centre, and from manufacturers, private hospitals will also be able to buy vaccines and vaccinate people. The civic body is also considering the possibility of using large community halls, schools and other such spaces for vaccination. Augmentation of vaccination booths in the currently functional jumbo vaccination centres is also a priority. However, the big challenge that poses the BMC, and other authorities is to ensure that as new vaccine centres get approved, they stay true to the guidelines laid down by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 on the procedure and guidelines for administration of the vaccine at state and district level. For example, every centre must necessarily have an area where those who have just been vaccinated can sit for at least 30 minutes to ensure that in case of any adverse effect detected, they can be treated immediately. It must also ensure safe storage, transportation and delivery of vaccine doses, which should be maintained at the right temperature. According to Gomare, bigger health facilities will be able to make such arrangements. “The problem is with dispensaries and urban health centres which have very small spaces. But we are in the process of shortlisting centres which may have large halls or open grounds nearby, that can be linked to the centres and converted into post and pre-vaccination waiting areas,” she said. SCALING UP INFRASTRUCTURE The BMC plans to scale up the jumbo facility at the Bandra Kurla Complex so as to double the number of vaccination booths from 15 to 30. The BKC facility is among the largest civic-run centres with the capacity to carry out 8000 vaccinations per day. On Tuesday, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal directed civic officials to identify locations for additional 227 vaccination centres in the city -- one in each electoral ward. Chahal has directed these centres to tie up with local hospitals nearby where citizens will be rushed in case of any adverse effect. “We have administered a maximum of 6800 doses in a day,” said Dr Rajesh Dere, who heads the facility. “Given that we have a large space, increasing the capacity further will be easy for us,” he said. The facility built on the MMRDA grounds has structural stability up to May 31. A structural stability assessment is carried out by engineers to ascertain if the structure is safe and can withstand internal activities as well as seasonal changes. An audit will be conducted to ensure monsoon preparedness, as well. Private hospitals too have begun discussions on increasing their capacity. “We currently have five booths and we are looking at adding another five as vaccination opens for all adult populations. The question is if we will have enough stocks,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital. “Our hospital is also considering 24/7 vaccinations,” he said adding that the space management will be easier with online slots. At Parel’s Global Hospital, authorities are looking at doubling the number of vaccination counters. The hospital currently has three counters and has carried out an average of 220 vaccinations in a day. “We expect the numbers to go up to 450-500. The number of doctors, nurses and associated staff will be accordingly increased,” said Dr Jigna Shrotriya, deputy general manager (Medical Services), Global Hospital. PRICING Dr Santosh Shetty, chief executive officer of Kokilben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital said that securing doses for the private sector seems to be the biggest challenge. “We have spoken to the manufacturers and they have commitments to the centre and states up to May end. Accommodating the private sector is likely to happen only after the third week of May,” he said, adding that their hospital has administered nearly 800 doses in a day when the supply of stocks was good. “We can easily double our capacity by simply adding more hours. Space is not a problem at our hospital.” “We don’t know how soon the stocks will arrive after we start the process,” Bhansali said. India is currently administering only two vaccines: homegrown Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and AstraZeneca’s Covershield manufactured by Serum Institute of India. The Centre is procuring them at ₹150 per dose and distributing them to the states. But from May 1, the states will also make their own purchases and private sector hospitals too will have to procure vaccine doses from the manufacturers. The vaccine manufacturers have quoted different selling prices for the Centre, states and the private sector. “The centre has offloaded the pressure onto the states. This will have significant implications on the vaccination drives, especially in high burden states like Maharashtra,” said Soumitra Ghosh, assistant professor at the Centre for Health Policy, Planning and Management, Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “Shifting away from the centralised model leaves the manufacturers with an upper hand. This decision will lead to profiteering, chaos and confusion over the coming days,” he said. Private hospitals will have to further work out their pricing based on storage, handling and manpower costs. “If the need arises, we will cap these costs in the private sector,” said Dr Subash Salunkhe, advisor to the state on Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-for-all-3-main-challenges-for-mumbai-s-hospitals-101619552072837.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli civic body helpline not working, complain residents||Residents complained that helpline numbers introduced by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) for availability of beds, ambulances, civic hospitals are not working. Kalyan resident, Pawan Gupta (41), said, “I called the helpline number mentioned on the website to inquire about a bed. It said the number was out of service. I called the war room. The person asked me to call the hospitals directly.” A KDMC health department officer said, “There might be some technical error on the lines. The numbers are working. We will ensure the technical problem is resolved at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyandombivli-civic-body-helpline-not-working-complain-residents-101619550572509.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||HC takes note of chaos at crematoriums, calls for a report from state||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to provide a status report on crematoriums and morgues across the state, after being informed that the situation at cremation centres was chaotic. It was also brought to the notice of the court that the crematoriums were insufficient to deal with a large number of bodies of Covid victims being brought for a funeral.The court also questioned the centre regarding the lax surveillance as a result of which private persons – a member of Parliament (MP) from Ahmednagar managed to get stock of life-saving drugs like Remdesivir from a pharmaceutical company in Delhi, while the SOPs entail pharma companies to provide its manufactured stock directly to the states. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi, said that though the PIL was originally scheduled to be heard on May 4 it was listed on Tuesday to ascertain the progress and compliance of its orders on April 22. The PIL sought directions to the state, Centre and civic authorities against the mismanagement of the second wave of Covid-19. Advocates Simil Purohit and Arshil Shah for the petitioner informed the court that though the BMC had been updating data on the number of Covid-19 positive cases the helpline for the availability of Covid-19 beds in the hospital was not operational. The BMC through senior counsel Anil Sakhare however disagreed and said that the helpline number was very much functional. The bench then directed the advocates to call helpline number 1916 to verify the claims of BMC. After the calls were answered, the bench sought to know how best the BMC could make known the vacancy of beds so that it would be immediately reflected on the dashboard on the BMC portal. When the petitioners’ advocates drew attention to the issue of dead body management and sought directions to augment the existing infrastructure to cope with a large number of bodies of Covid-19 victims being brought for the funeral the court directed the state government to immediately ask all district collectors to ensure effective dead-body management and have synchronized system for crematoriums. The court then observed that in some crematorium gas furnaces were not in order and relatives of deceased Covid-19 patients faced various issues, the court directed the state government to inform it on measures taken by authorities to improve the condition of crematoriums and also sought the status of morgues in the state. The court also took note of the report that an MP from Ahmednagar had got 10,000 vials of Remdesivir to distribute locally while the state was the sole implementing authority for distributing the life-saving drug. The bench observed that the Aurangabad bench had taken cognizance of the report on April 26 it had not passed any specific order on it.Aurangabad bench had in its order had stated: “Meantime, respondent authorities be at liberty to take effective steps, as they would have taken in the event of such eventuality and do what a call of duty demands them to do.” In light of this, the bench asked the state, “How can 10,000 vials be made available by airlifting them from Delhi by a chartered plane? Would it not amount to private distribution by the person? Delhi itself is in crisis.” The court added that if it found further instances where pharmaceutical companies were providing Remdesivir directly to private individuals, it would pass an injunction against the duo. “We want drugs to reach everyone who is needy and should not be only in the hands of a few,” added the bench and posted the PIL for further hearing on April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-takes-note-of-chaos-at-crematoriums-calls-for-a-report-from-state-101619550511457.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||State records highest one-day Covid toll of 895||After a significant drop in daily Covid-19 cases (48,700) on Monday, the daily caseload went up again to 66,358 on Tuesday, although authorities said the state has reached its peak and a downward trend is expected soon. The state, however, reported its highest one-day spike in deaths of 895, which took the toll to 66,179. The state cabinet is likely to take a decision on extending the existing lockdown, which is till May 1, further. The state has also sought an expression of interest from global supplies for oxygen, Remdesivir and oxygen concentrators. Mumbai continued to see a drop in cases on the second day in a row, logging 3,999 cases, although the testing was lower at a little over 30,000. The city has reported less than 4,000 cases over last two days, after clocking more than 5,000 cases continuously for more than a month since March 24, when it reported 5,190 cases. The city’s case tally stands at 635,483 and toll at 12,920. “The drop in state’s cases on Monday was a ‘weekend effect’, as the number of cases and their reporting goes down on weekends. They went up on Tuesday, but have not crossed the average mark of daily caseload, which has been hovering around 66,000. We can easily say the Covid-19 case trend has stabilised,” a health department official said. Nashik outstripped other districts in daily caseload, reporting 12,436 cases and 69 deaths on Tuesday. Pune district logged 9,078 cases and 80 deaths, 6,895 cases and 63 deaths in Nagpur, 1,840 cases and 8 deaths in Chandrapur and 1,562 cases and 18 deaths in Sangli. Aurangabad district added highest 162 deaths on Tuesday, although the new cases logged were 1,468. The state has 672,434 active cases as on Tuesday, down from 699,858 on April 22. Pune has highest active patients (104,561), followed by Nagpur (75,219), Thane (72,302) and Mumbai (68,603). Amid the rise, the state is expected to extend the ongoing complete lockdown at least by a week. “Task force members, officials from health and other departments are of the opinion that it should be extended at least by a week. They feel it would help in reducing the cases and relieving the stress on health infrastructure. The decision is expected to be taken in state cabinet on Wednesday,” an official from Mantralaya said. State health authorities say that the districts like Nashik, Nagpur and Ahmednagar will follow the trend witnessed in Mumbai, MMR and Pune and stabilise in the next few days. The high number of deaths is expected to continue for the next few days. “The rise in the death number is always seen a couple of weeks after the spike in the cases begin,” said an official from the health department. Maharashtra public health minister Rajesh Tope said they expect the cases to decline in coming days. “From daily caseload hovering around 65,000, it dropped to 48,700 on Monday. The number of patients discharged was more than the new cases. It has resulted in the improvement in the recovery rate from 81% to 83.5%,” he said. Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital, said the lockdown has helped in bringing down the cases and the trend is likely to continue. “Maharashtra is witnessing the downward trend early than that anticipated at national level, because the second wave hit Mumbai and Maharashtra first. Similar trend was witnessed during the first wave too. We can avoid the spikes in cases by adapting mass vaccination drive. However, the mortality rate is expected to continue for a week or two as it always lag behind the cases by 2-3 weeks,” he said. Prof Manindra Agarwal who was associated with the Covid-19 research in IIT Kanpur said that Mumbai is past its peak. While Pune and even state has reached its peak, Nagpur will reach its peak in next two days. “Pune and Maharashtra saw erratic trend of cases with ups and down, but it was very steady curve for Mumbai. Cities like Nashik and Nagpur are still reporting high cases, but they will reach their peak in couple of days,” he said. Tope said that the state government has called for supply from international market for 25000 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen, 10 lakh vials of Remdesivir, 40,000 oxygen concentrators and oxygen tanks for the districts. “The expression of interest has been called for by relaxing stringent conditions. We expect the response in three days. The procurement will help tide over the shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir and ramp up the health infrastructure,” he said. The test positivity rate (TPR) too has declined over the last one week to 23.51% despite the significant rise in the tests at the daily average of 2,73,283 between April 21 and 27. Against 1913001 tests during this period, the state reported 449726 cases. The positivity rate in the earlier two weeks (April 14-20 and April 7-13) was 24.76% and 24.71% respectively. The daily testings in the state have been stepped up gradually from 2,34,652 during April 7-13 to 2,54,526 during April 14-20 and 2,73,283 in the week ended on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-records-highest-one-day-covid-toll-of-895-101619550332915.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: CSIR-IGIB to study 4,000 Maharashtra samples for genome sequencing||The Maharashtra government has roped in the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) for genome sequencing of 4,000 samples of Covid-positive patients. The premier biological research institute of the country will not only sequence the genome and list the number of variants, but will also map behavioural patterns of each strain based on the health issues faced by the patients and the treatment provided. Genome sequencing is an exercise to study changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant. CSIR-IGIB will collect 100 samples from each district and send them to the National Centre for Cell Science (NCCS), Pune and CSIR-IGIB, Faridabad for genome sequencing. It will start in 10 districts, where samples will be collected for a month (100 samples from each district), followed by another 10 districts the next month. This will go on until all 36 districts in the state are covered. The study will be completed in four months, officials said. The aim is to help the state identify the number of active strains in Maharashtra, their effect on human bodies and determine the change in treatment protocol or public health strategies required to contain the spread, officials said. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte confirmed that a memorandum of understanding has been signed between the state medical education department and CSIR-IGIB to start the project. “CSIR-IGIB will collect around 100 samples from each of the districts. It will also take clinical data of the treatment prescribed to each patient and their response to the treatment. The research organization will list the number of variants found during the genome sequencing process and also map their patterns that include how they affected the human body or which part of the body, etc. It will also help ascertain if there are different variants infecting citizens in different regions of the state,” Kunte said. Among the worst-hit states, Maharashtra is yet unaware of the number of strains and their behaviour that may have led to the surge in cases. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) recently confirmed the presence of a double mutant variant in the tested samples, but also said the data was not enough to attribute the surge to it, officials said. “The double mutant variant has been found in 206 samples in Maharashtra. It is high in Nagpur, at 20% of the samples, but there is not enough data to correlate it with the nature of the surge,” NCDC said on April 14. At 24%, the double mutation virus – now classified as B.1.617 – was the most common in the samples sequenced in the 60 days prior to April 2. The variant was first detected on October 5 and was relatively obscure till it was found in increasing number of samples from January, the India situation report on outbreak.info showed. On April 1, it accounted for 80% of all analysed genome sequences of mutant variants sent by India to the global repository GISAID. B.1.617 was first found in a large number of samples in Maharashtra, the first hot spot of the second wave of infections, which, till April 7, added more than half the new cases being recorded in the country. Maharashtra has so far reported around 4,400,000 cases and average daily cases have been around 59,000 a day this month. It has also reported maximum casualties and the tally has reached around 66,000. Dr Shashank Joshi, who is handling responsibility for coordination of the project, said they know there are variants of concern, but to correlate this we have to match the clinical data such as symptoms, age etc. with the genetic data. “We need to collect more data to say the current variants of concern are responsible for the current circumstances. We will be collecting district-wise random samples every week in a systematic way. These samples will be sent to the NCCS, Pune laboratory and IGIB laboratory, Faridabad and then the data will be used to determine district-wise strategies,” Dr Joshi, who is also a member of a state appointed task force for the clinical management of critical patients, said. Currently, 13-14 districts in Maharashtra are badly hit with the pandemic. “They are now in the phase of recovery, but there are variants of concern operating in each district. This independent survey will give us a deep understanding of what is happening. It will also give us insights on our public health strategies or treatment strategies whether they need to be modified,” he clarified. Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR-IGIB, said he would comment only after commencement of the project. Saurabh Vijay, secretary of state’s medical education department, said the study is necessary to take necessary steps in advance. “It is natural behavior of the virus to mutate. In such a scenario, we need to understand at least what is happening with the changing behaviour of the virus so that we can be better prepared,” he said. The ministry of health and family welfare, in its statement issued on March 24, said that 771 of the 10,787 samples that were sequenced were found to have the variants of concern (VOC). The Centre last month said that three known VOCs were also found in Maharashtra. The Centre revealed 56 of these were B.1.1.7, five B.1.351 and one P.1. State health minister Rajesh Tope recently said 1,100 samples have been collected from Maharashtra as part of regular surveillance of genome variations and of them, 500 samples have been examined. “We have sought a detailed report from the Centre, but were informed that it will be made available only at the end of the research,” Tope said to a news daily??? In another release issued on April 16, the ministry also said the states were advised to send samples of genome sequencing along with clinical data of positive patients, but many states are not doing so. A consortium of 10 national laboratories called — Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) — was formed in December 2020 to carry out genome sequencing of circulating viruses and correlate the findings with other trends. “The INSACOG guidelines were shared with states. It would have helped INSACOG discover other variants of concern. However, several states, including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Kerala have not shared such data, although others, including Punjab and Delhi have,” it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-csir-igib-to-study-4-000-maharashtra-samples-for-genome-sequencing-101619550211314.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||HC deplores state govt’s failure to procure more Remdesivir vials||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday expressed exasperation at the failure of the state to provide sufficient Remdesivir vials to Nagpur and adjoining districts even though the Central Committee had allocated nearly 4.35 lakh vials for 10 days. When the state argued the Centre had not sent vials as per the state-wise chart, the HC bench admonished the state for not pursuing it with the Centre. The next hearing has been scheduled on April 29.A division bench of justice Sunil Shukre and justice Avinash Gharote, while hearing the suo motu public interest litigation, was informed that on April 24, following its April 23 directions to the state to seek allocation of more Remdesivir injections for 10 days from April 21 to 30 in view of the shortage being faced by Maharashtra, the Central committee had revised the allocation list. The committee had increased the allocation to 4.35 lakh vials for the period. The central committee order dated April 24 required the state to take certain steps and place its supply order with the manufacturer. However, advocate S P Bhandarkar, amicus curiae, submitted that despite orders from the bench the shortage persisted and even oxygen and beds for the growing number of Covid-19 patients were in short supply. The government pleader for the state informed the bench that nodal officer for the state of Maharashtra has been appointed and he was coordinating with other nodal officers and manufacturers. The bench then asked the nodal officer to file an affidavit to place on record steps in pursuance of April 24 central government order.The bench questioned why private pharmacists in Vidarbha were allowed to directly place orders with manufacturers. The state further informed that apart from sourcing Remdesivir and other life-saving drugs locally, it was also planning to import from Bangladesh, Singapore, Hong Kong etc and permission was sought from the Centre and a response was awaited.On being informed of Covid care centres not making Remdesivir available for needy patients, the court directed the district collector Nagpur and NMC to carry out individual checks at different hospitals. The bench also directed the DC Nagpur to set up control room of 30-40 officials on 8 hour shifts to oversee allocation of beds and oxygen cylinders. The bench also sought to know why the manufacturing plants around Nagpur had not supplied oxygen. The bench was then told that the collector of Nagpur had messages that from Wednesday Nagpur would get 110- 130 MT oxygen from Bhilai Steel Plant, as per earlier order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-deplores-state-govt-s-failure-to-procure-more-remdesivir-vials-101619550151312.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks 120mn doses for 18+||The Maharashtra government has sought 120 million Covid-19 doses from the two Indian vaccine manufacturing companies for the inoculation of 57.1 million citizens in the 18-44 age category. With the availability of vaccines a challenge, there is a question mark over the vaccination drive for those in the 18-44 age group from May 1. The state government will allow vaccination for this group only by appointment on Cowin app. The Maharashtra government, meanwhile, is scheduled to decide on free vaccination in the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday. In a related development, the state on Tuesday crossed the landmark of administering 15 million vaccine doses, State public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state wrote to the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech on April 26, but so far, the companies have not responded. He added that Serum Institute, which manufacturers Covishield shots, has conveyed that they cannot commit to orders before May 20. “Availability [of vaccines] is the biggest challenge. Even if we are ready to spend, there is no stock available. We have written to Serum and Bharat Biotech but so far, they have not responded. We have sought 12 crore vaccines, asked them the delivery schedule, and the rates. Covishield will not be available before May 20. All states will face this question on how to start vaccination from May 1 if there is no vaccine available,” Tope said.Besides the challenge of vaccine availability, the state cabinet is expected to discuss invitation of global tenders to procure vaccine for foreign manufacturers in its meeting on Wednesday. Senior officials said that the state would need consent from the Centre to import. One option that is being considered, officials said, is to invite expression of interest and not tender to import vaccine. “We can gauge the schedule and rates through an expression of interest,” an official said requesting anonymity.Maharashtra deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar said that they do not think the Centre would deny permission to import vaccines given that Indian manufacturers cannot match the pace of demand. “We will discuss details on floating global tenders for vaccine. After I made the statement [earlier] about importing we were asked how can we float tenders without a go-ahead from the Centre. If Indian manufacturers—Bharat Biotech and Serum—are unable to provide, then importing is an option and I do not think that the Centre will deny the permission,” Pawar said.He also added that the proposal to provide free vaccination will be discussed in the cabinet meeting. “The proposal [for free vaccines] will come up in the cabinet, I have signed it and now the file is with the CM for his signature. The proposal will be discussed tomorrow [Wednesday] in the cabinet; all the cabinet ministers will give their opinions. A decision in the interest of the people that decision will be made and announced by the chief minister.”When asked about the financial burden on the state government if it decides to provide free vaccines, Pawar said, “The government will take a decision on it tomorrow (Wednesday). Actually, it is the responsibility of the Centre government to vaccinate all the people. But, the Centre’s stand on it is not clear and we are following it up with the Centre on the vaccination of people in the age group of 18 to 44. If the time comes, the state government will take decision in the interest of the people.” It is estimated to cost ₹7,500 crore for the free vaccination of the 18-44 category, Tope had told HT.Tope added that people in the 18-44 category should not rush to the vaccination centres unless an appointment is confirmed on the Cowin app. He reiterated that since there is no vaccine, there is a question mark over the drive itself.“The vaccination for 18-44 category will only happen through the Cowin app. Nobody can go directly to the centre for vaccination. Only after booking an appointment online, one can go to the centre for vaccination. So, do not throng at the centers. As of now, vaccines are not available. Even if we want to start it, manufacturers cannot provide us. There is a hurdle till manufacturers provide the vaccine so till then nobody should rush to the centers. There is a question mark over the drive starting on May 1 because of availability,” Tope said.The health minister added that the state expects the Centre to intervene to bring down the prices quoted by the two Indian manufacturers to supply shots to the state governments. Serum Institute has announced a price of Rs400 per dose for state governments and Rs600 per dose for private hospitals. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at Rs600 per dose for state governments and at Rs1,200 per dose for private hospitals. “We expect the Government of India to intervene and help reduce the rates of vaccines so that it does not burden the state exchequer,” Tope said.Maharashtra, on Tuesday, administered 15 million Covid-19 vaccine jab to its citizens. The landmark came a day after the state vaccinated over 500,000 beneficiaries--its highest in one day. Maharashtra tops the list of states with by administering 15 million doses since the drive commence on January 16. Health minister Rajesh Tope and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar lauded the efforts of the healthcare workers. Pawar in a tweet said, “The invaluable contribution of our healthcare workers, officials & social organisations has resulted in the State completing a record of 1.5 cr vaccination! With our combined efforts we shall continue to vaccinate more & more people in future too.” Tope said that the “milestone” was crossed and now the state’s target is to vaccinate 800,000 people in a day.On the lack of vaccines, a war of words broke out between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi and opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sachin Sawant, Congress spokesperson, targeted prime minister over the lack of availability, saying what is the strategy of the Centre. “If Serum tells @OfficeofUT ji that it can not supply vaccine till 20th May as all stock is booked by Modi govt. It has put vaccination for age group 18-44 under question mark We can’t simply discuss lack of vaccines after so many mnths of corona.Modi ji, Whr is ur strategy? (sic)”. Sawant further stated that the Centre restricted the supply to two companies and put the onus on State governments to procure vaccines for 18-44 age group.BJP, meanwhile, asked the clear the doubts of people over the vaccination drive from May 1. Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that the state government should put out list of the vaccination centers in advance to avoid crowding. “Considering the large number of people in the age category, the state should give list of centres in the urban areas and in the districts. Additional vaccination centres should be made and their locations should be announced. The State should also announce whether people can walk-in to the centres or they need prior appointment,” Upadhye asked in a statement.The MVA and BJP also battled over the supply of stock from the Centre for the vaccination of people over age 45. As Maharashtra went past 15 million mark in total inoculated beneficiaries on Tuesday, PWD minister Ashok Chavan said that the state has the capacity to vaccinate 600,000 people daily. “Had adequate vaccines been provided, Maharashtra would have crossed 20 million mark by now. Today, one out of six people in Maharashtra would have been vaccinated,” Chavan said in a tweet.Responding to it, Upadhye said, “Maharashtra has the capacity but due to its negative politics it has averaged 200,000 vaccinations per day. The truth is that the Centre is providing all the vaccines, but the planning is poor. What is the plan for vaccination of people between 18 and 44? Will it be free? How many vaccines have been ordered?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-seeks-120mn-doses-for-18-101619550091327.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Poll rallies led to Covid spread, Sena alleges; BJP blames Maharashtra govt for its failure||Citing the Madras high court’s (HC) observations that Election Commission (EC) is responsible for the Covid-19 surge, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) gathered people in poll-bound states for campaigning, who got infected and spread it elsewhere in the country. The Sena leader added that while Madras HC said EC should face murder charges, the Centre is planning to reward the former Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) by appointing him a governor. Raut further said that the Centre should take the Madras HC’s remarks seriously. The Madras HC on Monday came down heavily on the EC for “not stopping political parties” from violating Covid-19 protocols during their campaign rallies for Assembly polls in four states and a Union territory over the last month. It further said that murder charges should probably be put on the panel for being “the only institution responsible for the situation that we are in today”.Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Raut said, “A few senior BJP leaders in Delhi were preaching to us that the Covid has nothing to do with the elections. They were saying that Covid cases were rising in states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh where there were no elections. This was not correct. The people from across the country were mobilised in West Bengal for campaigning and returned to their states which led to a surge in Covid cases,” he added.Countering the allegation, Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “Maharashtra government has failed on all counts including tackling the Covid outbreak in the state. The Shiv Sena and other two parties daily come up with different ideas to blame the Centre for their failure.”Raut added that even though the court has blamed the EC, the Centre is planning to give former CEC Sunil Arora, who is tipped to be the next governor of Goa, a “return gift”. He said, “The Madras HC said that the EC should be held responsible [for spreading the virus]. PM Narendra Modi, who has now been taking the Covid seriously, will certainly take the Madras HC’s remarks seriously. But I have heard in the last few days that the government is planning to reward the retired election commissioner, under whose tenure the elections were held, by appointing him as a governor. However, we trust Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/poll-rallies-led-to-covid-spread-sena-alleges-bjp-blames-maharashtra-govt-for-its-failure-101619549851329.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Vaccine for 18-44 age group at private centres only||To prevent overcrowding at Covid-19 vaccination centres in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided that starting May 1, the government and civic vaccination centres will vaccinate only citizens over 45 years of age, while those in the 18 to 44 years age group will be vaccinated at private hospitals. Further, vaccination for them will be done only through appointments, and no walk-in vaccination will be allowed. However, the decision on who will have to pay and who would get the vaccine for free will be decided by the state government.According to the civic body, the citizens in 45 years and above age group will be vaccinated at 63 government and BMC-run vaccination centres and can also opt for private vaccination centres. Those in the 18-44 age group will have to go to 73 private hospital-run vaccination centres.The civic body is also in the process to increase the vaccination centres from the current 134 to 389 to cater to the growing number of people to be vaccinated. The new arrangement for different centres for different age groups may change at a later stage, said civic officials. The vaccination for the age group between 18 to 44 is likely to kick off from Saturday.The BMC, on Tuesday, also announced that it is in touch with vaccine manufacturers directly to procure vaccine doses for the city.On Tuesday, the single-day highest 72,606 citizens were vaccinated in the city.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday directed civic officials to identify locations for additional 227 vaccination centres in the city. The above decisions were taken by Chahal in a video conferencing meeting with health department officials and all 24 ward officials in the city.The 227 additional vaccine centres can be local health posts of the BMC, nursing homes, private hospitals, community/marriage and party halls. All the ward officials are directed to be prepared with the list of such locations in the next two days. Chahal has also directed that these centres should have tie-up with local hospitals nearby where citizens will be rushed in case of any adverse effect, said civic officials.However, a decision on whether citizens between 18 to 45 years of age will have to pay up for the vaccination or not will be decided by the state government, post a decision on pricing. The BMC official added, “We have been directed to sign a memorandum of understanding (MOU)’s with nursing homes and hospitals nearby the vaccination centres. This means if we have a vaccination centre in our health post or say marriage hall, the MOU will cover the individual who may require hospitalisation post-vaccination. The hospital or nursing home should be located nearby the vaccination, and the individual reporting adverse effect post-vaccination will be rushed there.”A BMC official who attended the meeting said, “The plan, for now, is to vaccinate 18 to 44 years of age group only at private vaccination centres based on appointments. This arrangement will remain for now to ensure there is no crowding at vaccination centres. In the coming days, we will add 26 private vaccination centres that will take the count to 99.”Currently, the city has around 136 vaccination centres including 63 run by the civic body and government as 73 by private hospitals. The civic body will add 227 more centres (one centre in each electoral ward) and allow 26 more at private hospitals, which would mean there will be 389 vaccination centres in the city.The civic body aims to start around 500 vaccination centres in the city.Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar had told HT last week, “We are planning to have nearly 500 centres in the city for vaccination, and the same will be implemented with the help of corporators.”The BMC has also appealed to housing societies and corporate offices to tie up with private hospitals and get vaccinated in bulk once the stock arrives, BMC said in a statement.The BMC in its statement added that in the coming days additional 26 hospitals will be added to the list taking the total number of private vaccination centres from 73 to 99. Also, the BMC is going to set up a cold storage facility for the storage of vaccine doses in Andheri that will supply to the western suburbs. Currently, Kanjurmarg cold storage facility can store 12 million vaccine doses. Additionally, there is a storage facility for storing vaccine doses in Dadar for the island city and central Mumbai.According to BMC officials, it will take a call on whether to float global bids and procure vaccine doses directly from the state government once the state issues guidelines on the same. It is in touch with the two manufacturers namely Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech who are currently authorised to manufacture Covid-19 vaccines in India.Meanwhile, on Tuesday 72,606 citizens were vaccinated of which 2,484 were health care workers, 3,720 were frontline workers, 37,208 were senior citizens above the age of 60 and 291,94 were citizens in the age group of 45 to 59. Overall, since January 16, 2,355,215 citizens have been vaccinated in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vaccine-for-18-44-age-group-at-private-centres-only-101619549431208.html
28-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 3,999 cases, 59 deaths||Mumbai on Tuesday reported 3,999 Covid-19 cases, the lowest reported in a day since over a month ago. On March 23, Mumbai reported 3,514 new Covid-19 cases. On March 24, Mumbai reported 5,190 cases, marking the start of the upward trend of cases. The highest number of cases reported so far in Mumbai in a single day is 11,206 cases on April 4, 2021. On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 59 Covid deaths. The total case tally has gone up to 635,483 and the toll to 12,920. There are 68,603 active cases in the city at present. Tuesday’s number of cases is also a result of 30,428 Covid-19 tests conducted in Mumbai, on Monday, with a positivity rate of 13.14%. This is in comparison to 23,650 tests conducted on March 22, that reflected March 23rd’s cases. Since the beginning of the Covid-19 outbreak in Mumbai, the highest number of Covid-19 cases have been reported in the age group between 30 and 39 years - 118,749, which contribute to 18% of the total cases, and the highest number of deaths have been reported in the age group of 60 to 69 years - 3,660, which contribute 28% to the total number of deaths due to Covid-19, according to data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). This age-wise bifurcation is available for 627,657 cases and 12,783 deaths, figures until April 25, 2021 show: The age group of 0 to 9 years contributes to 1.6% (10,448 cases) of the total cases reported in the pandemic so far; 10 to 19 years contributes to 4.3% (27,124 cases) of the total number of cases; 20 to 29 years contributes to 15% (94,645 cases) of the total cases; 40 to 49 years contributes to 17.3% (108,841) of the total cases; 50 to 59 years contributes to 17.2% (108,123 cases) of the total cases; 60 to 69 years contributes to 12% (76,136 cases) of the total cases; 70 to 79 years contributes to 6.5% (40,864 cases) of the total cases; 80 to 89 years contributes to 2.2% (14,349 cases), and 90 years and above to 0.3% (2263 cases) of total Covid-19 cases. However, the highest case fatality rate (CFR) - which is the number of deaths as a per cent of the total number of cases - has been reported in the age group of 80 to 89 years - 10.2%. This age group has reported a total of 1,472 deaths, and 14,349 Covid-19 cases. The age group of 90 years and above has reported a CFR of 8.6%, with 196 and 2,263 cases. CFR in the age group of 70-79 years is 7.4%, which has reported 3044 deaths; followed by 4.8% in the age group of 60 to 69 years. On the contrary, mortality in children is 0.16% in the age group of 0 to 9 years and 0.12% in the age group of 10 to 19 years. Data available from October 2020, shows that the bulk of Mumbai’s Covid-19 patients were in the age group of 50 to 59 years - 45,779 cases, followed by 30 to 39 years - 42,433 cases. Until October 2020, the highest number of deaths were reported in the age group of 60 to 69 years - 2,789 deaths. The fatality rate was the highest in the age group of 70 to 79 years, which recorded 2,181 deaths of the total 17,009 cases, with a case fatality rate of 12.8%. This was followed by patients in the 60 to 69 age group, which recorded 2,789 deaths in 32,483 cases, with a case fatality rate of 8.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-3-999-cases-59-deaths-101619549311182.html
