29-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs 66,159 Covid-19 cases, 771 deaths; 68,537 recover||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 66,159 fresh coronavirus cases and 771 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 45,39,553 and the toll to 67,985, the state health department said.Also, 68,537 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the number of recoveries to 37,99,266, a health department official said.Maharashtra now has 6,70,301 active cases, he said.Of the 771 fatalities, 383 occurred in the last 48 hours and 165 during the last week. The remaining 223 deaths had occurred in the period before the last week, but were added to the toll now as part of a data reconciliation exercise, the official explained.With 2,88,213 new coronavirus tests, the number of samples examined so far in Maharashtra has gone up to 2,68,16,075, the official said.Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate stood at 83.69 per cent, while the fatality rate was 1.5 per cent, the department said.The case positivity rate - proportion of samples that showed positive result among the total tested - was 16.93 per cent.Mumbai recorded 4,174 new cases and 82 deaths, raising the overall tally to 6,44,583 and the toll to 13,036.The Mumbai division, including Mumbai city and its satellite towns, recorded 11,344 fresh cases and 144 deaths, taking the coronavirus caseload to 13,59,739 and the toll to 23,159, the official said.In the division, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation reported 17 deaths, Thane city 15 and Panvel city 11, the official said.The Nashik division reported 9,967 new cases and 129 fresh deaths. In the division, Ahmednagar district recorded 2,117 cases followed by 1,754 in Nashik district and 1,161 in Nandurbar district.Out of 129 fresh deaths in the Nashik division, 26 occurred in Nandurbar district, 24 in Ahmednagar district and 20 in Nashik district, the official said.The Pune division saw 16,470 fresh infections, including 5,097 in Pune city, 4,332 in rural areas of Pune district, 2,457 in Pimpri-Chinchwad industrial township, 2,089 in Solapur district and 2,175 in Satara district, he said.Thus, Pune city (4,332) reported more Covid-19 cases than Mumbai city (4,174).Of 214 fatalities in the Pune division, 94 occurred in Pune city followed by 36 in other parts of Pune district, 32 in Satara district, 27 in Solapur city and 16 in Pimpri- Chinchwad, he said.The Kolhapur division added 3,436 new cases and 53 deaths. Among the deaths, 19 occurred in Sangli district, 14 in Kolhapur and 12 in Sindhudurg district, the official said.The Aurangabad division reported 3,577 fresh Covid-19 infections and 57 fatalities. Of the total deaths, most came from Aurangabad city and Jalna district (18 each), he said.The Latur division reported 4,376 cases along with 38 deaths, of which 16 occurred inBeed district, he said.The caseload in the Akola division went up by 4,320 - of which 1,487 and 1,131 were added by Yavatmal and Buldhana districts, respectively.Of the total 40 fatalities in the Akola division, 16 occurred in Yavatmal district and 15 in Washim district.The Nagpur division registered 12,669 fresh infections, including 5,808 in Nagpur city, 2,967 in other parts of Nagpur district, 1,435 in Wardha and 1,106 in Bhandara district.The Nagpur division reported 96 deaths of which 42 occurred in Nagpur city and 23 in other parts of Nagpur district. Bhandara district registered 17 deaths, the official said.Currently, 41,19,759 people are in home quarantine, while 30,118 people are in institutional quarantine in Maharashtra, the health department said.Maharashtra's coronavirus figures as follows: Total cases 45,39,553, new cases 66,159, deaths 67,985, recoveries 37,99,266, active cases 6,70,301, people tested so far 2,68,16,075.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-logs-66-159-covid-19-cases-771-deaths-68-537-recover-101619716014417.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha minister’s district has 7,800 cases, got 30,000 Remdesivir vials, HC told||The Bombay high court ordered a top Maharashtra official to report the district-wise allocation of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and the basis on which this allocation had been made.The directions by the Nagpur bench of the high court came after being told that public health minister Rajesh Tope’s home district Jalna, which has just 7,800 active Covid-19 cases, received 30,000 vials for 7,600 active cases on Wednesday while Nagpur didn’t get a single vial though it has over 78,000 Covid positive patients.“In case he (state’s Nodal Officer) finds that more number of vials than what should have been sent to a particular district has been sent, the Nodal Officer shall withdraw the same from that district proportionately and send them to the districts which have been unjustly and unequally deprived of these vials, and this would include Nagpur as well,” the high court bench comprising Justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote said.The officer has been told to report compliance to the court order by Friday afternoon. The bench was hearing a suo-motu public interest litigation that blames the state government for mismanagement of the resources.Indian Medical Association (IMA) lawyer Shreerang Bhandarkar, who was appointed amicus curiae (friend of the court), told the high court that the Centre had initially allotted 2.69 lakh Remdesivir vials for Maharashtra for April 21-30. This allocation was enhanced to 4.35 lakh on April 24.Considering the number of active cases, Nagpur district should have received 49,177 vials during the nine days, but only received a fraction of this figure. In contrast, Jalna district received 30,000 vials of Remdesivir vials on Wednesday from one or two pharmaceutical companies, he said.Bhandarkar said according to their calculations based on the number of active patients, the per day quota of these vials for Jalna district is 598 vials which would translate into 5,980 vials over a 10-day period. But it received 30,000 vials yesterday.Lawyer Tushar Mandelkar said Nagpur hadn’t received a single vial on some days during this 10-day period leading to a precarious situation.Ketaki Joshi, the government pleader in-charge, however, told the court that the nodal officer had not passed an allocation order for the districts and blamed the central government and pharma companies for the shortage of the drug.In response, the high court asked the state government to come up with the details of the allocation of the antiviral drug among districts, the backlog of vials from pharmaceutical companies and the steps taken to procure the drug from the seven pharmaceutical companies by Friday.The judges also reiterated its previous order of finalising district-wise allotment in a just and equitable manner and asked the nodal officer to also report if pharma companies were deliberately dragging their feet on supplying Remdesivir to the state or particular districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-minister-s-district-has-7-800-cases-got-30-000-remdesivir-vials-hc-told-101619710184147.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid: Maharashtra extends lockdown-like restrictions till May 15||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended till May 15 the existing lockdown-like restrictions enforced to stem the spread of Covid-19 in the state.An order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said the decision to extend the restrictions has been taken as the state continued to be threatened with the spread of Covid-19.It was imperative to continue the emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of the virus, he said.The sweeping curbs on movement of people and a host of other activities, imposed early this month, were to continue till 7 am on May 1.The restrictions were further tightened on April 14 and then last week, brining more activities under their ambit.Prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC, banning assembly of five or more people at one spot, are in force.Local train services in Mumbai and public transport are open only for essential services staff of the government.At present, vegetable shops, grocery stores and milk outlets are allowed to function only between 7 am and 11 am.Essential services have been exempted from the purview of the curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-maharashtra-extends-lockdown-like-restrictions-till-may-15-101619706340267.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai T20 League deferred due to Covid, says Mumbai Cricket Association||The Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) on Thursday decided to postpone the T20 Mumbai League due to the spike in Covid-19 cases in the country, the cricket body said in a statement just a day after the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) approved the league.Milind Narvekar, the chairman of the T20 Mumbai governing council and a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, said he took the decision in consultation with MCA president Vijay Patil.“In the view of the current situation, president Vijay Patil and I, in my capacity as the Chairman, have taken the decision to not conduct the T20 Mumbai League till further notice. This is our way to reduce load on the state machinery and also make sure everyone is safe,” said Narvekar, who is also one of the secretaries of Shiv Sena.He added: “I spoke to Vijay Patil and he supported my decision which is a right one looking at the current circumstances.” Later, MCA issued a statement regarding deferring the third edition of the tournament. “In the view of the current Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country and keeping in mind the safety and interest of all the stakeholders involved, the Mumbai Cricket Association has decided to defer the conduct of third edition of the T20 Mumbai League till further notice,” read the statement which was signed by Narvekar and Patil.On Wednesday, BCCI had bent its own rule to allow four associations to organise their respective T20 leagues straight after the IPL finishes. According to the BCCI rules, local T20 tournaments can’t be held 15 days before or 15 days after the IPL and also between September 15 and end of February as BCCI domestic tournaments are held during this period. In an email to the state associations, BCCI interim CEO Hemang Amin stated: “Your request for organising the tournament falls within the 15-day period after the IPL 2021. The issue was discussed at the Apex Council meeting of the BCCI and after some deliberations it was decided that owing to the current Covid-19 pandemic situation, the BCCI is giving permission to organise the tournament within the 15-day period after the completion of IPL 2021.” The mail added: “The BCCI is pleased to grant you approval to organise the tournament for the year 2021. You are instructed to adhere to the advisory and guidelines issued by BCCI in this regard. We reiterate that this is a one-time permission provided due to the pandemic situation and is not the norm,” the BCCI official wrote. Besides MCA, the other associations who have been given permission are Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Saurashtra. Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) schedule was released later in the day with the tournament to be held from June 4 to July 4. The MCA had applied for permission when the Covid situation in the city was still considered to be under control.According to people familiar with the matter, MCA had proposed to start the tournament by June 4 if there weren’t too many Covid-19 cases in the city. The plan was to follow the biosecure bubble protocols that were in place during the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, Vijay Hazare Trophy and the IPL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-t20-league-deferred-due-to-covid-says-maharashtra-cricket-association-101619701663108.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Create provision for oxygen tanks on campus’: National Medical Commission to medical colleges||Amid oxygen shortage and rising Covid-19 cases across the country, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has made draft amendments to their existing rules, henceforth making it compulsory for medical college hospitals to set up Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen units in their campuses. As per the latest circular released by the NMC, the arrangements have to be made within the next six months.Addressed to all affiliated medical institutions in the country, the NMC statement revealed that this move is being introduced through a draft amendment made to the Minimum Requirements for Annual MBBS Admissions Regulations.“Central oxygen and suction points shall include the provision of piped oxygen supply to all patients in critical care from liquid oxygen tanks installed at an appropriate place in the hospital complex,” said the circular released on April 28. The circular further stated that all medical college hospitals should have a “dedicated PSA technology produced oxygen supply in addition to the supply from liquid oxygen tanks, which is installed and made operational within six months”.This move comes days after the central government recently asked respective state governments to make captive oxygen a norm in medical colleges in the future. At present, Maharashtra has more than 60 medical colleges offering undergraduate medical programs.“Most medical colleges in the state already have an oxygen generation unit on campus and we are now going to make sure that all colleges install the PSA technology for future needs,” said TP Lahane, director of the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/create-provision-for-oxygen-tanks-on-campus-national-medical-commission-to-medical-colleges-101619694522886.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to hear plea seeking uniform price of Covid-19 vaccines||The Bombay High Court on Thursday refused to hear a PIL seeking a direction to the Serum Institute of India and the Bharat Biotech to sell their Covid-19 vaccines at a uniform rate of ₹150 (plus GST) per dose.The public interest litigation (PIL), filed last week by Mumbai-based advocate Fayzan Khan and three law students, had challenged the different rates of Covid-19 vaccines for the Centre and state governments.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The plea was mentioned on Thursday by the petitioner's advocate, Vivek Shukla, before a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni, seeking urgent hearing.The HC, however, said the petition should have been filed before the Supreme Court which, while taking up suo motu (on its own) cognisance of matters pertaining to Covid-19, had said it would hear all pan-India issues."The Supreme Court has said issues that have pan-India effect will be dealt with by them and pricing is a phenomenon applicable all over India. We are not entertaining it (PIL) as the apex court has fairly covered it," the court said.The HC also said the pricing of Covid-19 vaccines is a universal issue that concerns the whole nation and hence, the petitioners should approach the Supreme Court.Advocate Shukla agreed and said the petition would be withdrawn.The PIL, filed on April 24, said the Covid-19 vaccine is presumed to be an essential commodity and hence, its management and distribution cannot be left in the hands of private companies."These pharma giants are milking the fear psychosis of the increased death rates due to COVID-19," it said.Under the third phase of the national vaccination drive commencing next month, the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the central government and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market, the government had said."In a situation where the entire country is gripped with the Covid-19 pandemic, price control by the government is a must and such kind of loot and blackmail should not be permitted," the PIL said.The petition further said the Serum Institute of India (SII) was selling its 'Covishield' vaccine at ₹150 (plus GST) per dose to the Centre, ₹400 to state governments and ₹600 to private hospitals.On Wednesday, the SII announced that it would reduce the price of its vaccine from ₹400 to ₹300 per dose to the state governments.The Bharat Biotech has fixed the rate of its vaccine, 'Covaxin', at ₹600 for state governments and ₹1,200 for private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-hear-plea-seeking-uniform-price-of-covid-19-vaccines-101619681930562.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccine back in stock in Mumbai, vaccination to begin at 12 noon: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received a fresh stock of Covishield vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday night following which it will be distributed at the vaccination centres, resuming the inoculation drive from the afternoon, news agency ANI reported on Thursday.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“Good News Mumbai! We are receiving a fresh stock of #Covishield tonight to be distributed only in Gov & MCGM hospitals/ centres (not Pvt) tomorrow morning. So, all Gov & MCGM, CVCs will be functional but only post 12 PM See you getting #Vaccinated #MyBMCVaccinationUpdate,” the Mumbai civic body said in a tweet on Wednesday evening after it was announced that 40 out of 73 private Covid-19 vaccination centres in the city will remain closed on Thursday due to insufficient vaccines stock.The crucial development comes at a time when Maharashtra is witnessing a massing surge in daily Covid-19 cases, which has also prompted the state government to consider extended the statewide lockdown by 15 days till May 15. On Wednesday, overall cases in the state witnessed a jump of 63,309 cases whereas Mumbai reported 4,926 fresh cases.Maharashtra has announced free vaccination for all in the age group of 18-44 years in the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive that begins on May 1. It would cost the state government ₹6,500 crore to vaccinate around 57.1 million citizens in this age group. The state, however, has said that it will not be able to roll out the phase 3 of the drive on May 1 for want of enough stock, adding that the drive will be rolled out as per the availability of the vaccine."We are all eager to know whether the vaccination will start from May 1. The answer is that the vaccination will not start from May 1. The reason is that (sufficient vaccines) are not available immediately with us today itself," the state’s health minister Rajesh Tope earlier said.He added that the state shall form a committee that includes health department representatives and some senior ministers to do micro-planning about implementing the vaccination programme. The panel will discuss if people can be categorised into 18-25, 25-35 and 35-44 age groups for inoculation.” The committee will discuss whether the 35-44 age group can be vaccinated first or those with co-morbidities among these will be inoculated first," he said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will hold a meeting on the immunisation campaign later in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vaccine-back-in-stock-in-mumbai-vaccination-to-begin-at-12-noon-bmc-101619676808876.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM to hold meeting on Covid-19 vaccination drive||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will on Thursday chair a meeting on Covid-19 vaccination drive via video conferencing, news agency ANI reported. This comes a day after Thackeray announced that the state has decided to vaccinate citizens in the age group of 18 to 44 against the coronavirus disease free of cost in government-run hospitals.Interacting with reporters, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the state will cover 5.71 crore citizens from this age group and it would cost ₹6,500 crore to the government.Tope, however, said the vaccination drive beginning May 1 cannot be launched in the state due to unavailability of sufficient number of vaccine doses. But the state government plans to vaccinate the citizens in the next six months in a planned manner, he added.Tope stated that people in the age group of 18 to 44 years will receive free vaccines at state-run centres, but they will have to pay for the jabs at private facilities."We are all eager to know whether the vaccination will start from May 1. The answer is that the vaccination will not start from May 1. The reason is that (sufficient vaccines) are not available immediately with us today itself," he said."...we are going to vaccinate for free. But we (18 to 44 age group citizens) will have to go about it with patience and sensibly. Using the Co-WIN app is compulsory. You will have to take an appointment and register yourself first," Tope added.He further said that a committee comprising health department representatives and some senior ministers will be formed to do micro-planning about implementing the vaccination programme."The committee will think whether people from the age group can be categorised into 18-25, 25-35 and 35-44 age groups. The committee will discuss whether the 35-44 age group can be vaccinated first or those with co-morbidities among these will be inoculated first," he added.Tope said that centres meant for vaccinating citizens from 18-44 age group will be separate from the ones meant for 45 and above age category. "We need not hurry and congregate...We will have to take care that the vaccination centres do not turn into Covid-19 spreading centres," he said.Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 63,309 new coronavirus cases and 985 deaths, the state health department said. It took the tally of infections in the state to 44,73,394 and the death toll to 67,214.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-hold-meeting-on-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101619671894147.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Severe weather warning for Maharashtra, heavy rain likely in areas bordering Karnataka||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded a severe weather alert for Maharashtra over the next four days, with parts of Marathwada, Madhya Maharashtra and Vidarbha likely to receive heavy showers and hailstorms. A spokesperson with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai cautioned that thunderstorm activity in interior Maharashtra will likely intensity between May 29 and May 2. “Thunderstorm with lightning, rain and gusty winds,” are to be expected in these regions.Mumbai and Palghar districts, though expected to remain ‘dry’ as per IMD’s forecast, will continue to see drizzles and cloudy weather till at least May 2, officials said on Wednesday. The rest of the Konkan coast, however, will see rain and thundershowers.Formation of thunderclouds was observed via satellite imagery on Wednesday evening over interior Maharashtra, including Pune district, which has been slotted under a ‘yellow’ alert -- indicating a chance of severe weather -- till May 2. Sangli, Latur, Osamanabad, Kohlapur, Solapur districts are expected to receive the highest levels of precipitation and have been placed under ‘orange’ alert, indicating that these areas need to prepare for the possibility of heavy rainfall over the next four days. Beed district, which abuts Osmanabad, Latur and Solapur, has been placed under ‘orange’ alert for May 2 only, and is under ‘yellow’ alert for all preceding days.“We have already seen episodes of heavy rain, strong winds of up to 30 kilometres per hour, and hailstorms in parts of the state this week. There is an intensifying low-level wind discontinuity over parts of Central India, which will result in thunderstorms. A north-south trough is also running from Central to south India, which will bring heavy rain to some parts of Maharashtra, particularly those bordering or close to Karnataka,” said a spokesperson with IMD’s regional centre in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/severe-weather-warning-for-maharashtra-heavy-rain-likely-in-areas-bordering-karnataka-101619673221532.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||CBI records statement of IPS officer in Anil Deskhmukh graft case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has recorded senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rashmi Shukla’s statement in connection with the probe into the corruption allegation by former police commissioner Param Bir Singh against former home minister Anil Deshmukh.Confirming the development, a senior officer in the central agency said Shukla’s statement was recorded in Hyderabad by a CBI team related to the case on April 21.Earlier, the CBI had recorded the statement of Deshmukh and his two personal assistants (PAs), Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde. The agency also recorded the statement of suspended cop Sachin Vaze and two of his drivers among several others in connection with the case.Meanwhile, Shukla failed to turn up at the cyber department of Mumbai Police on Wednesday for questioning in connection with the alleged illegal phone tapping case.The IPS officer, who is presently posted in Hyderabad on Central Reserve Police force (CRPF) deputation, was asked to appear before assistant commissioner of police (Cyber) Nitin Jadhav.Citing the Covid-19 pandemic and her present responsibility in CRPF, Shukla, in an email, told cyber police that she will not be able to appear for the probe and requested that a list of questions be instead sent to her to avoid any delay.An FIR was registered under the Official Secrets Act at the BKC cyber police station against unidentified persons for allegedly tapping phones illegally and leaking certain confidential documents on the complaint filed by the State Intelligence Department.The FIR also invoked section 30 of the Indian Telegraph Act and section 43(B) of the Information Technology Act.The alleged tapping of phones had taken place when Shukla headed the Maharashtra intelligence department.BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had cited a letter purportedly written by Shukla to the then Director General of Police about alleged corruption in police transfers. The letter also had details of intercepted calls, leading to an uproar with leaders of the Shiv Sena-led ruling coalition alleging that Shukla tapped phones without permission.Before registration of the FIR, Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte had alleged in a report submitted to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that it appears that Shukla herself had leaked the confidential report (to Fadnavis).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-records-statement-of-ips-officer-in-anil-deskhmukh-graft-case-101619656324749.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to extend lockdown till May 15||The Maharashtra government has decided to extend the full lockdown, likely to be another 15 days — till May 15. A decision to extend the lockdown was taken in the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday but the duration is yet to be decided. The state government is expected to issue an order to this effect in next two days.“The issue of extending lockdown was discussed in the state cabinet meeting and all the ministers were of the view that it should be extended to break the transmission chain. It is likely to be extended by 15 days, but the decision on the number of days will be taken by April 30,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.He was talking to reporters after a state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. The ongoing lockdown is ending on May 1 at 7am.Tope also said the lockdown has helped in stabilisation of daily Covid-19 cases. “Lockdown has brought stability in cases to some extent as there were concerns that daily figures will cross the 70,000 mark, which is not happening as of now. The daily cases are hovering around the 60,000 mark. We are hoping that this was the peak of the second wave in the state and daily cases will start declining from here,” the health minister.On April 22, the state government decided to impose full lockdown across Maharashtra. The decision was taken considering no decline in daily Covid-19 cases despite a partial lockdown that was imposed in the state on April 14.Currently, people can’t step out, unless they need medical attention or are working in an essential sector or want to buy essential commodities that, too, under restricted timings — between 7am and 11am. While local train and metro train travel have been restricted to essential sectors, other public transport modes such as buses have been allowed to ply but at 50% of the sitting capacity. Stricter curbs have been imposed on inter-district or inter-city travel, including 14-day quarantine. Attendance in government and exempted-category offices have also been reduced to 15%, while those coming under essential category have been allowed to work at maximum 50% capacity.“Daily cases are not going up, but they are also not coming down, which is a cause for concern for all of us. The same was discussed in the cabinet meeting and it was decided that the lockdown will have to be extended else things may go out of control,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity.The health minister also said the situation will come under control in less time if people will start following Covid protocols strictly. “Besides, the state government has also decided to bring herd immunity in the people by undertaking a large-scale vaccination drive in the state,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-likely-to-extend-lockdown-till-may-15-101619644645952.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar discharged from hospital after eight days||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was discharged from the Breach Candy Hospital on Wednesday. He was advised by the doctors to take complete rest for the next few days. He was at the hospital for the last eight days.“Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb has been discharged from hospital today and is in good health. He will be resting at home as advised by his doctors,” tweeted Nawab Malik, minority affairs minister and chief spokesperson of NCP on Wednesday.On April 25, Pawar was operated for a mouth ulcer. He was admitted to the hospital for a postoperative procedure that was conducted on April 21. Before that, he had undergone gallbladder surgery after being diagnosed with multiple stones in the gallbladder on April 12. Pawar underwent laparoscopic surgery (keyhole surgery) which requires a minimal invasive surgical procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-discharged-from-hospital-after-eight-days-101619641539116.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||25K kids out of school or have not gone to school ever in Maha: Survey||More than 25,000 students in Maharashtra have either not gone to school ever or have been out of school due to their inability to attend classes, data compiled by a state-organised survey has revealed. This includes 10,820 (43%) students from Mumbai city and suburbs. Responding to concerns around dropouts during the last few months due to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, the state education department had launched a drive between March 1 and 10 to identify out-of-school students across the state. Officials in the education department and staff members and teachers of schools in the state undertook a survey of students in their localities to collate this data. Of the 36 districts, data could be collected in 33 districts. Districts such as Amravati, Aurangabad and Buldhana could not be surveyed due to rising Covid-19 infections during the time. As per the data, only 288 students were found engaged in child labour, while 1,212 students could not attend, as they were children with special needs. The education department now plans to come up with guidelines to ensure all these students are re-enrolled into schools. Students who have never gone to school and those who have not attended regularly are considered to be out-of-school students as per the survey. As per data shared by the education department, more than 14,000 students have migrated from the state to other states, of which majority students – 8,801 are from Mumbai city and suburbs. In all, over 10,000 students have migrated from Mumbai to other districts or states as per the data. During the lockdown, data shows an in-migration of 7784 students in the state. Experts said numbers that have come out of the survey cannot be taken seriously, as they are underreported. “The number seems to be severely underreported. We need to understand that the survey was conducted in a situation where it was not safe to conduct door-to-door surveys. Hence, we do not know if the teachers and staff members have been able to reach each student,” said Ghanshyam Sonar, convenor of the All-India RTE forum. Sonar said in the coming days, the government should devise a mechanism wherein students and parents themselves will be able to register the fact they are not able to attend schools. “A phone number can be created where students or parents can give a missed call and then details of such students can be checked and reported. The drive however should be widely popularised to get a more realistic figure,” he added. Heramb Kulkarni, a Pune-based educationist, said, “It is unbelievable that the number of out-of-school students and those engaged in child labour can be this low. Year after year, these surveys happen and realistic numbers never come forward. The government should engage NGOs and other organisations working on the grassroots if it really wishes to get a real picture of out of school students and act towards bringing them back into schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/25k-kids-out-of-school-or-have-not-gone-to-school-ever-in-maha-survey-101619641479112.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Videos emerge of verbal abuse: IIT KGP professor apologises; SC commission initiates an investigation||Three days after a video emerged of a professor of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur (IIT KGP) verbally abusing a preparatory class for students belonging to the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes categories and those with physical disabilities, she has now apologised to the students. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and initiated an inquiry. On Wednesday morning, Seema Singh, an associate professor from the department of humanities and social sciences at IIT KGP, wrote an email to the students apologising for her behaviour. The recordings, which are under review of the institute, were posted on Sunday afternoon anonymously on the confessions page of IIT KGP, an informal group of students on social media. The recordings are reportedly of the online preparatory classes taught by Seema, professor of English, which were attended by over 100 students and parents. In it, she can be heard repeatedly hurling abuses at them. “I am writing this to express my sincerest apology for what happened last week. It was not my intention to hurt anyone… It was never the slightest intention to be discriminatory towards any segment of the student community,” said Seema in her email, which has been reviewed by HT. Despite repeated attempts, she was unavailable for comment.In her email to the students, Singh said she ‘went overboard’ as she was under stress, which attributed to her testing positive for Covid-19. “I feel like this (the incident) may have been due to extreme stress of being Covid positive, suffering from poor health, social isolation, lack of any kind of support, and other incriminating personal factors which I cannot share,” she wrote.Institute director Tamal Nath said, “We want to reiterate that we do not support such behaviour. We have received a complaint from the students’ representatives and are reviewing the complaint. Once we verify the claims in the complaint, we will decide on the next course of action.” Nath confirmed that an official complaint has been made by Shivam Singh, officiating vice president of IIT KGP’s Students’ Gymkhana —an officially recognised student body—, however, Shivam did not respond to calls or messages. Science Education Group (SEG), a students’ forum at IIT KGP, stated on Wednesday: “There have also been previous unverified reports that state her (Seema’s) brazen and abusive behaviour with students. She has an alleged history of doing these things. One thing that can be concluded from all this is that primarily this is systematic power abuse, which often goes under the carpet and secondarily, underlines the casteist behaviour of the system…” The forum has demanded that Seema face disciplinary action and be terminated from her post. It has also demanded the creation of an autonomous body across all IITs which acts as a check towards the behaviour of professors towards students. “Our statement is addressed to students of the institute as well as the administration,” said a member of SEG, on the condition of anonymity. “Create SC/ST/OBC cells in all IITs which must be an autonomous body tied up with the NCSC, so that people from oppressed communities can go and express their grievances and concerns about caste-based harassment in confidence without having to worry about the repercussions because they tried to speak up,” said SEG. The demand for the creation of autonomous SC/ST/OBC cells resonated across campuses as the incident and Seema’s response has sparked outrage among the student community across various campuses of IIT as well as other institutes. At least five online petitions have been started by students and alumni of various institutes such as IIT Delhi, KGP, Bombay and Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. They seek action against Seema and the creation of safe spaces for students to speak about caste-based discrimination.“The initial shock and disbelief aside, what’s crucial to note is that this is not an isolated incident by any means. A narrative that is reiterated by the administrative authorities of these Institutes is that such incidences of caste atrocities are rare and that they don’t deserve too much attention… This incident compels us to look at the larger issue of reservations and the savarna concept of merit in higher education. The very nature of the prep course is based on the merit-based education system, wherein it is assumed that SC, ST, OBC students are not eligible to study in IITs as they are less “meritorious”, that they need a preparatory English course to enter this institution,” said the IIT-Bombay chapter of the Ambedkar Periyar Phule Study Circle, a student group with chapters across various IITs.At least five online petitions have been started by students and alumni of various institutes such as IIT Delhi, KGP, Bombay and Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. They seek action against Seema and the creation of safe spaces for students to speak about caste-based discrimination.Close to 850 alumni members of IIT KGP, ranging from batches in 1970s to 2020, have signed a petition demanding an unconditional apology from Seema as well as her termination. “IITs are already notoriously hostile to Dalit, Adivasi and backward caste students. It is evident from the videos that Professor Singh is a habitual offender and believes her casteism and abuse will go uncensured. We cannot allow this,” read the petition by alumni members addressed to the institute’s administration.Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the NCSC issued letters to the institute, union ministry of education, West Bengal government, and director-general of police, WB, informing them that the commission will now investigate the matter. “The commission has taken a suo-motu cognisance of use of unparliamentary language and casteist remarks made by professor Seema Singh… while taking a class of SC/ ST students… Her remarks have hurt the sentiments of many Indians, specifically the SC community,” the commission wrote. “The commission has taken note of the incident at IIT KGP. We have issued letters to the authorities and given them 15 days to respond to us with what action they have taken. Based on their responses we will take action,” said Ajit Kumar Sahu, director, NCSC. If the authorities fail to respond within the stipulated time, the commission may summon representatives for a hearing, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/videos-emerge-of-verbal-abuse-iit-kgp-professor-apologises-sc-commission-initiates-an-investigation-101619641419149.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Virar hospital fire was due to presence of alcohol from sanitiser, O2’||The blaze at Vijay Vallabh Hospital in Virar spread rapidly owing to the presence of alcohol in the air from excess use of sanitisers over months and oxygen in the intensive care unit (ICU), according to Nilesh Ukunde, fire engineer and private forensic expert from Nagpur, deputed by the divisional commissioner of Nagpur Municipal Corporation to study the fire in Virar. Meanwhile, the Vasai court on Wednesday remanded chief executive officer (CEO) Dr Dilip Bastimal Shah, 56, and director Dr Shailesh Dharamdev Pathak, 47, in judicial custody till April 30. Fifteen Covid-19 patients were charred to death in the fire, last Friday. Ukunde was deputed to study the incident as it was similar to the fire that broke out at ICU at Wadi, Nagpur hospital, claiming four lives, on April 9. “The fire could have been avoided had the management used suction pumps to pump out the alcohol every eight hours. The process hardly takes two minutes. There was no cross-ventilation and the curtains were not fire-retardant. There was only one entry and exit point in the ICU, when there should have been a rear emergency door too,” said Ukunde. “The hospital did not have a water sprinkler system and how the fire audit was done is questionable. The local Vasai civic body and fire brigade, too, are to blame for giving the hospital fire clearance. The fire brigade personnel are trained only in firefighting and rescue of victims, but are not capable of conducting a fire audit, which involves detailed study of structural, electrical and even the paints, type of electrical switches to be used. The management follows what the architect, contractors and interior designers’ plan. Even if a small amount of alcohol settles inside the switchboard, it is enough to cause a huge fire,” said Ukunde. “The heat from the sparks in the air-conditioning unit led to the fire as it came in contact with alcohol and only two nurses in the nursing station were present and they called the management and wasted precious time and did not call the fire brigade,” he said, adding that the findings have been submitted to the Nagpur and Vasai civic bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/virar-hospital-fire-was-due-to-presence-of-alcohol-from-sanitiser-o2-101619641359125.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Mumbra hospital fire exit was blocked’||The fire in Prime Criticare hospital in Mumbra on Wednesday morning, which killed four patients in the intensive care unit (ICU), was a wake-up call for the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), which had claimed several times in the past few weeks that nearly all hospitals in their jurisdiction are “fire-compliant”. Prime Criticare Hospital is a 16-year-old structure, which was earlier known as Life Care Hospital and later Saboo Siddique. While the corporation claimed two notices were served to the said hospital, the last notice was served in February, after which there was no follow-up. Locals claimed there was only one exit and the fire exit, too, was blocked. “Although there was a fire exit on the premises, it was getting difficult to rescue, as the pathway was closed with storage material. We have served two notices to the hospital, however, there was no response,” said TM Mishra, fire chief, Mumbra. An officer from TMC said, “Over 70 per cent of the hospitals are in illegal buildings. We can’t seal all these hospitals, as patients need them. Moreover major structural changes for fire safety, too, are not possible owing to lack of space.” Despite repeated attempts, the hospital was unavailable for a comment. A local resident said, “The hospital is congested and fire exit was obstructed with storage material. There is one exit for patients. So we had to break open the grille of a window at the back of the hospital. Moreover there was only one staircase, the other was a ramp.” TMC officials on Tuesday held a meeting with all private hospitals, after which the fire department started sending notices to hospitals that were not fire-compliant. However, Prime Criticare was yet to receive a notice. Girish Zalke, chief fire officer, said, “We often give enough opportunities to hospitals to submit their fire compliance. Owing to the current medical situation, we could not take drastic measures. The incident happened due to panel overheating. It is an accident that occurred due to electric faults on the premises.” As the fire audit was not conducted, the mandatory report from the electrical inspection was also not available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbra-hospital-fire-exit-was-blocked-101619641299751.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Railways suffer revenue loss of ₹1,274 crore due to lockdown||As local train services were suspended for nearly a year amid the surge in Covid-19 cases and resultant lockdown in 2020, the suburban railway suffered a loss of nearly ₹1,274 crore.With over eight million people travelling daily in Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the suburban train services are the biggest public transport system in the financial capital. All of 3,141 local train services were suspended from midnight of March 22, 2020; resulting in losses to Central and Western Railway.“The suburban local trains are always under losses particularly due to the low fares. The complete suspension of local train services has increased the loss for the suburban railway network. Loss of ₹600 crore on Central Railway and ₹674 crore on Western Railway was incurred in the entire year (2020-2021),” said a senior railway official on conditions of anonymity.Local train services for the general public were resumed by the Maharashtra government on February 1, 2021. Passengers were allowed to travel in stipulated timing from the first local train service till 7am; then between 12pm and 4pm; and from 9pm till the last local train service.Further, train services resumed partially for employees working in essential care services on June 15, 2020. However, with a limited number of train services, both the zonal railways continued to incur losses.“When a limited number of train services are operated, the manpower required to operate and maintenance of trains and tracks are required in its complete capacity. The operational loss was also incurred after services resumed partially.” said a senior Central Railway official.Local train services were suspended again on April 15 for the general public as a part of the Maharashtra government initiated Break The Chain lockdown measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-suffer-revenue-loss-of-1-274-crore-due-to-lockdown-101619641299161.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||FIR against Param Bir, 32 others under atrocities act||Late on Wednesday, a first information report was registered against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and 32 others in Akola city by police inspector BR Ghadge. Ghadge had recently written to the chief minister and home minister, levelling serious corruption allegations against Singh and sought an FIR. Singh did not respond to calls and messages, at the time of going to press.Ghadge, who is posted at the Akola city police control room, is from the Mahar community that comes under the scheduled caste category. He alleged in the FIR, a copy of which is with HT, that as he had not followed Singh’s illegal orders to benefit some accused in a 2013 Kalyan civic body criminal case, he [Singh] conspired with others and registered a criminal case against him in order to harass him as he was from a scheduled caste. Fifteen other officers who were posted in Thane police when Singh was commissioner there have also been named. Twenty-seven sections have been invoked, including those of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, Indian Penal Code, Maharashtra Police Act and Civil Rights Protection Act. Singh was shunted out as the city police commissioner last month in the aftermath of a bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, and the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-against-param-bir-32-others-under-atrocities-act-101619641241107.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Under pressure, hospitals expand infra, neglect fire safety||The recent spate of blazes in hospitals, which are under tremendous strain owing to the pandemic, have brought the focus on how fire safety is neglected on the premises. A fire in a Mumbra hospital on Wednesday morning killed four patients from the intensive care unit (ICU). Fire brigade officials have claimed short-circuit in the meter room to be the cause of the fire. M V Deshmukh, director, Fire Safe India Foundation and former director and fire advisor to the state government, said most of the hospitals have strained their electrical load capacity, especially in the pandemic. “Hospitals have been adding ventilators, air-conditioning units and electrical equipment indiscriminately without enhancing their load. The electrical infrastructure has not been refurnished to meet this enhanced load and all these factors are bound to backfire. More patients mean more use of power and this is playing havoc,” he said.Last week, 15 people lost their lives in a fire at a private hospital in Virar. The fire brigade was called 43 minutes after the first spark was noticed, wasting precious time. A massive fire broke out on the first floor of the Dreams Mall at Bhandup late on March 25 which spread to the third floor, which housed a Covid hospital, claiming nine lives. A Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) inspection carried out last October pointed that the building’s manual fire alarm and automatic smoke detector system were not functioning. There were 23 observations that signalled flouting of fire safety norms in the building, including the absence of alternative electrical supply and rusty pipes in the firefighting system. Namdeo Sable, proprietor, Sai Industries, which have been conducting fire and electrical audits for 19 years, said, “Fires are mainly due to the glitches in electricity and this aspect is neglected by the hospital administration. They appoint unlicensed electricians who hardly have any technical knowledge and cut corners. Audit reports should be used to rectify the errors, but here it is more of an eyewash.” Deshmukh said lack of evacuation plans is another issue. “In Virar, they could have saved at least 10 of the 15 patients had there been a plan in place,” said Deshmukh. Deshmukh warns that jumbo Covid-19 centres are also at a risk.“Most big hospitals have regular fire mock drills and an evacuation plan,” said the senior administrator of a hospital in south Mumbai. Most others refused to comment. State urban development minister Eknath Shinde said hospitals have been told to conduct both fire and oxygen audits and rectify the errors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/under-pressure-hospitals-expand-infra-neglect-fire-safety-101619641239131.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees sharpest one-day toll of 985 Covid-19 deaths||With 985 deaths, Maharashtra reported its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 fatalities for the second consecutive day, taking the toll to 67,214. The state also added 63,309 infections, taking the tally to 4,473,394. Active cases stood at 673,481. Although cases saw a slight dip last week with a lockdown, the state has seen a 71% increase in deaths from the previous week. A week after Maharashtra announced a lockdown from April 22, the weekly growth of infections has seen a dip. Between April 15 and April 21, the state recorded 387,972 cases, which came down to 378,554 between April 22 and April 28. Deaths, however, increased in the period. In the past seven days, Maharashtra saw 4,735 deaths, a 71.29% increase from the previous week — 2,758 deaths. A senior health official said it would be early to gauge the impact of lockdown. “The state had imposed a curfew from April 13, which got a mild response from people. This slight dip could because of that. We will know the impact of lockdown in the next week,” he said.Meanwhile, the state cabinet on Wednesday has decided to extend the lockdown by 15 days from May 1. A formal order is expected to be issued by April 30, senior officials said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services and advisor to the state government on Covid-19, said some decline is seen, but it is not a trend. “Mumbai, Pune and a few places are showing a decline, but it has to sustain for a couple of weeks. Every wave has a fluctuation. So, whether this is a trend or minor low we cannot say,” he said. On Wednesday, Mumbai showed higher case-count with 4,926 new infections. The city recorded under 4,000-cases on April 26 and 27. However, the positivity rate was much lower compared last week at 12.58%. Mumbai also recorded 78 deaths to take its death toll to 12,954. Mumbai has 67,984 active cases. Pune district topped the districts with 169 fatalities, of which 117 came from Pune city. Thane district reported 91 deaths, Nagpur saw 83 deaths, and Aurangabad 81 fatalities. Nashik and Nandurbar reported 41 and 43 deaths, respectively. Satara reported 38, Yavatmal and Ahmednagar districts saw 32 deaths each, while Latur reported 31 deaths. Of the 985 deaths reported on Wednesday, 392 occurred in the past 48 hours and 251 in the last week. The remaining 342 deaths are from the period before last week, the health department said. As the state has been clocking over 800 deaths for the past three days, high death rate noted in some rural areas, according to a presentation given to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday on the Covid situation. Sindhudurg district’s weekly case fatality rate (CFR) has risen from 1.1% between April 12 and 18 to 3.66% between April 19 and 25. Nanded district has seen as similar rise in CFR from 1.46% to 3.46% during the same period. Osmanabad, Solapur and Amravati districts too have seen a spike in fatality rate in the last two weeks. Dr Salunkhe added the administration and health department are trying their best to contain the deaths. “We are fighting shortage of oxygen and drugs. Unlike last year when the growth of cases was steady, this year we have seen cases mount in matter of a few weeks. Due to the sheer accelerated growth in cases, the death has increased,” he said. According to the data presented, the state’s weekly average increase in cases was 1.52%, which is down from 1.72% the previous week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-sharpest-one-day-toll-of-985-covid-19-deaths-101619640999108.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-19 vaccine for 18-44 age group at 227 new centres||After the Maharashtra government’s announcement on Wednesday that vaccination for all above 18 years of age will be free at government and civic facilities, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) stated that these beneficiaries can get vaccinated at 227 new municipal vaccination centres that will be opened across the city. The BMC had on Tuesday announced that vaccination for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group will only be done at private vaccination centres. State health minister Rajesh Tope said vaccination for the 18-44 age group was unlikely to start from May 1, but the civic body did not clarify its stand on Wednesday. To prevent crowding at vaccination centres, the BMC had on Wednesday announced that the beneficiaries would be vaccinated only at 73 private hospitals, while 63 BMC and government-run centres would cater to those above 45 years of age. Currently, there are 136 vaccination centres in Mumbai of which 73 are private, 46 are municipal, and 17 are state-run.Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday announced, “The existing 63 BMC and government centres will vaccinate beneficiaries above 45 years of age; 227 new BMC centres will be opened for all beneficiaries above age 18 years; presently 73 private vaccination centres will be increased to over 100 centres and will cater to vaccination of all beneficiaries above age 18 years.” Each of the 227 electoral wards in the city would have one vaccination centre in addition to 63 that are already being run by the BMC and state government. All these would be free vaccination centres. The opening of 227 new centres would take about a month, said civic officials. Paid vaccination is being done at 73 private hospitals which will continue and those in 18-44 age group can also get vaccinated there. However, the civic body had not officially announced the beginning of vaccination for the 18-44 age group till late on Wednesday. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department, said, “Infrastructure-wise, the BMC is ready to start administering vaccines to beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group from May 1, provided we get sufficient vaccine doses.”Meanwhile, vaccination will be affected on Thursday due to shortage of stock. The civic body’s vaccination centres will take in beneficiaries only after noon, while private hospital centres will remain closed. The BMC is expecting to receive more vaccine doses by Wednesday midnight. Forty of the 73 private vaccine centres will be closed due to shortage of stock. The remaining 33 private vaccination centres will be open only till stocks last. Owing to the shortage in vaccine doses, a BMC statement on Wednesday evening urged only those beneficiaries receiving their second dose to turn up at vaccination centres on Thursday. Kakani said, “We are expecting Mumbai to receive some doses of vaccine on Wednesday late night. These will then be distributed to municipal and government centres in the morning on Thursday, so normal vaccination can resume by noon on Thursday at municipal and government facilities.” Mumbai received 2,458,600 vaccine doses till April 25, of which 2,410,860 vaccine doses were utilised. Hence, 47,750 vaccine doses are available at respective centres at the end of Wednesday’s vaccination drive. On Wednesday, the BMC vaccinated 44,629 beneficiaries, of which 20,271 received the first dose of their vaccine, and 24,358 received the second dose of their vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-19-vaccine-for-18-44-age-group-at-227-new-centres-101619639078995.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccine makers must sell doses at uniform rate: PIL||Three law students and a lawyer have moved a petition in the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday seeking directions to Covid vaccine makers to sell the doses at a uniform rate. The petition was prompted after a vaccine manufacturer disclosed the differential pricing in vaccines for Centre, state and private hospitals. The petition alleges that Pharma giants are milking the fear psychosis of increased death rates due to COVID-19 disease and hence sought directions to the Central government to acquire the entire manufactured stock of vaccines and apply a uniform price. The petition filed by lawyer Fayzan Khan and others through advocate Vivek Shukla has alleged that the pharmaceutical companies are engaged in organised loot and the high court should intervene to protect the fundamental right to equality and life under the Constitution are not left to the mercy of pharmaceutical companies and to safeguard national public health. The plea while referring to prices declared by Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech for central, state government and private hospitals say that they are aggrieved as charges of ‘Covishield’ vaccine quoted and published by SII as ₹150 per dose for Central government, ₹400 per dose for states and ₹600 for private hospitals. The PIL also states that the Covaxin price by Bharat Biotech, of ₹600 vaccine price for state governments and ₹1,200 for private hospitals was unreasonable and discriminatory. The plea also challenges the permission granted by the centre to these vaccine manufacturers to commercially exploit the same by having a huge price difference. “This is unreasonable, illogical, amounts to blackmailing the citizens who badly need this vaccine,” the petition states. The petitioner further state that they are aggrieved over the “unreasonable and discriminatory” charges levied on vaccines meant to be sold for states and private hospitals. The advocates have contended that 100% vaccination of the citizens is the only ray of hope to combat the present pandemic and as the National Disaster Management Act empowers the Central government to fix the costs of vaccines, it should act accordingly rather than leaving it in the hands of greedy management of SII and black-marketers. The PIL alleged that the cost difference will create discrimination in terms of BJP-led state governments being supplied the vaccine by the Central government and the non-BJP ruling states will be forced to purchase vaccine at a higher rate from the SII.“This cannot be permitted in a pandemic-like situation of Corona pandemic. This is jeopardizing the national security, safety and integrity with which no private entity can be permitted to play,” the plea read. The PIL also stated that leaving state governments at the mercy of vaccine producing companies would amount to leaving the health of citizens to the “vagaries of the open market” competition during a pandemic. “Such kind of inter-state competition would only yield disaster. This would amount to playing with the health of the citizen to benefit the private players.” It added that asking the state Governments to compete in the “open market” for vaccine procurement with the Central Government and private hospitals is unreasonable. “The Central Government is keeping an assured quota for itself. This conduct is arbitrary, discriminatory and does not fit into the definition of the welfare state’s policy. The PIL is likely to be mentioned before HC this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccine-makers-must-sell-doses-at-uniform-rate-pil-101619638538954.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Slum areas the focus even as sero survey says spread going down, says Mumbai civic body||While the third serological survey in the city indicated that seropositivity was on the decline in slum areas, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has maintained that slum areas remain its focus when it comes to detection of cases and vaccination.According to BMC officials, focusing on slum areas becomes important considering the new variant of the current virus spreads fast, and keeping in mind the density in slum areas, one has to keep the focus intact when it comes to both - detection of cases and vaccination.Experts also opine that another solution to control spread in densely populated slums is also to ensure that vaccination is done on a priority basis.A serological survey indicates a population-level prevalence of antibodies against Sar-CoV-2, the virus causing the Covid-19 pandemic. It indicates that a person has been exposed to the virus and has recovered from it, but it does not detect the level of antibodies in the person.The findings of BMC’s third serological survey released on Saturday stated that among the 10,197 samples collected in March 2021, the survey found that 41.6% of the residents of slums had been exposed to the virus, while 28.5% of people living in non-slum areas like high rises, chawls and other residential areas, had been exposed to the coronavirus.However, in the first two surveys conducted in 2020, 57% of samples collected from the population residing in slums were seropositive in the first survey, while in the second survey, 45% were seropositive when it comes to slum areas. In contrast, 16% of samples collected from residents of non-slum areas showed seropositivity in the first survey, which increased to 18% in the second survey. This indicates that the spread in non-slum areas has increased and declined in slum areas.In terms of areas that have maximum containment, zones are Kandivli, Andheri East, Kurla, Byculla, Chembur and Govandi. There are a total of 120 containment zones in which 165,000 households are covered having a 768,000 population.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC said, “The third ser survey does indicate declining antibodies level in slums areas, and we are focusing on slum areas where cases are increasing. We are making localised strategies, accordingly.”Kakani added, “But this does not mean we are not concentrating on non-slum areas considering maximum cases are being reported from non-slum areas currently. Along with detection of cases, we are also coming up with strategies for vaccinating both in slum and non-slum areas.”For example, the BMC has opened up dedicated vaccination centres for Dharavi and Worli Koliwada that were the two most hit areas last year during the first wave. For non-slum areas, the BMC has appealed to housing societies to tie up with private hospitals to get vaccinated.On Wednesday, the city reported 4,926 cases followed by 78 deaths. This takes the total case tally to 640,409 and the toll to 12,954. The city’s recovery rate is 87% with 557,948 recoveries and a mortality rate is 2.02%. There are 67,984 active cases in the city.Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician said, “The BMC should not only focus on the detection of cases from a slum or non-slum areas due to declining or increase of antibodies but mainly focus on vaccination now. This considering we need to understand that the long-term ultimate aim is vaccinating maximum citizens to fight with the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/slum-areas-the-focus-even-as-sero-survey-says-spread-going-down-says-mumbai-civic-body-101619638478929.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to extend lockdown till May 15||The Maharashtra government has decided to extend the full lockdown, likely to be another 15 days — till May 15. A decision to extend the lockdown was taken in the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday but the duration is yet to be decided. The state government is expected to issue an order to this effect in next two days.“The issue of extending lockdown was discussed in the state cabinet meeting and all the ministers were of the view that it should be extended to break the transmission chain. It is likely to be extended by 15 days, but the decision on the number of days will be taken by April 30,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.He was talking to reporters after a state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. The ongoing lockdown is ending on May 1 at 7am.Tope also said the lockdown has helped in stabilisation of daily Covid-19 cases. “Lockdown has brought stability in cases to some extent as there were concerns that daily figures will cross the 70,000 mark, which is not happening as of now. The daily cases are hovering around the 60,000 mark. We are hoping that this was the peak of the second wave in the state and daily cases will start declining from here,” the health minister.On April 22, the state government decided to impose full lockdown across Maharashtra. The decision was taken considering no decline in daily Covid-19 cases despite a partial lockdown that was imposed in the state on April 14.Currently, people can’t step out, unless they need medical attention or are working in an essential sector or want to buy essential commodities that, too, under restricted timings — between 7am and 11am. While local train and metro train travel have been restricted to essential sectors, other public transport modes such as buses have been allowed to ply but at 50% of the sitting capacity. Stricter curbs have been imposed on inter-district or inter-city travel, including 14-day quarantine. Attendance in government and exempted-category offices have also been reduced to 15%, while those coming under essential category have been allowed to work at maximum 50% capacity.“Daily cases are not going up, but they are also not coming down, which is a cause for concern for all of us. The same was discussed in the cabinet meeting and it was decided that the lockdown will have to be extended else things may go out of control,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity.The health minister also said the situation will come under control in less time if people will start following Covid protocols strictly. “Besides, the state government has also decided to bring herd immunity in the people by undertaking a large-scale vaccination drive in the state,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-likely-to-extend-lockdown-till-may-15-101619638359424.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Inside into Mumbai Police’s witty, savage Twitter handle||From references to pop culture, vernacular puns, rhymes, and funny memes, the Mumbai Police’s Twitter handle uses it all, to make information memorable and fun. On Tuesday, for example, a tweet from the Mumbai Police urged Mumbaikars to stay at home, using memes with popular songs from singers and music bands around the world: Lady Gaga, One Direction, BTS and John Legend. And only last week, the Twitter handle promptly and wittily replied to a user who wanted to meet his girlfriend amid fresh restrictions imposed by the Maharashtra government owing to the rise in Covid-19 cases. Mumbai Police’s tweet read, “We understand it’s essential for you sir but unfortunately it doesn’t fall under our essentials or emergency categories! Distance makes the heart grow fonder & currently, you healthier P.S. We wish you lifetime together. This is just a phase. #StayHomeStaySafe” Sunchika Pandey, a former journalist, who now runs HAT media officially contracted to operate the Mumbai Police Twitter handle, said, “If information catches people’s interest, they make effort to understand it, and then it stays on their mind. Especially since the Covid-19 outbreak, we are all flooded with information, frequent announcements from the government, important updates.” A team of seven employees of HAT media, and two dozen policemen operate the Twitter handle in three shifts, round the clock. A small room called the web-cell in the office of commissioner of Mumbai Police, and HAT media’s office is the hub of this creative content. Twitter handle tweets at least 5 to 6 times a day, which includes awareness post and traffic updates. The handle actively responds to queries from Twitter users, to citizens who reach out for police help. “We wanted the nature of tweets to reflect the friendliness and approachability of Mumbai Police, and now the humour and wit have become a part of the handle’s identity, it makes people smile,” Pandey said.The approval for witty tweets comes from the deputy commissioner of police (operation) and joint commissioner of police (law and order), but content generation is more of a team effort, Pandey said. For routine tweets, a format has been put in place, that all operators follow. “For example, the tweet about this man asking police for permission to step out to meet his girlfriend was spotted by a constable. He shared it on the web cells internal WhatsApp group, where it was discussed how the team can reply,” Pandey said. “Similarly, we randomly came up with the name of my firm when we founded it, HAT media, that has been contracted by the Mumbai Police to handle the account. It’s short for heads and tails of strategic content. We later made a tag line out of it - think hatke,” Pandey added. The Twitter handle was first started as a joint venture between the Mumbai Police and Sunchika Pandey, taking inspiration from the active Twitter account of Banglore Police, in December 2015. Within the first two days, it got 10,000 followers. Today, it is followed by five million Twitter users.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/inside-into-mumbai-police-s-witty-savage-twitter-handle-101619638120181.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Haffkine gets Maharashtra govt nod, ₹94-crore grant for Covaxin||After the Central government allowed the state-owned Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited to start production of Covaxin, a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday approved the project that will cost ₹154 crore. It has also decided to fund the project by granting ₹94 crore.The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting The funds for the project will be given from the state contingency fund, officials said.The Central government too has approved ₹65 crore for the project under Covid Suraksha Yojana.“With the help of the ministry of science and technology, a project is going to be set up by Haffkine Bio Pharmaceuticals Corporation Limited at Parel in Mumbai for manufacturing Covaxin in collaboration with Bharat Biotech that has developed the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine in the country. The state government will provide ₹94 crore for setting up the plant from the state contingency fund,” said a release issued by the chief minister office on Wednesday.“With all the permissions in place, we will now start construction activity, get validations and take further steps according to our plans,” said Dr Sandeep Rathod, managing director Haffkine Institute.Haffkine Corporation sought permission for the transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech in January, which was approved by the department of biotechnology of the Union ministry of science and technology on April 15.Haffkine will be producing (228 million ( 22.8 crore) doses of the Covaxin vaccine in a year. The stock will be in addition to what other private firms will be producing in the country. It will take at least a year for setting up the project as is now required to develop a Biosafety level 3 (BSL-3) laboratory that is going to be developed at its Parel premises.HT was the first to report on March 18 that the Haffkine Corporation has sought permission for the transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech for developing Covaxin.Haffkine Corporation is a subsidiary of Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing, owned by the state government.“The manufacturing of the vaccine will be done in two phases — manufacturing of raw material which we called as drug substance and then fill and finish of the product. With the technology in place, we will be manufacturing the drug substance at our BSL -3 laboratory and as part of the next step the vaccine will be filled in bottles and the product will be finished,” Dr Rathod has said.Saurabh Vijay, secretary, medical education department said that the state has also allowed the Haffkine Corporation to hold talks with other firms for manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine. “The state government has allowed the corporation to sign a privacy agreement with Bharat Biotech for manufacturing vaccine doses. It has also been allowed to hold talks with other firms manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine for expanding its production,” Vijay said.He informed that the plant will be used for producing other vaccines once the need for producing Covid-19 vaccine is over.Haffkine Institute is one of the oldest biomedical research institutes in the country. It was established in 1899 and is named after the scientist — Dr Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine — who invented the plague vaccine. Since then, Haffkine Institute has emerged as a multi-disciplinary Institute engaged in training, research and testing of various aspects of infectious diseases. It has developed an anti-rabies serum, anti-venom serum, oral polio vaccine etc.To expand the production activities and to meet the growing demands for medicines and life-saving drugs, the state government bifurcated the Haffkine Institute in 1975 and the production activities were entrusted to Haffkine Bio Pharmaceuticals Corporation Limited, a firm fully owned by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/haffkine-gets-maharashtra-govt-nod-94-crore-grant-for-covaxin-101619638059512.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Indian archaeologist elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences||Indian archaeologist and Padma Shree awardee Sharada Srinivasan is among the 250-odd global artistes, researchers and scientists to be elected as an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (AMACAD), one of the oldest societies for scholars in the United States of America.On April 22, AMACAD announced the list, which includes at least half a dozen resident Indian Americans. However, 55-year-old Srinivasan, a professor at the School of Humanities of National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru, is the only resident Indian to have been elected to the society this year.Probability theorist Kavita Ramanan, who is the Roland George Dwight Richardson University Professor in the division of Applied Mathematics at the Brown University in Rhode Island, has also been elected as a member. Others on the list include Indian-American neurosurgeon Sanjay Gupta, literary theorist and feminist critic Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak and theoretical physicist Ashvin Vishwanath.Founded in 1780, AMACAD honours excellence and convenes leaders from around the world every year to examine new ideas, address issues of importance to the nation and the world, and work together “to cultivate every art and science which may tend to advance the interest, honour, dignity, and happiness of a free, independent, and virtuous people.”With their election to the society, members such as Srinivasan and Ramanan now join an elite group of scholars that have included the likes of Albert Einstein, Charles Darwin, Winston Churchill, Akira Kurosawa and Nelson Mandela.“The Academy’s mission is to advance the public good. The diversity of newly elected members helps us achieve that goal by creating greater awareness of the range of extraordinary individuals around the world who are excelling in their fields. It’s wonderful when election to the Academy raises the visibility of members and helps younger people see their own potential and new possibilities,” said David Oxtoby, president of AMACAD, in an email response.“As an Indian woman, and as a woman representative of the Global South, it is thrilling to be counted amongst its international luminaries ranging from Einsten to Mandela and Nobel Laureates and past presidents. In these globally and nationally challenging times, when the Academy has sought to illuminate how knowledge, art, ideas and leadership could contribute to a better world through its election of new members, this confers not only recognition, but also a sense of responsibility,” said Srinivasan, who is also a Bharatanatyam dancer.Ramanan, in an email interaction, said she views her election to the academy as an acknowledgement of her family, friends, mentors, collaborators and students, all of whom have not only supported her research journey, but also made it enjoyable.“I feel fortunate to be in a profession that I really enjoy, and so this recognition comes as a wonderful bonus. I am particularly attracted by the multidisciplinary nature of the academy, and look forward to meeting and working with people from diverse disciplines, including the Arts, as a member of the academy. Having recently initiated a seminar series on “Social Equity and Applied Math” at Brown University, I am interested in the Academy’s programmes on Democracy and Justice, in addition to STEM and Education issues,” said Ramanan.Both Srinivasan and Ramanan have been advocates of multidisciplinary research and hope that their election to the academy increases the visibility of women in the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM).Srinivasan’s research areas include archaeometallurgy, archaeological sciences and archaeometric studies, where she has tried to explore how scientific techniques of materials and metals characterisation can better help understand the history of metallurgy in the Indian subcontinent.“The election to the AMACAD gives a unique opportunity to further project such activities to an international platform and to take it to an international standard and to engage and learn from the top international scholarship to both expand the frontiers of knowledge and to learn about the best practices for heritage conservation and management, since in many ways in India we still lag behind to a fair extent in terms of scientific studies in the areas of cultural heritage,” said Srinivasan, who resides in Bengaluru with her husband and 20-year-old daughter.Incidentally, both women are alumni of the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-Bombay)—Srinivasan graduating a year before Ramanan joined in 1988—and have lived in the same hostel building at different times. Last year’s selectees, Shobhana Narasimhan, a professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru, and Sarita Adve from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, too, have shared the same hostel during their time at IIT-Bombay.IIT-Bombay director Subhasis Chaudhuri said, “IIT-Bombay has always believed in providing equal opportunities to women students and we are delighted to see that it is paying rich dividends. We are happy that many of our women students use IIT-B opportunities to springboard into successful careers. Membership to the academy is very prestigious and the fact that all recent Indian women inductees are IITB alumni attests to the importance of the role of the institute in shaping the career of bright minds. We hope that such a stellar performance of the women batches of the 80s will further motivate the younger batches.”Srinivasan said that young women shouldn’t be afraid to think out of the box. “I would say to the young women of today… to take the road less travelled if that is where the instincts are, since passion and commitment will find its rewards,” she said.“Surround yourself with people who support and believe in you, aim high but keep expectations low, and do not limit your role models to people who look or talk like you, but take inspiration from different qualities in a variety of people,” Ramanan advised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-archaeologist-sharada-srinivasan-elected-to-american-academy-of-arts-and-sciences-101619540672015.html
