30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 62,919 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, Mumbai too sees a dip in infections with 3,888 cases||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case tally in Maharashtra rose by 62,919 new cases in the last 24 hours, while 828 deaths pushed the toll to 68,813, according to the state health bulletin. The worst-hit state witnessed a fall of 3240 cases as on Thursday, 66,159 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours.The fatality count increased in the last one day, as Maharashtra reported 771 deaths from the virus on Thursday. However, of the 771 deaths, 383 took place in the last 48 hours and 165 occurred during the last week. The remaining 223 deaths happened in the period before the last week but were added to the death toll that was shown on Thursday as part of a data reconciliation exercise, PTI quoted an official as explaining.Around 290,207 samples were tested to detect the virus in the last 24 hours, indicating an increase in testing by 1,994 as 288,213 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday. The total number of tests done so far by the state since the beginning of the pandemic now stands at 27,106,282, the health bulletin showed.Mumbai reported 3888 fresh Covid-19 infections and 89 deaths in the last 24 hours.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19On Thursday, Mumbai registered 4,192 new Covid-19 cases and 82 deaths in the last 24 hours. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data showed testing of 38,848 samples on Thursday, while 43,525 samples were tested on Friday.The recovery rate in Mumbai currently stands at 88 per cent with a doubling rate of 87 days. The recovery rate in the state capital remained the same, but the doubling rate increased in the last 24 hours from 79 days on Thursday to 87 days on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-62-919-fresh-covid-19-cases-828-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101619790206316.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 situation better due to restraint shown by all, no need for stricter lockdown: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said there was no need to impose a stricter coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown as there was an improvement in the state's condition owing to the existing curbs. "We have been able to contain the spread of Covid-19 due to restrictions and lockdown. Our estimate was that there might be 10 lakh positive active patients till now, but there are 7 lakh such cases," CM Thackeray said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe state's health infrastructure is also seeing an upgrade, Thackeray said, but there was a shortage of medical professionals. "We are ramping up the health infrastructure but where should we bring doctors and nurses from?" he said.Further, he addressed the issue of shortage of oxygen. "We are facing a shortage of oxygen as we are using around 1700 metric tonnes while we produce only around 1200 metric tonnes. Around 500 metric tonnes of oxygen has been allocated by the Centre," CM Thackeray said.Talking about imminent second wave of Covid-19 in state, he said, "The entire world is facing several waves of Covid-19 and the situation in Maharashtra will be no different, according to experts."The state government is prepared for the Covid-19 waves to come, he said. "We have started our preparations for the same but we do not expect it to be a big wave," he added.Also Read: Maharashtra CM says be ready, third Covid-19 wave may hit by July-AugOn vaccination, the CM said the state needed 12 crore doses of vaccines for its six crore population in the age group of 18 to 44. The state was ready to buy the entire stock in one go, he said. "But the vaccine stock is limited. Only a few firms are manufacturing the doses in our country but we are in talks with other firms. However, we will be getting only 18 lakh doses for the age group of 18-44 in May," he said.Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 66,159 cases, pushing the total infection count to 4,539,553. The tally of active cases reduced to 670,301 as 68,537 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. As many as 771 new deaths were reported in the state, taking the toll to 67,985.On Wednesday, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope had announced that the lockdown in state will be extended by another 15 days beyond April 30. "All members of the Maharastra Cabinet are of the opinion that current Covid-19 restrictions should be extended for the next 15 days," Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-situation-better-due-to-restraint-shown-by-all-no-need-for-stricter-lockdown-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101619794268405.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Another Man’s Rancour||In many ways, it is emblematic of a widespread concern: In a world consumed with social media communication, how should one continue communicating on social media during the apocalyptic situation that India and her people currently face? Indeed, when despair and grief have become daily occurrences and when disease and death loom so near at hand, how should people — most likely isolated, anxious and challenged themselves — carry on with what is most likely their only means of engagement with the outside world during these harrowing times? After all, even at the best of times, communication on social media can be a minefield of thin skins, raw feelings and hurt sentiments. Such is the nature of the beast that one man’s opinion can easily become another man’s rancour. Now, in a situation where the smoke from mass cremations obliterates the sun and passions run high and tempers fast, who knows what will or will not trigger another or offend or upset or wound? Of course, as soon as it was evident that the second wave was proving to be substantially more deadly than anything India had witnessed earlier and that the government’s handling of it was woefully inadequate, many had converted their social media platforms into helplines and ersatz bulletins, to marshal support and funding for those in need. But what of the others? Were they to cease their social interface altogether, if it were not strictly pandemic-related? Would anything other than posts about the current crisis be viewed as suspect, callous and inappropriate in these gut-wrenching times? And what of people’s need to express themselves in their authentic voices; would they have to be silenced, or altered to be accepted? “I’m not sure what to do,” a friend posted this week on his social media timeline. “Today I’ve been unfriended by someone who took grave offence over my recent posts which he felt were insensitive to the current crisis, because they alluded to other things, in my case photographs and words about happier, more buoyant times. Besides being hurt, it made me wonder if there was some truth to what he said. What do you all feel?” he enquired. “Should I desist from doing so? I’d be happy to hear your views and be advised by them…” Couched in those simple words was a conundrum that must have had presented itself in some form or the other recently, to perhaps everyone who possessed a smart phone and an internet connection. After all, with the current levels of anguish and pain experienced by almost every body and with the heightened sense of stress and anger that prevailed, who would want to add insult to injury by appearing thoughtless, uncaring or inconsiderate through their communique? One popular food blogger explained his peculiar problem with this post: “While witnessing the unfolding tragedy, I just cannot bring myself to post pictures of the delicious takeaway dishes I’ve ordered in the past few weeks” He wrote, “Even though I know it would help the restaurants and chefs commercially, at a time when their industry is floundering. But I am saving them and promise to upload them at a better time in the future.” His honesty and sincerity had been appreciated by the food and beverages industry and his followers. But God knows, so many others had got it woefully wrong, and daily the ticker toll of those who’d put their foot in their mouth would rise and fall like the Sensex. These included tone-deaf stars who posted pictures of themselves at beach resorts, even as their compatriots faced extreme pain and loss; prominent influencers whose attempts at empathy had been called out as empty buttressing of their images; industrialists whose utterances angered those that regarded them as nothing more than ham-handed PR; and of course politicians, polarising and maladroit at the best of times, who were afforded the brunt of it all, with armies of bigoted trolls from opposing ideologies, waiting to pounce on their every word and wage full blown battles with them. A fashion influencer with over 25,000 followers became a lightning rod for ridicule when she posted that she was “sick of seeing only sad posts about Covid” on her timeline. “Can everyone stop posting sad news and only put up happy posts?” she requested. Expectedly, the backlash was huge, and her peers demanded that she take her post down. “Turn off your social media if you are so disturbed by what you see” was the representative admonishment. “But don’t ask others to stop helping or doing what they can on their own timelines.” But as everything else, opinions were divided on what was appropriate during the crisis. For instance, the staging of the mega million-dollar IPL was seen to be distasteful and extremely inappropriate by many, even as others argued that it afforded them a much-needed coping mechanism to take their minds off the grim reality around them. Still others argued that businesses had to continue for the wheels of the economy to keep turning. Interestingly, our friend who’d sought advice after being unfriended on account of his “inappropriate” posts, harking back to better days, received his answer sooner rather than later through a volley of responses, what came through unequivocally was a resounding call for kindness and compassion through the ongoing calamity, of allowing for more latitude, of being slow to strike, of cutting people slack, of being gentler and more tolerant, of not holding grudges, and of being and letting be… “Healing, coping and carrying on has many dimensions,” read one comment. “One size doesn’t fit all, and we are all finding ways to keep ourselves upbeat during this crisis.” “What one should engage in on one’s own timeline is absolutely personal and cannot be dictated by some other person,” read another, while a third wrote: “I think in these terrible times, all of us need diversions and to be reminded of better days and your posts gave me strength to carry on by reminding me of them.” So, whereas no one really can specify what exactly makes for appropriate communique during a crisis, what people appeared to be saying was that this was a time for maturity and tolerance and for magnanimity and gentleness for oneself and others. “Everyone you meet is fighting a battle you know nothing about” goes the old axiom. “Be kind. Always.” But what of a situation when everyone you were likely to meet faced not an unknown battle, but a very real and present danger in the form of a global pandemic? Shouldn’t kindness and tolerance and a conscious effort to take a break from anger harsh judgement and unkind words be the order of the day?You would think so, given the circumstances, as would most others. But perhaps it is emblematic of our time and the distress and helpless anger that people are currently experiencing, that even a simple call to practice kindness, gentleness and compassion, through these challenging times, could offend a whole section of folks...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-another-man-s-rancour-101619794669611.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai daily Covid positivity rate hits single digit after 45 days||Mumbai’s daily Covid positivity rate has hit single digit on Friday after 45 days. According to the BMC officials, the city’s daily positivity rate reported was 9.94%.Positivity rate is the number of Covid-19 cases as a percentage of the total tests done in the city.According to preliminary figures released by the BMC on Friday, 43,525 tests were held in the city of which 4,328 samples tested positive, which means a positive rate is 9.94%. However, these are preliminary figures and are subject to change by evening when BMC releases daily figures after filtering out duplications in the data.The city’s positivity rate had come close to this figure last on March 13 when Mumbai’s daily positivity rate was 9.48% after which went up to 15% around March 20.Also Read | Will start vaccination for 18+ only with 2.5 mn doses in hand: MaharashtraIn April, the city positivity rate reached up to 27%. The city’s highest-ever positivity rate was reported to be 27.94% on April 4. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,380,473 tests. The overall positivity rate is 11.9%.In the past few days, the daily number of Covid-19 cases in the city has been on the decline. The highest number of cases reported in the city so far was 11,206 on April 4.By mid-April, Mumbai was reporting on an average 7,000-8,000 cases a day. On April 15, it reported 8,209 Covid-19 cases, which dropped to 5,867 cases on April 24. These further dropped to 3,840 on April 26.Commenting on the drop, BMC municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “Around 44,00 have tested. Out of these, 85% cases are asymptomatic. Perhaps Mumbai is the only city in India with single digit positivity even with high testing.”Meanwhile, according to the health department data, Mumbai has 644,583 cases while its death toll is 13,036.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-daily-covid-positivity-rate-hits-single-digit-after-45-days-101619773187850.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to stay preliminary probes against ex-Mumbai top cop||The Bombay high court on Thursday refused to stay preliminary probes against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and sought a response from the Maharashtra government on Singh’s fresh petition challenging the two inquiries initiated against him.In his petition, Singh also claimed that efforts were being made to thwart the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)-led investigation into his allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Mentioning the petition for urgent hearing before a bench of justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale, Singh’s counsel and senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said the plea challenged two orders passed by the state government on April 1, directing state director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey to probe whether the former top cop had violated provisions of the All India Service (Conduct) Rules, 1968.Another order on April 20 asked Pandey to look into allegations made by police inspector Anup Dange that Singh’s brother had demanded ₹2 crore for getting him (Dange) reinstated after he was suspended on disciplinary grounds on July 18 last year.Singh, in his plea, also claimed that during his meeting with Pandey on April 19, the latter “advised him” to withdraw his letter against Deshmukh which he had sent to the state government in March. The petitioner sought interim protection and a stay on the inquiries till further orders.The bench, however, refused to stay the two orders after additional public prosecuto Deepak Thakare informed the court that Singh had not been issued any summons or show-cause notice so far and hence, it was premature to stay the same. The court accepted the argument and in light of the urgency. posted the hearing for May 4.On March 25, Singh had approached the HC, seeking a CBI inquiry into the corruption charges against Deshmukh who allegedly ordered suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, ACP Sanjay Patil and DCP Raju Bhujbal to collect protection money from restaurants and bars among other establishments to the tune of ₹100 crore per month.After hearing all sides over a period of ten days, the HC, on April 5, directed the CBI not to register an FIR but to conduct a preliminary inquiry and conclude it within 15 days. The CBI, after completing its enquiry, had registered an FIR against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-stay-preliminary-probes-against-ex-mumbai-top-cop-101619727701713.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Second wave: Passengers allege airlines refuse to help even when they test positive for Covid||As the country grapples with the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 and citizens choose to stay indoors, those who had booked flights are facing issues around cancellations and ticket refunds. To add to the misery, passengers testing positive for Covid-19 before their travel date are not being exempted from cancellation charges. Social media pages of a majority of the airlines are filled with complaints by disgruntled passengers as they ask for a refund either because they do not want to travel due to safety reasons or are forced to be home as they are getting treated for Covid-19 or due to their destination city announcing lockdown.Divya Mehta, a Delhi resident whose family tested positive, said that of the total ₹47,000 that they spent in booking their tickets, SpiceJet has charged them ₹30,000 as cancellation fees. Mehta said, “We were booked to fly from Delhi to Goa on April 30, but our family is currently fighting against Covid. My uncle lost his battle to the virus and my aunt is critical. How can we even step out of our homes in such a situation? We are paying heavy daily hospital charges, and our ticket refund amount means a lot to us at the moment.”According to Mehta, she has approached the airline multiple times via emails only to get their automated response. “I even tweeted our positive RT-PCR reports as proof, but the airline has not bothered to solve the issue. All they do is ask me to share details.”SpiceJet did not comment on the matter.Similar situation has been faced by other passengers too. A tweet to IndiGo by a passenger, Raman Jaiswal, read, “Hi @paytm @IndiGo6E I have a flight on 19th May..due to pandemic we can’t travel. As I wish to cancel the flight, I am getting only ₹553 refund. Kindly help me out.” While responding to Jaiswal, IndiGo’s tweet read, “Sir, we are monitoring the situation closely. As of now, we are not offering any waivers. Upon changes or cancellation, necessary charges will be applicable.”Saurabh Jain, a Chartered Accountant from Malad, was told that his RT-PCR test reports and his wife’s blood test reports were not good proofs for being medically unfit. Jain, who was to travel to Jaipur via a GoAir flight on April 25, wrote to the airline first on April 19 and then after his wife’s blood reports were out.“Due to rise in cases, RT-PCR tests are on waiting, and hence we did not get an appointment for my wife before a week. Hence, we went for blood tests to check if she too had been infected along with me. The blood reports made it clear that she was positive and that is when I wrote to the airline for the second time, attaching both our reports. However, the airline’s response to my email was that our reports weren’t enough to prove that we were Covid positive,” Jain said.He added, “I am shocked at the apathy of these airlines to people like us who are fighting against the virus and have to go through such harassment. I joined Twitter only to get a response from them as they stopped replying to me for three days. It’s a shame that people have to approach the airlines in social media in order to get them talking to us. What about those who cannot access or who do not know to operate social media accounts?” GoAir did not comment on this matter. Another passenger said she had to face refund issues. Panvel resident Nasreen Dada, who was to fly with her two children on Sunday, had to approach her personal contacts and pressure the airline to get her money back. She had booked a ticket for GoAir’s G8 330 which is the only non-stop flight between Mumbai and Kannur. Not only did the flight get cancelled three consecutive times, the airline also asked passengers to cancel the ticket from their end and refused to refund them.“I wanted to travel with my kids to see my mother who is alone in Kannur, but the airline has been cancelling the flight since Sunday. Hence we decided to ask them to cancel our tickets and refund. However, we could only get our money back only when we approached a few resourceful people and also by fighting with the airline for it.” When contacted, GoAir spokesperson said, “There have been flight cancellations on the domestic route which were connecting flights to the onward travel to Dubai and Sharjah as part of the travel embargo to Dubai and Sharjah. GoAir regrets any convenience caused to our esteemed customers.” Passengers said airlines should encourage people wanting to stay home at times when the country is seeing the fastest spread of Covid-19 virus, instead they are only trying to take advantage of the situation.GoAir, however, has been cancelling flights on other sectors too. According to the complaints on the airline’s Twitter account, it cancelled flights that included ones from Ahmedabad to Varanasi, Pune to Kolkata, Pune to Ahmedabad, Delhi to Varanasi among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-wave-passengers-allege-airlines-refuse-to-help-even-when-they-test-positive-for-covid-101619725063852.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Will start vaccination for 18+ only with 2.5 mn doses in hand: Maharashtra||Concerned over the availability of required quota, the Maharashtra government has decided to not roll out the vaccination drive for the third phase for the 18-44 age group, unless they have 2.5 million doses in hand. Considering the scenario of meagre supply of vaccines from two domestic manufacturers (Covishield and Covaxin), the state has also started talks with other manufacturers, namely Johnson and Johnson and Zydus Cadilla for import of vaccines. The government is also likely to open vaccination for the 18-44 age group in a staggered manner, allowing vaccination of the 26-44 age group first.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held meetings with key ministers and officials on Thursday to chalk out a plan for the roll-out of the third phase of the drive.The Thackeray government, in its cabinet meeting held on Wednesday, decided on free vaccination for all in the 18-44 age group.The government is, however, concerned about the availability of the desired stock even by the end of May.“The makers of home-grown Covaxin and Covishield have assured us the supply, but there is no clarity on the timeline. The Serum Institute of India has taken a purchase order for three lakh (300,000) doses, but it has not clarified by when they will be able to deliver the stock. We may start accumulating the stock we get from these two makers, but the roll-out would be only after we have at least 2.5 million doses in hand,” said an official privy to the developments.Also read | Maharashtra CM says be ready, third Covid-19 wave may hit by July-Aug“We have reached out to all makers from various countries, enquiring about the availability of vaccines and the price. We had a video-conference with the Indian executives of J&J for the procurement of their vaccine, but they have informed us their jab will be available only in August. Zydus Cadilla’s vaccine too is expected to be available by August. The talks for the Sputnik V are on at chief minister’s level. We have established contacts with almost all vaccine companies in our bid for speedy procurement,” said public health minister Rajesh Tope.Tope said that Pfizer’s jab will be available for ₹1500, while Chinese vaccines are available at ₹750.The state has almost arrived at the decision of opening the third phase for the age group of 26-44 years and comorbid people in the younger age group in the first leg. The decision is expected to be taken in the meeting of core committee of senior ministers in the next couple of days.“It is clear that the CM wants to avoid the hardships people are going through currently owing to non-availability of doses. It will not only lead to criticism, but also chaos among the working class,” the official quoted above said.Tope said the state has targeted a procurement of 120 million doses of the vaccine to complete the drive in record time.“We are ready to pay the vaccine manufacturers immediately, but they are not able to make the doses available. We have requested them to make the vaccines available on priority and apprise us of the schedule,” said Tope.The minister said the state expects positive response from global players to the expression of interest floated by them for medical equipment and drugs.“We expect the response to our expression for 25,000 metric tonnes of oxygen, 4,000 oxygen concentrators, 250 PSA plants and 20 liquid oxygen storage tanks by Monday. Besides, we have directed our district administrations to complete setting up of oxygen plants at the earliest. There is a prediction of the third wave of virus by July-August, for which the district administrations have been instructed to be prepared. Of the 125 PSA plants of oxygen generators planned at district level, most are expected to come up in the next 10 days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-start-vaccination-for-18-age-group-only-with-2-5-mn-doses-in-hand-maharashtra-101619725004830.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 4 sloth bears, leopard drown in Chandrapur district||Four sloth bears were found dead at the bottom of a well in Chandrapur district, in the buffer zone of the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve, on Thursday morning. The victims include one male and one female adult, and two cubs. Forest department officials suspected that the animals had drowned after falling into the well — which was not cased with vertical walls — by accident.Praveen NR, chief conservator of forests (Chandrapur) confirmed the development and said, “The autopsy results are not available yet, but the animals likely fell into the well inadvertently, perhaps when it was dark. The incident happened outside the tiger reserve area in Chandrapur forest division in Vadholi village.” He also added that the animals were not missing any body parts, ruling out any indication of poaching.Meanwhile, a six-year-old female leopard was also found dead at the bottom of a well in Pune district’s Junnar taluka on Wednesday morning. The animal was also found wrapped in a large plastic bag, eliciting scepticism as to whether its death had been staged. Autopsy results showed the animal had drowned, with water entering its lungs through the nose and mouth. Department officials said that there were no signs of poaching.“The animal was found near Dangarwadi village in Junnar taluka. A sugarcane farmer saw the animal and alerted us. The well in which the leopard drowned is surrounded by cane fields on three sides, but the crops have been harvested and the area is now being used to graze livestock. It’s possible that the leopard was looking for prey in the area,” said Manisha Kale, round forest officer, Narayangaon.Anish Andheria, chief executive officer of the Wildlife Conservation Trust, said, “Signs of drowning do not necessarily rule out other causes of death, for example poisoning. It is highly unlikely that the leopard got entangled in a plastic bag before or after drowning, but prima facie the incident merits further investigation on the part of the forest department. Theoretically, an unconscious animal (poisoned but alive) can be put in a bag and dumped in a well. A histopathology report of the organs and relevant body tissue can easily rule out poisoning. Another possibility is a road accident. A seriously injured animal can be dumped in the well to pass it off as a drowning case”.Forest department officials, however, said they have concluded the death to be due to drowning only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-4-sloth-bears-leopard-drown-to-death-101619724703724.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Return SSC exam fees, say teachers and parents||After the state education department cancelled the Class 10 (SSC) exams this year, teachers and parents are demanding that the state board returns exam fees of over 17 lakh students who were set to write exams.Every year, the board charges ₹415 from regular students as exam fees against costs incurred in conducting and supervising exams and assessing answer sheets. “This year, the board will not incur charges such as stationery costs for printing papers, supervision allowances to teachers and paper assessment charges to examiners and moderators. Thus, these fees need to be returned,” said Rajesh Pandya, vice president of the Teachers Democratic Front.With nearly 17 lakh students appearing for the SSC exams every year, the board collects nearly ₹70 crore in exam fees. Dinkar Patil, chairman of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said a decision is still awaited. He however added that “the board has already incurred most of the expenditure, barring the expenses concerning paper checking.”On April 20, Class 10 exams were declared cancelled by the state government due to the rising Covid-19 cases and the resultant lockdown. Students will be marked based on internal assessments and the education department is still devising a formula for the evaluation of these students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-return-ssc-exam-fees-say-teachers-and-parents-101619724704321.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM says be ready, third Covid-19 wave may hit by July-Aug||Even as the second wave is yet to recede, Maharashtra is likely to be hit by a third wave by July and August, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Thursday, citing the epidemiologists consulted by the government. He asked the state administration to be prepared for the third wave by ramping up the infrastructure, saying he didn’t want to see a repeat of the current scenario.The CM called a meeting of divisional commissioners and district collectors to take stock of the Covid situation on Thursday. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “We will have to become self-sufficient, especially in oxygen supply. The CM said he did not want to hear any reason for shortage of oxygen supply then.”The prediction is based on advice given by the members of the state task force comprising experts from the medical field. They have made the prediction based on the study of patterns of Covid waves in various countries. According to the experts, a drop in daily cases is likely to start by May-end, but by July-end or the first week of August, cases will start rising again which will be the third wave in the state, said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 66,159 daily infections pushing the count to 4,539,553. The tally of active cases reduced to 670,301 as 68,537 recoveries reported in the past 24 hours. The state saw 771 deaths, taking the toll to 67,985. Pune had 130, highest number of deaths across the state, with 94 fatalities in the city and 36 from its rural areas.Also read | Maharashtra logs 66,159 Covid-19 cases, 771 deaths; 68,537 recover“We want the local administration to be at an oxygen surplus by July. For this, orders for setting up 125 PSA (Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) technology) plants have been issued and in the next 10 days, their installation will begin across the state. District collectors have been directed to procure 5 to 10 LPM oxygen concentrators in proportion to 25% of the total active patients in their respective district, so that all mild and serious patients will be able to get regular oxygen supply in any case,” the health minister said.Each tehsil should be having an oxygen generation plant, liquid oxygen storage tanks and oxygen concentrators as well, he added.Officials said that the epidemiologists are of the view that the situation is coming under control because of the lockdown has been imposed and daily cases may start going down from next month. “In the next two months, the situation will come under control but as soon as all the restrictions are lifted it is believed that the third wave will again hit the state,” said a senior official privy to the development. “The situation has come under control to some extent owing to the strict restrictions but we have to be cautious and start planning for the third wave,” the CM said in the meeting. He also asked to ensure adequate supply of medicines for the third wave.As part of the preparations, Tope said that tele-ICU facilities will be developed for tertiary treatment of patients in all two-tier cities, where there is no major government hospital or medical college. High-resolution cameras will be installed with the beds of each patient so their condition can be monitored by expert doctors in major cities. He has also directed fire audit, structural audit and oxygen supply to be conducted. District collectors have been directed to ensure hospitals are conducting these audits well in time.As the number of daily cases is yet to decline, a steep rise is recorded in Covid-19 casualties in Maharashtra. On Wednesday, the state reported close to 1000 (985) fatalities, which is highest in a day, since the outbreak in March last year. In this month alone, 12,439 deaths have been recorded, which is also highest ever in a month so far.If compared with the last two months, the toll in March was 2,495 casualties whereas in February, when a second wave hit the state, 1,072 deaths were reported. The death rate of this month has increased to 0.70% in this month (between April 1-27) from 0.38% last month, according to an analysis by the state health department. It was presented before the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor on the Covid-19 and former director general of health services said, they are experiencing an unusual behavior of the virus which is contributing to the toll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-be-ready-third-covid-19-wave-may-hit-by-july-aug-says-cm-101619724583774.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to entertain PIL seeking uniform pricing for Covid vaccines||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday refused to entertain public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the central government to apply uniform pricing of ₹150 for Covid vaccines by taking over all the stocks being manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech.The HC said that as the Supreme Court was seized of matters which had national implications, it would not hear the current PIL and directed the petitioners to approach the SC. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a suo motu PIL related to the spread of Covid among jail inmates and jail staff, was informed that vaccination in jails had been stopped due to shortage. Advocate Vivek Shukla appearing on behalf of the petitioners, city-based lawyer Fayzan Khan and three law students, sought to intervene and informed the court that his PIL was on the issue of difference in the rate of the vaccine being charged by the manufacturers and should be heard. The petitioners contended that the differential pricing of the vaccines for Centre, state and private hospitals was discriminatory and pharma companies were milking the fear psychosis of increased death rate due to Covid– 19 and sought directions to the central government to acquire the entire supply and control the vaccine price. They also contended that the pharmaceutical companies were engaged in “organised loot” and the HC should intervene to protect “national public health” and ensure that the fundamental right to equality and life under the Constitution is “not left to the mercy of pharmaceutical companies”.After advocate Shukla mentioned the PIL for urgent hearing, on Thursday morning, the HC said, “The Supreme Court (which is hearing suo motu PIL on Covid management) has said that issues having pan-India effect will be dealt with by it. Vaccine pricing is a phenomenon applicable all over India and therefore we are not entertaining it (PIL) as SC has fairly covered it.”The bench suggested the petitioners should move to the Apex court for relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-entertain-pil-seeking-uniform-pricing-for-covid-vaccines-101619724523797.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Start UG medical classes for next academic year, says MUHS||Amid constant delays that has plagued the undergraduate (UG) medical education system in the state, the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has informed all affiliated colleges to not waste time any further. In a circular released late on Wednesday, the university has asked all colleges to start conducting academic activities from the next academic year, even though final exams for the second and third-year batches are yet to be conducted for the current academic year. “It is notified that all colleges continue academic activities by optimum utilisation of various learning resources available so that there is no academic loss to students and their syllabus is completed,” states MUHS circular. It further stated that attendance of students will be maintained by colleges as per guidelines previously released circulars by the university.The dean and principals of colleges have been directed to ensure strict compliance of Covid-19 safety protocols while conducting academic activities. “Teaching schedule of the next academic year should continue uninterrupted, as these students are carried over to the next academic year, irrespective of the exam results,” said the MUHS circular, signed by the registrar.Usually scheduled to take place in the month of December-January, the second and third-year MBBS exams were postponed three times this year due to surge in Covid-19 cases recorded across the state. As per the state government, these exams will now be conducted in the first week of June. However, holding off classes for the next academic year until exams are completed will leave students with very little academic time for the next year.“While second-year batches begin in the month of June, third and fourth-year MBBS batches start their academic year in January itself. This year, since exams kept getting delayed, several colleges have already started taking lectures for the next academic year online,” said Brijesh Sutaria, parent of an MBBS student. He added that select few colleges are also conducting physical classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-start-ug-medical-classes-for-next-academic-year-says-muhs-101619724463712.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown impact: Firms in Mumbai find it difficult to sustain||Sachin Gala, a leading cloth merchant from the Hindmata market is a worried man today as the state government has announced an extension of the lockdown. The reason — it is a peak business time for the cloth merchants as this is normally the wedding season, and the lockdown has spoilt things for him.“From February onwards due to surge of cases and rumours of lockdown, we started losing our customers significantly. Currently, we have zero income. It is more painful this time as we placed large order anticipating that the Covid-19 was over and things have gotten back to normal,” said Gala.Ever since the national lockdown was imposed in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the industrialists, businessmen and the retail sector have borne a huge brunt due to loss of business. After the lockdown was eased in the subsequent months, there was some recovery and in January this year, there were signals that Covid-19 would soon be history. There was a hope among the business community to soon bounce back to pre-Covid-19 levels. However, this fell flat as India was hit by the second Covid wave from February onwards, with the surge of cases. The initial night curfew imposed in March-end followed by the mid-April lockdown meant total loss of business.The Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT) said the effect was more severe this time. “Last year, we had reserves in hand, due to which we could pull through the lockdown. However, this time, we took fresh loans to restart and revive our businesses. We did not anticipate the second wave,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, CAMIT.“There are approximately 65,208 small scale units in Maharashtra, out of which, 75-80% are now closed. It will not be possible for the owners to sustain themselves if such disruptions continue,” said Gurnani.However, essentials like grocery shops said that the restricted timings of 7am to 11am have reduced their income by half. “The consumers do not come to shop before 9am and we get just two hours to conduct our business. Home delivery is a very small portion of our business and we cannot sustain on it,” said Anil Parekh, owner, Urban Greens, a mini supermarket dealing with groceries in Lalbaug and Byculla. The hotels and restaurants sector has called this the worst phase. “Our business has gone for the toss as people are no longer ordering like before. In addition, there has been mushrooming of illegal kitchens, which has majorly impacted our business,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, spokesperson, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), an apex body of hoteliers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-impact-firms-in-mumbai-find-it-difficult-to-sustain-101619724464293.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks details of doctors, paramedics available in jails||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked Maharashtra prison authorities to provide details of availability of qualified medical staff and health workers in prison hospitals after it was informed of deaths of prisoners and jail staff in the second wave of Covid-19 in the state. The query was prompted after the court was informed that the Taloja Central prison had only three Ayurvedic doctors inside the jail hospital. The court further sought to know from the Centre and state as to whether having Aadhaar card was mandatory requirement for prisoners to be eligible for vaccination and also took note of suggestions by People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) to ask the state level high-power committee (HPC) to convene a meeting and decide on relaxing its guidelines further to decongest jails. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) instituted after taking cognisance of a news report that the number of Covid positive cases among prisoners and jail staff had gone up from 47 to 200 in a month during the second wave, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that various measures had been initiated to safeguard prison inmates. He submitted that only 244 prisoners and 170 jail staff were currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 from among the 35,000 prisoners across all jails in the state. He further submitted that school and hostel premises that had been requisitioned earlier for setting up temporary prisons were taken over again to decongest jails. He added that around 64,000 repeated and random Covid-19 tests were conducted in prisons, as a result of which there were only three deaths from among the 35,124 jail inmates and staff in the last month. The bench also asked the state about whether the jails had qualified doctors and medical staff stipulated by the Prison Rules, 2015 after it was informed that Taloja jail and hospital was being looked after by three Ayurveda doctors. The HC held that it was a serious issue and required to be attended to urgently. Senior advocate Mihir Desai for human rights’ body PUCL informed the court that after May 2020 the HPC had not convened, and hence the court should direct it to meet at the earliest to review the Covid-19 situation in prisons and current population of inmates to further decide on release of prisoners to decongest jails. With regards the Aadhaar card being mandatory for vaccination of prisoners, Prof Vijay Raghavan, member NGO Prayas and Centre for Criminology and Justice, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), informed the court that it was creating a huge problem for inmates and hence the bench should pass appropriate orders. The court then asked the Centre and state to respond, as the same was an important policy issue which would have pan-India ramifications. The court then observed that Aadhaar card was important for identifying persons being administered the vaccination and for maintaining a nationwide database of vaccinations, hence if non availability of Aadhaar was an issue, registration camps should be held in prisons so that all eligible prisoners get a card and also get vaccinated. Seeking responses from the authorities, HC posted further hearing to May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-seeks-details-of-doctors-paramedics-available-in-jails-101619724403729.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||T20 Mumbai tournament postponed amid rise in Covid-19 cases||A day after Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI) nod to host T20 Mumbai, the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) on Thursday has decided to postpone the league owing to the spike in the Covid-19 cases in the country. Milind Narvekar, the chairman of the T20 Mumbai governing council and a close aide of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, took the decision to postpone the league in consultation with MCA president Vijay Patil. “In the view of the current situation, president Vijay Patil and I, in my capacity as the chairman, have taken the decision to not conduct the T20 Mumbai League till further notice. This is our way to reduce load on the state machinery and also making sure everyone is safe,” said Narvekar, who is also one of the secretaries of Shiv Sena. He added: “I spoke to Vijay Patil and he supported my decision, which is a right one, looking at the current circumstances.” Later, MCA issued a statement regarding deferring the third edition of the tournament. “In the view of the current Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country and keeping in mind the safety and interest of all the stakeholders involved, the Mumbai Cricket Association has decided to defer the conduct of third edition of the T20 Mumbai League till further notice,” read the statement which was signed by Narvekar and Patil. On Wednesday, BCCI had bent its own rule to allow four associations to organise their respective T20 leagues after IPL concludes. According to BCCI’s rules, local T20 tournaments cannot be held 15 days before or after IPL, and also between September 15 and end of February, as BCCI’s domestic tournaments are held during this period. In an email to the state associations, BCCI interim chief executive officer (CEO) Hemang Amin stated: “Your request for organising the tournament falls within the 15-day period after the IPL 2021. The issue was discussed at the apex council meeting of the BCCI and after some deliberations it was decided that owing to the current Covid-19 pandemic situation, the BCCI is giving permission to organise the tournament within the 15-day period after the completion of IPL 2021.” The mail added: “The BCCI is pleased to grant you approval to organise the tournament for the year 2021. You are instructed to adhere to the advisory and guidelines issued by BCCI in this regard. We reiterate that this is a one-time permission provided due to the pandemic situation and is not the norm,” the BCCI official wrote. Besides the MCA, the other associations who have been given permission are Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Saurashtra. The Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) schedule was released later in the day. The tournament will be held from June 4 to July 4. MCA had applied for permission long ago, when the Covid-19 situation was under control in the city. According to sources, MCA was planning to start the tournament by June 4, provided the Covid-19 situation in the city was under control. The plan was to follow the bio-secure bubble protocols that were in place during the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, Vijay Hazare Trophy and IPL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/t20-mumbai-tournament-postponed-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101619724343707.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Country will have to adopt Maharashtra model to fight Covid: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the country will have to adopt ‘Maharashtra model’ to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The Sena MP said the people in the country are not getting guidance from those in power. He further said that chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has been demanding that the Prime Minister (PM) notify the pandemic as a natural calamity — the line now adopted by the Supreme Court.The Sena leader said that though attempts were made to defame the state for its handling of Covid-19, the Maharashtra model will have to be adopted by all. “People are in a state of panic and shock, they do not know what is happening; they are not given proper guidance. The manner in which the Maharashtra government and its administration is working, the country will have to follow the Maharashtra model. You tried hard to defame Maharashtra [over handling Covid-19] but if there is a place where the best work is taking place in the times of Covid-19, it is in Maharashtra,” Raut said. Earlier this month, CM Thackeray wrote to PM Narendra Modi that the Centre should declare it a natural calamity so that the state can access funds from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Raut said the situation in the country is dreadful and there is no guidance from the top [Centre], while the Thackeray government is steering the situation well.Raut said that Thackeray was the first to demand that the pandemic be called a natural calamity. “Today even the courts are backing it. Looking at the situation today, it is a national calamity. We are indebted to the Supreme Court, but chief minister has been telling this to the PM and home minister to declare it a natural calamity,” he said. “The courts and the Supreme Court have now become active [on Covid]. It seems like Covid-19 has reached their homes and courts. I consider the concern of the courts legitimate. The manner in which the courts are now active, it will definitely help the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/country-will-have-to-adopt-maharashtra-model-to-fight-covid-sanjay-raut-101619724283651.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Tendulkar donates ₹1 crore to procure oxygen concentrators||Legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar has donated ₹1 crore to procure oxygen concentrators for Covid-19 patients in the country as it battles a severe second wave of the pandemic. “His donation of ₹1 crore to Mission Oxygen in its endeavour to procure and provide life-saving oxygen concentrators to hospitals across the nation in this time of need is incredibly heart-warming,” read a statement from Mission Oxygen, a fund-raising initiative by entrepreneurs based in Delhi-NCR for importing oxygen concentrator machines and donating them to hospitals in need. Tendulkar took to Twitter to praise the initiative. “The second wave of Covid has put our healthcare system under immense pressure. Providing oxygen for the large number of serious Covid patients is the need of the hour. It is heartening to see how people are rising to the occasion. A group of 250 young entrepreneurs have launched Mission Oxygen to raise funds for importing oxygen concentrators and donating them to hospitals across the country,” the cricketer posted. “I’ve helped by contributing to the cause and hope that their effort soon reaches out to many more hospitals across India. Today, we have to stand together behind everyone that is working hard to fight this pandemic,” he added.Tendulkar has also pledged to donate plasma once he is eligible. He tested positive for Covid-19 on March 27 and was hospitalised on April 2 as a precautionary measure. Last March, he had contributed ₹25 lakh each to Prime Minister’s Relief Fund and Chief Minister’s Relief Fund in the fight against Covid-19. IPL franchises Rajasthan Royals and Delhi Capitals also contributed ₹7.5 crore and ₹1.5 crore, respectively, to the fight against the pandemic. Kolkata Knight Riders pacer Pat Cummins has donated USD 50,000 to purchase oxygen supplies for Indian hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-tendulkar-donates-1-crore-to-procure-oxygen-concentrators-101619724163612.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: False claims of oxygen sufficiency, Remdesivir diverted in Nandurbar, alleges BJP MP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament from Nandurbar Dr Heena Gavit has alleged that district administration had diverted Remdesivir injections to an organisation related to Shiv Sena’s local leader Chandrakant Raghuvanshi. She has also said that the district administration made false claims of its self-sufficiency related to oxygen in the district.“District collector had claimed that the district had become self-sufficient after they installed oxygen plants in the district recently. However, in reality, the plants in Navapur and Taloda plants have not yet been commissioned. Even half of its required oxygen is not generated in the district as yet,” Dr Gavit said.She also accused that the district administration diverted 1,000 Remdesivir injections to Rotary Welfare Centre, the organisation associated with Sena leader Chandrakant Raghuvanshi. She said that the injections were sold by the organisation illegally as such a sale has been banned.Raghvanshi, however, has termed the allegations politically motivated and said to have levelled out of political one-upmanship. “The welfare centre is empanelled by the state government and injections were sold at ₹550, when its price in the open market was much high. The sale by private establishments was banned on April 16, while our procurement from the government machinery was done on April 6. The allegations are politically motivated as the district collector did not accept a few of her proposals recently,” he said.District collector Rajendra Bharud did not respond to calls and messages.An officer from the collectorate said, “We have commissioned four plants at Shahada and Nandurbar with the capacity of 60 litres per minute, two plants in Taloda and Navapur will soon be commissioned. We have indeed been procuring oxygen from outside, but we will soon be self-sufficient once all plants are commissioned. We never claimed that we have already been generating the oxygen we require. But the new plants under construction were planned after the outbreak of the second wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrafalse-claims-of-oxygen-sufficiency-remdesivir-diverted-in-nandurbar-alleges-bjp-mp-101619724103696.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||NMC directs all medical colleges to set up PSA oxygen units in 6 months||In view of hospitals across the country struggling with oxygen shortage amid rising Covid-19 cases, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has made draft amendments to their existing rules, making it compulsory for medical college hospitals to set up pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen units in their campuses. As per the latest circular released by NMC, the arrangements have to be made within the next six months. Addressed to all affiliated medical institutions in the country, NMC revealed that this move was being introduced through a draft amendment made to the Minimum Requirements for Annual MBBS Admissions Regulations. “Central oxygen and suction points shall include provision of piped oxygen supply to all patients in critical care from liquid oxygen tanks installed in appropriate place in the hospital complex,” stated the circular released on April 28. It further stated that all medical college hospitals should have a dedicated PSA technology-based oxygen supply in addition to supply from liquid oxygen tanks, which is to be installed and made operational within six months.The move comes days after the Central government recently asked respective state governments to make captive oxygen a norm in medical colleges in the future. At present, Maharashtra has more than 60 medical colleges offering undergraduate medical programmes.“Most medical colleges in the state already have an oxygen generation unit on campus and we are now going to make sure that all colleges install the PSA technology for future needs,” said TP Lahane, director of the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). “This is a move made by NMC to ensure infrastructural upgradation of medical colleges. Basic facilities are anyway available in most medical colleges, but encouraging them to adopt better technology is the need of the hour,” said Dr Avinash Supe, former dean and director of KEM Hospital. Supe, who is at present in-charge of Covid-death committee in the state, added, “Over the past few years, the apex body has tried to encourage colleges to be better equipped. With the current scenario, when oxygen shortage is plaguing the system, the aim is to make sure hospitals are better prepared for the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmc-directs-all-medical-colleges-to-set-up-psa-oxygen-units-in-6-months-101619724104230.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s test positivity rate is coming down. What does it mean?||Mumbai’s daily Covid-19 test positivity rate – the percentage of tests that are positive, or TPR – has been on a steady decline, data shows. From 30% on April 4, when the city recorded the highest single-day surge of 11,206 cases, the test positivity rate came down to 10.79% on April 29, with cases dropping to 4174. This is not an isolated case. The city’s TPR for the previous six days was respectively 12.69%, 13.19%, 13.68%, 13.75%, 14.87% and 17.26%. What does this mean for the city that was once the epicentre of the Covid pandemic in India, and was one of the worst affected cities in the second wave that began in the second week of February and peaked two months later? Simply put, TPR rises when most of the people who are getting tested are positive, and declines when most samples tested return negative. But this rate, experts say, has to be correlated to the number of tests. Trends across the pandemic show that when tests declined, the TPR went up. Mumbai was no different in the first wave that peaked in September 2020. The city averaged 11,175 tests per day that month, and the city’s TPR was almost 20%. In April, though, the number of tests has averaged more than 40,000 per day, with TPR consistently declining from the second week onwards.“A declining TPR is a good sign for Mumbai,” said Sandeep Juneja, dean of the school of technology and computer science at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai. “The positivity rate goes down when the city has fewer people with Covid symptoms seeking tests. To put it simply, it means that the number of infections within the community is coming down, which is a healthy sign. It would be ideal for the TPR to drop below 5% as was the case in late January and early February.” According to Juneja, in August-September last year, Mumbai’s TPR was around 20%. “At that time, the city was carrying out only about 10,000 to 15,000 tests each day. In comparison, the number of tests has increased to nearly 40,000 now,” he said. From 30% on Sunday, April 4, the positivity rate fell to 25% the next Sunday on April 11. It further dropped to 23% on April 18 and to 19% on April 25. The state implemented curfew-like restrictions on April 14, and it announced stricter curbs on the movement of citizens on April 21. Civic officials said that before these restrictions came into place, they were widely testing people at crowded areas such as beaches, malls, gardens, etc. “Since the restrictions came into place, we are carrying out targeted testing of people who have symptoms, or those who have a train or air travel scheduled,” said a civic official. “If you see the testing figures, the numbers have not fallen drastically. At this point, the reduced TPR indicates that the infection is being controlled,” she said, adding that the government will consider easing the restrictions when the rate falls below 5%. An expert insight published by the US-based Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in August 2020 has stated that “one threshold for the percent positive being “too high” is 5%”. It said that the World Health Organization recommended in May 2020 that the percent positive remain below 5% for at least two weeks before governments consider reopening. Experts say that TPR is a more reliable indicator to ascertain whether new infections are reducing. “But interpreting it is complex,” said Dr. Om Shrivastav, member of the Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “It can be well interpreted if there is consistently the same number of tests in the same geographical area or community,” he said. According to city-based infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal, the lockdown-like restrictions have played a crucial role in Mumbai’s declining positivity rate. “At the same time, people have also become more cautious, and there is definitely a change in behaviour in terms of masking, physical distancing, etc,” she said, adding that the state should not rush into easing the restrictions and instead use the time to vaccinate as many people as possible and scale up health infrastructure. “We must not forget that there can always be a third wave,” said Dr Singhal. Does Covid-19 vaccination have a role to play in the declining test positivity rate? “It’s too premature to link them both,” said Dr. C Pramesh, director of the Tata Memorial Hospital who has been keenly tracking the Covid-19 trajectory. “Compared to our population, the number of vaccinations is still low and this immediate reduction in the test positivity rate cannot be attributed to it,” he said. Until April 28, Mumbai had administered over 2.4 million vaccine doses, but only around 460,000 were fully vaccinated with two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-test-positivity-rate-is-coming-down-what-does-it-mean-101619724043663.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends lockdown till May 15||Maharashtra government on Thursday formally announced the extension of lockdown for a fortnight after May 1. The state, on April 21, had restricted movement of people till May 1, but with around 60,000 Covid-19 cases being recorded daily, it extended the lockdown till May 15.On Wednesday, the state cabinet had in-principle decided to extend the lockdown. State health minister Rajesh Tope had said that all cabinet ministers had unanimously told the chief minister that the restrictions be extended by 15 days.An order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said that the state is “continued to be threatened with the spread of Covid-19, and therefore it is “imperative to continue emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of the virus”. It said, “The government finds it is necessary to continue the enforcement of the current restrictions throughout the state beyond 7am on May 1, 2021, till 7am on May 15, 2021, to break the chain of transmission effectively.”During the lockdown, the restrictions that were imposed from April 22 will continue. These restrictions include reduced attendance in government and exempted category offices to 15%, local train travel has been restricted to the essential sector and stricter curbs have been imposed on inter-district and city travel. This would mean, people still can’t step out unless for medical reasons or to buy essential commodities (between 7am and 11am) or if they are working in the essential sector. Health experts said that the decision was anticipated as the state is yet to bring down the daily Covid-19 cases. Though, some cities including Mumbai, Pune have seen some dip in cases. Maharashtra in the last two weeks has seen a minor decrease in cases, but it could be a fluctuation and not a trend, said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services (Maharashtra) and advisor to the state on Covid.According to data, a week after Maharashtra announced a lockdown from April 22, the weekly growth of Covid-19 infections has seen a dip. Between April 15 and April 21, the state recorded 387,972 cases, which came down to 378,554 between April 22 and April 28.Over the last few days, the state’s daily cases are hovering around 62,000 and 66,000. Salunkhe further said that the state could continue to see similar daily figures for another week. “The decrease in cases in some pockets could be fluctuation. Maharashtra will see similar figures for another seven days or so before we see some decrease. The restrictions on people’s movement will gradually show impact in this week and the next,” he said. Salunkhe, however, refused to comment on the state government projections for when the state will go past the second wave. “In the last wave, we have had a bad experience with these mathematical models. Nobody can fully predict the extent, but the state has geared up well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-till-may-15-101619723983700.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 19 Oxygen Express trains kept on standby||The Railways has kept 19 freight trains on standby at different locations for transportation of oxygen, if needed, to Maharashtra, officials said on Thursday. The trains will be used if the Maharashtra government wants to ferry liquid oxygen from any location outside the state. Nineteen Roll-On Roll-Off (RORO) freight trains with a capacity to attach 32 flat wagons, on which tankers can be loaded, are standby. Of these, two trains are at standby at Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai, seven trains at Nagpur railway station and 10 at Pune railway station. Railways are operating oxygen express as per the demand from the state government. Both the Central and Western Railway have operated one Oxygen Express each carrying nearly 149 tonnes of medical oxygen to Maharashtra. “We have kept RORO on standby and will be operating it as the state government demands for it. We have not yet received requirements for operation of another Oxygen Express yet. The flat wagons will be deployed as we get demand from the state government,” said a senior railway official. Ten tankers carrying oxygen were sent to Maharashtra from Gujarat and Visakhapatnam. RORO service movement on Central Railway is challenging due to the ghat section and takes time as trains with the oxygen tankers cannot be transported from the ghat section. The route of the train is decided after evaluating the ghat areas, road overbridges (RoB), tunnels, curves, platform canopies and over-head equipment (OHE).The first Oxygen Express departed from Kalamboli railway yard to steel plant in Visakhapatnam on April 19 and reached Maharashtra on April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-19-oxygen-express-trains-kept-on-standby-101619723923644.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 4,174 cases, 82 deaths on Thursday, toll crosses 13,000||Mumbai on Thursday reported 4,174 Covid-19 cases and 82 deaths, taking the tally to 644,583. The toll due to Covid-19 crossed 13,000 on Thursday, totalling 13,036 deaths. There are now 67,255 active Covid-19 cases in the city. Active cases in the city have decreased by 20% in the last fortnight. On April 15, Mumbai had 84,753 active Covid-19 in the city. On Wednesday, Mumbai conducted 38,848 Cvid-19 tests, which resulted in Thursday’s number of cases, and the positivity rate for the day is 10,7%, down from around 18% reported in mid-April. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,380,473 tests. The overall positivity rate is 11.9%. Positivity rate is the number of Covid-19 cases as a per cent of the total tests done in the city. In the past few days, the daily number of Covid-19 cases in the city has been on a decline. The highest number of cases reported in the city so far were 11,206 cases on April 4. By mid-April, Mumbai was reporting on 7000-8000 cases a day. On April 15, Mumbai reported 8,209 covid-19 cases, which dropped to 5,867 cases on April 24. These further dropped to 3,840 cases on April 26. Owing to fewer cases by the day, the number of vacant hospital beds in Mumbai have also gradually increased. On Thursday morning, Mumbai had 5,549 out of 21,769 hospital beds vacant, of which 1,480 were vacant oxygen beds, 73 vacant ICU beds, and 20 vacant ventilator beds. On the contrary, on April 15, Mumbai had 3,736 vacant beds out of 20,044 total beds, 853 oxygen beds were vacant, 40 ICU beds were vacant, and 14 ventilator beds were vacant. However, deaths due to Covid-19 have been increasing per day. The daily case fatality rate on Thursday was 1.9%, and the overall case fatality rate in the city is 2%. Mumbai reported 78 deaths on Wednesday, 59 on Tuesday, 71 on Monday. Death in the city per day was in single digits only last month. The doubling rate in Mumbai is 79 days, and the growth rate of cases is 0.86%. There are 115 containment zones in the city which are slums and chawls. Around 1,101 residential buildings are presently sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-4-174-cases-82-deaths-on-thursday-toll-crosses-13000-101619723863671.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay converts existing nitrogen plant into oxygen generator||At a time when there’s a shortage of medical oxygen supply in the country for treatment of Covid-19 patients, the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), has set up a demonstration unit to convert nitrogen generators, which are found in all parts of India, into oxygen generators by fine-tuning the existing nitrogen plant set up. The oxygen generated by this plant at IIT-B lab was tested and found to be 93-96% pure and at 3.5 atmospheric pressure. Nitrogen generation plants, which take in air from the atmosphere and separate oxygen and nitrogen to give out liquid nitrogen, can be found in various industries such as oil and gas, food and beverages. Nitrogen is dry in nature and is used commonly for purging and cleaning of oil and gas tankers. Milind Atrey, institute chair professor, department of mechanical engineering, IIT-B, along with Tata Consulting Engineers Limited (TCE), demonstrated a proof of concept of quickly converting nitrogen plants into oxygen plants. Nitrogen plants work on pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology, where air from the atmosphere is sucked in, filtered of impurities and nitrogen is extracted. Oxygen, which is a by-product, is released back into the atmosphere. A nitrogen plant has four components — a compressor to control the pressure of the air sucked in, an air vessel for filtering out impurities, PSU units where the separation takes place, and a buffer vessel into which this separated nitrogen is passed and stored. Atrey and the team from TCE propose to switch the filter used for nitrogen extraction in the PSA unit with one that can extract oxygen instead. “In nitrogen plants, the pressure of the air is controlled and then it is cleaned of impurities such as water vapours, oil, carbon dioxide and hydrocarbons. After this step, the purified air goes into the PSA chamber which is fitted with carbon molecular sieves or filters that can separate nitrogen and oxygen. We are proposing that the sieves be replaced with ones that can separate oxygen instead,” said Atrey, a specialist in cryogenic engineering and dean, research and development at IIT-B. The team replaced the carbon molecular sieves with zeolite molecular sieves in the PSA Nitrogen plant in the Refrigeration and Cryogenics Laboratory of the institute. Zeolite molecular sieves are used for separating oxygen from the air. By controlling the flow rates of the containers, the researchers were able to convert the nitrogen plant into an oxygen generating plant. Spantech Engineers, a city-based company that deals with PSA Nitrogen and Oxygen plant production, partnered on this pilot project and installed the required plant components as a skid at IIT-B for evaluation. The pilot project was aimed at finding quick and easy solutions to the severe oxygen shortage in medical facilities across the country. Amit Sharma, managing director of TCE, said, “This pilot displays how an innovative solution for emergency oxygen generation using existing infrastructure can help the country tide over the current crisis.” “It took us about three days to do the conversion. It is a simple process and can be done quickly within a few days. Nitrogen plants across the country can use this technique to convert their plants into oxygen plants,” said Atrey. Announced on Thursday morning, the pilot study has gained the attention of many policymakers. “We have received interest from many government officials, not only in Maharashtra but from across the country, on how this can be scaled up and implemented in existing nitrogen plants. We are currently streamlining our processes to help existing plants in adopting this model,” Atrey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-converts-existing-nitrogen-plant-into-oxygen-generator-101619723864256.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Nagpur doesn’t get Remdesivir: Bombay HC seeks details on distribution||Even with more than 78,000 active Covid cases, Nagpur district did not receive any Remdesivir on Wednesday while, Jalna, state health minister Rajesh Tope’s home district, received 30,000 vials of the antiviral drug. The district has 7,800 active cases. These figures were presented before the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday, following which the bench directed the nodal officer to place on record district-wise allocation of Remdesivir and the formula adopted to determine the entitlement of each district. “In case he finds that more number of vials than what should have been sent to a particular district have been sent, the nodal officer shall withdraw the same from that district proportionately and send them to the districts which have been unjustly and unequally deprived of these vials, and this would include Nagpur as well,” the HC said while seeking compliance by Friday afternoon. A division bench consisting justice Sunil Shukre and justice Avinash Gharote, while hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid mismanagement, asked the nodal officer (Food and Drugs Administration joint commissioner Ganesh Rokde) to place on record corrective action and effective steps taken to remove this step-motherly treatment. The Centre had allotted 269,000 Remdesivir vials for Maharashtra for April 21-30 and the quota was enhanced to 435,000 on April 24. Considering active cases, Nagpur district should have received 49,177 vials during the period, but got only a fraction of it, pointed out amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar, and Indian Medical Association’s counsel Advocate Bhanudas Kulkarni. Meanwhile, Jalna district received 30,000 vials of Remdesivir from one or two pharmaceutical companies, they said. On couple of days including April 28 Nagpur district received no vials making situation quite precarious, informed advocate Tushar Mandlekar. When the state, through in-charge government pleader Ketaki Joshi, sought some time to furnish the detailed affidavit pursuant to last order, the HC sought to know whether any district-wise allotment order was passed by the nodal officer to ensure fair and equitable distribution of Remdesivir. The state said the nodal officer has not passed any such order and added that there was no need for the same, promising to justify this position on Friday. The court then asked the state and the nodal officer to explain how Remdesivir was being distributed, and list backlog of vials from Pharmaceutical companies and steps taken pursuant to allotment of quota by the central committee to procure the quantity from seven pharmaceutical companies by Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nagpur-doesn-t-get-remdesivir-bombay-hc-seeks-details-on-distribution-101619723743620.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh moves HC against Maharashtra’s enquiry orders||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has filed a fresh petition in the Bombay high court (HC), complaining about efforts to thwart the CBI probe into allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and also challenging the decision of the state government to entrust enquiries against him to director-general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey. The HC will hear the petition on May 4. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi mentioned the petition for urgent hearing before a bench of justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale and informed that the petition was challenging the April 1 and April 20 orders of the state government, directing DGP Pandey to inquire whether Singh had violated provisions of the All India Service (Conduct) Rules, 1968 and to look into allegations made by police inspector Anup Dange that Singh’s brother had demanded ₹2 crore for getting him reinstated after he was suspended on disciplinary grounds. The petition also sought interim reliefs in view of his April 19 representation made to CBI in which he has alleged a criminal conspiracy and malicious attempt to thwart the preliminary inquiry ordered by the HC on April 5 to CBI to investigate into the allegations of corruption made by Singh against Deshmukh. The petition has sought a stay on the inquiry based on the April 1 and 20 order of the state till the petition is not heard and decided. After hearing the submissions, the bench refused to stay the two orders when the additional public prosecutor informed the court that Singh had not been issued any summons or show-cause notice as yet pursuant to the two orders and hence it was premature to stay the same. The court accepted the argument and in light of the urgency. posted hearing of the petition to May 4. On March 25, Param Bir Singh had approached the HC through a public interest litigation, seeking an inquiry into the corruption charges by former home minister Anil Deshmukh who had ordered police officers to collect protection money from restaurants and bar and other establishments to the tune of Rs100 crore per month. Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had called police officers Sachin Vaze, SCP Sanjay Patil and DCP Raju Bhujbal to his residence and told them to collect the said amount every month. Singh had alleged that though he was the Mumbai Police commissioner, Deshmukh had bypassed him and had directed his officers to commit cognisable offences. In light of these submissions Singh had sought an independent inquiry by CBI or any other agency into the allegations made by him against Deshmukh. After hearing all sides over a period of ten days, the HC had passed an order on April 5, directing the CBI not to register an FIR, but to conduct a preliminary inquiry and conclude it within 15 days. Thereafter it was left to the discretion of the director, CBI to decide on further course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-moves-hc-against-maharashtra-s-enquiry-orders-101619721703419.html
30-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Covid-19 vaccination drive for 45+ suspended for 3 days over shortage of vials||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said vaccination for the 18-44 age group will not start on May 1, but only after adequate stock of vaccine doses is available. The ongoing vaccination drive for those above 45 years will be suspended for three days till May 2 due to shortage of vials. The civic body also appealed to citizens above 45 years of age not to crowd at vaccination centres, fearing they would get crowded after May 1 as the two groups will have different arrangements for vaccination.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Also, the Maharashtra government on Thursday formally announced the extension of its lockdown for a fortnight after May 1. The state on April 21 had put strict restrictions on the movement of people till May 1, but with Covid-19 cases remaining upwards of 60,000 daily, it extended the lockdown till May 15.According to BMC officials, the stock that they will have in their hand after vaccination on Friday will not be enough to keep the vaccination drive running through the weekend.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We have decided to suspend the vaccination drive in Mumbai for three days between April 30 and May 2. We may hardly have around 10,000 vaccine doses in our stock after Thursday. However, if we receive around 100,000 vaccine doses, we might restart the vaccination drive in the city.”Kakani added, “With this, the vaccination drive that was going to start for the age group between 18 to 44 years is also postponed. For this age group, the drive will start only when we have sufficient stock.”According to BMC officials, the stock of vaccine coming from the Central government will only be used for the age group of above 45 years, while the stock that will come from the state government will be used for the 18 to 44 years age group’s vaccination drive. As of now, there is no word from the state government when this stock will arrive since the supply is not available from vaccine manufacturers for the time being.Further, the BMC added that all proposed 227 vaccination centres for vaccination of citizens above the age of 18 years will be operational by mid-May. The BMC also appealed to citizens above the age of 45 to not crowd at vaccination centres, stating that no citizen will be deprived of the vaccine. Significantly, it has also appealed the citizens to wear double masks, while going to vaccination centres. The advisory was issued after huge crowds were reported across vaccination centres in the city on Thursday at government and civic body-run vaccination centres. The vaccination drive was to get operational only by noon on Thursday, however, citizens had started reaching vaccination centres by as early as 6am. This resulted in huge queues and crowding outside several vaccination centres in the city. The BMC said, “Citizens in the age group of 45 years and above should not have the misconception that they will not get the vaccine as vaccination has started in the age group of 18 to 44 years. Even if the scope of vaccination is increased, priority will be given to citizens aged 45 years and above.”The statement also added that from now on, those above 45 years of age will be vaccinated only they are registered on the Co-win portal.Vijay Gangan, 79, along with wife and sister had to wait in line for five hours to be administered the Covid-19 vaccine at Mahim maternity home on Thursday. Gangan said he was determined to take his first dose of vaccine any how on Thursday and was ready to be in queue till evening if needed. “On two previous occasions despite scheduling my appointment, I was sent back from the hospitals citing shortage of vaccines. Hence today I decided to come directly to the hospital,” said Gangan. Gangan and his family members stood in line from 7am and his turn came from 12 noon. Similar is the case of Lekha Salunke, 55, who was waiting in line at KEM Hospital from 9am onwards for her second dose of vaccine. “The private hospital where I took the first dose has no stock from the last one week. The situation will only deteriorate after May 1 when citizens over 18 years will also be added in the vaccination list,” said Salunke.Ashwini Bhide, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, took to Twitter on Thursday saying, “All senior citizens in #Mumbai r kindly requested nt 2 crowd or stand in long queues @ #vaccination centres.Vaccine is in short supply just for now & so nt available @ all places in enough quantity. But be rest assured that all 45+ years citizens wil eventually get vaccinated. Even when the new drive for the 18-44 year age group starts, the centres available now will continue to remain active for 45+ years citizens.”Currently, there are 136 vaccination centres, of which 63 are government and civic centres, and in the coming days the BMC plans to make additional 227 vaccination centres operational. These centres will vaccinate all above 18 years of age for free, but in the operational 63 vaccination centres citizens only above 45 years of age will be vaccinated.According to BMC officials, they are also in the process of recruiting additional staff for the proposed 227 vaccination centres in the city. Devidas Kshirsagar, deputy municipal commissioner, BMC’s health department, said, “We are in the process of making arrangements for having 227 vaccination centres in the city. It will require three things broadly when it comes to conducting successful vaccination. This includes cold storage, health infrastructure for attending beneficiaries that might report adverse effect post immunisation followed by having sufficient nurses and doctors.” Kshirsagar added, “Every ward officer is in the process of recruiting nurses, doctors and required contractual staff. We will need around 2,000 contractual staff for running these 227 vaccination centres. We should be in a position by having all of these 227 centres operational by mid-May and after that vaccination will also start as and when doses are made available to us.”The 227 vaccination centres are proposed to be opened up in each 227 electoral wards utilising community halls, health posts and party halls. These centres will be used for vaccination and post vaccination observation, and in case of any adverse effect, the BMC will tie up with nearby nursing homes and hospitals where the citizen will be rushed to in case of any adverse effect post vaccination.For the age group for 18 to 44 years, the vaccination will only be on the basis of appointments. While the vaccine administration will be free at government and civic run centres, one will also have an option to get vaccinated by paying at private hospitals. Simultaneously, the BMC officials said they are also in touch with indigenous manufacturers directly and trying to get vaccine doses directly for the city. A BMC official not wishing to be named said, “We cannot directly procure vaccines for international manufacturers, and hence are in touch with domestic manufacturers to explore a possibility of getting any doses directly.”According to BMC officials, for now the doses that are received from the central government will only be used for 45 and above age groups. Once the fresh stock procured by the state government starts coming in, vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group will start. The city will have three vaccine cold storage facilities at Dadar, Kanjurmarg and Andheri. Meanwhile, on Thursday 28,782 citizens were vaccinated,. Overall, 2,428,626 citizens have been vaccinated in the city since January 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-drive-for-45-in-mumbai-suspended-for-3-days-101619721523490.html
