22-03-2021||---||Omar hopes ceasefire restoration will aid ‘greater interaction between India, Pak’||New Delhi, March 22The Jammu and Kashmir National Conference Vice President Omar Abdullah on Monday welcomed the restoration of ceasefire pact on the Line of Control between India and Pakistan.Addressing the provincial review meeting of the party’s women wing and segment in-charges here at party headquarters, Omar said the measures will prove more beneficial to the people of Jammu and Kashmir than to anybody else.“These measures should act as a stepping stone for greater interaction between the two neighbouring countries for the resolution of all impending issues between them,” said the former CM of J&K.In his address, Omar said the idea of struggle for the restoration of rights of the people of Jammu and Kashmir will continue to guide the party’s steps in the future as well.  “We will fight politically, legally and most importantly peacefully keeping up with the founding principles of our party, which throughout the breadth of its being has not let violence, prejudice overwhelm it,” he said.He said enemies of Jammu and Kashmir didn’t leave any chance to weaken the National Conference since it has been guarding the culture, identity and distinctive political character of Jammu and Kashmir zealously.“The party is determined to fight for the rights of people of Jammu and Kashmir and will continue to strive for strengthening bonds of brotherhood among people and bringing about overall development in the region,” he added.Omar said the party will have to take a leap to rise up to the expectations of people to give voice to their aspirations and work for their development needs.He impressed upon them to strengthen the party at grass root levels at all levels ranging from block halqa levels to provincial levels.  Besides party matters, the vice president took a detailed review of the ongoing membership process across Kashmir province and the reorganization of the party’s youth wing.On the recent DDC election results he said, “People across Jammu and Kashmir gave their stamp of approval by giving the National Conference a thumping mandate. The results were a clear cut answer to those who prior to elections were making sweeping judgments on our party’s relevance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/omar-hopes-ceasefire-restoration-will-aid-greater-interaction-between-india-pak-228951
22-03-2021||New Delhi||NIA files charge sheet against 3 terror operatives in Devender Singh case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday said it has filed a charge sheet against three accused Hizb-ul-Mujahideen operatives Shaheen Ahmad Lone, Tafazul Hussain Parimoo and Waheed-ur-Rahman Para under various sections of the IPC, UAPA and Explosive Substances Act in a Jammu special court in connection with suspended J&K Police officer Devender Singh case.In the charge sheet, the officials in the NIA said the investigation revealed that accused Lone and Parimoo were involved in gun running from across the LoC for the militants of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and were also channelising funds to the militants for sustaining terrorist activities in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) at the behest of handlers located in Pakistan. “It was also revealed that accused Para was part of the conspiracy for arranging and transferring of terror funds to Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM) militants for procurement of hardware for terrorists and was also a crucial player in sustaining political-separatist-terrorist nexus in J&K,” the NIA said in the charge sheet.This case was first registered after apprehension of two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists Syed Naveed Mushtaq and Rafi Ahmad Rather along with one serving DSP of J&K Police Devender Singh and advocate Irfan Shafi Mir, near Al-Stop Naka, Qazigund while they were travelling from Srinagar to Jammu in the i20 car owned and driven by accused advocate Mir. The NIA later took over the investigation in the case and a charge sheet was earlier filed against eight accused in this case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-3-terror-operatives-in-devender-singh-case-228931
22-03-2021||Jammu||Police probing 'attack' on Gujjar family in J-K's Samba||Police have started an investigation into an alleged attack on a family, belonging to the minority Gujjar community, in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district, officials said on Monday.A man and his family members were allegedly attacked by some unidentified people after he resisted their attempt to molest his young daughter in a village, resulting in injuries to him, the officials said.He was shifted to the Government Medical College (GMC) Hospital Jammu for treatment. The officials said police have started investigations to bring the culprits to book.Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti highlighted the incident and requested the immediate intervention of the Inspector General of Police, Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh."A Gujjar family was brutally attacked in Samba yesterday. The culprits tried to abduct their daughter, the family resisted and were beaten up. The father has been admitted to GMC. The goons later set their sheds ablaze. Request @mukesh_ips-jk ji to look into this immediately," the former chief minister said in a late Saturday tweet.Responding to the request, the IGP said police have already taken cognizance of the incident and an FIR under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including 307 (attempt to murder), 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) was registered at Samba police station.However, he said no sheds were burnt and the deputy superintendent of police, headquarters, reached the GMC to record the statement of the injured. "Cognizance taken. FIR no.90/2021 u/s 307/341/323/354 IPC lodged at p/s Samba. Injured shifted to hospital. No sheds were burnt. DSP hqr reached GMC to record the statement of injured," the IGP said in his tweet. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/police-probing-attack-on-gujjar-family-in-j-ks-samba-228861
22-03-2021||THE TRIBUNE INTERVIEW||‘Elections not a solution, Kashmir needs healing’||Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti says elections in J&K are neither a priority for her party nor a solution to the Kashmir issue. The former Chief Minister refuses to contest elections until the special status of Jammu and Kashmir is restored. For this, she says her struggle will continue “through peaceful and democratic means”.In an email interview with Aditi Tandon of The Tribune, the former Chief Minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir says the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration will stabilise and its “teething problems will end”. Excerpts:The Central government has said statehood to J&K will be restored at an appropriate time.Nothing it has said till now has been grounded in facts and can be further from the truth. After heaping one humiliation after the other and disempowering the people of J&K, it wants to ensure that the iron-fisted approach continues and that is possible only as long as J&K remains a UT. It seems that the appropriate time in its dictionary will be when its agenda of changing the demography and reducing Kashmiris to second class citizens will be fulfilled.The delimitation exercise is on. Will you participate in the meetings?I don’t want to get into a hypothetical situation. We will cross that bridge when we come to it.The Delimitation Commission has already started deliberating.I said hypothetical since we haven’t been invited to participate. Once the invite comes, our party will take a decision.People’s Conference chief Sajjad Lone recently quit the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. The group is already looking disunited.Whenever different parties come together for a common cause, there are always teething problems. I am sure things will stabilise.The government has said Article 370 won’t be restored. What are your options to get your demand accepted?Something that has been guaranteed by the Indian Constitution cannot be removed or violated as per any political party’s agenda or whims and fancies. We will continue to fight for it through democratic and peaceful means.Will you contest the next Assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir?I will contest the elections only once our special status is restored. As far as campaigning is concerned, I will take a call when the time comes. My party will participate but I will dedicate myself to the larger cause of the Kashmir issue.Will the PAGD contest the Assembly polls? If so, who will lead the alliance which has three former CMs, including you, Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah?J&K is going through a very turbulent and perhaps the darkest period in its history. For the past two years, people have suffered and continue to suffer on all fronts. Election is not the priority nor has it been a solution to the Kashmir problem which is a festering wound that needs healing. We will take a decision through consultations when the time comes.How do you see the post-DDC election phase in Jammu & Kashmir?Nothing has changed on the ground except there was a lot of horse-trading done in elections for the DDC chairmen. Those elected are still fighting to be empowered, as promised.The Enforcement Directorate is probing your assets.The matter is sub judice. Having said that, I have nothing to hide or fear.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/elections-not-a-solution-kashmir-needs-healing-228812
22-03-2021||Srinagar||158 new cases in UT, 1 more death||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 158 fresh cases, including 34 travellers, taking the infection tally to 1,28,547, even as one more death was reported in the past 24 hours, officials said.Out of the fresh cases, 27 were from the Jammu division and 131 from the Kashmir division of the Union Territory, they said. The officials said Srinagar district recorded the highest of 88 cases, including 27 travellers, followed by 22 in Jammu district, 19 in Baramulla and 14 in Budgam districts.‘Vax the answer’Vaccines are the answer, not one-day lockdowns. Open up vaccine to more people. —Omar Abdullah, NC LeaderIn all, 34 travellers tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours.While nine districts did not report any fresh case, seven other had cases in single digits. The number of active cases was 1,290 in the UT, while 1,25,276 patients have recovered so far, the officials said. The death toll in Jammu and Kashmir due to the pandemic is 1,981 as one fresh fatality was reported from Kashmir division in the past 24 hours, they added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/158-new-cases-in-ut-1-more-death-228813
22-03-2021||---||Armed forces strengthen security shield as steel bullets emerge again||New Delhi, March 21Alarmed over recovery of steel piercing bullets at the Shopian encounter site where Jaish-e-Mohammed’s top commander Sajjad Afghani was killed, the security forces in Jammu & Kashmir have strengthened the bullet-proofing shield of their vehicles and bunkers with an extra layer of protection for blunting such penetrative fire.Officials in the security establishment said the forces had recovered 36 rounds of armed steel-core bullets, which have the capacity to pierce the normal protective gears used by the troops, particularly in south Kashmir area.Can pierce through normal shieldsSensing the danger posed by such ammunition used by terrorists, the officials said now the vehicles, especially deployed in south Kashmir, and personnel moving for anti-terror operations are equipped with shields which have “an extra layer of protection for blunting such penetrative bullets”.It is also learnt from the sources that the ammunition is generally used in the AK series rifles, which the terror organisations, active in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK), modified them with the help of Chinese technology of encasing bullets with hard steel core. The bullets, which have Armour Piercing (AP) capacity, are built of hardened steel or tungsten carbide, they said.The first incident of use of “steel core” bullet was noticed on the New Year’s Eve of 2017 when JeM terrorists had carried out a suicide attack on a CRPF camp in Lethpora in south Kashmir.Five paramilitary personnel were killed in the attack and one of them was hit by a bullet fatally despite using a static bullet-proof shield provided by the Army.Normally, the bullets terrorists use in their assault rifles have a lead core covered with mild steel which cannot penetrate a bullet-proof shield, but after the December 31, 2017, encounter and a detailed analysis, forces had to change the way they protected themselves, the officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/armed-forces-strengthen-security-shield-as-steel-bullets-emerge-again-228814
22-03-2021||New Delhi||Pakistani intruder held along International border||The Border Security Force (BSF) today said its troops have arrested a Pakistani intruder along the International Border (IB) in Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir.Officials in the BSF here said the intruder was arrested shortly after he sneaked into the Indian side on Saturday night.“During night hours, the alert BSF troops observed suspicious movement of one Pakistani national who crossed the border, but was nabbed ahead of the fencing by them,” a senior BSF official said.Earlier, a Pakistani intruder was shot dead by the BSF personnel on March 16 in the Ramgarh sector of Samba when he ignored repeated warnings while trying to sneak into the Indian side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/pakistani-intruder-held-along-international-border-228815
