01-01-2021||---||Why development can’t be above politics||WHILE flagging off the first train run on the 351-km New Delhi-New Khurja section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor, PM Narendra Modi demanded that political parties should put development above politics. The turn of phrase — development above politics — is significant. In 1994, development had been typed as the quintessential ‘anti-politics machine’ by noted anthropologist James Ferguson. Leaders across the postcolonial world continue to flag the political vocabulary of development as value-free and apolitical, as a binary opposite to politics as contestation over power.Politics is not only about the accumulation of power by elites. Politics is about the way people, inexorably stripped of the capacity to make their own lives, speak back to power. What we call the political is contested, challenged, mediated, modified, curtailed and expanded. It is a battlefield of disputed ideas, beliefs, worldviews, perspectives, ideologies and even mere opinions. Some ideologies win, but for the moment. Others loom on the margins sometimes as alternatives, sometimes as affirmation, and sometimes as critique.The idea of the political as contestation allows political theorists to dream of a democratic state as one that intends to better the lives of people. If philosophy tells us how to lead a good life, political theory tells us that a good life cannot be lived unless we live in a good society. But a good society can only be institutionalised if the holders of power set out to create the preconditions of such a life by respecting rights to freedom, equality, justice, citizenship, dignity and social goods. Importantly, the democratic state must do so under the watchful and critical eye of the political public. Politics is by its very nature contested, even if the state of politics in the country is heavily dependent upon the politics of the state.What then of development that is positioned against the notion of politics as contestation? Is development apolitical? Since Independence, thousands of Indians have been displaced from their habitats, their workplaces and their hearths by so-called development projects. These may be railroads, pollution-spewing power plants, toxic nuclear installations, environmentally unsound big dams, luxury hotels, malls and farm houses. The belief of the political elite that nothing should stop the juggernaut of development has led to the suspension of civil liberties and the right to hold the holders of state power responsible and accountable. How can we then abstract development from politics as contestation?The depoliticisation of development accomplishes a major political objective: that of de-legitimising protest against big projects. This diminishes the political status of citizens. From agents who have the political competence to hold elected governments accountable, the people of India are reduced to consumers of opaque decisions arrived at in insulated corridors of power. But development is not above politics, it cannot be. For the living, breathing, pulsating right of citizens to a life worth living is neutralised by the anti-politics machine of development.Consider the political tragedies wrought by this machine. Two to three generations of farmers in Punjab and Haryana have worked overtime to develop agricultural productivity and transform these two states into the celebrated grain bowl of India. Today, when farmers agitate against discriminatory laws, they are dismissed and denigrated in peculiarly uncivil terms. In August 2019, the Home Minister of India piloted two special resolutions and a Bill in the Rajya Sabha. Together, these hollowed out the constitutional status of Article 370, and carved up the state of Jammu and Kashmir into the two Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh. Terrorism, said Shah, cannot end in the state as long as Articles 370 and 35A endure. These two articles, he further stated, are an obstacle to development. In the aftermath of the terrible Hathras tragedy earlier this year, when a young woman was brutally raped and murdered, the Uttar Pradesh government hardly spoke of arresting rapists and bringing them to justice. It preferred to set up a probe into a mythical international conspiracy hatched in foreign climes to defame the government and instigate caste violence. The chief minister alleged that those who do not ‘like’ development want to incite caste and communal riots in the state.Discourses of development in independent India bear an uncanny resemblance to offensive slogans adopted by the colonial government. The legitimising refrain of colonialism was the ‘civilising mission’, the legitimising mantra of post-independence governments is development. The first slogan assumed that the colonised were savages and needed to be civilised. The second presumes that citizens are passive and inert subjects of a merciless process called development. Both slogans embody absolute power. Both are contemptuous of human beings.The postcolonial discourse on development is a little more sophisticated. It narrates wishful stories of how societies can move in a linear fashion towards progress only if governments harness natural resources, build infrastructure, and ensure economic growth. People are told that they will find development instead of un-development or under-development only vide reductionist beliefs in simple-minded economic theories. The naïve belief in development persists despite the truths of history, and the lesson of mythology that societies regress. By now, we know that societies follow the path set by the figure in Greek mythology, Sisyphus.Sisyphus, the cunning and deceitful ruler of Corinth, was sentenced by the Greek god Zeus to roll a boulder up the hill in the underworld. Each time he reached the top of the hill, the boulder would roll down, forcing Sisyphus to begin his labour all over again. Similarly, societies progress and regress, become independent and are colonised once again, institutionalise democracy but democracy continues to elude them.In the 2020 Global Democracy Index Report compiled by the Economist Intelligence Unit, India slipped 10 places from the 2019 ranking to 51st place. The report attributed the primary cause of democratic regression to the erosion of civil liberties in the country, downgrading of Article 370, deployment of massive troops in Jammu and Kashmir, arrest of Kashmiri leaders, ban on the internet, and security related measures. The National Register of Citizens exercise in Assam led to the identification of 1.9 million citizens as aliens. Above all, the decline in India’s democratic status is attributed to the infamous Citizenship Amendment Act. Admittedly, the government focuses on building infrastructure. This is necessary, but is it enough? Does it make people’s lives better? Hardly! India has slipped one position to 131 out of 189 countries in the 2020 Human Development Index of the UN Human Development Report.The political paradox: Development but unsteady democracy gives us the right to ask disruptive questions. What exactly is it that development achieves? Who benefits? Who loses out? Splitting development from politics obfuscates its profoundly political role, of garnering power for elites at the expense of the people. Very few processes that affect the lives of Indians, often adversely, at rare times beneficially, are apolitical. They cannot be. Every practice, every institution, every word in the vocabulary of development, has to be contested. We have to bring back development into our understanding of politics as contestation every time a tribal community is alienated from its habitat, and every time a poor person’s hut or shanty town is demolished in the name of development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-development-cant-be-above-politics-192058
01-01-2021||ANNUS HORRIBILIS’ proclaimed the English Queen in her address to her subjects. She was describing the year 1992 when three of her own progeny were not being prim and proper. ‘We hope we do not encounter such a year again’ say the denizens of this planet||Year of hate and compassion||Nothing has driven us out of our comfort zone like the Covid has. It was and is not easy to keep social distancing like we have been advised. Newborns see only humans with masks. When some time in the future they get to see human faces, they will probably be seized by some primeval fear.My paternal grandmother used to recount the times of the plague that snatched her husband. He fell to the pestilence in 1897, soon after his 30th birthday. He was the first Goan to obtain a Master’s in English literature from the city’s Wilson College, the first college established in Bombay. Accounts of the great plague of London, as recorded in the book Old St. Paul’s by William Ainsworth, and of the plague in Algeria, as described by French author Albert Camus, give us a fair estimate of life disrupted, just as we are experiencing today. As humans tinker with nature, the latter is bound to retaliate. Future generations will face many such calamities which may make social distancing and masks a way of life!Covid has changed the way we relate even to our family, neighbours, friends, colleagues and to society at large. It has restricted movement.Our NGO, the Public Concern for Governance Trust works with youth across Mumbai’s colleges. In an attempt to improve their leadership skills and shape them into good human beings, we introduced them to respected experts in different disciplines. In the days before Covid, we used to organise live talks by these experts, but in the past eight months, we have turned to digital platforms. This online method of communication has now come to stay. People working out of homes is the new norm. If the arrangement continues after the lockdown is removed, it will change the way business is run, with less office space needed and fewer hands at the deck. There will be less need for transport but, on the other hand, more need for advanced technology to cater to the changed working environment.Like the plague, Covid will soon be a memory! Advances in science will prevail. But what happens to the hate and communal divide in our society which has spread so rapidly that one dreads to think of the consequences? The policy will bring in the votes, but what about the fissures in the body politic that will be hard to erase? I doubt if any thought was given to the long-term consequences by the Machiavellian mind bent on immediate gain. You cannot say they do not care because I know they do! They want our country to be strong, both economically and militarily, like China is today. But do they realise that it will not be possible with a country divided on religious and sectarian lines? The Muslims constitute about 15 per cent of our population. The BJP can ill afford to have them in a perpetual state of unease.The policy of excluding them incrementally through programmes like lynching of beef eaters and cattle traders, laws like the CAA and NRC, lowering the status of the only Muslim-majority state to a UT, and labelling them as Pakistani terrorists, or simply anti-national, will only quicken the march to alienation.How is this alienation going to pan out? How are the ‘love jihad’ laws proposed or already promulgated in BJP-ruled states going to accentuate differences? The fear generated by the government’s policies and the division between the majority and the biggest religious minority is now so deep that a powder keg has been created that can be ignited at any time.At times, I see rays of hope when the PM makes statements like ‘Sabka saath, sabka vikas’ or ‘the country needs more toilets, not places of worship!’ But the very next day, there are lynchings, there are speeches by his followers, where dire threats are parroted out, and there are references to the size of burial grounds as compared to the space allotted to the Hindus for cremation! This provocative reference was made by the PM himself at an election rally last year.So, the wildfire of hate has spread throughout the country. Our dedicated workers in the Mohalla Committee Movement, who were proud of their role in bridging the Hindu-Muslim divide in Mumbai’s slums, are despondent. All the gains they made in the past 25 years have slipped from their hands.But there are many bright spots. Many good Samaritans went out of their way to feed the needy, left jobless and penniless when the lockdown was announced. They tapped the compassionate strain that lies dormant in the human soul, resorted to crowd-funding and other avenues to purchase, pack and distribute dry rations through the police to indigent people.The police were the most appropriate agent to perform this task. It was the only visible arm of the government on empty streets which was in a pole position to determine who was the most helpless.I’m proud to say that along with Mumbai’s good Samaritans like former Police Commissioners Sivanandan and Anami Roy, noble citizens like Nitai Mehta and Gulam Vahanvaty, police officers and men rose to the occasion. I listened in amazement to one of Modiji’s staunch acolytes telling us on national TV that Modiji had cared so much that he had arranged to feed the hungry during the lockdown. He could have done so from the humongous funds he collected under the ‘PM Cares’ label, but I saw no signs of such caring in Mumbai. And I cannot clear my doubts through RTI because the fund is not open to scrutiny!Last but not least, I am proud to count my daughter Ana in the ranks of the Samaritans. She made her parents proud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/year-of-hate-and-compassion-192057
01-01-2021||---||Throwing good money after bad for PSBs’ sake||THE performance and intrinsic value of public sector banks (PSBs) continues to roil all those with a regulatory role over them. While the RBI regulates the banking sector as a whole, its remit over PSBs is not complete. The government, through the Union Finance Ministry and its department of financial services, exercises a degree of regulatory oversight over the PSBs. This complicates matters and as a result, PSBs are able to get away with a lot.The RBI is not very happy with this. The last thing the RBI would want is some other entity sharing the policing of PSBs with it, but at the end of the day, it’s being left holding the baby and having to answer how well they are using the public funds injected into them. But this is precisely what seems to be happening.According to a report in Business Standard, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), which audits the use of public funds, has sought from the RBI details of the performance of PSBs in the last five years during which they have received recapitalisation funds.Now, in the first place, it is doubtful if the RBI comes under the jurisdiction of the CAG. So, it would not be a surprise if the RBI refuses to part with the information sought. But if the jurisdictional issue is set aside and the CAG’s query is seen as simply a fact-finding exercise (as if to say, ‘do share with us if you have some information on this’), that leads us back to the duality that has been referred to above. In this vein, the CAG has also requested the RBI to share with the government the details of any relevant study that it might have undertaken.For almost a decade, the PSBs’ share of incremental credit has been going down as also their share of total outstanding credit. Quite simply, the PSBs have been steadily losing market share. To shore them up and enable them to meet capital adequacy norms which are ultimately globally laid down, the government has been pumping in funds.The obvious question is, are the government and ultimately the public getting adequate value for this expenditure of public funds. And this is no small sum. Over the five-year period referred to by the CAG, the government has infused Rs 3.6 lakh crore which works out to 1.75 per cent of the 2019-20 GDP.If the recapitalisation has been put to good use, the government should be able to get a good value in the disinvestment process that it is set to undertake for several PSBs. Additionally, it is important to ask the question because another budget is round the corner and the PSBs’ capital needs will again make a pitch for budgetary support. One positive sign of turnaround is an improving gross NPA situation — the total value of sticky accounts. Over the last three years — 2018-20 — the gross NPA of public sectors banks has come down from Rs 8.96 lakh crore to Rs 6.8 lakh crore. This is the result of extensive write-off of bad loans along with the receipt of recapitalisation funds.But looking forward, there is a catch. From the falling trend of the immediate past, we should not assume that the trend will continue into the coming year (2020-21). Financial 2021 is being traumatised by the pandemic, but with signs of economic recovery, the expectation is gaining ground that the bad loan situation of PSBs will continue to improve as it did in the previous years.In fact, chances are that the numbers will show an improvement but the great irony is that those numbers will be misleading. This is because various reliefs which the RBI has announced will show the NPA numbers in a positive light, but they will, without beating round the bush, be somewhat misleading.First, the RBI announced a six-month moratorium on repayment for all term loans. Then came the permission to do a one-time restructuring of Covid-19-linked stressed assets. These allowed banks not to call a spade a spade. Finally, the Supreme Court has stopped banks from declaring an account as an NPA if it was a standard asset till August 31. So, if the RBI decides to even part with some information on a fact-sharing basis, it can well say that things have been improving in the past three years and after the 2019-20 Covid-19 interregnum, things will continue to look better but that will not really amount to revealing the true picture.So, we come back to the point where we started. Have the PSBs used their recapitalisation funds well? If so, then in the coming year, they will be able to expand their loan books at a faster pace. But despite nascent signs of economic recovery, prospects of business going to banks to loan more funds, particularly small and medium enterprises, remain low.So, those seeking to invest in PSBs down the year as the government disinvests will do so purely as a risky investment that can offer high returns. That being the case, the prospect of the government successfully carrying through disinvestment in PSBs remains low. To keep them afloat, the coming Budget will have to make provisions for further recapitalisation, but that will in all probability be throwing good money after bad.It is government ownership and partial supervision which have brought PSBs to such a pass. For this, it is the government and not the RBI which should be answerable to the CAG.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/throwing-good-money-after-bad-for-psbs-sake-192059
