02-01-2021||---||Iran’s look east policy may force US rethink||US President Donald Trump’s decision in 2018 to abandon the Iran nuclear deal, called the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), two years back was a disaster as it only yielded rippling negative consequences which are reshaping the contours of the Middle East politics even now. Trump’s calculation was that the deal was not good enough as it had neither tied Iran’s missile programme nor its destabilising behaviour in the region; that a policy of “maximum pressure” by putting sanctions on the Iranian oil exports would force Tehran to make far-reaching concessions on these issues, eliminating its aggressive behaviour.What has the abrogation of the deal achieved? Iran’s economy is in tatters leading to high unemployment, inflation and collapse of its currency. Iranians can’t trade, do business, travel or even import vaccines against the Covid virus. Notwithstanding their sufferings, the revolutionary Islamic regime led by Ayatollah Khamenei (AK), continues to expand its influence. Any expectation that these sufferings would encourage the Iranian people to revolt against the regime has been belied. Iran has started enriching uranium at a much higher level than that prescribed in JCPOA.This is one more case of the US establishment’s policy going wrong. Further steps by the Trump administration like the designation of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) as a terrorist organisation, assassination of its top commander Qasem Soleimani in January 2020 and its tacit nod to the killing of an Iranian nuclear scientist, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh by Israeli agents reportedly on November 27 last year , have sharply alienated the Iranian public opinion against the US.The influence of the conservative IRGC backing the clergy and hardliners in parliament has grown. The Iranian people have lost faith in the policy of constructive engagement and cooperation with the West and are now looking favourably on a shift towards the East.Iran has countered the US policy of maximum pressure by displaying maximum resistance. Iranian-backed militias launched attacks on the two Saudi oil facilities in September 2019 and rocket attacks against the US air base at Balad in Iraq in January 2020.Given that its conventional weapons capability is limited, Iran has been sponsoring the sub-state actors to project its influence in Iraq, Yemen, Syria and Lebanon. The IRGC, Iran-backed Hezbollah and its units of foreign fighters like Fatemiyoun (made up of Afghan Shias) and Zainebiyoun (Pakistani Shias) played an important role in keeping Iran’s ally, President Bashar al-Assad in power in Syria against the opposition of several countries.Increasing hostility between the Saudi Crown Prince Muhammed bin Salman and the AK regime in Iran is reshaping the political dynamics in the region. Saudi Arabia is seeking increasing support from Israel in counter-terrorism and security fields against Iran, perceived as their common adversary. Turkey and Malaysia are siding more with Iran. With the two-state solution to the Palestinian issue nowhere in sight, the Trump administration has encouraged the UAE, Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco to establish diplomatic relations with Israel.The US policy of supporting Israel to retain a perennial edge over its other neighbours in the nuclear and military domains has emboldened Israel to take pre-emptive actions against Iran whenever it feels its security interests are threatened. Iran has demonstrated its ability to retaliate with precision and is waiting for an opportune moment, probably after the departure of President Trump.The US-Israeli pressure on Iran has impelled her to look to China and Russia for political, economic and strategic support. Iran and China have agreed on a partnership under which China would make an investment of $400 billion in Iran over a 25 year period in its economy, infrastructure and industries.Iran has reportedly allowed to develop Jask, a fishing village outside the Gulf, into a deep sea port for dual use by the Chinese navy; it will bypass the tension-ridden Strait of Hormuz for supply of crude oil. Iran has also reportedly agreed to let China establish a regional ‘listening’ post at Chabahar, which would allow her to “intercept signals within a range of about 3,000 miles”.This would cover several American bases in the Gulf under the US Central Command (CENTCOM) as well as strategic locations of India and other countries. Iran is hoping that the presence of the Chinese intelligence, electronic warfare and air defence systems would help her in forestalling attacks from the US and Israel.Russia is discussing upgrade of its treaty of cooperation signed with Iran in December, 2001. Defying the US sanctions, Russia is willing to sell advance weaponry, including its Su-30 fighters,T-90 tanks and S-400 air defence system to Iran in exchange for access to bases for its air and naval forces. Iran, China and Russia have been carrying out joint military exercises for some time.These proposals indicate the turn that Iran could take if it is pushed to the extreme. Fortunately, the US President-elect Biden is aware of the importance of Iran in the Gulf and has signalled that his administration would be prepared to rejoin the nuclear deal. Though both the US and Iran have hardened their positions on the JCPOA, given a choice, Iran would not close its doors on relations with the US, Europe and their partners.The US, Israel and Saudi Arabia would need to be more forthcoming in meeting Iran’s legitimate aspirations for regime survival and economic development. Failure to do so would only push Iran towards China and Russia, increasing big power rivalries in the region with cascading conflicts, which would harm everyone.Acceptance of Iran in a US-brokered pluralistic deal (like JCPOA) will certainly reduce tensions in the region, giving one more chance to peace, stability and cooperation. India will welcome such an initiative, as it will help her in augmenting its much-needed political, economic and strategic cooperation with Iran and other countries in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/irans-look-east-policy-may-force-us-rethink-192443
02-01-2021||---||Covid vaccine marks milestone in science||It was on the eve of 2020 that China officially notified the World Health Organisation (WHO) of some cases of pneumonia with an unknown cause in Wuhan. The symptoms were common to several respiratory diseases, but occurrence of a cluster of cases within a short span of time, and with severity, raised the alarm.Based on laboratory tests that ruled out the causative agent to be any known virus such as SARS, MERS or avian influenza, the world body on January 9, 2020 declared the causative agent to be a novel coronavirus. Within weeks, evidence emerged that the virus was capable of spreading from human to human, that it causes severe disease and has no known treatment. And within months, millions of cases were reported from dozens of countries. This turned 2020 into the year of the pandemic. The rapidity with which the global scientific community responded, it appears that 2021 could be the year of the vaccine.The response of the scientific community to the pandemic was unprecedented. From characterisation of the novel coronavirus to a set of vaccines against it — everything was achieved in a span of less than a year. On January 10, 2020, a consortium of Chinese and Australian scientists released the first complete genetic sequence of the novel virus from a case of respiratory disease caused in the Wuhan outbreak. This triggered the interest of several scientific groups the world over, who started developing newdiagnostic tests, possible treatment and most importantly, vaccines against the virus. As the number of cases mounted in many countries, new insights were gained into the disease and several treatment options like hydroxychloroquine tried and protocols developed for management and care. All the information and knowledge produced was shared in real-time through journals and social media platforms of scientific research like bioRxiv and medRxiv.Never before in the history of medicine, a vaccine against a new virus has been developed, tested, produced and administered in such a short time. The process of vaccine development, which took decades in the past, has been compressed and achieved within months. The corona vaccine is truly the breakthrough of 2020. Scientists started working on Covid-19 vaccines using traditional approaches (inactivated, virus-like particle) as well as new platforms (mRNA).The level of hectic scientific activity can be gauged from the fact that WHO’s ‘Covid-19 candidate vaccine tracker’ is updated twice a week. On the last count, there were 60 vaccines in clinical development, undergoing various stages of human trial. Another 172 vaccine candidates are in pre-clinical stage. About a dozen Covid-19 vaccines are in various stages of development in India. A couple of vaccines have been licensed in the West and millions of doses have already been administered.A number of factors are responsible for the time taken for a vaccine from bench to clinic getting reduced from several years to a few months. First, of course, is the fact that genetic information of the novel virus was shared as soon as it was available. Some groups already working on coronaviruses could tweak their efforts to work on the novel coronavirus. Others working on platforms like messenger RNA for several years also tested their platform for the novel coronavirus. All these developments got speeded up as funding agencies and governments provided the necessary funds, and placed purchase orders with manufacturers in advance. There was also great public-private partnership in vaccine development as seen in the Oxford University-Astra Zeneca and Bharat Biotech-ICMR projects.Once developed in laboratory, vaccines have to be clinically tested for safety and efficacy, involving human volunteers. Normally, this entails three stages, one following the other. Regulatory authorities approved one stage of clinical trial based on results of the previous one. For example, the first stage human trial approval depends on the results of animal studies and first stage data forms the basis for approval of the second stage. It is a time consuming process, involving recruitment of trial participants, ethical approvals, enlisting hospitals for multi-centric trials, data reviews etc. National regulations also mandate that local clinical data is generated for vaccines developed in other countries to be marketed in own country.Since the occurrence of recent pandemics like SARS and Ebola, the global health community has been discussing ways to fast-track vaccine development in the event of a pandemic. These ideas have now been implemented for Covid-19 vaccines. One of the significant ways to reduce ‘time to market’ is to allow phase 1 and 2 human studies in parallel, like it has been done for the Bharat Biotech vaccine. Regulators in many countries have also permitted local clinical trials of vaccines developed in China.Vaccine manufacturers too have speeded up their processes. Even as clinical data is getting generated for regulatory approvals, they have gone ahead with mass manufacturing of vaccines.This facilitates the availability of vaccine doses as soon as vaccines are licensed for mass use, as has happened with the Moderna vaccine in America and the UK. The Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have kept vaccine doses ready for shipment in anticipation of emergency use approvals. The government, on its part, has conducted trial runs for the vaccine rollout. This way, the entire chain, from development to rollout, has been fast-tracked.Vaccine manufacturers and the government will have to ensure that a mechanism is also in place for monitoring vaccine-related adverse events. This is critical as it is the first time a vaccine is going to be administered to the adultpopulation on such a large scale. Though vaccine hesitancy and the anti-vax movement are not major challenges in India, quick reporting and addressing of adverse effects can help prevent resistance to vaccination.The Covid-19 vaccine development has provided a new template for future pandemics, and also for addressing other infectious diseases. If governments, international agencies, scientists and private companies can pool resources and expertise for Covid-19, they can surely do so for a plethora of other diseases that take a higher toll and are both preventable and treatable. That’s a hopeful note on which to begin the year 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-vaccine-marks-milestone-in-science-192409
02-01-2021||Fifty years is almost a lifetime||Rule of law vs ‘strong’ leader||Can we repeat the 1971 victory now? How many among the heroes of 1971 would have even chosen to remain in present day India? For instance, Royal Air Force’s ace pilot Idris Hasan Latif had rejected Jinnah’s Pakistan to choose Gandhi’s India, but would he do it all over again in an atmosphere filled with the fear of the unknown National Register for Citizens? What about Sam Manekshaw, JFR Jacob and Rustomji? Would they have preferred a more cosmopolitan London or New York or Melbourne to a strife-torn Indian city where youngsters remain anxious about their identity and farmers fight for their survival? These are important questions that we should ask as we start celebrating 2021, which will, hopefully, also be the Year of the Vaccine.Another great lesson of the 1971 war was that it was fought after a general election and not before or for an election. Indira Gandhi won the Lok Sabha elections conclusively in March 1971, winning 352 seats out of the 518 that went to polls, and initially wanted the attack in April, but was turned down by the army — an instance of a no-nonsense military leadership and a listening political headship. The military planned, executed and won the war and when Dhaka fell in December, neither Indira nor Manekshaw flew in for a photo-op. It was left to the deserving Eastern Command chief to do the needful. Thus a new nation was born, which in its fiftieth year of founding stands tall and firm.But India faced its biggest setback as a nation and a democracy thereafter. The very same leader who let the military and the bureaucracy do their job and refused to make political capital out of the moment of military triumph soon metamorphosed into a dictator, imprisoning Opposition leaders, imposing censorship, letting her son rule by proxy and postponing elections. So, is Indira’s makeover the real lesson of the 1971 victory — the emergence of a strong leader of a weak country? As a leader who changed the international map, creating a nation, and annexing new territory (Sikkim), Indira remains nonpareil in our annals; but she also took the nation into dictatorship and made us aware how fragile our democratic institutions are.India craves for strong leaders — election after election. From Indira to LK Advani to Narendra Modi, we have had politicians trying to plug into this current of national yearning; some have succeeded and many failed. Yet, we refuse to acknowledge this sentiment, which often is mistaken for rightwing nationalism. A strong leader is the people’s cure for weak institutions of the functioning Indian chaos. The stronger the messaging about the messiah, the more receptive are voters for deliverance. Whether the promise is of politically-neutral development heralding prosperity through jobs and greater income, or the slogan is of a tougher national security state taking on enemies real or imaginary, voters seek out strong leaders who are seemingly in control. Of course, strong leaders have been defeated in the past when they lost the credibility of their messaging and the best example is the personal defeats of Indira and Sanjay along with that of their party in 1977. Yet, the chaotic Janata experiment only ended in the people turning to their tried and tested strong leader.In September, it will be 75 years since the first interim government headed by Nehru took over the reins of governance to give ourselves the rule of law; yet India believes in the myth of the rule of the leader. This belief, though it is almost akin to the worshipful wait for the next avatar, cannot be dismissed as a pre-modern society’s superstitious angst. Had it been so, Indira would not have been voted out of power. The desire for the strong leader is a legitimate need for order — the quest for a super-arching authority to put the brute queue-jumpers in place, to create a more just society for the meek. This wish probably stems from deep insecurity over our inability to manage our own resources in small groups. The feudal hierarchy of the villages could not be solely blamed for this failure, for it is replicated in big cities that do not necessarily care for caste or communal pecking orders.Indira succeeded in 1971 because she inherited a system that was still largely new in terms of its organisational integrity and idealistic in its intent. It was just 23 years after the Mahatma’s assassination and there was plenty of idealism in the air. But the present day strong leaders need to analyse whether they can repeat that feat while presiding over a people anxious about discord and dissension from within.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rule-of-law-vs-strong-leader-192405
