03-01-2021||JUST the other day||Journey to magical Nubra valley||No worthwhile conversation was possible with the worthy, advanced in years, as he knew only Balti. He produced the second gift — a packet of dried apricots. Turtuk, with its lush buckwheat fields dotted with orange canopies of trees laden with apricots and bisected by a water course running along rough stony paths until a wooden bridge linking the two parts of this habitat, was quite picturesque. The surroundings dominated by stark and lofty peaks capped with snow made for quite a sight. Turtuk, along with nearby Thang, Tyakshi and Chalunka, had been seized by our Army in December 1971. This quaint village had remained culturally and ethnically a part of neighbouring Baltistan and, like Kargil, entirely Shia. The absence then of a motorable link to other parts of Nubra valley contributed to preservation of its distinctive character. Weaving, woodcraft, and fabrication of stone cooking vessels (doltoks), besides agriculture, were the avocations of the residents.Flying back at mid-day along the Shyok, its crystal clear aquamarine waters revealed rocks of different forms and colours on its bed. In that benign state, this river belied its longstanding epithet “the river of death”. It was difficult to imagine that it had been in spate on five occasions in the 19th and 20th centuries, causing particularly heavy damage in 1835 and 1926, nearly destroying the village of Deskit. Downstream, in the narrow valley near Biagdando through which we flew, the raging flood waters were said to have been 70 feet above the normal level.With the valley broadening out, we flew nearly 40 km before coming over Hunder. An elongated verdant enclave caressing the Shyok, Hunder was once the capital of the Nubra kingdom. The ruins of the Elephant Palace and a fort above it testify to its connection with the Namgyal dynasty that held sway in Ladakh for nearly 400 years until the mid-19th century. Betwixt the habitation and the dark grey mountains that dominate it in the south lay nearly 5 km of dunes of silvery sand. The sight of double-humped camels lounging amidst the dunes in the mid-day sun was quite unusual. Known as Bactrian camels, these animals are native to the steppes of Central Asia and the Gobi desert and are not found elsewhere in India; there is no explanation as to how they came to be in Nubra. Shorter and heavier than normal camels, their dual humps enable a higher storage of fat that converts to energy when needed. Not too far lay Deskit, the administrative headquarters of Nubra, presiding over the confluence of the relatively short Nubra river with the Shyok; the latter having coursed through 300-plus km from its origin. With allotted helicopter time running out, we headed back to Leh.A year later, an invitation for witnessing a traditional cultural festival in Partapur came our way. Realising that this might be the only opportunity for the family to visit Nubra valley, we opted for a road journey. The 6,500-foot climb from Leh to Khardung La over 40 km was uneventful; it was only when we emerged from the vehicle that we realised that our unbroken stay of 14 months at 11,000 feet at Leh was not sufficient to prepare our bodies for that altitude and breathlessness had to be endured. Descent from the watershed on a northerly course proved to be tricky as heavy trucks making the ascent to Khardung La had left deep ruts in the slush causing our vehicle to careen often, raising the possibility of plunging to the valley floor thousands of feet below. The terrain relaxed only once we got to the Shyok bed.Near Deskit, we were treated to the spectacle of a myriad well-formed and short bushes of wild rose, all covered with pink blooms, locally called “Sia”. That sight, with the pink and green of the bushes contrasting sharply with the sand around, remains etched in all its splendour in our memories even today. No wonder Nubra valley is variously described as the “garden of Ladakh”, “valley of colours” and “valley of flowers”. The Deskit monastery established in the 14th century and connected with the Gelugpa sect of Tibetan Buddhism, 700 feet above the village, dominates the Nubra-Shyok confluence and the flat expanse around it.At Partapur, over a couple of days, Cham and Shondol dances were staged. The former were performed by Tibetan monks with masks and brightly patterned attire to music played on traditional instruments. Ladakhi men and women of the laity performed variations of the latter. A day was set aside for a visit to the hot springs at Panamik on the banks of the Nubra river. Unlike Puga, the waters here were distinctly sulphurous, and are believed to have medicinal properties. With the emphysema of our escort playing up, we had to abandon visits to Ensa Gompa and Yarab Tso, and head home. Despite our brief sojourn, the contrast between the bucolic character of Nubra tehsil and the nomadic pastoralists of other parts of Leh district came forth in sharp relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/journey-to-magical-nubra-valley-192873
03-01-2021||WHEN your ship is hit by a storm||How Rahane never let India miss Kohli||A couple of instances of Rahane’s equanimity in extreme emotions:He was run out for 112 in the first innings when he responded to Ravindra Jadeja’s call for a quick single. Jadeja, on 49, had been getting a bit antsy in his pursuit of that one run which would have taken him to the nice, round figure of 50 that batsmen and fans cherish; twice before in that over by Nathan Lyon, he seemed keen for that one run, and Rahane said yes on the fifth ball. Jadeja is the faster runner, so the fielder threw the ball to the end to which Rahane was running — the captain was found a few centimetres short of the crease.Normally, in such circumstances, a captain grunts and fumes and gesticulates; in this instance, Rahane punched Jadeja twice on his chest with the back of his hand — he’s got a black belt in karate, but this was a light punch of encouragement, as if to say, ‘It’s OK, I understand.’ Rahane did understand Jadeja’s need to consolidate his position in the playing XI with a half-century; he did not add negativity to the situation and merely encouraged Jadeja to go on.The second instance: when Rahane hit the winning runs, he did not jump up and down and scream his heart out. He merely nodded at the umpire, accepted the congratulations from the Australians, hugged his partner Shubman Gill and, without even taking off his helmet, walked off quietly.His understated responses, in despair and joy, are reminiscent of a very successful former captain, Mahendra Singh Dhoni. Like Dhoni, Rahane has got fire in the belly but exudes serenity, which calms those around him; in the intensely competitive environment of international sport, this is a quality that you can’t buy for a billion dollars.Good movesRahane’s captaincy was hailed by everyone — for the bowling changes he made, the way he allowed bowlers to set their fields, the way he put into operation the plans that had been made for Australia’s batsmen.Ravichandran Ashwin heaped praise on the captain with these words: “Getting bowled out for 36 was never going to be easy… but we stuck on really well. Jinks’ calmness in the dressing room really provided us that stability to go out there and express ourselves in this game.”Ashwin’s wife, Prithi, wrote on Twitter: “I have seen/spoken to Ashwin after every Test he has played and after a lot of wins. But I have never seen him this happy, satisfied and light (can I say?) with a smile in his eyes in almost 10 years.”It seems that Rahane, radiating calmness, has put the team in a very calm place.Belying his non-intimidating physicality and demeanour, Rahane played aggressive strokes, displaying an iron will and determination to overcome a top-class Australian bowling attack. In the second innings, after two wickets fell for 19 runs in the chase of the small target of 70, he quickly asserted himself — he pulled the second ball he faced, from the world’s top fast bowler, Pat Cummins, to the boundary, to show that his team would hustle rather than inch towards the target.A passionate captain makes for an exciting example and can fire up his teammates to greater performances; a cool captain calms the nerves of those around him and, potentially, is in a position to make better thought-out decisions. Rahane has given us another glimpse of the captain of the second kind — with extraordinary success, too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-rahane-never-let-india-miss-kohli-192875
03-01-2021||I finished doing all kinds of gair-zaroori kaam before I started typing this sentence. Unnecessary things that were not tied to a deadline. I arranged flowers in vases on various window sills||Resolve to make space for the unnecessary in your life||Whatever else happens or does not happen today, I will have completed writing this column you are reading right now. Connecting with you, dear reader, is enough. Being here with my unadorned, authentic voice is enough. It is a space in which I unclutter the messy strands in my consciousness. If these words are useful for me, they will work for others too.I encourage you to make this your New Year resolution too — make space for the unnecessary in your life. Be still. Save your energy for that which isn’t counted as productive. Neglect important work in favour of small joys. For repetitive acts of nurturing, for random things that eventually connect to make our personal universe whole.2020 has been a year of shock. We experienced sustained fear, grief and an ineffable sense of loss. Many of our relationships ruptured. We witnessed others suffer unimaginable horrors. 2020 gave us a glimpse of what the end may be like.Not much will change in the New Year we have stepped into. Except that each one of us carries within ourself the kernel for change — for healing the self, so that the collective can begin to find hope and strength. We need to acknowledge that by demanding endless productivity from ourselves, we simply set ourselves up for failure. We constantly rate ourselves by outdated social and cultural standards and feel overwhelmed with shame, exhaustion and a sense of never being good enough.Make yourself pause. Seek silence so that you can listen to your emotions. They are protective towards you. If something makes our bodies and brains light up with dread, we listen to that feeling and learn to say no. Face up to the anxiety that makes us needlessly rehash old scripts.Be less efficient. Doing too much has destroyed our health, our economy, our environment, our relationships, and our spirits. Why not try doing less? It will create space to grieve, a necessary step towards healing.Save yourself. Allow your spiritual energy to revive. It will guide you. It seeks peace.One of my closest friends is on the cusp of a new relationship. He has been hurt and lonely and now he sees hope for happiness again. But new love also brings insecurity and despair with it. He calls me to hear his own thoughts as he speaks to me.“Take it slow,” I repeat to him often. “Let things unfold. If this is right for both of you, it will meander across conflicts and find a way home.”“So what should I do?” he asks with restlessness. “This anxiety is unbearable.”“Read a boring book,” I answer, knowing how many books he buys. “Go out. Run. Cycle. Crash on the sofa. Look at your notes from the self-help workshop you had attended,” I say to him. “Don’t try to hurry things. Trees emerge from their seed but you have to leave them to their own internal processes.”Often, he laughs at himself at this point. He has to embrace his vulnerability and rock it to sleep. It is a life lesson for him to know that he is not in control.I send him a quote I have saved on my desktop. “May you know the surprise of finding unexpected abundance inside a state of loss.”I wish the same for you and me, dear reader. Given the state of the world around us, it is a long haul ahead. We need permission to withdraw and reflect. We need to be forgetful and forsake the responsibilities that shrivel our sense of self. We need to make space for our authentic selves — the seed inside that knows the process of growth and the direction of the morning light.— The writer is an author and filmmaker natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/resolve-to-make-space-for-the-unnecessary-in-your-life-192876
03-01-2021||WHEN an old year lies comatose||Covid and cricket||A lovely place is NapoliOf rolling hill and sun and seaAnd also of the Mafiosi.But to lift our spirits, there’s cricket. Nothing like cricket, but let us put the dismal things behind us — that ‘36 for 9’ is going to haunt us. We forgot the 41 or 42 we scored under Bedi, the State Bank of India party, the late arrival at the High Commission (by which time many of the guests had left) and the tick off by the enraged BK Nehru, the High Commissioner.We were not dismissed for 36 due to some fluke. Critics say not a catch was dropped by the Aussies. Captains and coaches do not base their strategies on catches dropped. One ball, the out-swinger, dismissed the whole Indian side! Why? Because most of them played half cock. That’s a term you hardly ever hear now, almost sounds obscene. In the old days, when we played on jute or coir matting, you played either back or forward. Forward, in cricketing terminology, meant you played a yard ahead of the crease. Batting on turf, you closed your eyes, put your left leg a foot ahead and blocked. If the ball swung, and was lucky enough to catch the edge, the batsman was back in the pavilion. Most of our vaunted batsmen in the first Test match played half cock. And if the bat is tilted two or three degrees to the onside, as VVS Laxman once advised, you won’t snick the ball so fatally.What about the Melbourne triumph, the one which we are basking under? Yes, what a great victory, and that century by Rahane! But the bowlers did it. The Australian batting was not the greatest. Many of their batsmen were tentative, and they couldn’t read Ashwin. Off-spinners are easier to read than leg-break bowlers who roll their wrists, but the Australians failed. The statue game has entered cricket. Statues cause some trouble, one faction does not like a person — and will despoil it. Then there would be retaliation. We must think the matter over — we need not become iconoclasts, for that entails breaking images. Let us do away with having more statues. Why must an administrator of the DDCA, later a Finance Minister, get a statue on a cricket ground? And do we need statues of Shivaji at 4,000 crores in the Arabian Sea? But don’t they plan to break it up? The year also relayed to us the unflinching determination of the government not to deviate from the plan of breaking up vistas and not repealing the farm laws, no matter how the farmers shivered in the cold or some even died, even though a hundred Kisan rails were flagged off. The year 2020 paid tributes to decision-makers who never dither. Excuse my atrocious rhyme, dithering leads to withering.Talking of Covid-19, a bleak thought struck me the other day. The Wuhan Covid reached even Peru and later Antarctica and the Poles. Suppose one day we get an epidemic that wipes away humanity itself? Can happen, and while it takes Oxford or Pune to devise and manufacture a vaccine, we migrate to kingdom come? The dinosaurs vanished, didn’t they? Are we any better? Well, we made contraptions to kill six million Jews didn’t we, last century? We also produced Edward Jenner and Florence Nightingale. And we are good at coining slogans, and writing poetry. Only last century, we produced TS Eliot and Ramprasad Bismil. Sarfaroshi ki tamannah ab hamare dil mein hai.What or who are the two heroes of the Covid era? Masks and migrants, alliteration unintended. The migrants we have already forgotten. How fickle can national memory be? A lot of crocodile tears were shed by columnists (mea culpa). Guys wrote poems on migrants! Then came IPL in the desert and we forgot all about them, and voted the same government back in Bihar. If there was an election in UP, Adityanathji, the monk Mukhya Mantri, would have swept the polls. The masks are not as footloose as the migrants. They will stay with us. The year gave us some big gifts as well. There was that driverless train, flagged off by the PM himself, which brought great cheer in a cheerless year. If there was no Covid, the Central Vista would have gone for a toss. Imagine the dust as the Bhavans came down. The Expert Appraisal Committee on Infrastructure has already asked the PWD for a detailed “strategy for management of construction and demolition waste”. If the government is so far-seeing, why is it perpetrating this disaster on us? Incidentally, re-building Delhi was not in the BJP manifesto. Let’s forget it. A new vista, new Parliament House, and hand-cranked love jihad, and antics of the “Gupkar gang”, life will be supremely interesting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-and-cricket-192874
