04-01-2021||---||Let’s give priority to nutritional needs of kids||Currently, around one-fifth of India’s kids less than five years of age fall in the ‘wasted’ low-weight-for-height category. Over the past four decades, there was slow but incremental reduction in the percentage of underweight and stunted kids. But a fortnight ago, when the fifth National Family Health Survey (2020) was released, it unexpectedly showed underweight and wasting rates having increased in the last five years — in states where data is available. Astonishingly, relatively high performing states like Kerala, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa and Himachal Pradesh had shown an increase in undernutrition, besides eleven other states, all showing an increase in severely wasted and underweight under-fives. Bihar and Assam, long considered outliers in terms of health indicators, had surprisingly bettered their earlier performance which added another layer to the mystery of how come?The NFHS is the Indian version of the global demographic and health surveys undertaken every five years for some 90 countries. The survey primarily focuses on women, children and nutrition of under-fives. Identifying underweight, wasted and stunted children and providing the needed interventions is vital because at stake is not just the physical health of millions of children, but their capacity to develop the cognitive ability to stay honed into the school system. If neglected, such children become a burden on the family and society.India’s supplementary feeding programme — the Integrated Child Development Scheme — has been running in all states for the past 45 years. But the programme was never able to reach the six months to three year age-group which is where the problem of wasting starts and which is also the time the brain cells need maximum sustenance. India has over 14 million Anganwari Centres (AWCs) which are responsible for weighing and measuring children and providing supplementary nutrition. Infants and small kids stay mainly at home where feeding and child-rearing practices are often faulty. Because of over-crowding, lack of domestic hygiene and sanitation, the home itself provides a fertile ground for respiratory illness, diarrhoea and mosquito-related fever in young children. Frequent episodes of these illnesses put the child’s development clock back, sometimes forever.Ever since the 1970s, the National Sample Survey, the mother of all surveys, collected data on household expenditure on food items asking questions on spending on oil, non-staple food, milk, eggs, fruit and vegetables. This was to measure consumption and calorific intake as a proxy for measuring poverty. The NSSO and NNMB surveys have shown that while the energy intake for adults is nearly adequate, consumption of pulses, vegetables and fruit which affects absorption of nutrition, particularly iron, is low.The ICDS programme received a shot in the arm when the Poshan programme was launched in 2017. It was to have been completed in three years (which is now, but has had a slow start.) Under Poshan, the BMI measurement of every child was to be recorded to detect those requiring intervention, both underweight and overweight. Although the initiative was essential, it was not designed to address the invisible needs of an infant or toddler because those problems mostly lie inside the home. The challenge is to teach the mother simple recipes to introduce complementary feeding six months after exclusive breast feeding — which isn’t often done. Also, to measure the child’s intake with some understanding of calories, even pointing out unsanitary practices like defecation inside the house, dirty utensils and the presence of flies which are harbingers of disease that need supervision. But who can do all this as part of a supplementary feeding programme?Once Covid-19 sprang on us last year, all attention was diverted to controlling the pandemic. Even critical health programmes had to take a back seat for reasons which are unexceptionable. But in the totality of things, while critical care for cancer and heart diseases has perforce had to wait, the focus on children has unfortunately diminished. The Poshan programme will take time to get going across the country. Rather than wait for it to gather momentum, what is now needed is to quickly identify the local drivers causing young kids to become underweight and wasted; and then to face the main hurdles head-on and control if not eradicate them.At the village level, the three trained foot soldiers are the health department’s auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), the ASHAs who are the torch-bearers of the State Rural Health Missions and the Anganwari workers from the ICDS. The three women have different responsibilities but meet monthly on Village Health and Nutrition Day to boost convergence. This threesome now needs to extend its outreach beyond its known threshold to visit the homes of identified at-risk children to observe, guide and train young mothers with little education or experience. The task is not difficult as only 15% of the infant population of the villages are wasted and would need this service at a given time.We need a national programme to manage nutritionally at-risk infants and their mothers at the household level as an add-on to Poshan. That requires not just training but ownership. Only an institutional back-up with skin in the game and having a local presence and the capacity to perceive infant undernutrition as a grave problem can be effective.Different models are possible. But the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) exist everywhere and have the biggest stake in the uplift of the village community. The panchayat should be provided with the names of families with babies that appear to be at risk because of continuing low growth indicators. The panchayat members should be trained and incentivised to see that wasting declines. If for every identified child that is saved from falling into the wasting trap, the panchayat and the women volunteers are rewarded proportionate to the success achieved, it could work wonders.For starters, a postal fixed deposit certificate, encashable once the kid at risk reaches five years of age, without becoming underweight (even overweight) might just succeed!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lets-give-priority-to-nutritional-needs-of-kids-193291
04-01-2021||---||Time for govt to resolve row over farm laws||Ever heard of “moral economy of the peasant”? You must understand this awkward phrase if you wish to make sense of the farmers’ rebellion that has arrived at the doorsteps of the national capital. Policymakers must understand this to see why their argument has no purchase with the farmers. PM Modi must understand this to realise why his approach to handling this will not work, or why the government must give in, sooner than later.The concept of ‘moral economy’ is simple. First used by British historian EP Thompson to understand the 18th-century food riots in England, the basic idea is that the poor operate with a moral vision, a sense of right and wrong, just and unjust, which refuses to obey the rationality of the market. The concept was extended by James Scott to explain peasant rebellions in South East Asia. He showed that the changes introduced by colonial authorities challenged the ‘subsistence ethics’ of the peasants, leading them to rebel. Ranajit Guha’s classic book Elementary Aspects of Peasant Insurgency in Colonial India deployed this to understand a series of peasant rebellions in the 19th century, including 1857. He showed that what appeared to the colonial masters as strange, irrational and spontaneous eruptions of violence by the natives were organised acts of resistance. The new system of agriculture introduced by the colonial State violated the basic ethics of the peasant, their sense of dignity and their intuitive sense of what was their due. Hence, the rage, outrage and eruption of violence against every symbol of colonial authority.Cut to Singhu border of Delhi in the last month of 2020. Sure, these farmers do not look like the peasant rebels of the 19th century. Their langars are sumptuous. You can get even jalebi, if you are lucky. Their trolleys and tents are warm, equipped with solar panels to charge their phones. Some of the tractors are fitted with hi-fi sound systems. You can spot SUVs as well. Their cousins at Shahjahanpur border live in more frugal conditions (I write this column from one of these basic tents at this morcha, a constant draft to remind me of 7°C outside). But these farmers are not the hungry rebels who joined food riots. There is no eruption of violence in the present case, it follows the grammar of modern democratic protest.Yet there is something common between the current upsurge of the farmers and the 19th century peasant rebellions. As in the case of their predecessors, the farmers today are outraged by an attempt to disrupt the existing agrarian arrangement. It is not that they are happy with the existing system. But they fear, with good reason, that the new system could be worse. Farming is increasingly uncertain, unremunerative and undignified. If monsoon is bad, they lose their crop. If the monsoon is good, they lose on prices. Farmers’ children do not wish to take to farming. An average farmer carries a grudge against the system that he or she finds unfair and unjust. In this context, the three farm laws passed by the Modi government have become a symbol of all that is wrong with the way the system treats the farmers. The manner in which these laws were pushed without any consultation with the principal stakeholders reminds the farmers of the contempt with which they are treated.Farmers do not read the fine print of these laws, but they can smell them. And they don’t like it. Farmers of Punjab, Haryana and some other regions can sense the gradual dismantling of the mandi system that has been their lifeline for the last few decades. Farmers from other regions, who do not yet benefit from the mandi-based state procurement, can also foresee diminishing chances of their benefitting from such a system. They are not happy with the government, but the prospects of the government leaving them at the mercy of market forces exacerbate their worst fears. This fear is passed on by word of mouth, which is trusted more than any media. The message takes many forms, including rumours, just as it did during the 19th century peasant protests.The moral outrage lies at the heart of the present upsurge. This is no longer about the calculus of gains and losses, about prospects of prices to be obtained outside the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), about the potential gains of contract farming. In a way, this is no longer about the three laws or this government. Now, this is about the way farmers have been treated by successive regimes, about the systematic discrimination that they suffer in the system. It is now about the dignity of farmers, their very being or ‘hond’ as they say in Punjabi. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and its formal and informal spokespersons have fuelled this fire by throwing indiscriminate allegations about the farmers being ‘Khalistanis’ or foreign agents. At least for Punjab and parts of Haryana, this is now an emotional issue.Hence, the community dimension of the current upsurge. Once a movement touches the moral nerve of society, community networks come into play. Gurdwaras and their resources are at the disposal of the farmers. Khap panchayats have jumped into the fray to support the cause, as have the NRIs. Boundaries between professionals and the community have been blurred. All kinds of local clubs and organisations have chipped in, from lawyers’ organisations to sports clubs. Those in uniform are privately with the farmers. This is not just a farmers’ protest or farmers’ movement anymore. This is the 21st-century version of farmers’ rebellion.This is why the government’s handling of this upsurge is counter-productive. The Modi government is handling it as it would handle any trade union protest. The usual tricks of dodge, derail and divert have not worked. Attempts at dividing the movement by reportedly getting ‘non-existent’ farmer leaders and farmers’ organisations to meet the government have met with the ridicule these deserved. Now it is out to drown the movement with propaganda. It may work partly with the urban middle class, but it is not possible to demonise the farmers the way any other section can be. So, it is now down to a waiting game, as the government hopes to tire the farmers out or play some insidious game.Meeting the protesting farmers over the last month, I can say for sure that this won’t work. Farmers know that this is their last battle, aar-paar ki ladai, as they say. With the passage of time, this upsurge is growing. All the morchas around Delhi are growing in numbers and moral strength. Farmers across the country now share a sense that the government is doing something big and bad. The longer the government takes to realise this, the higher the cost for it and the country.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-for-govt-to-resolve-row-over-farm-laws-193289
04-01-2021||---||A mission long delayed||When India opens its embassy in the Dominican Republic this year, the mission has the potential to figure in the Guinness World Records. Last week, the Union Cabinet decided that the second largest Caribbean nation would be one of three countries chosen for the expansion of New Delhi’s diplomatic footprint in 2021. India first announced its decision to open an embassy in Santo Domingo, capital of the Dominican Republic, in 2006. That was the day the Dominicans opened their mission in New Delhi. The move was part of a push during that period by countries in the Western Hemisphere to overcome the deficit in contacts with India caused by distance and a gap in cultural and linguistic commonalities.The decision to open an embassy as a reciprocal gesture was conveyed to the then Dominican Foreign Minister Carlos Morales Troncoso by Anand Sharma, who was in charge of the Caribbean as the Minister of State for External Affairs in the Manmohan Singh government. Not unexpectedly, nothing happened thereafter and everyone in New Delhi forgot what Sharma had formally conveyed to his senior counterpart.Four years later, Shashi Tharoor, who succeeded Sharma in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), had to go on a regional tour of several Caribbean countries and Santo Domingo was on his itinerary. He came across papers and file notes about the government’s 2006 decision. No one had moved even a little finger to implement it. The visiting ministerial delegation would have lost face if they arrived in Santo Domingo and their hosts asked about the four-year-old announcement by New Delhi. In the weeks before his departure for the Caribbean, Tharoor ran around spending his energy to expedite the procedures so that he could present Troncoso with a fait accompli.Tharoor assured the Dominicans that pending some minor formalities the Indian embassy would soon open in their capital. Ten years have passed since he gave that assurance. Not a paper had moved in South Block in an entire decade to fulfil the promises.The Dominicans decided to open their embassy in India in 2004. When Rao Inderjit Singh, a minister of state in the first UPA government, visited Santo Domingo that year, their decision was communicated to India. In sharp contrast to India’s record, it took Santo Domingo only 19 months to inaugurate their embassy in New Delhi.Once again, last week after a meeting of the Cabinet, it was announced that India had decided to open an embassy in the Dominican Republic. It is likely that the decision will be implemented this time because the way South Block functions now is different from the practices 14 years ago. When it happens, the new Indian embassy will probably have the dubious distinction of having been the chancery that has taken the longest in the history of international diplomacy to be set up.Troncoso died in 2014 of a terminal illness. Since then, the Dominican Republic has had four foreign ministers. It had four Presidents since Sharma made his announcement. So when — rather if — an Indian ambassador takes up residence in Santo Domingo this year, no one high up in authority there is likely to ask about a promise made 14 years ago to augment bilateral ties, which amounted to nothing.Yet, it a sad reflection on the way South Block conducts its diplomacy with countries which are only on the margins of its main priorities. Once I was in the MEA for a high-level appointment and was in the visitors’ room because my interlocutor was delayed in Parliament. Eswatini’s High Commissioner to India, with residence in Kuala Lumpur, was escorted into the visitors’ room. Our appointments were with the same person. Outside the room, we heard MEA officials agitatedly trying to figure out where Eswatini was and what this ‘strange’ country was about. None of them knew a thing about Eswatini. It is Swaziland, which changed its name to Eswatini in 2018. India decided in 2018 to open its mission in Mbabane, Eswatini’s capital. This was accomplished in 16 months, only because President Ram Nath Kovind committed to King Mswati III during Kovind’s visit to the kingdom that it would be done. The monarch had the commitment included in a joint communique at the end of the President’s visit.New Indian embassies, it would seem, need godfathers to be opened on schedule, unless they are in countries critical to India’s foreign policy. New Indian consulates in the US and in China opened in record time in recent years. In Guangzhou, China, for example, the Indian Consulate opened although it had no premises and functioned from a hotel for quite a while. The first Consul General in Guangzhou, Gautam Bambawale, a Sinologist of repute, stayed in a hotel during at least half of his tenure.Countries on the margins of India’s diplomatic priorities employ various stratagems to gain South Block’s attention. After Modi became PM, some countries frantically began looking for Gujaratis in their foreign service to be sent as envoys to India. Those who could not find Gujaratis sent Indian-origin diplomats as the next best option. But it is a ploy that does not go well either with the MEA or in New Delhi’s social circuit. Canada’s High Commissioner to India, Nadir Patel, is the best example of this doomed strategy.When Mother Teresa was alive, Croatia’s first ambassador in New Delhi, made the most of the Catholic Saint’s Croatian connections to make himself relevant. It went down well with then External Affairs Minister Pranab Mukherjee whose bonds with Calcutta’s Mother were deep. Once word spread about his soft spot for this envoy, a doctor, he got unprecedented access within South Block.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-mission-long-delayed-193272
