06-01-2021||---||BJP’s new power order||An organisational restructuring in the BJP is rarely newsworthy unless the change is effected at the top or a big-time functionary such as Ram Madhav is dropped from the central team of office-bearers and Vasundhara Raje is shafted to pave the way for a leadership makeover in Rajasthan. Recently, JP Nadda, the BJP president, quietly tweaked the organisational hierarchy to reinforce a significant political message: the BJP will exercise complete control over the party and its apparatuses and the patriarch RSS’s interventions could become minimal, if not nominal. The Sangh-BJP equation that was in a permanent flux has settled into a constant in the Modi regime. PM Modi rules over a BJP-majority government that is not rocked by the coalition partners or an Opposition. Until he confronted his first challenge in the farmers’ movement, his authority appeared incontestable. The RSS is hands-off towards the protests. Its farmers’ front, the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) issued innocuous statements. The paterfamilias is in no mood to rock the boat.The BJP took advantage of its commanding position to minimise the presence of the RSS pracharaks in Nadda’s team and overturned an arrangement ostensibly cast in stone. BL Santhosh remains the general secretary (organisation), and there is no dilution in the power he wields as the second-most important person in the party. In the past, a general secretary, however influential, had two or more deputies ‘assisting’ him. This line-up of the general secretary and the joint general secretaries (organisation) under him was generally made up of obscure figures who avoided the media, although Sunder Singh Bhandari and KN Govindacharya were exceptions and liberally shared information and political insights. Santhosh and Ramlal, his predecessor, had a trio under them, comprising V Satish, Saudan Singh and Shiv Prakash all of who were ‘loaned’ to the BJP for long-term work.Last week, the loanees were relocated in the BJP with new designations, their mandate vastly diminished. It is unclear whether the joint general secretary’s post will remain. Essentially the recast means the Sangh will have only Santhosh to deal with. He will be the sole conduit between the RSS and the BJP, and for all intent and purpose both will depend largely on the feedback he gives and the inputs he shares. A quintessential pracharak from Karnataka, he earned the moniker, poornavadi karyakarta (full-time volunteer). Every pracharak is a full-time volunteer but the sobriquet denoted Santhosh’s ‘exceptional dedication’. During his stint in the Karnataka BJP, also as a general secretary, he allegedly played his share of intra-BJP politics and was rarely on the same page as CM Yediyurappa. But he is credited with ‘discovering’ and nurturing young ‘talent’ such as Lok Sabha MPs Tejaswi Surya and Prathap Simha and the Karnataka BJP president, Nalin Kumar Kateel. The choice of protégés reveals Santhosh’s unmistakable preference for those who are wedded to hard Hindutva.In that sense, Santhosh, as also the BJP brass, sorted out the existential dilemma that dogged Vajpayee when he was the PM. Vajpayee had the RSS snapping at his heels. If the VHP got aggressive and amped up the Ram temple demand with violent consequences, on occasions, it was the Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) and the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) that scuttled Vajpayee’s pet reforms. He was disinclined to give the Sangh fronts unbridled latitude, and suffered as a result.Modi has no such issues, regardless of the problems he lived with in Gujarat from the VHP and BKS. He is adept in managing their occasional tantrums. In December 2019, when the VHP threatened to besiege the government if it would not intervene decisively to seek a ‘resolution’ of the Ayodhya ‘dispute’ and got the RSS sarsanghachalak’s endorsement for the agenda, the Centre earned more than a breather when the apex court cleared the way. For Modi, it was an opportune moment to dispel the few misgivings the VHP cast over his ‘commitment’. He presided over an elaborate ground-laying ceremony in Ayodhya to mark the start of the construction.Of all RSS fronts, the VHP has the greatest potential to marshal agent provocateurs, whip up communal passions and immobilise an administration. If the outfit is given a free pass to flout the law, a government can breathe easy. This is what has happened in MP. The VHP galvanised its storm-troopers to strike terror in the minority-dominated pockets in the guise of collecting funds for the temple. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan has embraced hard-core Hindutva, and giving the VHP leeway suits him politically. In UP, the temple’s epicentre, the VHP does little or nothing because CM Yogi Adityanath has everything laid out: a pliant state machinery, public opinion and the voluntary militia of his Hindu Vahini in case action was demanded.In contrast, an issue stares the BKS in the face, but it refused to react. In the Centre-farmer face-off, all that the Sangh’s peasant wing asked for was guaranteeing the MSP in the open market and a designated court to adjudicate disputes related to contract farming. At no point did it suggest that the farming laws should be relooked, let alone repealed. Like the BKS, the SJM opted for the straight and narrow.Had the RSS, the BKS and the SJM confronted the Centre on the peasantry, it would have been forced to respond and perhaps withdraw the laws. In 2015, it was an ultimatum the SJM served that nudged the government to freeze the proposed amendments in the Land Acquisition Act. The RSS astutely figured that keeping the peace with the Modi dispensation is mutually advantageous and disputes must be buried.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjps-new-power-order-194343
06-01-2021||---||Be wary of China in CPC’s centenary year||The Communist Party of China (CPC) is the State and vice versa. The political manifesto of the CPC — typed, distributed and discussed during annual, biennial or seasonal ‘People’s Congress’ (equivalent to Parliament) sessions — is the updated, upgraded and amended ‘State Constitution’. The all-in-one CPC denotes the absence of an opposition party, rival or competitor. The word ‘opposition’ is synonymous with ‘enemy of the CPC-state’.Thus, the General Secretary of the CPC is automatically ex officio President of the ‘CPC-state’. One-and-the-same person, necessary and complementary to each other for complete, unitary command, control and communication — an over-centralised, dictatorial model. It includes the geographical territory of the nation-state China, known as the ‘Middle Kingdom’. Unpretentiously named the CPC, in reality, it is the ostentatious ‘Middle Kingdom’. Hence, the President heads the ‘Middle Kingdom’ as General Secretary of the Communist Party of the nation-state.The deception is fundamental, the foundation of which was laid by the then CPC General Secretary Mao Zedong. The tradition goes on with a debilitating effect. The ‘party-state’ or the ‘state of the party’ of Han Communists under Mao (1893-1976) and now his copybook successor, Xi Jinping, goes on consolidating individual power, “absolute to the power of infinity”, over the institution; targeting neighbouring nations to make them surrender or make themselves courtier countries to present nazrana before the CPC. Especially if one is small, weak and fragile; because, by now, you know that the CPC (re)draws maps, distributes money or morsel, makes machine guns, and manages affairs on land, in air and on water.As the CPC celebrates its centenary on July 1, 2021, expect the unexpected, unprecedented, unforeseen. Brace for an impending crisis on a date, time and place of the CPC’s choosing. Forewarned is forearmed. Take note of a few key dates: May 4, the anniversary of the Shanghai movement of 1919; March 31, the great escape of the Dalai Lama from the Communist-occupied Tibet to India in 1959; June 26, the start of the Korean war in 1950 to teach the Americans a lesson; June 15, the day Xi was born in 1953. Have you forgotten June 15, 2020, the day 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the Galwan clash?October, too, is special for the CPC. The invasion of Tibet started in October 1950. Indian policemen were killed on Indian territory on October 21, 1959. The unprovoked invasion of India through Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh took place on October 20, 1962. The foundation day of the People’s Republic of China — October 1, 1949 — is always an important occasion to flex muscles. India, therefore, should be prepared for a moderate-to-severe turbulence, leading to loss of lives, prestige, land, and major economic and commercial shocks.Lest you forget, 2021 marks 50 years of the visit of the redoubtable Henry Kissinger, the emissary of US President Nixon, to China in 1971. It was a top-secret ‘Mission China’, undertaken to establish contact and cultivate Chairman Mao Zedong. The Nixon-Kissinger duo, on behalf of Wall Street corporations, had eyed the vast Chinese market of (the then) 900 million. The Chinese, too, were glued to the US dollar, technology, investment and finance. Planning long-term, to penetrate deep inside enemy camp. Hence, when the affluent Americans came calling to the third world economies, in Chinese eyes, however, it was obeisance to the Han court — the US kowtowing before the ‘sons of Heaven’ in the ‘forbidden city’ of the CPC.Today, the same US which was perceived to have had accepted the Chinese as equals in 1971, by presenting its credentials through Kissinger, appears to be “troubling the Middle Kingdom of the Yellow River”. “Cajoling, compelling, blackmailing” to stop the rise of the CPC in the world arena. What better an opportunity to settle the scores than to celebrate the CPC’s centenary, and the golden jubilee of the US visit to the Chinese court? By catching the foe on the wrong foot as the rampaging Chinese virus cripples the US deep inside its own camp!That’s understandable, as the planned show goes on. But no! Why this sudden tremor in Nepal? Why is Kathmandu, the ideological Communist brethren of the CPC, on the boil? What till yesterday was a matter of pride for the CPC in Kathmandu is in turmoil ahead of the CPC’s centenary.Nepal is undoubtedly important to the CPC for several reasons. Its geography juts into the heartland provinces of India, thereby giving China an incredible geopolitical advantage through an ideological comrade in the Himalayas. Kathmandu is one of the top 2021 items on the CPC’s plate.However, despite Nepal being on the powerful Chinese political radar, India continues to be the biggest worry for China, owing to the ethnic commonality and historical fraternity transcending barriers. Plus, the Indian states adjacent to the open border of the two neighbours are intertwined since time immemorial, with or without politics. Astounding civilisational commonality overshadows all godly or man-made faultlines.So, as the influence of the CPC over the Nepalese counterpart faced serious domestic issues, the Chinese were compelled to mobilise their heavyweight Communist comrades to camp in Kathmandu to do every possible thing to hold sway, and keep India at bay. The CPC has long been hyperactive in South Asia. After the Pakistan-penetrating CPEC project, the Ladakh transgression and the Galwan clash, the Myanmar-Bangladesh investment in defence supplies and futile venture in Bhutan (till now), Nepal just cannot be allowed to go out of the CPC’s clutches — under no circumstances in the CPC’s centenary year.The perceived ‘Hindu Nepal’, adjacent to the Indian heartland, cannot be allowed to go away or change its political colour. It’s because, except Nepal, the CPC has no ideological base or commonality in any of the states from Indonesia to Iraq. Hence, the CPC under Xi can never be seen to be accepting defeat, weakening or break-up of the Nepal Communist Party, cruising under the perceived guidance and control of Beijing.Friends and foes, fasten your seat belts in the CPC’s centenary year. Severe turbulence lies ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/be-wary-of-china-in-cpcs-centenary-year-194344
06-01-2021||---||Demographic paranoia dictates ‘love jihad’ laws||The passage of legislation in some states to apparently protect women belonging to the majority community, also known as laws to prevent ‘love jihad’, has evoked concerns regarding the assault on individual constitutional rights and privacy, particularly the impact on women. The Uttar Pradesh Cabinet had cleared the Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, whereas on December 29, the Madhya Pradesh Cabinet approved the Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020, as an ordinance.These developments fit into the regional pattern of attempts in an environment of paranoia about demographic change and patriarchy.In Buddhist-majority Myanmar, the parliament adopted four laws in 2015 — the Monogamy Law, Religious Conversion Law and Interfaith Marriage Law, and Population Control Law. In 2012, a case of sexual violence and murder of a Rakhine Buddhist woman sparked communal violence in Sitwe, central Rakhine, that led to an internal displacement of both communities, including 1,20,000 Rohingya. Islamophobia swept Myanmar consequently.Taking advantage of the religious polarisation, a group of monks formed the Association for the Protection of Race and Religion. They drafted and proposed to the parliament a Bill to protect the Buddhist women who married non-Buddhist men so that they have equal rights in marriage, divorce, inheritance and children as well as have effective protection. With some tweaks, the Myanmar Buddhist Women’s Special Marriage Bill was introduced by the ruling Union Solidarity and Development Party in the parliament. The Buddhist Women’s Special Marriage and Succession Act, 1954 was revoked on the passage of this Bill. Under the 1954 law, when a Buddhist woman married a non-Buddhist man, all rights and disputes regarding the marriage were governed by the Burmese customary law, which also governs Buddhist marriages.The 2015 Conversion Law and Interfaith Marriage Law was passed by a vote of 524 to 44, with eight abstentions, by the two Houses of Parliament sitting in a joint session. The rationale given was similar to that of the Special Marriage Act, 1954, which was meant to protect women of the religious majority. As per the Bill, “whenever a non-Buddhist man and a Buddhist woman intend to contract a marriage, one of them shall apply in writing in the prescribed form to the Registrar within the jurisdiction where one of them is residing.” The law allowed local registrars to publicly post marriage applications for 14 days to determine whether there are any objections to the unions.The law was called out for promoting patriarchy and invading privacy as it exposed the potential couple to harassment. The present ruling National League for Democracy (NLD) leader Aung San Suu Kyi, who had married a British, opposed the legislation as an opposition leader. However, her party after taking over the reign of government in March 2016, didn’t revoke the legislation. Suu Kyi was herself married to a British and was denied the presidentship. This was owing to a constitutional provision which says that the president must be someone who “he himself, one of the parents, the spouse, one of the legitimate children or their spouses not owe allegiance to a foreign power, not be subject of a foreign power or citizen of a foreign country.”Similar underlying fears of demographic change have dictated past legislative processes. In 2004, the J&K Legislative Assembly passed a Bill to deprive women married outside the erstwhile state of retaining the Permanent Resident Certificate (PRC). A critical aspect of Article 370 was the provision of PRC given to people whose ancestors had lived in J&K for at least 10 years before May 14, 1954. Before August 5, 2019, only those with PRC could buy property, get employment in the state, vote in the J&K Legislative Assembly and were entitled to other privileges. That is why legislation was passed to disincentivise women from marrying outside.Without being explicit, the main fear was the possible demographic change to the Muslim-majority character of J&K as the perception was that the bulk of the marriages outside were of non-Muslim women. And this would imply that the retention of PRC by non-Muslim women would result in claims of their children as well.The Bill was meant to give a legislative form by the People's Democratic Party (PDP)-Congress ruling coalition to the 1968 executive order which was struck down by the J&K High Court on October 7, 2002. The court had held that no legislation can be made which is against gender equality.After an uproar among women’s rights groups and criticism by opposition parties like the BJP, the Congress realised that the legislation could become a national embarrassment as it will be accused of being a partner in facilitating gender inequality. The Congress legislators in the council were asked to oppose the Bill and demand that the Bill be sent to a select committee of the J&K Legislative Council.The council met on March 11, 2004. The Congress and BJP opposed the Bill, whereas regional parties like the National Conference and the PDP supported its passage. The six-and-a half-hour proceedings were nationally televised. After several passionate speeches by the legislators, both for and against the Bill, council Chairman Abdul Rashid Dar, in a surprise move, adjourned the council sine die.Coming to the present debate, in India’s case, inter-religious marriage can be solemnised through the Special Marriage Act, 1954. The so-called ‘love jihad’ legislations in various states invade privacy, and, rather than reform and make it more in conformity with the democratic and liberal ethos of the 21st century, the provisions are further reinforcing patriarchy and the same paranoia of demographic change that is not too uncommon regionally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/demographic-paranoia-dictates-love-jihad-laws-194345
