07-01-2021||---||Economy headed for a V-shaped recovery||The upcoming vaccine rollout has considerably brightened the prospects for economic growth in the New Year. The Covid-19 virus and its impact on the health and well-being of people around the world were the key issues in 2020. If the tide is finally turning on the pandemic front, there can be greater surety that the Indian economy will revive slowly but surely.The immediate indicators are promising for a V-shaped recovery from the trough experienced over the past 10 months. The biggest roadblock will be the possibility of a second wave of infections in India, as had occurred in Europe and the UK. The villain could be the new more contagious variant of the disease detected in the UK that is now causing havoc there. It has, as of date, spread to another dozen countries. The progress of the virus and the health of the economy are inevitably linked together.For now, the positive news is that imports are rising, an indication that industrial activity is picking up. Exports are still stagnant, but imports rose in December for the first time since February. The import data comes along with a surge in Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections that have reached levels higher than those in the pre-Covid era. The December collections have risen by 11.6 per cent to Rs 1.15 lakh crore, the highest since the GST regime was rolled out in 2017.While this is encouraging news, it must be tempered by the recognition that it is based on the November sales, which in turn reflected the pent-up demand of the festival season.The equity markets continue to show cheer by a bull run that mirrors the same buoyancy in global stock exchanges. After a crash in March and April, the Sensex has risen consistently despite the bad news on the economic front. The rally has been partially fuelled by a new breed of domestic investors who had abandoned other asset classes that have been giving poor returns, like bank deposits and real estate.More importantly, foreign institutional investors have been pouring funds rapidly into the Indian markets on the back of global liquidity as well as expectations that this emerging economy will surely bounce back in 2021.The IHS Market Purchasing Managers Index has also been positive for the fifth consecutive month, giving an indication that factory activity is picking up in December.Agricultural growth equally continues to progress at an even pace despite the ongoing farmers’ agitation in the northern region. Even during the worst April-to-June quarter this year, when GDP growth crashed by 23.9 per cent, farm growth remained positive at 3.4 per cent. The slow spread of the virus to rural areas has contributed to this sustained activity on the farm front.On the negative side, core sector data continues to be dismal. Growth in the eight core sector industries fell by 2.6 per cent in November, bringing the total decline over the first eight months of the current fiscal to 11.4 per cent. This includes crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, steel and cement, though there has been some increase in coal, electricity, and fertilisers. This may be offset to some extent by consumer goods output, but will clearly impact the index of industrial production.Simultaneously, the jobs outlook is discouraging as unemployment rose to 6.5 per cent in November, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), with high-quality jobs taking the biggest hit. Inflation remains a bugbear, too, having gone up to 7 per cent at the retail level. This is due to the twin factors of food items having become costly and the government's deliberate decision to impose heavy taxes on imported fuels in order to raise resources.As for the services sector, it remains problematic and will continue to be in the doldrums as long as the pandemic continues to plague the country. Unless the vaccination drive becomes widespread and the fear of travel, tourism, shopping and eating out dissipates, the revival of activity in this large economic segment seems to be ruled out. This is significant as services now account for over 50 per cent of India’s GDP.So, despite all the green shoots, it is clear that growth will be patchy and uneven. Even data appears contradictory, such as the record foreign exchange reserves which are not a sign of a booming economy but the reflection of a crash in imports owing to low industrial activity. Revenue collections are rising gradually, but direct tax inflows fell by nearly 10 per cent till the end of December.This, is at a time when the government needs to make larger expenditure in many areas, including infrastructure development, rural employment schemes and even on the bulk purchase of Covid vaccines. While there may not be concerns right now on the widening of the fiscal deficit, it cannot be denied that a big increase this year may lead to more problems in the subsequent ones.The relatively small size of the stimulus measures announced during the course of the year have been widely criticised for not being enough to support many sectors, especially small and medium enterprises. The need for cash support in the form of direct transfers through digital payments to the poorest of the poor has been advocated by many.But the government has been firm in resisting pressures to expand expenditure in this manner. As of now, it looks as if the conservative approach seems to be yielding results as economic growth seems to be reviving slowly but surely, even if it is unevenly.Estimates of degrowth have already been revised for 2020-21 by rating agencies like Moody's which now estimates negative growth at 10.6 per cent as against 11.5 per cent earlier.For the next fiscal, the growth estimates are now in the region of 9 to 11 per cent which sound ambitious but for the fact that this will be on an extremely low base.Comparisons are truly odious, given the fact that a more realistic comparison might be with the previous year. Even so, it is abundantly clear that the next fiscal is firmly heading for a V-shaped recovery, unless the Covid virus springs any surprises in the coming months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/economy-headed-for-a-v-shaped-recovery-194724
07-01-2021||---||Protectionism and Atmanirbharta slogan||A grand slogan can delude many people, but in the end the country could be achieving entirely the opposite objective. Way back in 1970, we lived under the slogan of Garibi Hatao. Except for highlighting poverty, it did exactly the opposite. Handouts started, a band of intermediaries cropped up, government schemes were hijacked and the same assets were circulated. Meanwhile, deficit and debt were piling up. More than the financial implication, the paternalistic state established itself with questionable outcome.Now we live under the slogan of Atmanirbhar Bharat, which is shorthand for protectionism. During the past five years, out of the 5,500 items under the six-digit tariff code, nearly 3600 have undergone upward revision of the customs tariff. In the 2020-21 Budget alone, more than 600 items have undergone upward tariff revision. It may be music to the ears of economic nationalists, but its intended and unintended consequences are not benign. We were revisiting protectionism and import substitution after a generation. This was one reason why competition was less; cartelisation was rampant, production inefficient and customers were worse off. With Atmanirbharta now, it is almost like fighting the future’s war with yesterday’s ammunition.While countries newly liberated from colonial rule had a reason to be protectionist because of paucity of foreign exchange and lack of depth in economy, the present state capitalism-led approach confuses most. Earlier, it was the incipient state of development, so the menu of options was limited. In East Asian countries, protection was limited to those industries where the marginal cost of production was higher than the global cost of production until the time the cost started converging with the global one. In India, on the contrary, it resulted in price gouging, lack of innovation and high prices for the customer. The export market could not be exploited because the entrepreneurs were happy meeting the huge demand of the domestic economy. One can say it will be for a limited time. If the powerful interests could prevail to bring in this policy despite sensible advice from Jagdish Bhagwati and Arvind Panagariya, where is the guarantee that this protectionism will vanish after a limited period?Even in the miracle nations, the government choosing the champion industry had huge problems. They took a bigger slice of state resources than the market forces would have allocated. Of the six areas for concentration initially in South Korea, not a single industry exists as a driver of export or growth after 30 years. We are most likely to see allocative inefficiency and rising cost levels, with firms shielded by tariff from global competition.Increase in tariff, licence requirements and restrictions on imports introduced of late, are basically anti-trade. They render Indian firms uncompetitive and consumers worse off. The specialisation required for comparative advantage which propels trade just vanishes. The production possibility frontier shrinks to the consumption frontier and the possibility of expanding production shrinks. The dream of making India an export hub and the third largest economy will come crashing if such zero-sum policies are followed. Reducing competition and allowing domestic cost to rise is hardly the recipe for delivering economic growth. Right now, only a dozen entrepreneurs are talking about what a great future India has, though all variables point to the contrary. Perhaps they stand to gain disproportionately or they are driving policies and what we are hearing is the ‘pied piper’ version.Indian government policies have mostly been pro-incumbent business than pro-market as economists Dani Rodrik and Arvind Subramanian found in their studies earlier. The same businesses and businessmen shifted their sourcing to China for price and profit advantage instead of specialising, innovating and driving down the cost. The government, in its turn, failed to join trade blocs like the European Union, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) to have tariff advantage as a trading partner. Though the RCEP option is not closed yet and the questions raised by India are relevant, they have come at the last minute. If India stays clear of it, India will be loser as the member countries will shift to other member countries for sourcing. Most countries are trading partners here and loss of trade will be substantial. It will be like hurting the nose to spite the face.This protectionism stems from two fundamental flaws in the government’s understanding. First, the belief that state-led ‘champions’ can conquer the world. It has been proved wrong time and again. Economic Surveys of past years show that Indian exports are unusual as the largest firms show a much smaller share compared to other comparable countries. Are we whipping the wrong horse? The second one is conflating security with trade. The obsession with China has perhaps led the country to follow the Chinese path. The problem is that we are doing it after 40 years, when it is dead knowledge. India does not matter to China with 1% of its imports from this country. But India’s dependence is much more on electronic goods, parts of machinery and intermediate goods for the pharmaceutical industry.We may see any dream, but we are not strong enough. We can build our strength by intelligent trading rather than by staying behind a newly raised ‘iron curtain’. Here it is instructive to follow new winners like Bangladesh, Vietnam and Cambodia, which have done it with pragmatism, prioritisation and well-considered pathways. The sooner we come out of backward-looking policy sets, the better off India will be. Otherwise, in 2030, instead of being the third largest economy, we would be laggards in the pack. Autarchy doesn’t take a country on the glide path to prosperity; it sinks the nation instead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/protectionism-and-atmanirbharta-slogan-194723
07-01-2021||---||Imran Khan’s China embrace||Pakistan’s leaders have invariably been more than solicitous in responding to China’s demands and ambitions. PM Imran Khan, however, appears determined to steer Pakistan into an even tighter Chinese embrace, with moves which Pakistanis could regret later. The readiness of an ambitious China to invest an estimated $62 billion in CPEC is understandable. CPEC links China’s landlocked western regions to the Arabian Sea. It provides an energy corridor for petroleum from the Persian Gulf to reach the heartland of China in the event of the lines of communication across the Indian Ocean being disturbed. At the same time, however, Chinese loans for infrastructure projects across Asia and Africa are landing recipient countries with debts. This leads to Chinese demands for the repayment of debts from the recipients, who have mortgaged ownership of their ports and mineral resources to China. ‘Debt trap diplomacy’ is now a Chinese specialisation across Asia and Africa.As Quad prepares to meet the Chinese challenge, there is a need to study the strategic implications of Pakistan’s huge debt and dependence on China.Pakistan has been more than ready to be a junior partner in borrowing recklessly from China, while also fulfilling Beijing’s geopolitical ambitions. Beijing has, after all, backed Pakistan in developing its nuclear weapons and missile capabilities. Pakistan, in turn, has to now approach banks in China to obtain credits to repay loans from Saudi Arabia, which is insisting on timely repayment, even of relatively small amounts. The Saudis do not love Imran Khan, who rather naively agreed to support an initiative by Turkey and Malaysia, designed to restructure the Islamic world. Such restructuring would have undermined Saudi primacy. There are also reports of increasing military/nuclear dimensions in Imran Khan’s growing friendship with Turkey’s President Erdogan. How will this scenario, arising amidst a growing Pakistan-China nexus, play out in the Arabian Sea and Persian Gulf?Imran Khan also earned the wrath of the UAE when Pakistan’s loquacious Foreign Minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, refused to attend an OIC meeting of foreign ministers of 57 Islamic countries, hosted by his UAE counterpart. Qureshi’s petulance arose from the invitation that the UAE issued to India’s the then Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj to attend and address the meeting. To make matters worse, Qureshi made his petulance public. Pakistan soon found that the visas of most of its nationals in the UAE were not being renewed. With remittances from its workers in the UAE and Saudi Arabia declining sharply, the only lenders Pakistan could find to repay Saudi loans were banks in China.Even as Imran Khan seeks to borrow more money to meet past debts, Pakistan’s repayment liabilities are rising rapidly. The security situation in Pakistan’s mineral-rich Balochistan province, which also has significant resources of natural gas, is deteriorating. Moreover, private foreign investments in Balochistan from prestigious international business organisations have also been put on hold, because of legal cases filed by major mining companies from Canada and Chile. Balochistan is known to have huge reserves of gold and copper. The major beneficiary of these developments has been the China Metallurgical Group Corporation. The Chinese have secured lucrative tax breaks for their mining activities. People jokingly remark: “Pakistan is China’s gold mine!”Now increasingly dependent on China, Imran Khan is set to provide off-shore bases for China’s submarines in the Islands of Buddhoo and Bundal across its Sindh coastline, near Karachi. China has also reportedly agreed to explore the possibilities of building more naval bases in the Arabian Sea, within or near, Pakistan’s territorial waters. There are, however, clear signs of discontent emerging in the coastal provinces of Sindh and Balochistan at the exploitation of their territory and natural resources by China. It has also led to the emergence of a militant organisation called the Sindhudesh Revolutionary Army, which is reportedly making common cause with armed militant groups in Balochistan to target Chinese personnel and projects.Growing resentment in Balochistan has been triggered by the arrogant behaviour of the Chinese residing in the province and by the Punjabi-dominated Pakistan army. The entire port of Gwadar was recently sealed by the Pakistan army at Chinese behest. Local Baloch residents were then being arbitrarily denied entry into port. This order has been stayed by the Balochistan High Court. It remains to be seen how long the recent stay order remains in force.There are also reports that apart from Gwadar, the Islands of Bundal and Buddhoo in Sindh are being developed as bases for Chinese submarines. It is feared that the growing Chinese presence in these provinces would lead yet another senior Pakistani military officer being appointed to head the projects. The apprehension appears to be that he would be tempted to make his millions of dollars. This would be in line with how Lt Gen Asim Bajwa allegedly made $54 million while heading CPEC projects. The charges against Bajwa have not been investigated. He has, instead, got an extension to continue heading CPEC.Bajwa would now also have to focus attention on road routes and hydel projects across Gilgit-Baltistan to China’s Xinjiang province, through the Shaksgam valley. The valley was generously “gifted” by Pakistan to China in the 1970s. India raised objections to this “gifting”, asserting its claims to the entire PoK territory. It is likely that more and more Chinese military personnel will move into Gilgit-Baltistan. The territory could well be integrated with the Wakhan corridor and Xinjiang.An already cash-strapped Pakistan will soon be saddled with an even larger Chinese debt. As Quad prepares to meet this challenge posed by China, there will be a need for a comprehensive study of the strategic implications of Pakistan’s huge debt and dependence on China.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/imran-khans-china-embrace-194722
