08-01-2021||---||Qatar thaw a sign of shifting sands in Gulf||THE smile and the hug with which Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (MBS) received the Emir of Qatar Sheikh Tamim Al Thani on January 5 spoke volumes of the shifting sands in the Gulf. Arriving for the 41st summit of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), this was the Qatari leader’s first visit to Saudi Arabia in three-and-a-half years. His arrival was preceded by an announcement from Nayef al Hajraf, the Kuwaiti Secretary General of the GCC, that Saudi Arabia had agreed to reopen its airspace as well as land and sea borders to Qatar. The presence of the Egyptian foreign minister at the summit and the relatively positive sounds emanating from Abu Dhabi suggest that a thaw is underway.It was on June 5, 2017, when a hitherto dormant Arab Quartet comprising Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Bahrain and Egypt dropped the bombshell that they had decided to break diplomatic, trade and travel links with Qatar. I was among the diplomats called to the foreign office in Abu Dhabi the following day for a briefing on the provocations from Doha that had forced the Quartet to take this unprecedented step. In the initial days, there was lack of clarity on the ramifications of the embargo and a couple of days later, I found myself back in the foreign office to argue that the closure of UAE airspace for flights to Doha had complicated matters for Indian carriers flying between India and Qatar. The additional flying time meant that they had to curb the baggage allowance of passengers! The UAE side was courteous and said that they had no intention of affecting the interests of friendly countries like India. The following day, it was clarified that UAE airspace was only closed to Qatar Airways and that other airlines could continue to fly as before.The Al Ula summit and developments preceding it have important implications for the Gulf, the larger West Asia region and India too.First, it is clear that President Trump and his senior adviser Jared Kushner have achieved substantial success in altering the geopolitical map of the region. After the Abraham Accords that have led to normalisation of ties between Israel and the UAE, Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco and to Israeli PM Netanyahu’s ‘secret’ visit to Saudi Arabia on November 22, 2020, the GCC thaw is another feather in Kushner's cap. In stark contrast to Trump’s flailing about the election results, Kushner has stayed focused on his objective. He visited Riyadh and Doha on November 29 to script the outlines of a deal, worked the phones to iron out the wrinkles and bring the reluctant Emiratis on board and was very much in attendance at Al Ula. The quiet diplomacy pursued by Kuwait also contributed to the outcome. As the Biden administration prepares to forge its policy towards Iran, it will be presented with a somewhat more united GCC as part of the new equation.Second, the summit provides indications of the gradual evolution of MBS from the region's enfant terrible to a more seasoned statesman who is trying to get a handle on the Yemen and Qatar disputes so that he can focus on the bigger picture. Fewer distractions in the neighborhood will allow him greater latitude in implementing his ambitious agenda of social and economic reforms within the country. They also enable him to regain Saudi Arabia’s traditional primacy in the Muslim world by weakening the Turkey-Iran-Qatar axis which had been gaining some momentum. This might mean that Saudi Arabia's own interest in ties with Israel will remain on the back burner for some more time.Third, Qatar can claim some kind of moral victory for having withstood the pressure of unilateral sanctions brought upon it by the Quartet. In June 2017, the Quartet had specified a set of 13 conditions that Doha must meet for relations to return to normal. These included demands to curb diplomatic ties with Iran; end support to ‘terrorist groups’ like the Muslim Brotherhood and Hezbollah; shut down Al Jazeera and news outlets like Al Araby Al Jadeed and Middle East Eye; terminate Turkish military presence in Qatar, etc. As of now, there is no evidence that Qatar has conceded any of these demands, although it may make token gestures over the next few months — if only to improve the optics in the run-up to the FIFA World Cup that it will host in November-December 2022.Fourth, the UAE would have reason to be unhappy over the turn of events precisely because Qatar has neither indicated a review of its ties with Iran and Turkey nor visibly backed down from the support that it has provided to various Islamist groups. For now, the Emiratis have found it prudent to go along with the US and Saudi priorities. This preserves the strategic nature of the close personal relationship between MBS and UAE Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed. But it would be premature to expect an early rapprochement between the UAE and Qatar.Within the UAE, the emirate of Dubai would eagerly wait for trade and travel restrictions to be removed. The embargo on Qatar had an adverse effect on Jebel Ali port and also impacted the substantial Qatari investments in Dubai. Any move towards normal business ties would improve the investment climate for Dubai and give a bit of a boost to the ambitious Dubai Expo 2020 that will now open in October 2021.As the GCC states step up their vaccination drives and start to come out of the shadow of Covid-19, India would hope that the economic recovery facilitates the return of Indian expatriates to the Gulf. The resumption of normal trade ties would also help several major Indian and NRI-owned business groups which had seen their markets shrink as a result of the embargo. Ashok Leyland has a bus assembly facility in the UAE but had to lose out on export orders to Qatar. Dabur found itself in a similar situation since its ‘Made in UAE’ products could no longer be sold in Doha. The travel restrictions also made it difficult for many Dubai-based NRI-owned businesses to service their clients in Doha, with Muscat emerging as an alternative meeting point.On the diplomatic front, India has been careful to nurture its ties with Doha, even as our relations with the UAE and Saudi Arabia showed a dramatic upswing. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has recently visited Doha and Prime Minister Modi has spoken on the phone with Sheikh Tamim to encourage greater investments in India by the Qatar Investment Authority. India would also hope that influential Qatar-based media outlets like the Arabic channel of Al Jazeera tone down their anti-India rhetoric and stop looking at issues like Jammu and Kashmir from an overtly Islamist angle. Overall, any improvement in intra-GCC ties is a positive development from an Indian perspective, particularly if it is also accompanied by a moderation in Qatar’s religion-driven agendas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/qatar-thaw-a-sign-of-shifting-sands-in-gulf-195197
08-01-2021||---||The Chinese threat is not just along the LAC||THE just-released year-end review for 2020 by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) states that even though Indian troops countered every Chinese move along the LAC in Ladakh, maintaining “all protocols and agreements between the countries”, the PLA “escalated the situation by utilisation of unorthodox weapons” to further their ‘expansionist designs’. This is in keeping with the strategy outlined by the Chinese authors of Unrestricted Warfare, who have suggested that all means, armed and unarmed, with lethality, should be used to compel an enemy to submit to your interests. No wonder the Chinese troops of the PLA had used nail-studded clubs and other means to get the better of the Indian soldiers, though unsuccessfully so. But the challenges that China could pose may go well beyond the Himalayan frontiers, since the Indian army, with the IAF’s assistance, has “mobilised troops, including accretionary forces”, as per the MoD report. It leaves China little room for intrusions now.Thus, the Chinese could well be preparing to use electronic warfare means instead of focusing on just the use of conventional military platforms, despite the Chinese having deployed their air assets to the optimum, as the IAF Chief had recently indicated, and India’s navy keeping a close watch on Chinese ships and submarines in the high seas. The recent conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan gives us one major takeaway: the nation that has more advanced electronic warfare capabilities will win battles in future. The use of drones, sensors and micro chips could be more lethal than the armada of air and naval power that had until now dominated military planning. The jamming of radars could make military users blind, and many of your systems could be rendered useless. The Chinese are working to get to the top of it, based on their 10-year Made in China plan for 2025, announced in 2015. Thus, Chinese companies, as part of a deep civil-military engagement, provide the Chinese armed forces technologies — stolen or reverse-engineered — to enhance the PLA’s space and cyber capabilities as also in artificial intelligence.Here is an example of what the Chinese have been capable of. In November 2016, the US navy’s extremely high-tech guided missile destroyer, the USS Zumwalt — that was commissioned at a cost of $4.4 billion and billed as a force multiplier — suffered a propulsion failure on the Panama Canal. This had shocked the US defence establishment. A thorough investigation led the US to identify ‘Chinese Chips’ — microchips that were manufactured by the PLA — which the Americans had to buy in tens of thousands to cut manufacturing costs. Two days after the embarrassing failure of the US navy’s destroyer, a British hi-tech naval destroyer, HMS Duncan, suffered a similar propulsion failure. This apparently also had Chinese Chips in it! Therefore, electronic warfare is the next big challenge for militaries worldwide and China is focusing on that more than conventional military platforms. India should therefore create ‘geek brigades’ for our armed forces.Furthermore, as articulated in Unrestricted Warfare — even though its focus is on how China could get the better of the US — it has a military and economic message that India would be foolish to ignore. While the US strategic community continues to focus on retaining its military edge with newer technologies, the Chinese have for some years quietly built up their reach within the American elites and have by now long-standing financial links even within Democrats and Joe Biden’s party members. If this requires money, so be it. And thus the Chinese plan to buy out politicians, stifle the media, steal resources and even technology, seems predictably par for the course. It is a pattern that is steadily emerging even in India, which offers both opportunities and challenges for China.Beyond the newsmakers, China also targets the local population. Thus, it has flooded the Indian market with products and apps, since India offered one of the largest markets — with reportedly 560 million cellphone and their e-application users — with investments from Alibaba and Tencent reportedly in the likes of Paytm, MxPlayer and Gaana. These pose a big security challenge, which hasn’t been explained to Indian users. With Indians known to give out information more easily than most other people, your data can easily take away our data, especially that is privileged information of companies, allowing for their use to even reverse-engineer products. Also, the information on the Internet is controlled by two camps; the ‘open’ or the traditional camp dominated by Western companies like Google, Facebook and Amazon and the ‘closed’ one of the companies controlled by China such as Alibaba and Baidu. It’s anybody’s guess where the greater dangers lie.It is well known that cyber and biological threats are hard to counter. Despite around 50 organisations of the US government having been recently hacked — and this includes the US Treasury, State and Homeland Security departments — their cyber security experts are clueless of the thefts for nearly nine months! And as India has ranked poorly on the cyber power index computed internationally, it wouldn’t be an exaggeration to say that while our critical national assets are reasonably secure against the repeated cyber attacks they face, the security of our banking and business entities needs to be further enhanced. And if the pandemic has alerted us to one thing, it is the crippling effect that a biological attack may have on any society. And though most major countries are signatories to international conventions against the use of biological weapons, (while still maintaining their stocks of germs) and if and when they do decide to use it, this could have a devastating impact — for which we aren’t quite prepared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-chinese-threat-is-not-just-along-the-lac-195196
08-01-2021||The Punjab||Farmers staying the course||They have been called Khalistanis, pro-Pakistan, anti-national, friends of Maoists and more, but the epithets have not moved them. The allegation that opposition parties have set them up for political mileage has induced a prompt reply from the agitation’s leaders that it is not the Opposition that has led them, but it jumped aboard the farmers’ bandwagon when it sensed that the government had been put on the backfoot.The Opposition taking advantage of the government’s discomfiture is to be expected in any democracy. The BJP would have followed the same course if it was in the Opposition. The Congress had advocated the same reforms when it was in the electoral fray, but has now gone back on its stand when the BJP initiated the reforms. This, too, can be expected in a democracy. The GST was initially proposed by the Congress, but when the BJP introduced the reform, the Congress had much to say! The people take such developments as par for the course.There is one threat that the agitating farmers have voiced which I feel may hurt them — the threat to disrupt the Republic Day celebrations at Janpath. There are certain sacred days that every patriotic Indian must not denigrate at any cost. The Independence and Republic Days are the most sacred, along with the Mahatma’s birthday. The farmers will be making a humongous mistake if they breach that compact. The sympathy of the general public will diminish if they carry out any form of protests on that sacred day.The farmers are a highly valued segment of society. The government knows it cannot deal with farmers like it dealt with anti-CAA protesters, even though the Shaheen Bagh crowd was mostly Muslim women, including JNU and Jamia Millia students. In Adityanath’s UP, the police confiscated the blankets brought by the protesters. This type of police action against farmers cannot even be considered, let alone tried!The government insists that the three laws will benefit the farmers and it may well be so. Many economists and agri-experts have said so, but they are mostly intellectuals immersed in thought in the comfort of their study rooms. The farmers are the ones with hands-on experience. They do not agree with the government and the experts. It is difficult for citizens to judge. The government says the farmer is free to sell anywhere in the country, and not necessarily to the next-door mandi. That is theoretically true but there are practical difficulties in transporting the produce over long distances without incurring added costs. Added to that is the fact that the farmer is always in need of ready cash for the next sowing or for his household expenses. Only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches.The government suspects that the middlemen, who it has set out to eliminate, are behind the farmers. The middlemen have the most to lose. They will naturally try to protect their turf. Very cleverly, they have sown doubts in the farmers’ mind that the government is out to fatten the rich and powerful business houses. This propaganda has been lapped up with the consequent attacks on Jio’s transmission towers in Punjab.The government has been hoist with some of its own petards. Demonetisation was introduced overnight to surprise those with black money stored under mattresses. Black money operators were far too clever, it appears. No notable success came the government’s way. The farmers obviously do not want to become guinea pigs in another possible experiment which the government says will double their income. It may very well do so, as many experts have opined, but it is, at present, in the realm of theory only. The farmers of Punjab and Haryana are already better off than their compatriots in other states.The government should reconsider its stated policy of foisting its ideas and calculations on cost-benefit ratios on people or segments of people without due notice. In some matters like demonetisation and last year’s action in J&K, there would be a need for secrecy but in trying to uplift farmers or favouring Bangladeshi Hindus for instant citizenship, there was no need for any surprise or hurry in ramming legislation through Parliament without adequate debate.Secrecy could be justified in the demonetisation announcement and in the overnight detention of J&K leaders, but even then, the fact that the government is adept in secret manoeuvres resonates in the less sophisticated human minds at such times. When the government says that it is introducing laws for the good of the people or segments of the public, such promises are taken with large pinches of salt.The government’s credibility comes into focus at such times. I, for one, do not doubt that the government’s intention was to benefit the farmers. But in the light of its low credibility index, it should have been more circumspect by taking the intended beneficiaries into confidence and convincing them that it had only their good in mind and not that of the party’s funders.The agitation will continue till one of the parties blinks. The government cannot afford to repeal the three laws. Such a move will be disastrous for it from every angle, chiefly its impact on the image of Modiji himself. It may not trouble the poor who have crossed over to his side because of the direct transfers of government munificence to their bank accounts and the houses and toilets, electricity and roads they say he has provided. But to his traditional vote banks among the middle classes it will certainly matter!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/farmers-staying-the-course-195198
