09-01-2021||Senior Economic Analyst||Why big businesses want these farm laws||Have you ever wondered why India’s big businesses are suddenly so keen on farming? The answer is very simple. They have already exhausted all other options of making mega profits. After all, we know that farm income in India has not kept pace with inflation for at least the past two decades now. So, in real terms, farmers earn less now than they did in the previous millennium. Yet, big corporates find the agriculture sector attractive enough to have lobbied for these new farm laws.Darbari economists with their fairytale theories will tell you that corporates entering the farm is a win-win for all. Two banal concepts that they like to use here are ‘economies of scale’ and ‘backward and forward integration’.The fable of the free market goes something like this: Big companies will bring low-cost finance, they will be able to procure seeds, fertilisers and pesticides at discounted prices because they’ll order it in bulk, they will bring new farming technologies to improve yields, they will reduce wastage at harvest, they will set up cold-chain systems to quickly transport grains, vegetables and fruits and they will even sell the produce at lower prices to the final consumer, in their own retail chains, by removing the villainous middlemen.Such balderdash is forgivable if spouted by your retired uncle in the family WhatsApp group. When mainstream economists and celebrated commentators regurgitate it, one has to wonder about their real intentions. That’s because it is impossible to believe that they are unaware of the facts of corporatisation of agriculture in other parts of the world. Everywhere, without exception, it has created a few agri-giants who have made massive profits, while farmers have become poorer and food has become more expensive.The real reason why corporates want to enter the farm sector and why their handmaidens in academia and the media are batting for the new farm laws lies in the recent history of our economy. India has always had monopolies, where a few business houses controlled all organised industries. It even entered the popular lexicon where someone who had the airs of being rich would be ridiculed as one “who thinks they are some Tata-Birla.”From the late 1960s, this came under restrictions by the state when Indira Gandhi decided that the only way she could take on the ‘syndicate’ of entrenched Congress leaders, was to take a left turn. From the mid-1980s, especially after Rajiv Gandhi became PM, many hurdles placed on big corporate houses were gradually removed. The Rao-Manmohan reforms of the 90s lifted what little remained.The liberalisation years did give some opportunity for new entrepreneurs to compete with established business houses. This was especially true in export-oriented industries and in the new 'sunrise' sectors like IT and telecom. Things looked even better for new businesses in the mid-2000s. Easy finance during UPA-1, new political alignments, policy focus on big-ticket infrastructure projects, and the real estate boom opened the door for the emergence of new companies.All of these credit-fuelled businesses collapsed when the global financial bubble burst in 2008. Many companies, which had investors chasing them in the mid-2000s, became bankrupt, their market capitalisation dropping to a fraction of what it was in 2007.Every industry witnessed a process of consolidation, where a few big companies, usually those that were already entrenched, gradually bought over others. Some sectors, such as power, were entirely abandoned, leaving it to the government and public sector banks to deal with the mess created by private capital.Since the Modi government has come to power, monopolies have become even more entrenched. This was partly a legacy of what UPA-2 had left behind. When a credit bubble bursts, it crushes everyone except businesses that have deep pockets, cash reserves and political heft. The Modi government’s initial attempt to clean up the bad loan mess only made things worse for those with big loans, and ended up strengthening big businesses.However, the slowdown in the rest of the economy and the government’s terrible performance on jobs has caused the mother of all demand problems. So, corporates are making money by cutting costs, sacking people and reducing investments. They are selling less, but spending even lesser. The result is that big companies are spending their profits on buying back shares and rewarding shareholders with bigger dividends. This is the exact opposite of what growing economies need. It is also a vicious cycle which can only lead to increasing contraction. At some point, there will be no buyers left to sell things to and there will be no profits to be made.In such a situation, monopoly capital has only one place to turn to. And that is agriculture, which is the only sector that is entirely run by small 'private entrepreneurs'. After all, that is exactly what farmers are. There is a lot of money to be made here through consolidation. Big businesses can indeed take over the share of income made by intermediaries — traders, transporters, wholesalers and retailers.There are literally millions of small private entrepreneurs in agriculture who can be pushed aside and replaced by big agricultural monopolies. It is also one sector where demand is permanent, especially if your aim is to sell mostly to the urban middle classes. Urban consumers already pay for margins earned by the entire chain of intermediaries who stand between the farm and their kitchen. It is of no consequence to them whether the profits are being made by a million people or one big company.For big business, agriculture is the last big sector that offers the opportunity for consolidation. It is also the only space where there is a possibility of growth. That is why they are so keen to see the farm laws stay. And that is what India’s farmers have to fight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-big-businesses-want-these-farm-laws-195905
09-01-2021||Former Special Secretary||Mayhem on Capitol Hill||Donald John Trump, America’s 45th President, has many ignominious ‘firsts’ to his name. He is the first President to wage wars on his own government departments and the US media, denigrating them as the ‘Deep State’. He exonerated the Russian President at the Helsinki summit in 2018 from serious charges of aggressive electronic interference, thereby embarrassing his own agencies.He insulted senior Senator Jeff Sessions a number of times, once calling him an ‘idiot’, while he was holding the post of Attorney General, which was created soon after the Constitution was framed in 1787. He is also the first President to be so openly exposed to allegations of predatory sexual deviations and corruption.Now he has crowned his baseness by exhorting his armed goons to march towards the Capitol, causing deaths and mayhem, thereby inviting international ridicule to the most powerful country in the world. His incitement was a scene torn out of Hollywood’s surrealistic movies of fictitious Presidents betraying their countries through sedition and insurrection.Trump has also proved, either due to Congressional reticence or the passivity of his own senior executive aides, that it is possible to become a ‘constitutional dictator’, a fear that was voiced by the ‘anti-Federalists’ during the constitutional debates in 1787. They had then framed laws on ‘separation of powers’ and ‘checks and balances’ in the Constitution to “prevent a tyrannous concentration of power in any one branch, to check and restrain Government and, ultimately, to protect the rights and liberties of citizens”.The First Article gave the Congress ‘all legislative powers’. The Second granted ‘executive powers’ to the President. The Third Article conferred all ‘judicial powers’ to the Supreme Court. James Madison had then proposed ‘auxiliary precautions’ as ‘checks and balances’ allowing each branch to check and balance the others. The presidential veto and nomination powers to higher judiciary to be approved by the Senate, impeachment powers by the Congress and the Supreme Court’s power to strike down laws passed by the Congress were in this direction.Trump was perhaps the first to declare that his nominations of ‘Conservatives’ to the higher judiciary was for his partisan political ends. It speaks highly of the courts that it did not happen that way. However, the Congress failed to check Trump’s transgressions as the Republican-majority Senate gave more importance to partisan political alignments. The result was seen on January 6.The seemingly labyrinthine state polls and the ‘electoral votes’ were also devised as insurance from meddling by predatory candidates like Trump who had disregarded prudence by calling the Secretary of State in Georgia to swing votes in his favour.During the 1787 Philadelphia Convention, 13 US colonies joining the new Union wanted to preserve their independent decision-making powers, including elections. Initially, they considered three choices for the President’s election: elected by the Congress, elected by the state legislatures, or through direct popular elections. It was felt that a President elected by the Congress would have to appease Congressional majority and become a demagogue. In the second and third situations, big states would dominate smaller states.Hence a ‘Committee of Eleven’ recommended a system of election by some “most knowledgeable and most informed” group of ‘Electors’ to be appointed by the states. Thus, Article II lays down the process of presidential election: “Each State shall appoint in such manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a number of Electors, equal to the whole number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress”. The emphasis is on the words “as the Legislature thereof may direct”. As a result, the procedure on the presidential elections differs from state to state.In the beginning, there was no stipulation that these Electors should be political persons or be elected. Over the years, all states decided to directly elect the presidential Electors. So, the presidential polls are 51 simultaneous state elections rather than one nationally consolidated election (50 states and the district of Columbia). Thus, Trump had no authority to make that call to the Georgia Secretary of State.The system of Electoral College was copied from the Roman “Centuriate Assembly” system in which adult males were divided according to wealth into groups of 100, with each 100 having one vote. In America, the states form these “Centuriate Groups”, their votes depending on the size of their delegation to the Congress.Thus every four years on the first Tuesday in November the voters in states choose the Slate of Electors. The next process is the allotment of electoral votes in each state. Under the “Winner Takes All” system, all the electoral votes are allotted to the slate getting the majority of popular votes in a state under Article II which considers each state as one entity. The same system is followed in the case of a deadlock when the House of Representatives elects the President. One state has only one vote in that situation, irrespective of the number of different party representatives.As regards India, one cannot but regret how misdirected our diplomacy was in the US by openly backing Trump for re-election through special events like Texas’ ‘Howdy, Mody?’ in 2019 and Motera’ ‘Namaste Trump’ in February 2020. The needless controversy in December 2019, when our External Affairs Minister refused an invitation by the Democrat-majority House Foreign Relations Committee was another, ignoring the straws in the wind on the US poll trends.Equally strange was the description of Biden’s followers as “Biden’s gang” who would not be favourable to India by a leading Indian-American Hindu idealogue while he was holding a pre-election discussion in May 2020 on TV. The provocation was the February 4, 2020, Seattle City Council resolution criticising arrests of anti-CAA protesters in India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/mayhem-on-capitol-hill-195928
