10-01-2021||I Have done what many of those living in Mumbai||The Goa sojourn and the New Year twists and turns||The decision to come to Goa was another big step, as any kind of travel has its hazards nowadays. But driving down from Mumbai, a distance of a little over 600 km, seemed to be safer than coming by air, train or bus. Besides, having your own car while in Goa is more convenient, given the exorbitant rates charged by Goan taxis. Earlier, there used to be only one driving route to Goa from Mumbai, a picturesque one along the coast, winding through the ghats, via Chiplun and Sawantwadi. But it is now being widened to take the load off the increasing traffic, hence work is ongoing there. The other, more recent, route is via Pune, and though a little longer, it is largely along a four-lane highway until Belgaum in Karnataka, after which it deteriorates when it enters a wildlife sanctuary, and then a ghat separating Karnataka from Goa.During the Xmas and New Year season, Goa is at its festive best. Many of the houses are festooned with twinkling colourful lights and stars. Santa Clauses and enchanting Nativity scenes dot street corners and open spaces. The many churches ring out Christmas carols. It is a time for rejoicing for all communities, not only for the Catholics but Hindus as well. It is when Goa celebrates its inclusive character and communal harmony, happily intact till now, despite the recent divisive and hate-filled voices of the BJP hardliners. To his credit, the BJP Chief Minister, Dr Pramod Sawant, has kept them at bay.Beef is the favourite meat of the Catholics and Muslims, as it is for most of the foreign tourists. With adjoining Maharashtra having passed a law against cow slaughter, Goa has been entirely dependent on Karnataka, the only other state with which it shares a boundary, for its supply of beef. But with Karnataka also just bringing in the same law, Goa was in a fix. It could not deprive some 35 per cent of its population — 30 per cent Catholic and 5 per cent Muslim — of their favoured food. There is so much talk these days of measures taken in “the national interest”. Is it in our country’s interest to decrease the flow of tourists to Goa, and indeed, to India as well? There has been an accompanying precipitous fall in beef exports, particularly to the Gulf nations. And let us not forget the entailing blow to the once-thriving tanning and leather industry, which is dependent on quality hide as a raw material. Have our political leaders taken all this into consideration? Or is it only vote banks that count?Goa is a favoured destination for other reasons as well. It has excellent social parameters. After Kerala, it has the highest literacy rate and the best sanitation and healthcare. If you fall sick in Goa, medical assistance is easily and quickly available. There are state-of-the-art hospitals in the main towns. The only major parameter sorely missing is good Internet connectivity.But there is trouble even in paradise. In Goa, it has come in the form of venal and short-sighted politicians. The days after the 1961 ‘liberation’ from Portuguese rule, when there were honest and motivated leaders, are long gone. There are, needless to say, corrupt politicians all over the country. But because Goa is such a tiny state with a population of only 1.4 million, corruption tends to get magnified. A prominent political family, one of whose members even became a Chief Minister, were notorious smugglers; another minister would openly ask for a percentage when giving permission for real estate projects; yet another was into illegal mining (Goa is rich in iron ore, coal and manganese). The names of these politicians were exposed in the local papers, but they brazened it out.As the festive season approached, Goa witnessed a sight that would have been welcome in pre-pandemic times: a huge and unexpected influx of visitors from outside. It was almost as if many Indians had got so fed up of the lockdown restrictions that they needed to go where they could enjoy themselves unfettered by stringent rules. Air fares to Goa more than doubled, hotels were full, restaurants packed. One popular Italian restaurant, ‘Good Fellas’ at Benaulim in the south, got so much business that they had to turn away customers. Maharashtra had declared a curfew from 11 pm onwards, but Goa, perhaps unwisely, decided not to impose any. Goa partied as if there was no tomorrow. The beaches were thronging with revellers, ignoring social distancing, and even masks. Many had driven down from across the border from Maharashtra and Karnataka for the celebrations they were deprived of in their states. Deplorable, yes, but can you blame them for wanting to let off steam after almost a year of virtual enforced captivity?— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-goa-sojourn-and-the-new-year-twists-and-turns-196332
10-01-2021||The shocking storming of Washington’s iconic Capitol a few days ago has been an eye-opener in many ways. First||Capitol & Capital||America has always held the moral high ground in all matters relating to democracy. They have rushed to ‘save’ countries from fascists and dictators. Yet, everyone knows how the Middle East (from Iran, Iraq to Yemen) has been devastated by these do-gooders. What the Americans have done in Latin America and how they treat their coloured people and immigrants is a tale best not remembered. So allow me a moment of schadenfreude as I laugh at the hypocrisy of their high-minded bombast. According to my son, who was there recently, the state of California is shocking. The city has been so devastated by Covid-19 that its death rate is among the highest in any metro city of the world. Hospitals have no space to accommodate the ill, small businesses such as cafes and local stores are boarded up, the streets overflowing with rubbish because the cleaning staff have either been laid off or are too scared to touch the garbage bags. The homeless and the poor have no access to public support systems and so many people have lost their jobs that the city, he says, feels like it has been wrecked by an earthquake or a flood.Similar stories are pouring in from friends in the UK and Europe. Countries that were tut-tutting at developing countries and wondering how they would cope should take back all that ‘concern’ and try and fix their own broken systems. And mark my words, despite all the questions raised over the vaccines being developed in our country and whether everyone will get vaccinated or not, I have full faith that we will rise to the occasion. Our government may be wrapped in red tape, our systems in desperate need of upgradation, but when pushed to the wall, we have always done what needed to be done. Here, I must place on record deep appreciation of our medical staff and those hundreds of social workers and NGOs that have helped the poor and needy. Cynics say that we have low rates of testing and that is why the real picture is not available. But can’t we believe the evidence of our own eyes when our hospitals seem to be able to handle patients without any panic and when every neighbourhood has joined hands to help those afflicted? In my own complex, we are immediately alerted when a coronavirus case is detected and a well-practised protocol swings into action. Food and provisions are taken care of and the flat regularly sanitised. Today, we can proudly say that India is probably the safest country to be living in.A few days before Washington’s day of shame, the outgoing US Ambassador held a press conference where he loftily pointed out that human rights and people’s sentiments must be respected. I wonder what he has to say about the civic behaviour of his own countrymen. More importantly, what can one say of a country whose outgoing President may be impeached by his own Senate and where a major debate will decide whether he can be forced to leave before January 20, the day the new President will take the oath of office. A popular joke doing the rounds on social media says that Mexico has promised to build a wall separating them from the US and that Canada is also considering doing so. There is sweet revenge somewhere for Americans being banned from entering other countries because they bring disease with them. I feel like singing that popular Mehmood song, ‘Hum kale hain to kya hua dilwale hain…’ So, as we step into 2021, join me in saying: ‘East or West, home is best!’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/capitol-capital-196330
10-01-2021||Soon after the January 2003 surprise visit to the Indian embassy in Washington DC by three US Presidents and Laura Bush to sign the tsunami condolence book||In honour of American ‘Hump’ aviators||April 1942. America had just entered World War II. China was under tremendous pressure from the invading Japanese forces. Chiang Kai-shek’s military critically needed supplies but there were no viable land or sea supply routes. Burma was also occupied by the Japanese and Allied Forces were hard-pressed to stop this war machine. Aid for the Chinese military would have to go by air from India and it was the Americans who would have to do that. With the threat of interception by Japanese fighter aircraft, there was no other option but to fly a treacherous route over the eastern Himalayan uplift, nicknamed the ‘Hump’ by the American pilots of the Flying Tigers and the Tenth Air Force. This was the China-Burma-India Theatre, also called the “Forgotten Theatre”.And these two gentlemen, then dashing 25-year-old pilots, became part of this gallant band of brothers who volunteered and flew and saw many comrades never come back.Flying over the ‘Hump’ through such inhospitable terrain and climate was extremely dangerous, compounded by acute shortages of trained personnel and support equipment. A large number of overloaded planes crashed on takeoff. Exhausted pilots often flew as many as three roundtrips every day. The ‘Hump’ route became known as the “Aluminum Trail” from the number of aircraft that crashed en route. More than 1,000 men and 600 planes were lost during these missions.I listened in fascinated silence as the two recounted their stories about their daredevil missions, of being attacked by Japanese planes, about India and short leaves at Calcutta and the warmth of the Indian people. So strong were their memories that on return to America, the surviving veterans formed a China-Burma-India Veterans Association to meet every year in various parts of the US and reminisce about their days in India, flying the ‘Hump’ and to honour their dead comrades. With sorrow in their voice, they told me that 2003 would probably be the last time that the Association would meet as those few still alive, now in their late eighties, did not have the health or energy to continue any longer.As they got up to go, with trembling hands, they took out a cheque for $1,500 — “General, this is all that we have. India has suffered due to the tsunami. We love your country and we want you to send this back for the people of India as a token of our love.”Emotion overcame me as instead of the wrinkled, weather-beaten faces of these two veterans, I suddenly saw the smiling faces of two young boys in leather jackets, flying helmets and goggles, giving a thumbs-up before climbing into their flying machines. It saddened me immensely. The last of the ‘Hump’ aviators would soon be gone forever.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/in-honour-of-american-hump-aviators-196331
