11-01-2021||---||Clear up grey areas in handcuffing of prisoners||The Indian Police Foundation (IPF), a police think tank, has been asked by some senior police officers to move the Supreme Court for a review of the court’s directives on the handcuffing of prisoners. In the case of Citizens for Democracy vs the State of Assam, the apex court had earlier issued detailed directives regarding the handcuffing of the arrested persons and jailed prisoners.Justice Kuldip Singh, while delivering the judgment in the case in 1995, had declared that no police officer or jail warder on his own volition can fetter or handcuff a prisoner unless there is evidence that the person is prone to violence and may try to escape. In that case, he is to be produced before the magistrate and the necessary order for handcuffing obtained.Moreover, if a person is arrested without warrant, he cannot be handcuffed by the police without the magistrate's order. However, if the police strongly feel that there is an imperative necessity to handcuff the arrestee on security grounds, the latter has to be first brought to the police station and then a magistrate’s order has to be obtained for handcuffing.The apex court further warned that any violation of these directives by any police or prison official would be punishable under the Contempt of Court Act 1971 or other penal consequences under the law.The court also deplored that its earlier directives in the case of Prem Shankar Shukla vs State of Delhi, (1980) were not being followed by the police and jail officials. The court, on that case, unequivocally laid down that in conformity with Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution, the prisoners cannot be routinely fettered for the convenience of the custodians.Moreover, in extreme cases, the escorting party must record the ‘contemporary reasons’ for doing so, before obtaining magisterial concurrence. The court further added that classifying prisoners as ‘upper class’ and ‘lower class’ for the convenience of handcuffing was against constitutional ethos.In the case of Citizens for Democracy, BP Rao, Home Secretary of the Government of Assam, appearing before the court, justified handcuffing by pointing out that there had been as many as 52 cases of escape of prisoners from police and jail custody, including some TADA detenues, because they were not handcuffed and also cited the case of the escape of some terrorists from the Guwahati Medical College after killing a constable.The court, however, was not convinced and held the view that action of the police and prison authorities infringed upon the fundamental rights of the prisoners and lowered their dignity, guaranteed by the Constitution. The court observed that the “prisoners’ humanity cannot be at the cost of custodial security.” In the opinion of the court, “handcuffing must be the last refuge and not the routine regime.”The apex court, however, failed to take account of the practical difficulties of the police and jail staff, if the prisoners are not handcuffed while escorting them. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) statistics show as many as 1,143 instances of prisoners escaping from police custody in 2016. Whenever such incidents occur, the police personnel concerned are invariably placed under suspension and disciplinary or criminal proceedings instituted against them.There are also instances of notorious prisoners killing or inflicting injuries on policemen while making good their escape. The situation has been aggravated by the Covid pandemic as the members of the escort party feel reluctant to come in close proximity to the prisoners and prefer to observe ‘social distancing’.The apex court further observed that the difficulties thus encountered can be overcome by increasing the strength of the escort party or by providing well-protected prison vans. But due to an acute shortage of manpower, the police find it difficult, if not impossible, to increase the strength of the escort party. There is also a dearth of well-equipped prison vans in most police districts.In countries like the US and the United Kingdom, there are clear laws pertaining to handcuffing while effecting arrests. The Police Service Handbook of the state of New South Wales in Australia permits handcuffing to prevent persons from escaping or causing injury to themselves or others. In the US, courts have justified the police practice of handcuffing prisoners while taking them to jails or courts.During my visit to prisons and courts in America, I have seen that prisoners considered violent and dangerous are handcuffed and their legs shackled before appearing in courts. The European Court of Human Rights, too, while upholding the Human Rights Convention that prohibits torture and degrading treatment, states that handcuffing can be ordered to restrain a person during a lawful arrest or to prevent him from escaping.The truth of the matter is that the apex court has failed to note and appreciate the practical difficulties encountered by the police and the prison staff. This includes rogue prisoners, inflicting injuries or killing policemen, while making good their escape. The considered view of many senior police officers and lawyers is that the directives of the apex court do not take into account the practical difficulties of the police.The upshot is that the directives, in spite of having the force of law, go unimplemented. Either Parliament should frame a comprehensive law on the subject to clear the ambiguities or a larger Bench of the Supreme Court may be moved to review the directives in the light of the ground reality.Justice RS Pathak, in his concurring judgment in Premshankar Shukla case, has pointed out that “whether handcuffs or other restraints should be imposed on a prisoner is a matter of discretion of the authority responsible for his custody to be exercised in each individual case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/clear-up-grey-areas-in-handcuffing-of-prisoners-196707
11-01-2021||---||Another temple bites the dust in Pakistan||On December 30, 2020, more than 1,000 people led by a local cleric belonging to the Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam-Fazl (JUI-F) attacked, looted valuables and demolished the Krishna Dawara temple and the samadhi of Shri Paramhans Ji Maharaj in Teri of KPK’s Karak district. The Pakistan Hindu Council (PHC) had alerted the local administration about a protest and possible attack on the temple against the renovation work and resumption of visits by pilgrims. The administration had assured that such attempts would be stopped.After the demolition, the police claimed that permission had been given for a peaceful protest, but the people had “taken the law into their own hands” after incendiary speeches riled up the crowds. This criminal negligence of the local administration led to the violent mob being able to demolish the historic temple and samadhi.According to the FIR, the JUIF leader Maulana Mohammad Sharif incited the mob, saying that they would neither allow a Hindu shrine on the soil of Teri nor visits by Hindus; he encouraged the participants to destroy the shrine, saying, “Whoever dies while demolishing the shrine would be a martyr.”Teri is a hill settlement in the Karak district of KPK, inhabited largely by the Khattak tribe. It houses the shrine of Shri Paramhans Ji Maharaj, a Hindu mystic who went to Teri a hundred years ago. During his lifetime, he had built a temple at Teri. Following his death in 1919, his followers added a room to house his samadhi. The Partition led to the migration of the Hindus from Teri, as from other parts of the province, but the shrine continues to have great significance for the Hindus as a place of pilgrimage. Two major festivals are held there and around 300-400 Hindus visit it every month.In 1997, the temple was attacked by a mob led by the same Maulana Sharif who then occupied the temple, prevented access to the shrine and built a house in front. From 1997 to 2014, the temple remained closed, but was restored in 2015 on the direction of the Supreme Court. The court also ruled that the temple could be renovated and partially expanded to accommodate Hindus who came for worship. Consequently, the Hindu community rebuilt the temple through its own funds after the Evacuee Property Trust Board (EPTB) could not.The destruction of the Karak temple is not an isolated example. In the past two years, several temples in Pakistan have been attacked and vandalised. Some examples include a Hindu temple that was demolished in Karachi’s Lyari; Shri Ram Mandir in Sindh’s Nagarparkar that was vandalised; an arson attack on the Sham Sundar Shewa Mandli temple at Kumb in Sindh’s Khairpur district. In July 2020, Islamic extremists blocked the construction of the Shri Krishna Mandir Hindu temple in Islamabad.The Council of Islamic Ideology (CII) has now ruled that there is nothing in the constitution or sharia to bar the provision of a place of worship for a minority group. However, it remains to be seen whether the government would have the spine to stand up against the religious parties that opposed its construction earlier and demolished the boundary wall.In the case of the Karak temple and shrine, Chief Justice of Pakistan Gulzar Ahmed took suo motu notice and called for an immediate report from the administration. Based on this, the Supreme Court, on January 5, 2020, ordered the EPTB to reconstruct the temple and recover the cost from Maulana Sharif.On several occasions, Imran Khan has boasted that he would show the Narendra Modi government ‘how to treat the minorities’. On April 10, 2019, his government had pledged to restore over 400 Hindu temples. The PTI's election manifesto promised protection for the Hindus, including their religious rights, and places of worship.These tall promises have remained only on paper. Hatred against the minorities, especially Hindus, is deeply ingrained in Pakistan. The two-nation theory — that Hindus and Muslims constitute two nations, the basis for the creation of Pakistan — continues to be a part of the ‘ideology of Pakistan’. It is not only reinforced by the plethora of religious parties but also by the school curricula, wherein children are taught that Hindus, Christians and Jews are the natural enemies of Muslims. Not surprisingly, the US has designated Pakistan as a ‘Country of Particular Concern’ for engaging in or tolerating “systematic and egregious violations of religious freedom.”There is also the larger issue about the Pashtuns and the societal transformation that has taken place over the decades. In the pre-Partition days, the samadhi was a symbol of interfaith harmony and religious freedom. During the Partition, there were hardly any communal riots in the then NWFP. The towering personality of Ghaffar Khan and Congress government in the province ensured that the Hindu migration to India was more or less without violence.Yet, in the past two decades especially, there has been a spate of attacks on Ahmadis, Christians and Hindus. The Pashtun society would have to introspect why this has happened and where they have gone wrong.The demolition of the Karak temple and of others again highlights the widespread bigotry and intolerance in Pakistan towards religious minorities and the inability or unwillingness of the government to do anything about it. Even if the temple and shrine are reconstructed on the directions of the Supreme Court, as it was in 2015, they will continue to be defenceless against future attacks by mobs led by the likes of Maulana Sharif.For the minorities to feel secure, the Pakistan society will have to accept that they are as much a part of the state as are Muslims. Till that happens, the minorities will continue to be vulnerable and the white band in the Pakistan flag representing them will be meaningless.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/another-temple-bites-the-dust-in-pakistan-196706
11-01-2021||---||Setback to US society, polity||On January 6, President Donald Trump’s supporters attacked and vandalised the Capitol, the seat of the US national legislature. More than a day after this disgraceful event he finally accepted defeat. In a recorded video message, Trump said, “My focus now turns to ensuring a smooth, orderly and seamless transition of power. This moment calls for healing and reconciliation.” He should have spoken these words two months ago when it had become clear that Joe Biden had won the November 3 presidential election. Even now, graceless as ever, he could not get himself to take Biden’s name, leave alone congratulate him. He later announced that he will not attend Biden’s inauguration—so much for “healing and reconciliation”.As long as Trump is permitted to remain a viable figure in the country’s politics, Biden’s efforts to contain America’s many agonies will face a great hurdle.America’s ills go far beyond Trump’s lack of courtesy; they also go beyond Trump’s overall obsessive personality, though it largely contributed to the denouement on January 6 afternoon in Washington. They lie in the inability of the world’s most important country’s political class to effectively address the nation’s enormous, multifaceted and ongoing turbulence brought about by the multiple transitions which have split America. Much of this is also, but not entirely, on account of the expanding breadth, depth and swiftness of technological change which is leaving millions in America, and indeed elsewhere, unable to personally and professionally cope with changing realities.Trump tapped into these anxieties to win the 2016 elections and sought to address them over the past four years. For this purpose, he pressed his “America first” and “make America great again” programmes, but in a manner that stoked fears, including against immigrants, especially from Islamic countries. Instead of promoting the path of opening of minds through education and asking his supporters to improve skills to handle competition, Trump perpetually raised the spectre of loss of jobs and compromised American ways of life. His constant refrain, whether on trade or on security issues, was that America was being cheated by many countries and that his liberal domestic rivals were unmindful of US interests as of the nation’s values.Trump’s rhetoric and some of his actions seemed bizarre to many Americans and the country’s allies but they resonated with his constituency. The Republican Party leadership did not seek to rein him in during the four years of his presidency, especially with the economy doing well. This latitude emboldened Trump further. Thus, after the elections, when Trump said he was cheated and called the election a fraud and went to court after court to overturn the result, the party leadership did not denounce these efforts and pressure Trump to accept the result and begin an orderly transfer of power. Hence, if Trump is to blame, so is the Republican leadership that did not stand up to him in fear of losing its base among voters who thought that Trump was doing right by the country. Indeed, some Republican Senators and Congressmen voted against accepting the results of some states during theelection endorsement process onJanuary 6. In doing so, they went against a well-settled convention as Congressional endorsement of the election result is a mere formality.Many Republican leaders are turning against Trump after the events of January 6. They are now asserting that “enough is enough”. The fact is that it was so when Trump first cast doubts on the credibility of the election. It was also so when Trump was trampling on well-established ways of American politics. As his demagogic ways fed the insecurities of the anxious and the right-wing and ensured their support, the Republican Party ignored the damage he was doing to society and polity through his divisive agenda. Indeed, they did not pull him up for his disastrous mishandling of the country’s response to Covid-19 by advancing strange views, ignoring warnings and disparaging science.As President, Biden will attempt to bridge the many divides. He will return to the traditional ways American Presidents conduct themselves domestically and abroad. But the US is so divided that he will not find it easy to heal the fractures in society and polity. Nor will it be easy to reconcile the interests of those who gain from the new technologies and those who think they do not. The latter would like him to maintain Trump’s policy on trade and American manufacturing and protect their interests against immigrants. Biden will have to address all this in the midst of the pandemic, which, despite the beginning of vaccinations, will continue to cast a long shadow. Fortunately for the US and the world, Biden, unlike Trump, will take the pandemic seriously and most likely foster global cooperation to combat the virus through the WHO.Not only sections of the American people will have great expectations from Biden to take the country to calmer waters, but also the world would look up to him to put an end to the unpredictability in policy which had become Trump’s hallmark. American allies have watched the attack on the Capitol with great consternation. They will now be looking to Biden to adopt consensual approaches on global issues through reversing Trump’s decisions on inter alia climate change and Iran. With both the Senate and the House of Representatives in the control of the Democratic Party, there will be high expectations that Biden will be able to push his globalist agenda through the Congress.Trump is not going to go quietly into the sunset. He will continue to stoke the emotions of the faithful and will get a response. That fear is leading some Democrats to want to impeach him so that he cannot aspire to become President again. As long as he is permitted to remain a viable figure in the country’s politics, Biden’s efforts to contain America’s many agonies, not easy to begin with, will face a great hurdle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/setback-to-us-society-polity-196705
11-01-2021||Seven decades are but a blip in the history of a people and the nation they strive to build||Needed, a strong Opposition||Today, we have no national political or social organisation to stand up to the forces that are pushing us in a direction which perhaps was not visualised by our forefathers. In any healthy democracy, the alternative viewpoint needs to be brought out, debated in Parliament, in the media and on the street, if need be. It is only through open debate that the ‘golden mean’ can be aspired to and that standard is worth aspiring to by any society which respects the diversity of human thought and existence, and seeks to find harmony in the middle ground. Let us rewind to 1947 when, and for a couple of decades thereafter, the Indian National Congress was the only major political party in the country as it was the child of the freedom movement. The giants of the freedom movement became the torchbearers of the INC; there was a galaxy of them at the Centre — Jawaharlal Nehru, Dr Rajendra Prasad, Maulana Azad, Vallabbhai Patel, C Rajagopalachari, YB Chavan, to name a few. The Chief Ministers of the states were almost of the same stature — GB Pant, Dr BC Roy, K Kamaraj, N Sanjeeva Reddy, Biju Patnaik and so on. The Chief Ministers had no problem in addressing the Prime Minister as ‘Jawahar’ in their correspondence. The INC had strong party presidents at the national and state level and they were given sufficient latitude. The Prime Minister, the Cabinet ministers, the CMs, the PCC presidents worked together and there was no sense of insecurity.Although there was no significant Opposition party and Nehru was an extremely popular and charismatic leader who could have usurped more powers than the Constitution mandated, yet he was quintessentially a democratic parliamentarian. He took the country, the Cabinet, the Chief Ministers and the people into confidence on all important matters. He felt no need to foist ‘his men’ as CMs or PCC chiefs. Similarly, as the Opposition parties began to grow, he did not do anything to impede their progress, except through parliamentary debate and public discourse. The media and judiciary were given their own space to function independently. It was as a result of this democratic ethos, impassioned and uncorrupted leadership that a recently independent nation began to find its feet in the modern world. The very formation of the republic (absorption of the princely states), the emphasis on education and the establishment of AIIMS, IITs, IIMs, the focus on and creation of our Atomic Energy Department, the adoption of our Constitution, the Five Year Plans — one can go on and on. A lot was achieved by Nehru and his team.With the arrival of Indira Gandhi, things began to change. She again was a popular and charismatic figure but with some innate sense of insecurity. Within the Cabinet, there was a ‘kitchen cabinet’ whose membership was frequently changed. At the first opportunity she split the INC and demolished the ‘Syndicate’ and its members. She also started the practice of imposing weak Chief Ministers and PCC chiefs on the states. The CLPs and PCCs became rubber stamps, especially after 1971. It is important to note that the Congress remained a ‘movement’ bereft of cadres, whereas the Jana Sangh (BJP) and the Left parties were cadre-based. In this arrangement, the Congress became completely dependent on the Prime Minister’s charisma to win state and national elections. With the declaration of Emergency and the arrival of Sanjay Gandhi, the authoritarian way of functioning became stronger and the grip on the government and party machines absolute. The CMs, PCC chiefs, Cabinet ministers were reduced to be ‘men of clay’.During all this time, the BJP continued to grow and with the help of the RSS became a force to reckon with. Unlike the Congress, the BJP has a solid, disciplined and motivated cadre and its own very clear ideology. The party benefitted from this and was able to form a coalition government at the Centre with Vajpayee as its leader and unlike the Congress, the BJP as a party gained from this. Wherever it was in government, the BJP strengthened its base and tightened its grip over the administration, the media and the judiciary. It developed good relations with the business and corporate world, which was to help it later on.The Congress, despite its long stay in power, failed to strengthen the party; in fact, it did not even attempt to do so and as a result became totally dependent on the Gandhis for electoral purposes. On the other hand, the BJP-RSS developed an election machine which had a cadre, ideology and good leadership. With the arrival of Modi, a charismatic leader and an exceptional orator, this machine delivered stunning victories in 2014 and 2019 at the Centre and in the states at various times.Coming to the present scenario, it is not disturbing that ‘a’ political party is in power; what is a matter of concern is that the country lacks a strong Opposition party as many misadventures have taken place in its absence. There is an urgent need to spell out an alternative ideology; there are a lot of Indians — silent Indians — who want to hear something different, who do not want to be told what to eat or drink or whom to love or how to dress, which religion to adopt, what to do with our land and assets. We don’t want to be locked up for voicing opinions and dissent should not be labelled as sedition. In short, we want to live as free men and women, to live in peace and not be terrorised. The need of the hour is a strong and vigilant Opposition because a vibrant democracy needs one. In a democracy, debate should not be guided by charismatic leaders and hyperventilating mediapersons pulling emotional strings, but rather by Members of Parliament focusing on health, jobs, education, welfare, environment and security.The only way the Opposition can come up is by visualising and laying out their own vision of the future. Whatever ideology they adopt, the struggle would be hard, requiring movements through inspiring people. Only philosophers can operate from their studies, political leaders have to be on the streets. The farmers have shown us the way by their single-minded focus on their objectives, their mobilisation, their discipline and non-violence. They have achieved all this without political leadership and with the help of the elements which have always guided them. Even in this non-violent struggle, many have died, but in the words of Mirza Azeem: ‘Girte hain shahsawar hi maidan-e-jung mein. Woh tifil kya gire jo ghutnon ke bal chale.’— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/needed-a-strong-opposition-196329
