12-01-2021||---||Need to address skepticism over Covid vaccines||If the bulk of the population is immunised against the coronavirus pathogen, it will not find hosts; hence, it will not spread through the community. However, some degree of skepticism exists since it is given to healthy people and reports of anaphylaxis deaths in a few cases and side effects and allergies in many cases have been pouring in.A study has found that 94 per cent of formerly infected patients had diminished antibody levels within 90 days. Will the immunity caused after vaccination sustain longer? Will the vaccine be effective even against the mutated versions of the virus?The main predictors of skepticism have been religiosity and political orientation, morality, and lack of data on Indian subjects after phase III trials. In India, the fear of causing sterilisation or assault on religious beliefs of some communities has been endemic.The unprecedented speed of vaccine development has also generated a number of misconceptions that have fueled skepticism in the cases of Covishield and Covaxin, approved recently. It will be a big job to boost public confidence amid concerns and ongoing hesitancy about vaccines.But as the coronavirus is dying its natural death, should one take the risk of mass vaccination? Shouldn’t we look before we leap and go slow? Will the old and sick, with limited capacity to bear the onslaught of the pathogen, be able to withstand the rigours of the vaccine?However, some doctors aver that most people will not get anaphylaxis and the benefits in protecting people against Covid-19 outweigh the risks. “You can be confident that the vaccine has met the regulator’s robust standards of safety, quality and effectiveness,” says the UK’s medicine regulator.India has more than 30 Covid vaccine candidates at different stages of development. The mRNA vaccine candidate — HGCO19 — developed by Pune-based Gennova, is considered safe as it is non-infectious, non-integrating in nature, and degraded by standard cellular mechanisms.Monoclonal antibodies are the latest to join the armamentarium of the clinicians. These are laboratory-made proteins that mimic the immune system’s ability to fight off harmful antigens such as viruses. These are yet to be rejected.In India, vaccinating a billion people with multiple doses against Covid is going to be a daunting and unprecedented challenge.India is known to be the largest vaccine producer globally and supplies more than 60 per cent of the vaccines to Unicef. In recent years, the Department of Biotechnology, Department of Science and Technology (DST), Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and institutes such as the National Institute of Immunology, All India Institute of Cholera and other Enteric Diseases and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, have started playing crucial, complementary and collaborative role in vaccine research and providing the needful impetus to the indigenous vaccine. The regulator has given its nod to two indigenous vaccines Covaxin and Covashield.Smallpox, measles and polio vaccines have been great success stories in the past. The last three years have brought many achievements for the Indian vaccine industry.A new bivalent oral cholera vaccine, meningitis-A vaccine, and an indigenous Japanese encephalitis (JE) vaccine were developed by Indian manufacturers in collaboration with international partners and are now licensed in India. In 2009, a new bivalent (O1 and O139) killed whole cell oral cholera vaccine was licensed for a two-dose schedule in India. The vaccine available at a low price received WHO prequalification procurement by UN agencies. The highly effective meningitis-A vaccine, available at a very low cost, is one of the cheapest new vaccines available and used in nearly 100 million doses in the countries of the African meningitis beltIt was Edward Jenner who noticed that milkmaids who got cowpox never get smallpox. Thus, the idea of vaccination was born. In 1796, Jenner inoculated a child with the harmless version of the disease to stimulate an immune response. Despite repeated exposure, the child never fell ill. Vaccination saw a dawn. As smallpox vaccine became mandatory for British children in 1853, it provoked a backlash; many saw the policy as an infringement of individual liberties.The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the illness officially eradicated in 1989, thanks to a global vaccination campaign.The early 20th century witnessed challenges in the expansion of smallpox vaccination, the typhoid vaccine trial in the Indian army personnel, and the setting up of vaccine institutes in almost all Indian states.In the post-Independence period, the BCG vaccine laboratory and other national institutes were established; a number of private vaccine manufacturers came up, besides the continuation of smallpox eradication efforts, till the country became smallpox-free in 1977.It was in 1885 that French scientist Louis Pasteur developed the rabies vaccine. It appeared successful when he gave it to a child bitten by a rabid dog. Vaccine skeptics, however, opposed Pasteur also. It was in the 1920s that vaccines against TB, diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough were developed. A vaccine against typhoid was developed at the end of the 19th century.The first vaccine campaign against the seasonal flu targeted US soldiers fighting in Europe in 1944-45, with a new shot developed each year. In the 1950s, when polio vaccination was a US government priority, Elvis Presley lent himself to the cause, getting the shot live on prime time.In the 1970s, a campaign to inoculate Americans against swine flu started, but was given up when the pandemic failed to materialise and those vaccinated developed adverse effects; that fueled vaccine skepticism.In 1998, a study published in the prestigious Lancet medical journal suggested a link between the MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) vaccine and autism, which was later falsified. In 2009, an H1N1 — or swine flu — outbreak set off alarm bells around the world. Although related to the infamous 1918 flu strain, the virus turned out to be far less consequential.The development of vaccines against flu has seen tardy and partial success; hence the skepticism over the Covid-19 vaccines that needs to be addressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/need-to-address-skepticism-over-covid-vaccines-197190
12-01-2021||---||Trump is not yet over and done with||It is a tricky question, but everyone is asking it: how much damage can Donald Trump do in the few days that he has in the White House? Well, Trump is unpredictable, has the nuclear button and when President-Elect Joe Biden was putting on record that he was not getting cooperation from the Defence Department for the transition, he was putting it mildly.The trickier question is: how much damage could Trump have done had he managed to get himself about seven million more votes or had he perverted the electoral college verdict?Just think of the way Trump bullied and armtwisted Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to manufacture dirt on Biden by threatening to withhold hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid. Donald Trump Mark II would have run amok in truly breathtaking ways. There can be no understating it: a loose cannon like Trump in the White House poses as big a danger to America, its allies, and the world, as the myriad inheritors of Osama bin Laden.We are not even talking here about the way he tried to bully the Georgia State Secretary Republican Brad Raffensperger, to ‘find’ enough ballots for him to overturn the election, 11,780 of them to be precise or face action. Or, the way he pushed his Vice-President Mike Pence to reverse and undermine the results of the November 3, 2020, elections. Or, the way he goaded his ragtag army of White supremacist supporters to overrun the Capitol, giving a new, twisted currency to the word ‘coup’, usually an illegal attempt to unseat an incumbent. Not even the way he has deliberately obstructed the transition in every way he could.But the real question to ask is: how much damage can Trump do once he is out of the White House and what can be done to prevent it?It is slightly ridiculous to talk of the elections in 2024 even before the winner of the 2020 election has had a chance to change the furnishings of the Trump White House. But some straws are already swinging in the wind. Trump has let it be known in stage whispers, that he is so good at, that he is going to give the White House, to use a phrase once hugely popular with African dictators and Pakistani Generals and Bolivian presidential hopefuls, ‘another shot’ in 2024.Trump and his entourage have already declared they will go after those Republicans who do not stand with Trump and it is not an idle threat, considering that many will be up for re-election.Trump’s dilemma right now is that he cannot say he is running in 2024 while he is still waging a war with the 2020 results. Those gloves could come off after January 20.It should be a concern. Consider the Republicans. They are not fleeing en masse from Donald Trump. They are hedging their bets. True, there are incipient rifts and tentative resignations, but they are not for impeaching Trump again. At least, not openly for it. In conclaves after the storming of the Capitol Hill by Trump’s putschists, barring the odd dissonance here and there, Republicans en bloc have not uttered even a squeak of a formal disapproval for Trump’s bizarre excesses and systematic and blatant subversion of the democratic processes.On the contrary, some have even written to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, seeking that she discontinue her marshalling a movement towards impeachment. Joe Biden has not embraced the impeachment movement in any significant measure. He wouldn’t want his hard-won presidency to be bogged down by battling ghosts Trump has let loose to inhabit the White House.Biden has other problems waiting in the White House wings. In two years, for instance, when the term of a third of the senators is up, there is no saying if the all-too-slender majority the Democrats hold will evaporate. Biden has two years to do what he wants, and the impeachment of Trump is not a priority for the 78-year-old who may not be in a position to run again.Trump, on the other hand will be 78 in 2024, as old as Biden is now. The question is: will Trump be in a physically better shape than his dismantled twitter handle by then? Will he have found another social media bullhorn to corral, egg on, and incite his 88 million following he had on twitter? And will he still have a strangehold on the GOP?On January 20, we will probably see some more brassy jarring noises from Trump-eteers.Pelosi’s probably aiming to have Trump rendered incapable from running again in 2024. That can happen if the impeachment sticks. It doesn’t need to stick in the next eight days, though. The House can probably come up with a resolution and pass it by then, but the Senate has to consider it and it requires two-thirds of the members signing on for conviction, a bit of a tall order right now, although a simple majority could also cut it.The current Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has indicated that the earliest the Senate can meet on any impeachment motion is probably January 19, Trump’s last day as the 45th President of the United States. On that day, he exits the White House, stage left, pursued by howls of derision and relief and yells of protests of the 75 million who voted for him and are convinced that the election has been stolen and could still vote Trump back into the White House as the 47th incumbent.Theoretically, theoretically. If he is not impeached again by then, that is, and he quietly fades away to fulminate in his memoirs, which will no doubt be stocked in the ‘fiction’ section of bookstores and will make for a racy reading.Practically, it could be a different story. It would depend on how much of a hold Trump would still have on the Republicans, but a stronger articulation of his promise to contest 2024 will have a blunting effect on the field of Republican presidential hopefuls, like Mike Pence. Getting Trump to vacate the White House has proven tough enough. Preventing another person like Trump getting anywhere near the White House as President is what America needs to figure out.Joe Biden has too few numbers, too many other battles to fight, and probably no stomach to work for measures to reduce the scope of the interpretation of the election results, for a smoother handover of the White House, or to reduce the transition time, for instance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/trump-is-not-yet-over-and-done-with-197187
12-01-2021||---||The tragic loss of a dream||Even though I am a ‘senior citizen’, my everyday world is filled with the active presence of the young. The reason is that as a university teacher, I interact with them—I mean urban/middle class students, seek to enter their inner world, and evolve together. Hence, on National Youth Day, I sharpen my power of empathy and try to understand what it means to be young in our times. Well, I know that on this day all sorts of noble words will be uttered like a mantra; and even the otherwise corrupt political class would not forget to advise the youth to learn from Swami Vivekananda (this day is also the birth anniversary of the radical monk)—the spirit of fearlessness, boundless energy and karmayoga. But then, I feel it is important to see beyond the ritualisation of empty words, go deeper, and understand the turbulent state of the youth.We must go beyond ritualisation of the National Youth Day. We have conspired against the youth, as our education system has failed to liberate them from the trap of toxic culture and psychic violence.To begin with, I have no hesitation in saying that they are growing up in a world that seems to have lost its dreams. In a world characterised by reckless instrumentality inherent in neoliberal global capitalism and violent right-wing authoritarianism (or ‘nationalism’), there seems to be no dream anymore: the dream that once led Bhagat Singh to activate the conscience of a defeated nation; or the dream that led John Lennon to inspire us to imagine a new world. Think of growing up in a world where mainstream politics is nothing but a spectacular dramaturgical performance, or a naked manifestation of money/muscle power; culture is television soap opera, or noisy music with sexist connotations; religious gurus are state-sponsored/media-savvy celebrity babas; communication is the instantaneity of social media; the worth of a person is measured in terms of Facebook/Twitter/YouTube subscribers or followers; and corruption is no longer a matter of shame. Yes, the youth live amid this widespread politico-cultural decadence. Is it that there is no romance with the meaning of being young anymore? See the manifestations of this collective decadence—a fanatic youth intoxicated with the cacophony of Jai Shri Ram, a misdirected ‘radical’ becoming a suicide bomber, a directionless young man with drug abuse or sexual violence, a youth with utter superficiality as depicted in the Karan Johar variety of films, or a consumptionist youth seduced by the glitz of the market.As a teacher, I have no hesitation in saying that we have conspired against the youth, as our education system has failed to liberate them from this trap of toxic culture and psychic violence; nor has it succeeded in renewing their creative life-energy. In other words, there is no light of illumination in what the system regards as ‘education’: a process of institutionalised graded learning with the ritualisation of examinations, and one-dimensional emphasis on the market-driven ideology of success. See the way they are growing up amid coaching centre ‘gurus’, science education as the packaged physics, chemistry and maths ‘solutions’ for all sorts of entrance tests, and the social construction of the IITs and IIMs as sites of ‘salvation’ promising attractive placement and salary package. This education, we must acquire the courage to say, has nothing to do with the flowering of human consciousness. Our ‘toppers’ are not the ones who make you believe that to be young is to live intensely, and strive for truth and justice. Instead, they only mythologise what can be regarded as a technically efficient one-dimensional mind—some sort of a skilled workforce for the perpetuation of techno-capitalism. And, paradoxically, this craving for success tends to diminish the possibility of aesthetically enriched life-affirming sensibilities. It is difficult to find youngsters talking about Satyajit Ray and Adoor Gopalakrishnan in a fancy coaching centre; seldom do you come across a young man in a five-star private university or an institute of technology thinking about equity and justice, or celebrating the music of Bhupen Hazarika and poetry of Gajanan Muktibodh. Instead, in a hyper-competitive world everyone seems to have become a disenchanted ‘pragmatic’. Biologically young; spiritually dead: what a tragic metamorphosis!Yet, despite these structural constraints, I see a possibility; and it gives a meaning to my vocation of teaching. Even in this dystopian age, there are young minds that have not yet lost their dreams; they seek to find themselves in life-affirming creative pursuits. In recent times, I have seen them in diverse protest sites: university students working selflessly to provide relief to riot victims in Delhi, or raising their voice against the discriminatory character of the CAA. I have witnessed their intellectual alertness that would have pleased the likes of Marx and Ambedkar; and in their art of resistance I have seen the glimpses of Gandhian satyagraha. No, they are not like the ‘angry young man’ as Amitabh Bachchan depicted in films in the 1970s; instead, of being nihilistic, they say ‘yes’ to love, solidarity and equity.However, the market castigates them as ‘non-productive’; militant nationalists loathe their critical consciousness; and through the epidemic of sedition charges the ruling regime seeks to ‘discipline’ and ‘silence’ them. Yes, the techno-bureaucratic machine wants only loyal conformists: efficient workers with docile bodies and minds; and the dominant political class wants non-reflexive followers to say ‘yes’ to the cult of authoritarian personalities. No wonder, the system dislikes the radical and creative spirit of the young. But then, this positive life-energy refuses to wither away. We should not forget to celebrate this light on National Youth Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-tragic-loss-of-a-dream-197176
12-01-2021||President||US rebuffs China’s role in picking Dalai Lama's reincarnation||In the weeks before its departure, the Trump Administration has enacted laws and regulations that transgress what China claims are its inviolable ‘red lines’. These include arms sales, contacts and higher-level visits to Taiwan by US officials, imposition of sanctions against Chinese cadres at all levels and, most recently, a definitive denial to the Communist China of any say in the selection of the Dalai Lama’s reincarnation. The new US Administration led by Joe Biden that takes over on January 20 is very unlikely to rescind any of them.The Tibetan Policy and Support Act of 2020 (TPSA), passed with bipartisan support and signed into law by Trump last fortnight, is a setback to Beijing. It threatens to undo Beijing’s decades-long efforts in Tibet to eliminate the Dalai Lama’s influence, Sinicise Tibetan Buddhism and assimilate Tibetans into mainstream China. The TPSA recognises the absolute authority of the current Dalai Lama and Tibetans to select the Dalai Lama’s reincarnation.It effectively challenges China’s insistence on a role, which Beijing claims is sanctified by history, in selecting and approving the Dalai Lama’s reincarnation.Chinese officials refer to the method introduced by the Qing dynasty of China in the late 18th century to select rinpoches, lamas and other high offices within Tibetan Buddhism by dropping names into a ‘Golden Urn’ and drawing lots. The selected name is then approved by Beijing. China’s State Religious Affairs Bureau sought to institutionalise the practice through Order No. 5 in 2007. To further tighten its grip, China brought the State Religious Affairs Bureau, till then functioning under the government, directly under Chinese Communist Party (CCP) control in 2018 after the 19th Party Congress.In fact, however, only the XIth and XIVth Dalai Lamas have been selected by this method!By urging the Chinese government to resume talks with the Dalai Lama’s Special Envoys as well as the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) in Dharamsala, the TPSA has implicitly sought to enhance the CTA’s role and acknowledged it as representing and reflecting the aspirations of the Tibetan diaspora around the world. It is undoubtedly a morale booster for Tibetans as it implies continued long-term US support to the CTA.For China, which has long worried about the restive Tibetan population inside China and the fact that hostile powers could instigate the Tibetan diaspora in its neighbourhood to fan instability in China, the TPSA comes at an awkward time. It coincides with the sharp deterioration in China’s relations with the US, growing serious strain in relations with India, and increased restiveness among China's ethnic minority populations in Tibet, Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia. A direct consequence of this will probably be increased pressure on Nepal and Mongolia and enhanced Chinese vigilance on its borders with neighbours.The unrest in China’s border provinces of Tibet, Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia has been provoked by the implementation of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s concept of ‘Zhonghua minzu’ — often translated as ‘Chinese nation’ — which is central to his ‘China Dream’. At the Central Ethnic Work Conference in 2014 and later at the Seventh Tibet Work Forum in August 2020, Xi Jinping insisted that “cultural identity is the foundation and long-term basis for strengthening the great unity of the Chinese nation.” Having a common language is considered essential to this and, therefore, the emphasis on replacing ethnic languages like Tibetan with Mandarin.The Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) authorities have since early last year specifically renewed emphasis on the need for safeguarding national unity and sustained opposition against “separatist activities of the Dalai Lama and the Dalai Clique”. Campaigns continue across TAR with Public Security Bureau teams travelling to border counties like Ngari (Ali) to arrest ‘separatist’ elements. There has been a noticeable uptick in propaganda by TAR authorities since August last year to dilute the Dalai Lama’s influence among Tibetans and especially among Tibetan Buddhist monks and nuns. The effort is led by senior TAR cadres, including TAR Party Secretary Wu Yingjie.The TAR leaders have focused on monasteries to persuade monks and nuns to become ‘models’ and instruct them on the provisions for recognising the 'Reincarnation of Living Buddhas'. Equally emphasised are study of Xi Jinping’s ‘strategic exposition’ of governing and stabilising Tibet’s borders and “the practice of Tibetan Buddhism should obey the rules of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) to ensure stability in the region and unity among different ethnic groups.”To lend religious authority and reinforce the effort, the Chinese authorities last year positioned Gyaltsen Norbu, the Chinese-selected Panchen Lama, in TAR for the longest period yet. He, for the first time, travelled to Ngari, Lhoka, Nagchu and Nyingtri and visited all major monasteries.Coinciding with the 25th anniversary of his appointment as the Panchen Lama, the China Tibet News portrayed Gyaltsen Norbu as ‘a true living Buddha’ and highlighted his message of ‘love the country, love education, protect the country and benefit people.’The coming period will be difficult for China as it will probably confront a situation of ‘Two Dalai Lamas’, something they want to avoid! Tibetans have, after all, not yet accepted Gyaltsen Norbu as their Panchen Lama. This will make it more difficult for Beijing to calm Tibet.India will have a crucial role during this period. It should adhere to its current policy of non-interference in the religion of Tibetans and acceptance of their beliefs.In the interim, it is important for India to regain its stature as the centre of Buddhism, which includes according prominence to the XIVth Dalai Lama and other ranking Buddhist religious personages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-rebuffs-chinas-role-in-picking-dalai-lamas-reincarnation-195901
