13-01-2021||---||Govt needs to handhold Army’s support cadre||THE Army has come out with an out-of-the-box solution for overcoming its systemic shortage of manpower and consequently reducing the pension burden. There has never been a dearth of men and women willing to serve in our Army as officers. However, the challenge has been about quality and not about quantity.As per reports, the Tour of Duty (ToD) will provide a glimpse of Army life to the public for a short period. It can prove to be a golden chance for those who are not interested in taking up defence forces as their career, but want to have a feel of the real experience.It is in this backdrop that the Army is looking at the induction of a select few to start with maybe a truncated training period and service for three years. Proposals are still at a nascent stage.Human resource management in the Army has become a Herculean challenge because of a pyramidal structure, non-grant of the non-functional financial upgradation (NFU) and limited avenues for deputations, leading to anxious moments for the Army hierarchy at all levels.All professional armies in the world have a lean main cadre that serves for a longer duration and a larger support cadre which peels off after serving for a shorter duration. For better management of human resources, this ratio should generally be 1:1.5.Any proposal by the Army for the support cadre will need some guarantees from the government in terms of the peel factor, lateral absorption in government jobs/PSUs and/or an attractive severance package.Many studies have been conducted to achieve this goal, but lack of support from the government for improving the terms and conditions of the support cadre has been a stumbling block. The youth do not find it attractive to join for a shorter duration and peel off thereafter because of lack of opportunities for a second career option and meagre compensation for hardships faced during a short Army career.The retention of more officers of the support cadre in service after the mandatory period results in a large number of aspirants in the main cadre for promotions to a extremely limited number of vacancies in higher ranks, leading to frustration, disgruntlement and an increasing number of court cases.The Short Service Commission (SSC) has been the main support cadre of the Army. Initially, the mandatory period of service was five years, which could be extended for five years and thereafter for further four years. Around 2006, the system was changed, making the initial tenure of 10 years mandatory, which could be further extended by four years.The higher age of exit for SSC officers reduces their chances of a second career option. An enhancement in the mandatory service period to 10 years has made SSC less attractive because various recommendations for job reservations, lateral absorption, industrial attachment, lucrative study leave, better severance package etc. have remained on paper and never been implemented.Ameliorating measures for the support cadre like the peel factor, deliberated at length by the AV Singh committee, and lateral absorption have been non-starters because of lack of government support. Even various pertinent and viable recommendations of the Standing Committee of Parliament on the issue have been ignored. The recent recommendation of the Standing Committee suggesting compulsory military training for all those who want subsequent employment with the government is an enhanced version of a recommendation of the 1990s when it was recommended that the induction of all officers in the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) be through the Army after an initial term of five years. All these options are viable, but need the government’s backing. The recent recommendations of the Standing Committee of Parliament are extremely viable and a variation of the ToD.In the recent proposal of the ToD of three years, after six to nine months of training, the participants will have around two years plus residual service in the units. Since they will serve only in operational areas, some on-the-job formation-related operational and leadership training will be essential for serving in active areas like Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast. Therefore, the period of engagement needs consideration and deliberations so that active service in the units is for three years.It is hoped that these well-trained young personnel with a military background will find good job opportunities in the industry, Central and state government services, police and the CAPFs. Without attractive career guarantees and a good severance package, no proposal for the support cadre can be attractive enough to draw the right material for our armed forces.However, the experience of previous recommendation reports indicates that no proposal of a second career option for the support cadre will succeed without the government’s intervention and directions or a statute passed by Parliament.The ToD for select government officials from both the Centre and the states in the defence forces for four to five years and giving them benefits for this service in their civil service is also an option in consonance with the recommendations of the parliamentary committee report. This modified version of ToD appears a viable option because there is no need for a second career option or a severance package. This will help develop discipline in these government officials.The support cadre has to be made attractive to the youth with a fairly good second career option, some job guarantees in the industry, government jobs (as was done for emergency commission officers and for initial batches of the SSC) and a good severance package. There are several studies on the subject, including detailed deliberations in the AV Singh Committee report, but there has been no will to implement it.The Army can find many ingenious and practical ways of addressing the issue, but rather than aiming for a resolution at the departmental level, it has to be fully supported by the government by ensuring guarantees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/govt-needs-to-handhold-armys-support-cadre-197511
13-01-2021||---||EU-China agreement catches US off guard||THE conclusion of the German presidency of the Council of the European Union (EU) brought a big New Year’s surprise as under Chancellor Angela Merkel’s leadership, the EU finally sealed the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) with China. This development took place months after plans for a physical summit featuring the EU countries and China in September 2020 were shelved mainly because of lack of progress on significant economic issues.During the German presidency, a dual approach was adopted. China was sufficiently riled in the UN Security Council to call the end of the German term as good riddance. At the same time, the Chinese were circumspect in their reaction to the German Indo-Pacific policy guidelines which ultimately did not convert into the EU Indo-Pacific policy despite the expectations.The CAI has ambiguity writ large over it. According to Joerg Wutke, president of the EU Chamber of Commerce in China, there were around 900 recommendations, some of which were accepted and for others they remained hopeful.The biggest gain appears to be the promise of enhanced market access for EU companies in China. The EU- China trade is about $1 billion a day, with China being EU’s largest import source. The EU is China’s second largest trading partner after the US. EU companies expect increased transparency and legal certainty so that there are no roadblocks to expanding their investments. A level playing field is their expectation which they hope will give them a better chance of competing with the state-owned enterprises and avoid the mandatory local partners. A control on extortion of technology for the privilege of operating in China and of subsides to competitor Chinese companies is anticipated. With China accounting for 30 per cent of the current global growth, the EU companies believe that expanded access into that market will ensure a better EU economic performance, particularly job creation.The EU focus is mainly on the services sector at this stage. The manufacturing sector for automobiles, airplanes, chemicals and the like has been doing well, but areas such as education, healthcare, domestic transportation and IT services are also considered important for potential benefits.The deal, seven years in the making, is certainly not the best possible and has been pushed in a hurry, causing anxiety in Washington, where a transition is slowly taking shape. The Biden administration is concerned that even before it could discuss a new transatlantic relationship and its approach to China, Europe has taken its own steps. The EU believes that there was no need to wait for the US which, in any case, already had an arrangement with China that the CAI does not go beyond.The EU asserts that the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) gives Japan, Korea and Australia access to China without discussing sustainability, climate change, human rights or strategic issues. The EU believes that it has grabbed the opportunity which came between the signing of the RCEP, the development of the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) for the Asia-Pacific, the emergence of a new US administration and the end of Merkel’s EU presidency. It was best to use her clout to get what they could.The German presidency of the EU tended to underplay the EU’s strategy to dub China as a ‘systemic rival’. It was German business that fuelled anxiety in Berlin that the political engagement, despite the problems emanating from the Covid-19 pandemic, the Uighurs and Hong Kong, should not be allowed to cloud the economic base of the relationship. The criticism of China for the supply of shoddy goods to deal with Covid was overlooked in favour of the need for the Chinese market for German businesses to overcome the economic problems created by the pandemic. They are the main supporters of the CAI and Merkel has been responsive to them. They are expected to stand with her when she leaves office later this year and support her German legacy.Normally, it is the Germans who have a proclivity to emphasise European values; currently, the French and some of the smaller countries have voiced these but the impact of the pandemic has created a sense that they need to focus on those markets where maximum activity has been happening and this brings them to China.The lobby supporting European values now hopes that the European Parliament will have a better scrutiny of the agreement and its expected benefits and costs to Europe. How the Chinese will respond to the issues of labour and trade at the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the World Trade Organisation (WTO) will remain a big question.The Chinese have taken a position which is not in tune with their aggressive stance in Asia. They calculated that it was only with Chancellor Merkel that they could seal the CAI and it was better to do so now before a new transatlantic partnership came together to pressure them. On paper, they appear to have made concessions, but the real picture will emerge when the agreement is implemented. The Chinese are well known to undertake commitments which they don’t adhere to. At the same time, they have secured a better basis to invest in Europe and access its technology which has been under a shadow since 2018. The confidence that will emerge from the CAI is supposed to create a more transparent business environment between the EU and China. The central role of China in the global economy at a time when growth is diminishing is the biggest lever that China used.The US seems astonished and believes that Europe has trumped it at a time when it was planning new initiatives. Japan and the UK, which have had recent deals with the EU, will now feel free to negotiate with China which, in any case, they were ready to do. This has implications for the Quad as well since it will now be seen whether the US takes the lead to discuss a new China policy with the Quad countries, including India, or goes it alone, leaving each of them to make their own deals with China.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/eu-china-agreement-catches-us-off-guard-197504
13-01-2021||---||Betrayal of the Constitution||The Constitution of India envisioned its people advancing towards a modernity infused with our rich spiritual and cultural heritage, but also embracing the values of the contemporary age of science and rational thinking. The two were not antithetical because in its most elevated articulations, Indian philosophical thought placed high value on logic and sought truth from a dialectic of proposition and counter-proposition. The stress on individual rights was also in keeping with the philosophical tradition that recognised spiritual and intellectual advancement as a deeply personal exploration.The affidavit filed by the UP Home Secretary in the Allahabad High Court betrays complicity in justifying laws that will damage the fragile fabric of society.The exercise of individual rights may be restrained only by the laws of the land, and for safeguarding public interest. The Constitution does not recognise community-based interests, the only exception being community-based entitlements, temporary in nature, for socially disadvantaged groups. Community-based interests cannot be equated to public interest which by its very nature encompasses the interests of the people of India as a whole and which must be clearly spelt out by the State claiming that it is acting in the public interest. No community or social group may exercise a veto over the exercise of an individual's fundamental rights, by citing religious or community sensitivities. Were this permitted, then India would become an agglomeration of a myriad entitled communities, each wallowing in its own self-created world of imagined victimhood and prejudices. Any chance of advancing towards a modern society, where people are united in common citizenship, as envisaged by the Constitution, would have been forfeited.The passage of laws by certain states that would subject inter-faith marriages among citizens to scrutiny and certification by the State is yet another example of a creeping abridgement of fundamental rights of individuals. What is noteworthy are the arguments by the UP Government in justifying this blatant intrusion into the privacy of individuals and families and interfering with the choices freely made by adult men and women on who they wish to have as their marriage partners and whether they wish to exercise their freedom in respect of choice of religious faith. The family, social group or community cannot have a veto on such decisions and the State must prevent the exercise of such veto rather than be complicit in it. Yet the affidavit filed by the UP Home Secretary in the Allahabad High Court betrays such complicity in justifying the laws.The affidavit declares that ‘community interest is on a much higher pedestal than agreement of two individuals who enter into wedlock’. This is an overturning of the spirit of the Constitution. This would imply that no two individuals can make a decision regarding their marriage partners without seeking the sanction of the community they are a part of.The affidavit claims that ‘community interest will always prevail over the individual interest’. It confuses issues by equating community interest to social interest and to public interest, arguing that ‘community interest is synonymous with social interest which is equivalent to public interest’. These three categories are entirely different in nature. If a particular group or community declares that its sentiments have been hurt by a particular action, which is otherwise lawful, then this cannot be a pretext for abridging someone's legitimate exercise of right, on the plea that some community interest is thereby violated. Nor can a plea be advanced that the exercise of such right may, by hurting the sentiments of a particular community or group, create a law and order problem and social unrest and hence its abridgement is justified. It is the duty of the State to deal with such a law and order problem, and punish those who perpetrate such unlawful situations rather than turn on a law-abiding citizen. By no stretch of imagination could such community or social prejudice be elevated to the category of public interest.We have been reminded that while the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights, it also enjoins on citizens certain duties which are equally important. But some of the duties cited in the Constitution would oblige citizens to oppose the State in several of the actions it has been taking. For example, one of the duties cited in Article 51A enjoins citizens ‘to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India, transcending religious, linguistic and regional or sectional diversities; to renounce practices derogatory to the dignity of women’. One other duty calls upon citizens ‘to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture’; yet another asks ‘to develop the scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform’. If we were to truly carry out these duties, then the current regressive trends in society, as manifest in these latest laws, should be energetically countered.Women’s empowerment and gender equality are integral components of a modern society, and India has been making progress in this regard, though much remains to be done. We are in danger of losing even the modest progress achieved so far. The laws in question are based on the assumption that adult women, equal citizens of India, are not capable of making mature and independent decisions on something as personal and as important as choosing a life partner; that they are gullible and may be led astray or that they are unable to make the right decision because they tend to be ‘too emotional’. As has been pointed out by several commentators, this is taking us right back to the feudal age when women were treated as property and subjected to patriarchal authority. We have self-appointed vigilantes roaming the streets, giving play to their worst prejudices and communal hatred, spreading fear and anxiety among the young and families, with the law and order machinery encouraging rather than restraining them. One remains hopeful that this blatant violation of the Constitution is rejected by the judiciary before further damage is done to the fragile fabric of Indian society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/betrayal-of-the-constitution-197503
