14-01-2021||---||All set for vaccine rollout amid probing questions||THE new year has begun with a sense of optimism on the pandemic front as two Indian vaccines against Covid-19 are on the verge of being rolled out throughout the country. As trucks with boxes containing vials were shipped this week from the vaccine factory in Pune to different cities, they were tracked like a VIP consignment. The arrival of cargo planes with the precious boxes was welcomed by health officials and the boxes were transported to cold stores through ‘green corridors’ created for a traffic-free journey. In Hyderabad, health officials performed puja when the boxes arrived at the government facility under the glare of television cameras. Never before in the history of healthcare in India has a humble medical tool like the vaccine received this kind of treatment. The euphoria around the Covid vaccine is understandable as it comes as a ray of hope during the pandemic that has already lasted a year. The vaccination drive beginning this weekend is also the largest India has ever implemented.The two vaccines for which the Health Ministry has placed the orders are locally manufactured — one under licence from a foreign company and another fully developed in India. The emergency regulatory approval granted to Covishield of the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech has not been without controversies. All three phases of clinical trials of the SII vaccine have been completed, while the Phase 3 trial of the Bharat Biotech vaccine is still on and it has been given the go-ahead in the ‘clinical trial’ mode. Bharat Biotech has claimed that its vaccine is not a ‘backup’ but a fully ready one. The government, too, has placed a huge order on a par with that of the SII vaccine. It is unclear if the Bharat Biotech vaccine will be rolled out along with the SII one or the government will wait for results of the ongoing Phase 3 clinical trials. Since the government has placed an order of 5.5 million doses with Bharat Biotech, it needs to clarify if all these doses will be administered in the ‘clinical trial mode’ as per the regulatory approval.During the upcoming vaccination drive, one crore healthcare workers will be covered, followed by two crore frontline workers. Then will come the turn of an estimated 27 crore citizens above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidities. In all, the plan is to vaccinate 30 crore people in the extended first phase of the drive. At its peak, the polio campaign had covered 17 crore children.One of the most challenging tasks during mass vaccination drives is to monitor adverse events post vaccination. These adverse events could range from mild fever, rashes at the injection site and headache to allergic reactions. Vaccines will be given to people across age groups, ethnicities and those with underlying conditions. Adverse events are bound to occur as no vaccine is ever perfect, and there are a lot of unknowns about all Covid vaccines. The challenge is to have a mechanism for timely detection, reporting and follow-up of adverse events and a system to address them satisfactorily. This is a major point of concern as the Bharat Biotech vaccine will be administered as if it is in the ‘clinical trial mode’. The World Health Organisation has advised countries to develop surveillance systems for identifying and responding to ‘adverse events following immunisation’ (AEFI) as well as ‘adverse events of special interest’ (AESI).Both Covid-19 vaccines are being rolled out in an emergency situation. Vaccine manufacturers are asking the government to grant indemnity from claims that may arise due to serious reactions. For serious side effects during a clinical trial, the regulatory authority has well-laid-out procedures and protocols. In the case of a vaccine injury, trial participants are liable to seek compensation under clinical trial rules. But companies often contest such claims, as it happened with a volunteer participating in a clinical trial of the SII vaccine. Bharat Biotech has also denied that the death of a volunteer during the Phase 3 trial of its vaccine in Bhopal was related to the trial dose. Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research (the co-developer of the vaccine) must state clearly how they intend handling such events when the vaccine is given to lakhs of people in the ‘clinical trial mode’. This is critical because the government’s past record in dealing with cases of polio occurring due to vaccine-derived polio strain has not been clean.Addressing all such issues is vital as an inadequate response may lead to vaccine hesitancy among people. The discourse on truncated regulatory approval given to the Bharat Biotech vaccine has already led to anxiety among people, including healthcare workers. There are some pockets where vaccine hesitancy may emerge, going by experience with childhood vaccination in the past. Even a few cases of adverse events, if not addressed quickly and adequately, may become a reason for hesitancy to grow. In addition, too much focus on the vaccine may breed complacency in the general population regarding preventive measures like wearing masks and practising social distancing. The number of new infections is on the decline in India, but the threat of new strains and another surge can never be ruled out. Communication strategies relating to the pandemic need to take care of this issue as well.At present, the two Indian vaccines are being rolled out in the public sector as far as healthcare and frontline workers are concerned. There is no clarity on who will fund the phase covering 27 crore people — the Centre, states or the people themselves. The clamour for making available vaccines in the private sector for those who can afford to pay will grow in the months to come. This should be done only after enough production becomes available and when all those in the vulnerable groups have been vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/all-set-for-vaccine-rollout-amid-probing-questions-198090
14-01-2021||---||Court order has confirmed farmers’ fears||IN rejecting the Supreme Court-appointed expert committee to mediate between farmers and the Narendra Modi government, the farmers’ organisations have not only wisely sidestepped a possible trap, but have also reaffirmed a basic principle of democratic accountability and responsible governance.Let there be no confusion about it. The expert committee appointed by the SC is not meant to advise the court on technical matters of agricultural marketing or on the implications of the disputed agricultural laws. The order of the Supreme Court makes it clear that the committee is to facilitate negotiations between the government and farmers’ organisations: “The negotiations between the farmers’ bodies and the government have not yielded any result so far. Therefore, we are of the view that the constitution of a committee of experts in the field of agriculture to negotiate between the farmers’ bodies and the government of India may create a congenial atmosphere and improve the trust and confidence of the farmers.”The court goes on to specify that the committee has been “constituted for the purpose of listening to the grievances of the farmers relating to the farm laws and the views of the government and to make recommendations.” Presumably, the committee will try to find a middle ground and advise the government on how the laws should be tweaked in a way so as to satisfy both the government and the protesting farmers.That is precisely why the farmers’ organisations had resisted, right from the beginning, the idea of any such committee. They have objected to being forced into binding mediation, questioned the instrument of a committee and suspected the composition of such a committee. On all three counts, their assessment has been proven right.First of all, the farmers have been suspicious of being pushed into mediation that they never asked for or consented to. They have never said no to negotiations with the government. Sure, the talks with the government have been frustrating. The Modi government has been intransigent. Yet, that is the only site for negotiations in a democracy. In the last instance, elected representatives are there to speak to the people. They are accountable to the people and to the farmers. The courts are there to adjudicate between right and wrong, legal and illegal. The courts are not there to engage in give and take, which is part of any negotiation. That is why the courts are responsible to the Constitution and not accountable to the people. That is the logic of democratic governance. Any attempt to shift the site of negotiation from the government to the judiciary amounts to overturning this basic democratic logic.The government’s keenness to shift this ‘headache’ and the Supreme Court’s alacrity to take over have strengthened the resistance of the farmers. It needs to be underlined that the protesting farmers did not approach the court. Nor did the government, at least not on paper. The initial petitioners were third parties who wanted the court to evict the farmers from their protest site. The other set of petitioners questioned the constitutionality of the three laws and wanted these scrapped. None of the petitioners prayed for mediation from the court. Yet, from day one, that is what the court was interested in. The court dismissed, and rightly so, the pleas asking for eviction of the protesting farmers. It recognised, again rightly so, the democratic rights of the farmers to engage in a peaceful protest. As for the pleas, regarding the constitutional validity of the three laws, the court put this on the back burner, saying that it will consider these at an appropriate time.The Supreme Court could have expedited this process by setting a time frame within which it will decide upon the constitutional validity of these three laws. That would have been most appropriate. But it chose not to do so. Instead, the court chose to focus on a third issue beyond what was asked for by any party and beyond its legal remit. Farmers’ organisations were smart enough to resist this move from the beginning.The second objection of the farmers’ organisations was to the very mechanism of a technical committee of experts. This idea was proposed by the Modi government in the very first round of negotiations held on December 1, and the farmers rejected it there and then. Such a committee would be very useful to clarify a point of law or to work out policy or fiscal implications of the proposed laws. Such a committee could also help work out the details of a compromise formula, once the basic framework is agreed to. But a technical committee cannot possibly work out the basic framework itself. Mediation is not done by technocrats. It is done by non-specialists who have some familiarity with the subject, but more importantly, who enjoy the trust and confidence of both parties. The Supreme Court-appointed committee of experts was never going to be that mechanism.Dushyant Dave and the other three lawyers representing just eight out of 400-plus farmers’ organisations involved in this protest were wise to keep away from the court’s deliberations on this issue.Finally, a committee is only as good as its members. It is no secret that the farmers’ organisations were apprehensive about the composition of a committee appointed by the court. The court’s order confirmed their worst fears. The process by which the court arrived at these four names left a lot to be desired, to put it mildly. The same court that chided the government for passing the farm laws without consulting the farmers adopted an even less transparent process to decide upon this committee. Names like P Sainath and ex-CJIs were thrown around and quietly dispensed with. No one knows who suggested the four names that the court came up with. Little surprise then that the four names have invited disappointment and ridicule. Not because the four members are not respectable, but because these are arguably the four best advocates for the government’s position and the laws. That the court chose such a partisan committee to mediate between the farmers and the government has cast a shadow on itself.Someone might ask: Forget the technicalities, but what’s wrong in the top court stepping in to resolve a deadlock? Well, that is possible, provided the Supreme Court were to enjoy moral authority over and above its legal and constitutional powers. Such moral authority is commanded, not demanded.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/court-order-has-confirmed-farmers-fears-198086
14-01-2021||---||The path to high growth||The Union Budget is being looked forward to with a greater than usual anxiety in view of the severe toll that the economy has taken because of the Covid-induced lockdown. The freezing of economic activity put India in the throes of a recession, with the official forecast anticipating a contraction of 7.7 per cent in the current financial year.The country’s immediate economic future is in the hands of the government and the RBI, and their understanding of economics. But the silver lining is that growth in the October-December quarter is seen to have already turned positive and various analysts expect a V-shaped recovery with growth in the coming financial year (2021-22), seen to be in the vicinity of 10 per cent. But this is a forecast and such estimates keep getting revised. So the policy challenge is to ensure that the nascent recovery is sustained. The most powerful policy instrument in the hands of the government for this is the coming Budget.The single biggest challenge before the Finance Minister is to stimulate consumption at the bottom. This will revive the micro, small and medium sector which will restore jobs and reinforce consumer demand. Plus the sector’s output will revive the supply chain for the corporate sector.But the most obvious restraint that the Finance Minister is subjected to is the need to go back to a reasonable path of fiscal restraint as the deficit has tended to run away in the current year. Compared to the Budget estimate of 3.5 per cent for 2020-21, at mid-year, the fiscal deficit was running at 115 per cent of the budgeted figure, and, according to one rating agency, could touch 7 per cent at the financial year-end.If expenditure is reined in as part of the Budget to correct the fiscal deficit, it will mean saying goodbye to sustained growth. So the Budget must both put cash in the hands of the poor and some working capital in the hands of the small units which have run out of cash and had to close down.But there is a way of not breaking the fiscal deficit rules – changing the rules. An idea being mooted is to stop looking at the safe level of fiscal deficit in terms of the Budget and start focusing on public debt as a percentage of GDP. This will give some headroom to the government, as by this measure, India is much better off at 62 per cent compared to other large economies like Japan (246 per cent), the US (106 per cent) and Germany at 89 per cent (all 2019 calendar year-end figures).Related to this is the notion that the sustainable level of fiscal deficit is that which ensures the system is able to service the level of government debt. So long as you can do that, as the size of the economy goes up and yields robustly growing revenue, you are all right.The creditor is of course the central bank or the government’s banker, Reserve Bank of India. The outlook here is mixed. Central banks across the world have followed hugely expansionary policies to counter the Covid-19 disruption and the RBI has been well behind them. This gives it a good bit of headroom.But here again, the outlook is mixed. News reports indicate that the RBI is thinking of reining in the purse strings now that economic recovery seems on the way. But that will be a mistake. If right now credit gets costlier, we can say goodbye to sustained recovery.Matters are not helped by the state of the financial sector, with public sector banks carrying a huge load of non-performing assets and pretty much the entire NBFC sector being in the doldrums. The NBFCs must continue to be given a lifeline so that they can keep extending a reasonable amount of credit and public sector banks must be recapitalised so that they can keep doing the same until they can be sold off.The one positive reality is that the level of inflation, which is stoked by high fiscal deficit, is not causing concern and even as economic recovery is picking up inflationary pressures are moderating, retail inflation coming down to 6.9 per cent in November after peaking at 7.8 per cent in October. As inflation picked up in the first place because the economic standstill severely affected supply, a key policy aim must be to ensure that supply continues to pick up and inflationary pressures relent.Additionally, the pandemic has hugely exposed the inadequacies of India’s public healthcare system so that global attention is focused on the way to bring it into some kind of shape. The internationally respected medical journal Lancet has set up a citizens’ commission with a formidable list of experts to chalk out a forward path for Indian healthcare in the next decade.The state of publicly funded education is no better. Not only have schools and colleges been closed for months, the poor either do not have enough functioning smartphones or an adequate wireless network for the poor children confined to home to join online classes. Plus, the midday means programme, a lifeline for poor children, has disappeared in good part as schools have remained closed.So the country’s immediate economic future is in the hands of the government and the RBI, and their understanding of economics. As right now, the RBI will pretty much do what the government wants, everything hinges on what the government thinks needs doing.The government must go ahead and spend so that growth is sustained, economic activity picks up and government revenues do the same. The Finance Minister has promised to sustain public expenditure on infrastructure so that the multipliers work and economic recovery is sustained. She needs to take one more step, promise to give a big boost to social infrastructure as well, notably healthcare and education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-path-to-high-growth-198083
