15-01-2021||Senior Advocate||Court-appointed committee a non-starter||IN an ‘extraordinary’ order, the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year. It’s a stay which records neither reasons nor any finding that the laws are prima facie unconstitutional or that their operation is prejudicial to vital interests. The only justification given is that the farmers have been agitating since long and some have died, and the talks have failed. The other justification is the court’s decision to form a four-member committee to hear out the farmers’ representatives and the Central Government and to give a report to the court in two months. The court has concluded that the stay be “perceived as an achievement of the purpose of such protest, at least for the present”.Who needed the stay for enabling a compromise? The major agitating unions have rejected the special committee. Their counsels absented themselves, giving an indication of disagreement. One counsel appearing for the farmers of some states said farmers would be badly affected (by the laws). The Attorney General and the Solicitor General opposed the grant of stay. So, for whose benefit was it granted? And for what ‘purpose of the protest’? The Central Government and the Prime Minister have repeatedly declared that the laws do not affect the MSP regime and no farmer’s land would be taken. The only issue over which there is a deadlock is the demand for the repeal of the laws. The special committee cannot hear the two sides on this issue. The committee is therefore a non-starter. It cannot help in the matter of repeal. The farmers’ unions say the panel’s four members are pro-laws, even as one of them has recused himself. They may be right or wrong, but they have expressed their distrust and alleged bias. How has the purpose of the protest been served? Evidently, the stay is futile.Whether the court should have transgressed into the deal-brokering domain is another question. Deals about laws are essentially in the policy domain of the executive. The laws involve a vital policy translated by Parliament into enactment. If some affected interests want alteration or repeal, that also would be a policy matter for the executive to handle. If protests happen and are prolonged, it is for the executive to deal with. Article 32 is not meant for the court to brush aside the basic feature of separation of powers and intrude into the executive’s domain. Separation of powers is not merely to protect the independence of the judiciary; it equally restrains courts from encroaching upon the executive’s turf. In an embarrassing scenario, a sovereign Central Government is to present its views before the committee regarding repeal of the laws.The Supreme Court said though it appreciated the submissions of the Attorney General opposing the grant of stay, it ‘was not powerless’ to stay the executive’s implementation of the laws. Firstly, there is no difference between stay of the Acts and stay of the implementation of the Acts. This was an illusionary dissection crafted to stay the implementation of the laws. However, no one contended, nor is it my point, that the Supreme Court lacked power. For that matter, even the High Courts have the power to stay the legislation. What the Attorney General contended was that there is a presumption of validity and laws are not ordinarily stayed and no one had pointed out any provision to be ultra vires. The plea related to the exercise of power and not to the existence of power. The Supreme Court has not said a word about the validity of the laws. It does not examine validity on a prima facie basis. The stay was granted just because there was a prolonged protest going on and the court felt that it should intervene by appointing a special committee. There it clearly transgressed into the executive’s zone of negotiation and trampled upon the doctrine of separation of powers.Notably, Parliament acts with the people’s mandate. Therefore, laws are presumed to be valid and the wisdom of the laws is kept by courts outside their ken. Courts do not second-guess the wisdom of policies. Those challenging the laws must make out a prima facie strong case of constitutional invalidity and show serious injury to public interest. But here no one contended and the court did not on its own examine the validity. Yet, the stay was granted solely to aid negotiations.The danger of the above approach is that every time a major law reform happens, there would be protests by those affected, and often large protests accompanied by unfruitful negotiation, and then the court would stay the legislation. The order sets a wrong precedent. Tomorrow, there may be labour law reforms, and workers all over the country in much larger numbers (in several lakhs) may take to the streets to protest. Will they get the same relief?The order is definitely extraordinary in that it has sputtered and fallen into futility no sooner than it was passed. It’s an egregious failure of the Supreme Court to see the abyss into which it would fall by crossing the boundaries of separation of powers and walking into the executive’s domain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/court-appointed-committee-a-non-starter-198523
15-01-2021||Every functioning democracy needs a strong Opposition. It is a tragedy that such an Opposition has not taken shape in our country to take on Modiji. But a group calling itself the Constitutional Conduct Group (CCG)||Respect every opinion||Voices should not be suppressed by just labelling them ‘anti-national’, ‘tukde-tukde gang’, ‘urban Naxals’, etc. They should be heard before foisting legislations on citizens.I am talking about the group led by a former Chief Secretary of UP which has emerged to take on the CCG of 200-odd IAS, IFS, IPS and a few Central Service officers who have been active for the past three years.The group was formed by some public-spirited former IAS officers, a couple of them from my home state of Maharashtra. On being approached by one of them, I agreed to join the group almost from its very start. The group takes up issues that reflect on the government’s policies. For instance, the three farm laws and the ‘love jihad’ laws promulgated in UP and other BJP-ruled states have attracted its attention. Any laws that are felt to be unjust or not well researched or only cursorily discussed in Parliament before promulgation are taken up by it. Its thoughts are conveyed to the authorities concerned through open letters addressed to the authority but simultaneously released to the Press, for the public to digest.Prior to its despatch, a cut-off date and time are announced for members to study and endorse the contents of each letter. Not every member is able to endorse before the time announced and not every member may agree to sign each letter. The decision is purely hers or his. For that is the democratic way.Recently, the group shot off a letter to CM Yogi Adityanath, voicing its concern about the ‘love jihad’ laws promulgated through an ordinance in UP and their subsequent implementation by the police. This letter was carried by many English-language and local vernacular newspapers. The newly formed rival group of retired IAS, IFS and IPS officers, purported to be supported by some retired judges and sundry intellectuals, have taken up cudgels on behalf of the BJP lawmakers.In a democracy, there is space for all opinions and points of view. I welcome every such group and the point of view it espouses, as long as it does not descend into personal invective. One group calling another ‘anti-national’ is crude and ungentlemanly! Politicians of one persuasion fling this epithet quite freely these days! Anyone who does not agree with their point of view is condemned as ‘anti-national’. That may be kosher in politics, but not among former brother officers. It does not behove those not in pursuit of power to degrade themselves by importing such epithets, or even thoughts, in their interactions in public or even in private.I do not know Yogendra Narain, the former Chief Secretary of UP, personally. But some friends in the CCG, who know him, speak well of him as an officer and a gentleman. I personally know one of the signatories, Praveen Dixit, former DGP of Maharashtra. I admired him for his firm commitment to fighting corruption. When he headed the Anti-Corruption Bureau of the state police, he was feared by the junior ranks for his tenacity in unearthing and prosecuting offenders. But I admit I did not know of him being distrustful of Muslim youth in love with Hindu girls.In the IPS cadre of my state, I know of two officers, both Hindus, happily married to Muslims. One of them was my own batchmate, Som Dev Mehta, later allotted to the Gujarat cadre on bifurcation of the old Bombay state. The other became DGP of the state before retiring from service. Nobody seems to have taken particular note of these inter-faith marriages, so uncommon but sufficient in number it now seems to raise the hackles of my ex-colleagues in the services and some ex-judges, too!I read the statements of two supposed signatories to the group’s letter, both of them former judges of the Kerala High Court. They publicly denied they had signed the letter! Another Kerala ex-judge said he had signed without reading the letter’s contents minutely! Not a very happy start to a nascent pressure group. Future interactions between the two groups, the CCG and the unnamed one, gathered together by the UP ex-Chief Secretary must always remain in the realm of decency and good taste. Neither group aspires for political power. I do not know who and what motivated the birth of this new group but I can safely state that the group known as the CCG holds no brief for any political party. If someone other than the BJP had been in power, steam-rolling laws, like the CAA/NRC and the concept of ‘love jihad’ through the legislative bodies or by ordinances, the group would have done what it does best — bring its views before the public and let it decide which view is more acceptable to the people. Those in power today may not bother about what a group like the CCG thinks. But they should let all points of view and arguments to be placed on the table.That is what democracy is all about. Voices should not be suppressed by just labelling them ‘anti-national’, ‘tukde-tukde gang’, ‘urban Naxals’, ‘Maoists sympathisers’, etc. They should be heard before foisting legislations on citizens. By promoting yourself as all-knowing and omniscient, you are only inviting agitations, like the one the farmers of Punjab and Haryana have spearheaded and which is causing inconvenience to the travelling public and headaches to the government.Finally, a request to the new group to publish the full list of its members, like the CCG has done. After the retraction by the two Kerala HC judges, this should have been done voluntarily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/respect-every-opinion-198524
15-01-2021||Senior Journalist||Experience of past vaccinations can be of help||The sense of relief and euphoria felt by the people and the Modi government over the availability of Covid-19 vaccines at the beginning of the new year is understandable after the long lockdown of 2020 and the mental and physical stress it caused all round. The Central and state governments are now grappling with the gigantic task of administering the vaccines manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. There are going to be hurdles and glitches as the operation unfolds, but the sense of helplessness is gone. With the vaccines at hand, the hospitals and the frontline health workers with auxiliary support from the administration at all levels can succeed in immunising a large section of the population during the year.The flash of fierce rivalry between the two commercial manufacturers who have got the qualified nod from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) was to be expected. But the invisible hand of the government seemed to have pushed them to make a joint statement that they will together make the vaccines available in larger public interest.But questions remain, and it is good that many scientists and epidemiologists have raised some pertinent ones. The government, in its anxiety to deal with the pandemic, was naturally eager to make the vaccines available soonest, and there must have been pressure on the DCGI to give the clearances. The details will emerge much later. It would have been better if the different points of view, and even clashes between experts, between the government and the DCGI were in the open. It would have shown the inevitable difficulties and differences which would establish that vaccines did not come as a result of government directives. It was also natural for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his colleagues in the government and in the BJP to trumpet the arrival of the vaccines as a policy triumph. It is par for the course. But we have heard dissenting voices from doctors, epidemiologists and scientists in the media, especially in the print, though the government, as is its wont, ignored them.It is, however, necessary to get the facts right, though the facts might be a dampener for those elated by the turnaround in the battle against Covid-19. Covishield, the vaccine from the SII, is the result of virological research of the Oxford Institute at the University of Oxford, which has been at it for more than a decade ever since the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome in 2002-04, also known as SARS1. It was a slight advantage for the Oxford Institute to work on SARS2 or Covid-19. SII is the manufacturer. In the case of Bharat Biotech, it was collaboration with Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) that enabled the former to get to the vaccine. The lab-to-manufacturer path is not a simple one. The manufacturers need research and development of their own to move from the virus genome sequence to its large-scale production. At some point, there is a need for documentation of this part of the development of the vaccine. The question does arise whether as in the case of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, Biotech’s Covaxin should be known as NIV-Bharat Biotech vaccine, where NIV gets its due share of credit in the collaboration. It is to be remembered that in the modern period, the vaccine principle is quite simple and well understood, from the time Edward Jenner discovered in the late 18th century that cowpox prevents smallpox, and what needed to be done was to inject cowpox. But the mechanism had to be refined over the years.The story of vaccines in India is more than two centuries old, and it has carved major landmarks of its own before and after Independence. In a review article in the Indian Journal of Medical Research, submitted in 2012-end and published in 2014, public health expert Chandrakant Lahariya traces the story of vaccination in India from 1802, when smallpox vaccine was administered after it was discovered and developed by Jenner in 1798. The cholera vaccine trials were carried out in India in 1893 by Dr Haffkine, who developed it before he came to India, and the then colonial government allowed him to set up a research institute in Mumbai. He developed the plague vaccine at his laboratory in 1897, though it ran into trouble because a few persons died in Punjab. And the trials of the typhoid vaccine were conducted on British Army personnel stationed in India during 1904-08. Many vaccine research institutes were set up in the country, such as the Central Research Institute in Kasauli in 1904-05 and the Pasteur Institute of Southern India in Coonoor in 1907. Lahari says that the deaths caused by the plague vaccine were documented and it was the first instance of Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI).What India needs is a sense of history, to remember what has been done in the past which will give it confidence for what can be done now. Though the magnitude of the challenge of administering the Covid-19 vaccine is unprecedented, India has the policy and institutional framework — evolved over a century and a half from the Compulsory Vaccination Act passed in 1892 to the Universal Immunisation Programme of 1985 — to make it happen. It would be immature to believe that we are facing a pandemic crisis for the first time and we are dealing with the vaccination for the first time, or that vaccines have been made in India for the first time. A nod to the past is not a bad idea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/experience-of-past-vaccinations-can-be-of-help-198522
