16-01-2021||---||Vaccines hold the key to controlling pandemic||THE new year has begun on a positive note with two vaccines against Covid-19 getting emergency use approval from the Subject Expert Committee of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Covishield (Oxford University-AstraZeneca) is being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), while Covaxin is being made by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. India reached the tally of one crore Covid-19 cases and 1.5 lakh deaths earlier this month, while the total cases across the world have crossed 9 crore in the past 12 months since the pandemic began.Since there are few effective drugs against the novel coronavirus, the world had been waiting for a vaccine to prevent the disease caused by the virus. A massive multi-national effort was launched soon after the detection of the viral genome in January 2020 with the cooperation of WHO, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi Alliance, Accelerating Covid-19 Therapeutic Interventions and Vaccines (ACTIV) and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. By the beginning of December, developers of several vaccines had announced excellent results of large trials. On December 2, a vaccine made by Pfizer with German firm BioNTech became the first to be approved for emergency use against Covid-19. The fastest any previous vaccine had been developed was in four years — for mumps in the 1960s. The world has been able to develop Covid-19 vaccines so quickly because of previous experience, enormous funding, carrying out different stages of development in parallel, and the urgency prompting early regulatory authorisation.Currently, there are 172 candidate vaccines under development and another 62 have reached the stage of clinical development with 18 in phase III trials. Phase I trials cover safety while phase II trials look at safety and immunogenicity, i.e. production of neutralising antibodies and T-cell response. Phase III trials must include thousands of subjects with follow up as well before regulatory approval is granted. Emergency use approval is granted on the basis of safety data and confirmation of optimum immunogenicity, at times even in the absence of phase III trial data.It is a matter of pride for India that these two vaccines are being made in the country. It is a big step towards the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Significantly there are other vaccines in different stages of development in India by Zydus Cadila, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Biological E and Bharat Biotech (two vaccines) among others. The government has already started buying and transporting the SII vaccine across the country. The government has ordered 1.1 crore doses of Covishield and 55 lakh doses of Covaxin and plans to buy a total of 5.6 crore doses of Covishield by April. We should also be supplying vaccines to many countries soon, like the way India had exported hydroxychloroquin to 88 countries last year.Covishield, being made in collaboration with Oxford-AstraZeneca, has an efficacy rate of 70% and 90% depending upon half or full dose of the first shot, respectively, in a phase III trial. This exceeds the threshold of at least 50% efficacy set by regulatory agencies including WHO, DCGI and FDA. It was first approved for use in the UK recently. Bharat Biotech vaccine Covaxin, developed together with the ICMR and the National Institute of Virology, has been given emergency approval on the basis of its safety and immunogenicity data. Its phase III trial on over 25,000 subjects is in progress. There were some questions raised about the approval to Covaxin, but DCGI VG Somani has allayed these fears, saying that both approved vaccines are ‘110 per cent’ safe. Minor side effects like local pain and fever are expected and should not be troublesome. Makers of both vaccines will, however, have to submit safety and efficacy data of the ongoing trials periodically.It must be recognised that all clinical trials, including those on vaccines, have to be registered before their initiation and periodic updates have to be provided. This is to ensure transparency and an ethical obligation to participants and the research community. Based on the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki and good clinical practice (GCP) guidelines, clinical trials are overseen by a number of committees, like the Trial Steering Committee (TSC) and the Data Monitoring Committee/Data Safety Monitoring Board (DMC/DSMB). In addition to trial oversight committees, the trials are centrally monitored too. Every serious adverse event is reported to the ethics committee and the DMC/DSMB looks into it. Trials on Indian vaccines are also being conducted under similar monitoring. Bharat Biotech has a track record of clinical trials in 20 countries and has given the world two innovative vaccines, one against rotavirus and the other against typhoid.To dispel doubts arising from a report each about major adverse events in recipients of Covishield and Covaxin, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has asked its 3.5 lakh members to voluntarily get vaccinated first. In a recent statement, the IMA said that it stood with “the scientists to endorse the safety and efficacy of both vaccines cleared by India”.Though vaccination has taken off in 50 countries since December 2020, only 2.5 crore people have received the vaccine. There have been problems in transportation and distribution, apart from vaccine hesitancy among many people. Vaccine hesitancy is common — 29 per cent of healthcare workers in US and 40 per cent in the UK said they were reluctant to get vaccinated. Various rumours have been floating on social media even before any vaccine was approved. In some countries, Chinese vaccine Sinovac was linked to a porcine component and termed haram. The Indonesian government had to get their religious leaders to announce that the vaccine is acceptable. Many other Muslim nations have also endorsed the vaccines. The Pope has reassured the Catholics that Covid vaccines are safe and do not infringe upon their religious beliefs.Beginning today, the rollout of Covishield and Covaxin is a major leap forward in our fight against Covid-19. The use of these vaccines is safe and will be an important step in controlling the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/vaccines-hold-the-key-to-controlling-pandemic-199087
16-01-2021||---||Farmers’ agitation will impact global trade||Addressing the Oxford Real Farming Conference last week, I said that the iconic farmers' movement in India will have tremendous global implications. If the Indian farmers succeed in making Minimum Support Price (MSP) a legal right, it will cause major disruptions in international trade, with focus shifting from trade competitiveness to first ensuring that the livelihoods of farmers — the primary producers — everywhere in the world become economically viable and sustainable.At the same time, instead of leaving the farmers to face the vagaries of markets, which have pushed them globally into a debt trap, the demand for ensuring that no trading takes place below the MSP not only provides them with a safety net but it will also gradually become an economic design for the rest of the world to emulate.Across the globe, farmers continue to suffer the consequences of keeping farm-gate prices artificially low so as to keep the economic reforms viable. An economically worked out minimum assured price is what would make farming a viable proposition.At a time when the world is increasingly looking towards ‘growth without economic growth’, time has come to make farmers an equal partner in growth. This can only happen when a price assurance is given to farmers.Take the case of coffee. While the global coffee market was estimated at $102.5 billion in 2019, growers have only received a small fraction of the price — not more than one per cent — of the end price a consumer pays. While coffee roasters and retailers rake in huge profits, a majority of the 12.5 million coffee growers somehow survive below the extreme poverty line of $1.90 a day. Although there are several proposals for responsible marketing initiatives, including the setting up of a Global Coffee Fund, probably the best way forward would be to provide an MSP to coffee growers.Given the fact that even multinational giant Nestle has expressed helplessness, providing an assured price to coffee growers in an otherwise exploitative global value chain is actually what should constitute responsible marketing. This holds true for other agricultural commodities as well. The implications of the Indian farmers’ protest, therefore, are far-reaching.Writing in these columns, I had earlier explained how more than 90 per cent of the cocoa farmers were living in extreme poverty, receiving only $1.3 as the average daily income.Like the coffee growers, cocoa farmers' share of income in the end consumer price is hardly a fraction of the enormous profits the chocolate manufacturers make. Just because these farmers are poor, no one has actually bothered till recently to look at their plight, to know how markets have destroyed millions of farm livelihoods.Coming back to the disruptions expected in international trade, and contrary to the protesting farmers' demand, pressure continues to be built on India in the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to dismantle the Farm Support Programme, which means curtailing the MSP for wheat and rice to keep it within the prescribed limit of 10 per cent for product-specific support under the Aggregate Measure of Support (AMS).According to the US, India has, for a number of years, exceeded its 10 per cent support limit, and is actually under-reporting the extent of support. While India has contested these claims, it does explain why India is reluctant to commit on the farmers’ demand for extending the MSP delivery for 23 crops for which the prices are announced every year.The US and its allies have time and again said that the MSP regime in India disrupts domestic and global prices. Strangely, while the US points to Indian support to farmers as a hurdle in global trade, the product-specific subsidies being provided by the US, Canada and European Union actually distort trade and make agricultural exports from the developed countries appear globally competitive. In reality, it is the huge agricultural support that these countries provide for commercially important farm commodities that lowers the international prices. As a result of which the MSP being given to wheat and paddy farmers in India looks to be higher. Let us not forget that these subsidies are in addition to the $246 billion of farm subsidies the OECD provided in 2018.According to a joint paper presented some years ago by India and China before the WTO, the three big layers — the US, the EU and Canada — provide for 90 per cent of the product-specific support for agricultural commodities, thereby grossly distorting global prices. The total farm support these countries provide — exceeding the five per cent AMS limit for rich countries — is to the tune of $160 billion. In many cases, this support is twice the total value of the crop produced (215 per cent for wool; 141 per cent for mohair by the US; and in the EU, by 120 per cent for white sugar and 155 per cent for tobacco). This huge subsidy support depresses global prices.As if this is not enough, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) comes out with another shocker. Even against these depressed international prices, the prices Indian farmers get are still 13 per cent less. Developing country farmers, therefore, have in reality been silently bearing the true cost of such enormous market price distortions. The export competitiveness that we see is built on the massive subsidy support these countries provide to agriculture, year after year. The time to end these price distortions has come.The protesting farmers have now provided policymakers a direction to rethink and redesign economic policies to usher in Sabka saath, sabka vishwas by revisiting farm policies, to draw from inherent strengths rather than borrow failed policies from abroad.The farmers’ demand for making MSP a benchmark for domestic and international trade is expected to result in severe disruptions in international trade. It will also result in the betterment of a large section of the country’s population. What the protesting farmers are standing for holds the key to future growth and provides a roadmap for bridging the huge income disparity that the world has failed to address.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/farmers-agitation-will-impact-global-trade-199058
16-01-2021||A coup d’etat can end in agony||Trump’s coup de tweet||No medium can beat Twitter in terms of condensed stupidity. All great arguments get reduced to hateful binaries of my truth and your falsehood.These qualities that fuelled his stratospheric success and dictated his erratic policies as “the leader of the free world” for four years obviously had to incite a mob for insurrection — to sack the Capitol, to punish the “weak” Vice President, to drag the Speaker out and to install the Twitter handle in office. And in that sense, the many parts of Trump’s politics make a consistent whole, which is easily the most vulgar display of the dangers of politics by instant messaging.A newbie normally enters the political theatre with a distinct message of positive activism, hope for change, truthfulness and idealism. In India, we have seen activists making a spectacular political entry after years of agitations and political mobilisation.But Trump — a familiar face on low IQ, infra dig reality TV — with no virtue other than recall value turning himself into a Presidential or Prime Ministerial candidate is a phenomenon born of manipulation of public perception, using a combination of, first television and then social media. And it has proved to be dangerously successful. Why so?TV offers instant recognition, a people-connect, as the person’s face gets beamed into the drawing rooms continuously for weeks, months or even years. A Chief Minister in south India had retained the time slots his government had bought in a popular news channel even while his party was boycotting the channel simply because he could not have afforded to lose the viewership on a credible platform. Once the credibility of the platform rubs off on to the protagonist, he or she is ready to engage with the world.No medium can beat Twitter in terms of its condensed stupidity. All great arguments get reduced to hateful binaries of my truth and your falsehood, that too in 140 characters, as it originally was, and now in 280 characters. How easy a medium for opinionated men and women with little wisdom and a lot of hatred! It is, in fact, an assembly line for political labels — Congressi, Sanghi, Libtard, Aaptard, Presstitute, Godimedia, Pappu, Feku, etc. All arguments begin and end in abusive labels, where personal attacks are the only conversation with every partisan participant trying to self-attest one’s claims, while certifying others as a fake, liar, etc.Even the most noble MeToo movement got reduced to a you-too branding spree on social media, with even some men jumping in to settle their scores against other men, using the opportunity. It was possible because in 280 characters no evidence can be examined, no witnesses can be brought in; only a brief death sentence can be delivered. Social media, thus, taught us that brevity is the best tool for character assassination.From a political science perspective, the most perplexing aspect of hate speech on social media is the self-righteousness of the uncouth, corrupt, venal users, however deceitful they are in real life. Those who stormed the Capitol thought they were doing revolution, reclaiming their country, restoring the Constitution and recovering the stolen votes. Normally, self-righteousness is associated with adherence to certain principles and practices, religious or ideological; but in the universe of 280 characters, every user is a prophet and practitioner. The source of this shocking legitimacy for self-righteousness is derived from large demented icons with a recall value — from the world of politics, entertainment, journalism, academia and activism.Last week, while analysing Trump’s failed coup, New York Times columnist Timothy Snyder explained that Trump’s pre-fascism failed because he could not enforce the “big lie”, where people could live and die in a fantasy of alternative reality. But small lies keep adding up to create a made-to-order utopia every other day. In the Indian context, the small lies about Gandhi and Nehru create a fictionalised could-have-been nation, which allows all the follies of the present-day rulers to disappear. If that is a Right-wing lie, then the big lie of the Left-wing or the Liberals is to term Gandhi a casteist.All this is made possible by the relative or at times complete anonymity of social media users, which institutionalises the democracy of the deranged. The medium makes it possible for any thug to contest any philosopher with any kind of untruth and claim polemical victory in this parliament of the petty. Fake handles, anonymous accounts and web robots — or BOTs, which do the simple, repetitive task of defiling public opinion — complete the nightmare that is the political weaponisation of social media.The only way out of this echo chamber is to break it and come out of it, leaving it to the demented to craft their conspiracy theory. The Faustian democracy of social media works only if the learned agree to sell their souls for a few likes or retweets and in turn get abused by political pickpockets and get dragged in the mud of slander by them. Twitter, Facebook and Instagram have blocked Trump after his insurrection. But it is too little, terribly late; Trump had by then become Trump and done everything that he should not have. The wise cannot afford to forfeit their agency and legitimise mobs like that of Trump’s at the altar of robotic fame and pestilential following||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/trumps-coup-de-tweet-199024
