17-01-2021||PITY the liberal. His mooring rope has been cut or stolen. The pegs on the banks of the Ganga||The unmoored liberal & others||The Social Democrats on the European continent tried to ‘humanise capitalism’, promote social justice. Sweden led the way, after all the Social Democrats had founded a party there in 1880! But now it is a solitary country which professes socialism. Then came the rightists. Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan were the first edition. It must be noted that this is a personal History of Political Philosophy, which could be disputed. As rightists tighten the screws on liberty, and ecology (look at Brazil), we in India may pause for breath.As Donald Trump and his lumpen followers (70 million, if you please) went haywire on Capitol Hill, we need to ponder. Here is a man who avoided the Draft, has half a dozen bankruptcies on his record, had even his allies on tenterhooks about how he would react to any situation. He has one of the worst records on climatology, withdrew from the Paris Accord, a worldwide agreement to face global warming. The American press goes in detail about him being parsimonious with the truth. He initially said that coronavirus was not a serious worry, America believed him and now the US leads the world in deaths. He is being called the worst President America has had. Arnold Schwarzenegger compared the mob at Capitol Hill with Nazi mobs.How did our Prime Minister, during the ‘Howdy Modi’ celebration, amid our mostly Gujarati NRIs, turn a deaf ear to the cry of ‘Abki bar, Trump sarkar’? On such trips, doesn’t the Prime Minister have a complement of MEA senior officers to advise him? India gave Trump quite a reception. Some rightists wanted Trump to carry back a good impression of India, and so wanted peaceful protesters out of the way. That triggered some MLAs into action and we got the Delhi riots. About 50 people died, and the police hunted down victims and threw them in jail, including a pregnant scholar.Then we invited the President of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro., to grace our Republic Day parade last year. He is outrageously into climate change denial for decades, and fires rage in the Amazon. The National Institute for Space noticed 39,194 fires in 2020 in the Amazon region, the largest rainforest in the world, providing 20 per cent of the planet’s oxygen. Any threat to the region’s ecology is a threat to the planet. Sao Paulo, the biggest city, was plunged into total darkness because of the smoke from the fires. Bolsonaro and his Environment Minister, Ricardo Salles, have retrograde views and are known for stubborn climate denialism. There is global outrage against their policies and views. According to reports, Bolsonaro told an Opposition lawmaker, “I wouldn’t rape you because you are not worthy of it.” He graced our Republic Day. Did our Ministry of External Affairs sit quietly when the PMO invited him? Or was the MEA overruled? Are we now an accredited member of the rightist club? Is bashing up the leftists, as we did in JNU with the help of masked goons, now the official policy?We started with the poor liberal, now orphaned. If the left and the right have let him down, what about the centrists? We have had centrists for over half a century. And they can tilt every which way, remember opening of locks in Ayodhya and later Shah Bano? And the scams. I have written a jingle on the subject.Reporter: Sir, why did you make money hand over fist?UPA II: Simply because we couldn’t resist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-unmoored-liberal-others-199614
17-01-2021||FROM January 1||Up against issues of racism Down Under||“For we are one and free.”With this change, Australians have officially recognised that their nation is not “young”; that it didn’t come into existence only when it was discovered or colonised — that the Australian nation predates the waves of immigration over the centuries.The change, minor in semantics but deep in symbolism, was not welcomed by all. Yet, it is a sign of modern Australians coming to terms with the past, which was cruel and bloody, as colonisation projects always are; it was racist, too, as colonisation projects always are. The beaten people, always, are deemed inferior, and everything is bad about them — their clothing, food, language, their morality. Conquerors make efforts to turn the enslaved people into an image of themselves — speaking their language, worshipping their god, wearing their clothes.Right until the 1970s, mixed-race children of aboriginal women were being ‘removed’ — stolen — through government policy. The White Australia policy was officially ended only in the 1970s. This was not so long back — thus, it’s a miracle that in such a short period of time, Australia has achieved a rich diversity of culture and people, and legal equality for all. This is enlightenment at work.But mixing people isn’t without problems. Scientists explain that caution and suspicion are built into our DNA because extreme caution gave human beings a better chance of survival. Outgroup suspicion and prejudice are universal and after millions of years of their existence, only now, over the last few decades, have human beings decided it’s unjust to be suspicious of a group of people just because they’re different.Australia is grappling with its racism problem and dealing with it through legislation, and by actions and words from role models.For equality and respectA few years ago, walking back to our rented apartment close to the Melbourne Cricket Ground after a day/night match ended late, I and a friend saw a taxi suddenly screech to a stop not far from us. From the back doors two young women emerged — they were very drunk, and they were shouting at the driver, who too came out and angrily banged his door close and shouted back at them. He was a tall, turbaned young Sikh. The two women walked away and disappeared into an apartment building, laughing and taunting the driver. We wanted to hear his story — he said the women, having reached their destination, said they had no money to pay him. "This happens often," he said. "They get drunk, hire a cab and don't pay. It gets ugly and they shout abuse, and it is often racist."Other immigrants and visitors in that country have told this writer over the years that in even cosmopolitan cities such as Sydney or Melbourne, you might be called a black something or the other by a white person across an isolated street, and it can be much worse in small towns. The perpetrators are mostly young and drunk — and constitute a small minority. From personal experience, one can say this is true. As Ravichandran Ashwin said the other day, Indian cricketers have suffered much abuse in Australia, sometimes racist. Australian cricketers, tough as nails, would sledge their own grandmother in a sporting contest — being tough in sport is central to the Australian identity. But abusive sledging is not in tune with the modern notion of equality and respect for all people.Mohammed Siraj suffered abuse, a lot of it allegedly racist, in Sydney and Brisbane. The perpetrators were young and drunk. They need better models of behaviour — Australian cricketers, especially, must set better examples of non-abusive behaviour their fans could follow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/up-against-issues-of-racism-down-under-199615
17-01-2021||Come winter||Tracing the origins of Pashmina||The women who wear fine Pashmina shawls and the men who use that fabric to remain snug during winters are seldom aware of the origins of Pashmina, or the travails endured by the people that nurture, tend and protect the mountain goats that yield this wool. I was similarly placed until about four decades ago when I was afforded opportunities to visit highland Changthang (meaning northern plain), home to the Changpas who rear the Pashmina goat. About 170 km from Leh upstream along the Indus, the narrow valley cradling it gave up its constrictive embrace and allowed river waters the latitude that a wide and outspread bed affords. Meanwhile, our track had mutated from a macadamised one into an unmetalled one, and gradually narrowed until it disappeared. With that came the freedom to drive cross-country on any part of the widened valley in the southern segment of Changthang, with the surface occasionally marred by ruts left behind by vehicles loaded with supplies.The contrasts between clear cerulean skies with scanty mottled clouds, mountain slopes presenting a variety of shades ranging from sandy brown to dark brown or even black, and the pure blue of the languorous waters of the Indus was striking. Grass, sedge, artemisia and the odd juniper bush, all low in profile, growing on the slopes rising gradually from the river towards the mountains a few kilometres away, did little to take away from the majestic panoramic vastness. And the sense of being alone and a non-entity in the grand scheme of things took charge, humbling one.Southern Changthang in Ladakh can be visualised as three parallel enclaves, oriented roughly north west- south east, separated by mountainous continuums 5,000-6,000 feet above the valley floor. The Indus flows through the eastern-most limb, the smaller Hanle river in the central one, and the Tso Moriri, Kar Tso and Kyagar Tso, all very beautiful lakes, adorn the western one. Matching the adjacent Tibetan plateau in altitude and natural features, it is mostly arid, wind-swept, cold and exposed to high levels of ultra-violet radiation. Sparsely populated, including by people of Tibetan stock who had migrated here in the 8th century and then following the uprising against the Chinese in Tibet in 1959, this region plays host to a few villages and nomads living in small groups along the Indus. The latter migrate twice annually from summer grazing grounds to winter grazing grounds, traditionally assigned to each group, within Changthang.Geographically isolated, the Changpas, numbering but a few thousand in that vast swath, spoke Byangskat, a Bodish language quite distinct from Ladakhi. Sanguine about maintaining their ethnic identity, the Changpas practised polyandry. In the absence of telephones and electricity, they remained cut off from modern ways. With feeble administrative presence overlaid with apathy, no development was visible and education and health facilities were virtually non-existent. With little scope for agriculture, livestock rearing was the main occupation and means of sustenance. Changra goats (Capra Hirpus Laniger, locally called Rama) for Pashmina, other goats and sheep for wool, yaks as beasts of burden and horses for travel constituted the usual holdings. Yaks and goats yielded milk, often turned into cheese, and yak hair was woven for creating roofs of rebos, yurt-like tents except that these had walls made of unhewn stone. And yaks, goats and sheep provided meat. The animals were corralled, traps set up, and sturdy youth would sleep out in the open with Tibetan Mastiffs for thwarting predation by wolves (shankus) and snow leopards.With the advent of summer in June after an eight-month-long winter, the Changpas took to collection of Pashmina, which brought cash to sustain them for the rest of the year. Men pinned down one Pashmina goat at a time, upturned it, and ran a specially fabricated long-toothed comb, sometimes made of steel, over the undercoat harvesting some Pashmina wool with each stroke. Nearly 300-400 grams of this precious fibre was collected from each goat. Usually no more than 3 inches long and 14 odd microns in diameter, the fibre had been traditionally sold by weight to traders from Leh. The latter degreased, scoured, carded and spun the fibre for local production of shawls, while the Kashmiris took the unprocessed fibres, preferring to refine and spin fine yarn in the Valley for conversion into high quality cashmere fabric.Pashmina products emanating from Kashmir have held their own against fine vicuna harvested from llamas in South America, deservedly attracting the attention of the affluent in tony stores in the West. What the Changpas recover for their Pashmina wool is miniscule and bears no relationship with price labels on these hand-fashioned wonders abroad. But that does not cause the Changpa inhabitants ensconced in the highlands to regret what they do for a living and they keep at it without demur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tracing-the-origins-of-pashmina-199613
17-01-2021||MAMMA||Why we need to mock ourselves a little, reset our systems||First, let me clarify what I mean by mock fight. To the growing disapproval of our three children, my husband and I seem to be arguing more and more about seemingly needless things. Of course, I blame the long drawn out pandemic year, but I will also admit that we are somewhat hooked to bickering with each other like juveniles masquerading as adults. It reminds us of being young and carefree — of the years when we were not responsible and important people and had time to waste on each other. We are grateful for having grown up together, but we also enjoy growing down in the safety of our home.Second, let me go back to our pre-teen’s diagnosis of what seemed to me to be her father’s attention-seeking behaviour. I was startled by the sudden realisation that she knows how to speak in psychobabble, but I was also struck by what she said. For years, I have nursed my own abandonment anxiety secretly and the last thing I expected to hear was this phrase in the context of my husband. I associate him with security and myself with anxiety.Suddenly I looked at us differently.And that is the point of this column today. Change. Vulnerability. Flexibility. Growing up and staying in love. Slowing down for the sake of our intimate relationships.There has been a spike in public conversation around inter-faith marriages recently and as someone who has written about her own inter-faith family in her books and essays, I have found myself participating in various debates and webinars on the subject in recent weeks. I have often wanted to enter the discussion with the warning that all marriages are difficult. On the whole, I do not recommend marrying anyone under any circumstances unless one is looking for trouble. And ready for a lifetime of conflict.When couples in love seek my counsel on how to negotiate family and other socio-political barriers, I want to tell them to distract themselves and take their time before committing to marriage. As a decently socialised person, I do not say this because I realise that my role in the conversation is to defend the right to love. Not to escalate conflict, but to reassure.So I brought myself here to engage in nuance. Love means taking off one’s rose-tinted glasses and accepting each other — with warts, chinks, burps and other unattractive but essential features. Love means watching each other change. Love means getting used to being taken for granted, ignored and sidelined as other passions visit and consume your partner.Love is supposed to be a safe place, but it isn’t love if it doesn’t challenge you. It teaches you to embrace uncertainty. And we aren’t always good learners.To grow in love means to become capacious. To create space for the other. To demand, steal and protect one’s own space. Love needs to take time off and shoot the breeze often. It mustn’t be relentless, lest it becomes oppressive.Love means chipping away at the boundaries and lessons of patriarchy together. It means calling out each other’s biases, prejudices and entitlements. Love can make us uncomfortable.And that’s where I find mock fights useful in my own marriage. After nearly two decades of knowing each other, my husband and I are now in danger of knowing each other too well. We often find ourselves getting angrier with each other than a situation warrants, because we are inadvertently carrying what is popularly referred to as ‘baggage’.We need safe spaces to let off steam. We need to mock ourselves a little and reset our systems. When our daughter interrupted what I thought was light banter between her parents, it gave me reason to pause. I had frozen my husband in time and would not have recognised his vulnerability had it not been for our child’s intervention. Her words reminded me to look at ourselves afresh, with tenderness. Change comes slowly but it comes with its own needs. Unmet needs are the original source of all conflict.True love accelerates the onset of wisdom. Approach it with caution. Stay humble. Celebrate love with abandon and a healthy dose of self-effacement. Do not cage it and perhaps it will set you free.— The writer is an author and filmmaker natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-we-need-to-mock-ourselves-a-little-reset-our-systems-199616
