18-01-2021||---||Eventful first year for CDS, challenges remain||Two decades after the Kargil Review Committee (KRC) and the consequent Group of Ministers recommended the creation of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), and eight years after the Naresh Chandra Committee recommended a permanent chairman of the chiefs of staff committee, the Indian government instituted the first CDS in January 2020.Tasked essentially with promoting inter-service jointry and giving much-needed fillip to defence modernisation through timely and optimal defence acquisitions, the first incumbent to the post, General Bipin Rawat, has not given a lackadaisical performance, however contentious his initiatives have turned out to be so far.His latest desire to win a war for India by employing indigenous weaponry, though laudable, is easier said than done, given the large gap that exists between the state-of-the-art and homegrown capabilities. Serious limitations exist in our indigenous defence capability, more so in the arena of advanced avionics, aerial weaponry and other cutting-edge technologies, such as aircraft carriers and main battle tanks.The fact that the government chose to have a ‘first among equals’ four-star CDS rather than a five-star one as recommended by the KRC, would in the long term impinge on the effectiveness of the new dispensation.Be that as it may, perhaps it is premature to judge whether the CDS idea was a good one or not. Three areas of prime concern comprising his charter will be analysed herein: jointry, acquisitions and administration.Jointry has been a bugbear for most modern militaries, with single service rivalries ruling the roost generally. But this is a difficult tree to bark up, which a mere joint doctrine manual cannot deliver. The career profiles of officers and men have to build in frequent cross attachments to other sister services and mandatory ‘maroon’ tenures for the leadership for career progression.Understanding the operating culture and peculiarities of other services is one challenge and ‘unified thinking’, more importantly, is the crucial bit.The CDS needs to initiate policy moves in this respect to gradually build up jointmanship over time. We have a big advantage by way of initial joint training at the National Defence Academy, but a lot needs to be done to enhance tri-service jointry and consequent combat-effectiveness.Realistic international exercises would help, no doubt, but the ultimate challenge will be to evolve as an Integrated Defence Force, wherein meaningful savings in deployment of combat assets and added combat efficiency could be achieved. Ideas of theaterisation, such as the Air Defence Command and Maritime Theatre Command, mooted by the CDS are perhaps a bit ahead of their time, given the situation in the defence forces as of now.On defence acquisitions, whilst Make in India is a good guiding principle, practicality in technology exploitation has to be kept in mind. A classic example would be that of the Kaveri engine for the LCA, which the Gas Turbine Research Establishment (GTRE) has been struggling to indigenise, but to little avail. Hence, the recourse to the US GE 404/414 engines. There are similar handicaps for helicopter, ship and tank engines and other areas, where import becomes inescapable.The story is the same for most high-tech weaponry for all three services, such as artillery shells, aerial weaponry like the Spice series bombs and naval anti-ship and anti-aircraft weaponry. The recent government decision to grant Rs 48,000 crore for 83 Tejas jets is another doubtful starter in indigenisation, with a proven prototype of the machine not yet being available!The third contentious policy matter initiated recently by the Department of Military Affairs under the aegis of the CDS is the proposed modification in colour service and pension criteria. Whilst increasing the retirement age to 60 may be attractive to a section of the uniformed fraternity, it may not really assist in bringing down the defence pension Bill, which at 24 per cent of the defence budget — a whopping Rs 1.12 lakh crore — is worrisome, no doubt.But let us not forget that the defence budget is a mere 1.15 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product, and not 3 per cent, as is expected to be, as per the recommendations of a Parliamentary Committee on Defence. Were that to be realised, the pension Bill would be 8.86 per cent of the defence budget.Also, some of the already instituted measures, such as permanency to the short service commission, OROP already sanctioned etc. would find the DMA struggling to control its inflating pension Bill, a virtual drag on modernisation and general funding.More innovative measures by way of lateral mobility, compulsory military service and reservists need to be put in place to achieve the desired tooth-to-tail ratio and pyramidical age and career profiles demanded by the military. Getting a handle on the often infructuous Defence Industrial Complex under the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and meaningful indigenisation through privatisation are other areas the CDS needs to address to improve the overall combat efficiency and cutting of the flab.The pension of defence civilians is another substantial loadstone that the CDS needs to do something about. Also, increasing the years of service to earn pension (effectively suggesting a reduction in pension to 50 per cent for service up to 35 years) may not go down well with the new entrants to the defence services, even if applied prospectively.In any event, the malaise of a bloated manpower situation in the military has been the result of flagrant flouting of norms and uncalled-for beefing up of manpower requirements at the stage of government approval over the years.To rectify this situation, drastic steps for manpower rationalisation would be called for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/eventful-first-year-for-cds-challenges-remain-199981
18-01-2021||---||Xi Jinping, China’s ‘Chairman of Everything’||On December 26, 2020, China's National People’s Congress approved several amendments in its defence law, rubberstamping President Xi Jinping’s proposal of transferring powers for making the national defence policy to the Central Military Commission (led by Xi) from the State Council (like the Cabinet).Now the ‘gun’ will be commanded by Xi himself instead of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Participation of other Politburo members in defence matters, like in former President Hu Jintao’s time, will now be excluded. With his domination of policymaking role in virtually every area from politics, economics, military, diplomacy, internet, environment and other matters, Xi has been dubbed by his critics as the ‘Chairman of Everything’.Other news trickling in from Beijing — anti-trust actions against industrialist Jack Ma’s Alibaba group, including the cancellation of its biggest IPO due to Ma’s dislike of Xi’s policies and arrest of more than 50 opposition lawmakers and activists in Hong Kong recently for alleged violations of the national security law — suggest a further hardening of the Chairman’s authoritarian posture.Even earlier, Xi had secured unbridled powers by removing the two-term limit on staying in power, getting himself anointed as the ‘core’ of the CCP and his thoughts enshrined in the party’s constitution, like Mao. Many observers say that under Xi, China has been transformed from a one-party rule to a one-man one.Despite China’s economy doing so well, why has Xi slowed down the market reforms and aggrandised all powers in him? Why is he so insecure to put millions of Uighurs in ‘concentration camps’ in Xinjiang?Prof Orville Schell and other Sinologists believe that the CCP remains deeply insecure (and leaders like Mao and Xi more so), as its leaders are aware of the party's "historical liabilities" and many wrongs it has committed against the Chinese people and foreigners. Fang Lizhi, a Chinese astrophysicist, wrote in 1990 that the CCP's aim is to force the Chinese society to ‘forget its true history’. Totalitarian controls are necessary to ensure that the Chinese people don’t know the real face and ‘excesses’ of the party.For instance, about 60 million Chinese died during the ‘Great Leap Forward’ and the Cultural Revolution in the 1960s and early 1970s as Mao experimented with his grotesque ideas about collectivisation and liquidated his critics. Similarly, thousands died when Deng Xiaoping ordered tanks and troops armed with assault rifles to fire at the pro-democracy demonstrators in the Tiananmen Square in April, 1989.In Xi Jinping’s anti-corruption campaign since 2012, about 1.5 million from the party, military, public companies and others have been killed, imprisoned or removed from their jobs, without a fair legal process and many for political reasons.Xi is also more insecure because unlike Mao and Deng, he does not have support at the grassroots among the masses, party cadres or the armed forces and needs institutional props to augment his power. Xi was selected in 2012 for his pliability as a compromise candidate between the Shanghai faction led by Jiang Zemin and the Youth League led by Hu Jintao; party elders and other senior leaders have not liked how Xi has obliterated the reforms and intra-party democracy introduced by Deng Xiaoping and usurped all powers to himself.With his anti-corruption and other purges, Xi has made a large number of enemies and he can never be sure where and how his enemies would be plotting against him, as they used to against Mao (who survived an assassination attempt). Therefore, Xi has to be on constant guard to eliminate any opposition.With concentration of power and decision-making in one person, chances of policy mistakes and misjudgements have increased. It was evident in January 2020 when the authorities delayed taking action to contain the spread of Covid-19 due to Xi’s unavailability.Certain policies being followed by Xi — discontinuation of market reforms, increasing state control of economy and huge expenditures on defence — are at sharp variance with those of his predecessors; they are not liked by many people and will slow down China’s economic growth and hurt the welfare of its people.Xi’s great power ambition, rapid military build-up and aggressive pursuit of claims on disputed territories has worsened China’s relations with the US, India, Japan, Vietnam, Australia and Taiwan. Though the second biggest economy, China is still a middle-income country with an annual per capita income of less than $11,000. It will need peace, stability and a supportive international environment for further growth.China is changing, as many people have become rich, empowered and aspirational; many are objecting to the total suppression of dissent, lack of participation and the direction in which country is headed. Xi is making innovative uses of new technologies, such as artificial intelligence and others to firewall China from any adverse information, monitor the conduct of its people and punish them for voicing dissent.From the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Xi has learnt that political opening is a threat to the continuation of the CCP’s rule. He believes that market reforms are weakening the party’s control on power and its current policies aimed at state control and integration of resources would achieve his ambition of transforming China into a dominant global power in due course.History indicates that abandoning of collective decision-making and usurping of all power in one person lead to an increase of internal power struggles, as factions would compete for the powers shared earlier among them. Also, political leaders who sought a lifelong rule have caused untold miseries to their own and other people and often met an unsavoury end, leaving poor legacies.China has become too powerful to be coerced by any external powers for amending its domestic behaviour. Political changes in China like the former Soviet Union would occur domestically and be led by its own people. The CCP would be celebrating its 100 years of history this year; how long Xi and the party would continue in power, if and when it would have its own ‘Gorbachev moment’ and where it would lead China is anyone’s guess.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/xi-jinping-chinas-chairman-of-everything-199980
18-01-2021||---||A reckless departure||Of the thousands of jokes, derogatory graphic depictions and cartoons that have flooded social media platforms about the January 6 invasion of Capitol Hill encouraged by outgoing President Donald Trump, one stands out because of the poignancy of its political truism. It shows a petrified Ivanka Trump, the President’s daughter, asking her father: “Dad, are we going to jail?” The father replies nonchalantly that Ivanka and her brothers are, indeed, going to jail, but “I am going to Russia.”The next strip shows Trump putting through a call to Russian President Putin: “Can I come over brother?” But Putin’s friendly demeanour towards Trump is gone. Rudely, the Russian tells him to call North Korea’s Kim Jong-un and ask for asylum. But Trump does not find any comfort in Pyongyang either. Kim was gifted favourable international exposure and conferred a degree of respectability by Trump. But politicians in a rat race often kick aside the ladder they used, once they have scaled new heights. The North Korean dictator tells the American to try Xi Jinping instead. And the cartoon strips continue with every leader turning his back on Trump.Even before the events of January 6, Trump’s longevity in US politics, once his presidency ended in graceless defeat, was highly exaggerated. Not just by his supporters, but equally by his detractors, especially in the media, who pushed such a line so that old-style Republican politicians would do their best to rid their party of any vestiges of Trumpism.Traditional Republicans like Mitch McConnell, the party’s leader in the Senate, or Mitt Romney, one-time Governor and former Republican presidential candidate who is now a Senator from Utah, never liked Trump. They saw him as an interloper who succeeded in capturing their party. McConnell put up with Trump for four years, cynics say, partly to make life easier for his wife, Elaine Chao, whom Trump appointed to his cabinet as Transportation Secretary. Other prominent Republicans, like Romney and Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, did not hide their disdain for trespasser Trump.In the aftermath of the Capitol breach, much attention has been focused on resignations by members of Trump’s cabinet and top White House officials. But clues to the future of Trumpism lie in desertions by staffers in the offices of Senators who challenged Biden’s victory on the congressional floor.Chad Sweet was Chairman of Senator Ted Cruz’s unsuccessful 2016 presidential campaign. As Cruz prepared to launch another presidential bid in 2024 and hoped for Trump’s endorsement, Sweet was a sure shot as Chair of his campaign once again. He had much to lose when he, in his own words “made it clear to Senator Cruz – whom I have known for years – before the joint session of the Congress, that if he proceeded to object to the electoral count of the legitimate slates of delegates certified by the states, I could no longer support him.”Cruz’s Communications Director, Lauren Blair Bianchi, also quit, protesting that the Senator from Texas was repeating on the Senate floor, Trump’s fiction that the election was stolen from the President. In his resignation letter, Jason Schmid, who worked for Congressman Mike Rogers of Alabama, called his boss a “Congressional enabler of the mob.” These are not well off Americans unlike cabinet members or top White House aides. They were throwing away secure jobs for the sake of their principles at a time when it will not be easy for them to find alternative work on Capitol Hill, where both chambers of Congress have flipped to Democrats. That such people are abandoning Trump only shows that the ground is being cut from under Trump’s feet even before he has left the White House.Trump’s future will depend a lot on the attitude of the ideology-driven conservative news media, which provided oxygen for presidential falsehoods in the last four years. But for those sections of the media to sustain the wildest conspiracy theories that Trump’s followers are now used to, Biden and Vice-President Kamala Harris have to generate scandals which the conservatives can trumpet: items similar to the allegedly questionable business dealings of Biden’s sons, Hunter and James, on which Fox News thrived.Bill Clinton’s first year in the White House produced enough scandals for his detractors to feed on, but that was because Clinton and First Lady Hillary came from Arkansas as outsiders to Washington. They were unfamiliar with the snake pits that surround the White House. Biden is a consummate insider in the national capital and he knows how to evade those dangers. That considerably reduces the potential of Fox News and similar media to offer sustenance to Trump in future.Of more immediate worry for Trump will be the cancellation of lucrative commercial contracts for his core businesses. The Professional Golfers’ Association of America has just announced that it will no longer hold its major tournament at a Trump Organization course in New Jersey. Embassies in Washington will no more line up to book the ballroom of the lavish Trump hotel, not far from the White House, for their national day receptions. The Indian embassy was a rare exception in its dignified refusal to do institutional business with this hotel despite entreaties from the Trump Organization.Trump was once sought after by high society from Manhattan to Palm Beach and from Atlantic City to Hollywood. Now, as he prepares to live his post-presidential life in his Florida resort of Mar-a-Lago, his neighbours have invoked an agreement he signed in the 1990s with the town that renounced his right to permanently live on the property when it was converted into a club. The town may well ask him to leave if his neighbours pursue their objections by recourse to law. If his neighbours are ostracising Trump, how much longer will Republicans let him lead their party? The fringe and the rednecks may remain with him though, for some more time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-reckless-departure-199975
