19-01-2021||---||Two-front confrontation overstressing troops||One New Year resolution the Modi government did not make, one can be sure, is normalising relations with Pakistan — now disrupted for eight years — with whom India has fought four wars and is combating cross-border terrorism (CBT) emanating from that country. Neither the use of force nor diplomacy has resulted in dispute resolution. Gains of war were either frittered away or diplomacy was not sustained enough to produce a durable and interruption-proof framework for dialogue.While previous governments took big risks in mending fences, public opinion and reputational damage of a muscular government have robbed the engagement process of continuity. The Modi government has prematurely exhausted its patience to abandon strategic restraint for a kinetic response. The Uri and Balakot military strikes not only slammed the doors on dialogue but also put SAARC in cold storage.India’s reorganisation of J&K has exacerbated friction and frustration in Islamabad. With China claiming damages for the restructuring of Ladakh, India has willy-nilly created a two-front confrontation. Bilateral dialogue that was stopped by the UPA regime following the beheading of an Indian soldier in January 2013 is in its longest pause. Just as India is engaged in a military and diplomatic dialogue with China to resolve the border dispute despite periodic coercion, reviving engagement with Pakistan is essential to defusing one front.India’s record of resolving the oldest border disputes and longest insurgencies is not very flattering. Dispute resolution is not India’s forte. Diplomatic missions in New Delhi and Islamabad stand downgraded; trade at the Attari-Wagah border and cross-LoC barter have stopped; bus, rail and air connectivity are suspended. Government-to-government business and people-to-people engagement are severely curtailed. Even Track II interactions, most vital when official channels are blocked, are suspended.The good news is that CBT is at an all-time low — not a single big-bang attack since Pulwama (2019) and none outside J&K for a decade. This decline in jihadist activity is a good reason to offer Islamabad the olive branch. In 2015, a new twin track framework for dialogue, redesignated as Comprehensive Bilateral Dialogue (CBD), was instituted at the level of the National Security Adviser and the Foreign Secretary. The NSAs met once in Bangkok, but there was no follow-through after the Uri terrorist attack and its high-visibility response. The CBD was given an indecent burial with the epitaph: “Terror and talks can’t go together.”In 1997, the Composite Dialogue was institutionalised with peace, security, J&K and other subjects — Siachen, Sir Creek, Wullar Barrage, terrorism, economic cooperation and promotion of friendly exchanges. Siachen and Sir Creek subjects were ready for signing not once, but twice.Dialogue was interrupted by the Kargil war and the attack on Parliament, but it took off in earnest again in 2004 after Prime Minister Vajpayee visited Pakistan. Between 2004 and the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, four rounds of dialogue had taken place and the fifth round in Islamabad got aborted due to the Mumbai attacks. Talks were revived as Resumed Dialogue in 2011 and, altogether, three rounds were held till the beheading of an Indian soldier.Whereas Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh faced bigger challenges than Modi and took risks to return to the negotiating table, Modi has made relatively little or no investment in dialogue. Gifted with strategic patience, Vajpayee was determined not to give up trying even after a botched trip to Lahore, the skirmish at Kargil, the foul-up at Agra and the attack on Parliament which sparked Operation Parakram. There were gains from Parakram: a ceasefire agreement, reduction in infiltration by 53 per cent, wire-fencing of LoC and ground work for back-channel talks that led to the four-point Musharraf formula that eluded consummation.Manmohan Singh, in his two terms, enjoyed the fruits of continued engagement, both at upfront and back channels. His first term was marred by the Mumbai attacks which went unresponded in the guise of strategic restraint. According to former NSA MK Narayanan, India did not possess the capabilities for an effective military response. Manmohan Singh resumed talks, but was forced to call them off after the soldier’s beheading. The dialogue has remained interrupted since then and though Modi did make tentative efforts to revive it, not a single session of structured dialogue has been held till date. SAARC has become hostage to the suspension of India-Pakistan dialogue.During the Modi government’s tenure, India has not faced terror attacks outside J&K (barring one in Gurdaspur). Major attacks were in Pathankot, Uri and Pulwama. But nowhere near the provocations and attacks faced by his predecessors. Uri and Pulwama were replied with spectacular ground and air strikes and their benefits reaped wholesomely during the elections. New red lines were imposed on talks: no consultation with the Hurriyat by Pakistani emissaries; and terror and talks would not go together, virtually ruling out dialogue. Previous governments would also rhetorically stipulate this embargo, but would relent in the larger interests of keeping the channels of communications open.Following the PLA’s aggression, the Indian Army is enhancing its force deployment against China in Ladakh by redeploying troops from the Pakistan front. This welcome step recognises China, not Pakistan, as the main threat and has the potential to dilute the two-front challenge. A recent study by the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA) reveals that the Indian Army is overstretched along two live borders, overstressing troops. Further, Pakistan’s grand overture on opening the Kartarpur corridor has gone unresponded.In his memoirs, former President Pranab Mukherjee, with whom Modi enjoyed an excellent rapport, writes: “India needs to tackle Pakistan through deft handling, rather than romanticising its political approach.” He adds: “The country gained little by over-talking surgical strikes in 2016.”This is repudiation of Modi’s preferred policy of a kinetic response to resuming the dialogue process. At the very least, start talking while retaining the option of a kinetic response. The revival of formal talks with Pakistan will reduce stress on soldiers, dilute one front and save SAARC from extinction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/two-front-confrontation-overstressing-troops-200337
19-01-2021||---||Anti-BJP alliance not ruled out in Bengal||In a surprise development, Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Saugata Roy, who is a senior colleague of Mamata Banerjee, has reached out to the Left parties and the Congress to work with the TMC to defeat the BJP.Who could have thought that Mamata Banerjee, who has shaped her entire politics on her opposition to the Left, would turn to it for help?One of the reasons why she broke away from the Congress in 1998 was because the Congress was soft on the Left. For the same reason, she joined hands with the BJP and was part of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government.And now, Saugata Roy is turning her politics on its head.This underscores two trends. One, that the BJP is fast occupying the space that once belonged to the Indian National Congress.Maybe, it’s not yet comparable to the situation that existed in the fifties and early sixties when the Congress was in power in states and at the Centre. But it is clear that the BJP wants a one-party-dominant India and makes no bones about it.And two, though the regional satraps have been giving the BJP a fight in several states, and Mamata Banerjee is the feistiest of them, she too is now fighting with her back to the wall. And she has come to the conclusion that she may not be able to do it alone.Saugata Roy’s ‘invite’ points to a readiness, which was not there earlier, for a ‘grand alliance’ of all forces opposed to the BJP — Left, Centre, regional — because the saffron party now threatens the existence of all of them. There is a growing sense in many state satraps that the only way they can ward off the BJP’s challenge is to come together.Is this then a 1989 moment? In 1989, VP Singh had fashioned the National Front made up of the Janata Dal and regional parties, supported by both the right (BJP) and the Left, to vanquish the then dominant Indian National Congress.The VP Singh government lasted only 11 months, given the contradictions it was riddled with. But it dealt a body blow to the Congress from which the Grand Old Party never recovered. The Congress, which had 415 seats in 1984, never got a majority in an election after that, except the one engineered by PV Narasimha Rao, who broke other parties to rule with a majority (1991-96).Opposition unity is attractive in West Bengal because it would consolidate the minorities behind the anti-BJP forces instead of dividing them three ways: between Trinamool, Congress-Left, and Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. But how to ensure minority support without polarising the situation along Hindu-Muslim lines remains a challenge.There are, of course, other problems. Workers of the TMC, Congress and Left have fought against each other, and would have to explain why yesterday’s foes have become today’s friends.Then, there is the risk of a one-on-one fight in West Bengal, leaving the entire Opposition space open for the BJP.Nor is the difficulty just about mega egos of political leaders. You cannot expect existing political entities to commit harakiri by ceding their space to the other, no matter how high sounding the goal may be.The partnership, if at all it happens, would have to ensure genuine power-sharing, a constituency-level approach, and a painstaking attention to the minutiae to safeguard the interests of all partners. There may be constituencies where a fight, instead of unity, may be strategically beneficial. The Shiv Sena, for instance, has decided to field candidates in West Bengal, hoping to cut into the vote which would veer towards the BJP. Whether it will do so is another matter. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, on the other hand, will cut into the Muslim vote which would have gravitated towards Mamata Banerjee.Today, the Opposition needs not so much a knight in shining armour as experienced hands who comprehend the popular mood, and know how the political system works — people like Sharad Pawar.Some have suggested that he should head the UPA. He has huge experience. Even at 80, he snatched victory out of the jaws of defeat in Maharashtra, weaning away the Shiv Sena from the BJP to install a non-BJP government in Mumbai. He knows all the state leaders well, be it Mamata, Lalu-Tejashawi Yadav, MK Stalin, Arvind Kejriwal, KCR, Jagan Reddy or Chandrababu Naidu, Mayawati, Akhilesh Yadav, Siddharamiah or a Farooq Abdullah and others. He can pick up the phone and speak to them and they would consider what he had to say.But the idea had few takers in the Congress. Given the wariness that exists about what he might do, Sonia Gandhi is unlikely to make way for him. Her main aim at the moment is to reinstall Rahul Gandhi as Congress president.Despite all the problems that exist, it is possible for the regional parties, as also for the Congress, to counter the BJP at the state level, provided they pool in their resources, and make decisions on the basis of ground-level strength.It looks that much more difficult nationally. This cannot happen without the Congress. The Congress has to put its own house in order first.Given that reality, the regional parties could always float a coalition of state parties, like a ‘federal front’, with a view to strengthening each other in whatever way they can. As an entity, they would also be better placed to negotiate with the Congress where it has a dominant or a sizeable presence — Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry — if and when needed.At the end of the day, it is ground-level shifts which are going to propel and shape the Opposition politics of the future, like the farmers’ protests taking place on the outskirts of Delhi, and the farmers have so far displayed a rare staying power and unity.Saugata Roy’s overtures to the Congress and the Left and Congress reflect a weakening of Mamata’s position in West Bengal, the rapidly changing political landscape with the BJP becoming the dominant party, and the crying need now for the Opposition to come together, intelligently and around a grand theme.It is here that the real challenge lies for these parties to figure out what they have to offer to the country which is different from the fare doled out by the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/anti-bjp-alliance-not-ruled-out-in-bengal-200336
19-01-2021||---||The shift to ‘rule by law’||Some years ago, an interesting debate arose over the subject of a plenary session of the Communist Party of China. The issue was whether the theme was the promotion of ‘the rule of law’ or ‘the rule by law’.‘Rule by law’ is when laws are used as an instrument to establish political and social control over people. Not unusually, it claims that the rights and interests of a larger society, cause or nation are above that of the individual.A recent trend in India has seen laws and ordinances whose very basis goes against the first tenet of justice — equality of all before the law.‘Rule by law’ is not concerned about what law is all about — delivery of justice. In 1935, the German Parliament passed the Nuremberg Laws that banned inter-marriage between Jews and Germans, denied them citizenship and eventually led to their massacre. In 1948, the South African government passed laws to segregate housing, public transport and public premises for whites and blacks. Till the mid-20th century, several US states denied blacks the right to vote and enforced racial segregation in housing, public education, urban transport. Everything was legal, but it was horribly unjust.‘Rule of law’ lies at the very root of democratic society because it upholds individual liberty and rights by ensuring justice, which is fair, transparent, applicable equally to all. In China, where the CPC is supreme and all the courts, the police and prosecutors belong to the party, the only concept that will fly is the ‘rule by law’.Most laws in India are reasonable, after all who wants to encourage theft, cheating, money laundering, or tax evasion? But it is their application that’s becoming the problem. Various police services, the NIA, ED, and CBI, are meant to effectively apply the law of the land. But they are being used as instruments of political coercion rather than upholding the law. The most recent victims of this are activists and supporters involved in the farmers’ stir who are being hounded by notices of the NIA.A recent trend in India has seen laws and ordinances whose very basis goes against the first tenet of justice — equality of all before the law. In UP and MP, rules passed through an ordinance are used to harass inter-faith couples. Another law banning cow slaughter has been used to outlaw the eating preferences of a particular set of people.Parts of the law are now being used to harass a particular community. A comedian is in jail in Madhya Pradesh, despite the lack of evidence of the crime he was accused of. A 19-year-old girl is charged with sedition for shouting ‘Pakistan zindabad’. In Punjab, the police booked several farmers under the IPC’s Section 307 (attempt to murder) for dumping cow dung in front of an ex-minister’s house, though the charge was later dropped. The instances of malicious and trivial prosecution are far too many to recount. Each outdoes the other in its blatant idiocy and malevolence.One of the big surprises is modern India’s use of the sedition statute used by the British in the mid-19th century to exercise political control. Efforts to do away with the statute in this part of the 21st century have been opposed, most vehemently by the Union Home Ministry, which recently told Parliament that ‘there is no proposal to scrap the sedition law. There is a need to retain the provision to effectively combat anti-national, secessionist and terrorist elements’. Just who is ‘anti-national’ or ‘terrorist’ is something the government often decides without bothering with judicial due process. Data shows very few convictions because it runs four-square against the freedom of expression guaranteed to us in the Constitution. In the name of terrorism, the police has been involved in extra-judicial executions, and in many instances, framing innocent people for terrorist acts.To deal with this, the government has taken recourse to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in 1967 which has been amended several times since to make it increasingly draconian. In other words, as India has grown as a nation, it has become more insecure.At the heart of the problem is the failure of the judiciary. Where the lower judiciary generally tended to toe the line of the executive earlier, today, the problem goes right up to the top. The result is that the checks that an independent judiciary should have imposed on the misuse of laws are few and far between.A major failure of the justice system is in allowing the judicial process to be used as punishment by incarcerating people without bail, and putting through lengthy trials. Political accusations about ‘urban Naxals’, ‘jihadis’ and ‘anti-nationals’ are considered by a section of the judiciary that hesitates to intervene in blatant cases of unjust arrest and incarceration.‘Rule by law’ is an instrument to establish political hegemony. But its overuse is drawing attention both within India and abroad. By using officers of the law for political coercion and insisting on laws that discriminate between Indians, the government is playing with fire.Citizens look to the legal system as a recourse against arbitrary or illegal actions, particularly of the state. The key to its efficacy is voluntary compliance, but that can only happen when laws and their application are deemed applicable to all.Though India has had a record of selective enforcement of laws based on the status, caste and gender, people retained their faith in it because there was a slow, but steady improvement. But that process has been cast aside. The law and its officers have become instruments of repression and division, aided by a largely indifferent judiciary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-shift-to-rule-by-law-200335
