20-01-2021||---||Cyber data privacy in peril||The recent controversy triggered by WhatsApp’s move to unilaterally amend its privacy policy appears to have acted as a catalyst to shake Indian citizens out of complacency.Though deferred for now, Whats- App will be implementing, unilaterally, amendments to its privacy policy which would mean sharing of sensitive personal data of individuals, not just to Facebook and Facebook group of companies, but also various business affiliates, third parties and service providers. The said privacy policy appears to be in contravention of the applicable prevailing law for the time being in force. However, the said incident has once again brought forward the need for Indians to be caring about their cyber data privacy.There is no denying the fact that data is the new oil of the new economy. Data constitutes new building blocks, on which the new economy is being built. Hence, every stakeholder is specifically interested in accessing users’ data for monetisation.In this context, the Indian nation appears to be a more fertile market. India today is a growing population that is increasingly jumping on to the digital bandwagon.In 2020, India had nearly 700 million Internet users across the country. This figure was projected to grow to over 974 million users by 2025. In fact, India was ranked as the second largest online market worldwide in 2019, second only to China.Digital users have been all transformed by the Internet and they have become global authors, global broadcasters of data. Hence, with humongous volumes of data being generated by Indians in cyberspace, Indian data has suddenly caught the attention of digital stakeholders globally. However, India is currently experiencing a policy vacuum pertaining to the protection of cyber data privacy.India does not have any dedicated law on privacy. This is despite the fact that the Supreme Court, in the landmark case of Justice Puttaswamy vs Union of India, has already recognised the right to privacy as a fundamental right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution. However, in the absence of a direct legal provision on privacy protection, one has to look at other available legal provisions.India has its mother legislation to deal with the electronic form, the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. The Act is also not a privacy-centric legislation. However, it does have some provisions to deal with infringement of privacy. For example, Section 66E of the Act makes it an offence if somebody, intentionally or knowingly captures, publishes or transmits the image of a private area of any person without his or her consent, under circumstances violating the privacy of that person. The offence is punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three years or with fine not exceeding Rs 2 lakh, or with both.Further, the Act does not deal specifically with the issue of data privacy. The Government of India had presented the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, before Parliament, which referred it to its Joint Parliamentary Committee. However, the Bill is still pending for consideration.A lot of digital stakeholders have quickly realised that India is going through a very historically transient time where there is a policy vacuum concerning cyber data privacy protection. Consequently, all stakeholders are trying to take the benefit of the policy vacuum and various initiatives are aimed at access and monetising of data of Indian citizens. The recently amended Whats- App privacy policy issue is an example in this direction.Clearly, the Indian cyber law is not adequate for the moment and long outdated as the same has not been amended since 2008. The recent actions by intermediaries like Whats- App demonstrate the urgent need for amending the information technology Act.Further, the Indian law on intermediary liability needs to be made far more stringent. The legal approach on intermediary liability needs reboot. India can take a cue from how the US has already initiated a process of revisiting Section 230 of the Communication Decency Act.While intermediaries need not take legal frameworks for granted, the government must quickly strengthen the legal process of safeguarding the users’ interests from the hands of unscrupulous service providers.India needs to come up with strong legal frameworks to protect the interest of its users. The government also needs to act quickly and come up with strong rules and regulations under Section 87 of the IT Act to protect the users of the various services of intermediaries and data service providers.With the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, being awaited and expected to provide remedies for generators of cyber data, users need not keep on waiting for the said law. It is imperative that they exercise due diligence and must do all in their power and possession to protect their data and personal privacy from various stakeholders. We need to be mindful of the fact that Covid-19 has already ushered in an irreversible process of the evolving New Cyber World Order.The government needs to take the WhatsApp incident as a wake-up call and quickly galvanise into action. India as a nation has to realise that the protection of its cyber sovereign interests has a direct connection with the protection of data and the continuing expansion of Indian data sovereignty.Hopefully, the government comes up with an effective mechanism to deal with various issues connected with the protection of cyber data privacy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cyber-data-privacy-in-peril-200925
20-01-2021||---||Pressure points on the BJP’s top brass||It is conjectured that with a visible ‘high command’ at the Centre, which is apparently unquestioned and unchallenged, the BJP is going the way of the Congress. Which is to say that the wheel of fortune will be spun by a single deity and the followers and the minions will lend their weight and turn the wheel his way, or perish.Through its misfortunes, the Congress still has a determinate high command, seen in flesh and blood in the first family.The BJP’s old structures, which never vested veto power in one or two individuals but spanned elaborate decision-making through a presidium that often involved state satraps (Prime Minister Narendra Modi was one when he was the Gujarat Chief Minister), survive in parts. Besides, it is hard to conjecture when the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological parent and mentor, will assert its supremacy, perhaps looking for that chink in the party/government’s armour.Therefore, the command lines in the BJP continue to be amorphous, unlike those in the Congress, but there’s no doubt that Modi, whose gravitational pull is indisputably strong, is the chief, the person in charge.What happens if a state leader (the chieftains of the past do not exist anymore) clashes with the central command? The situation gets tricky.Look no farther than the scenario that emerged in Himachal Pradesh after the 2017 elections. Prem Kumar Dhumal had positioned himself as the putative chief minister. He assumed that his old friendship with Modi, dating back to 1998 when Dhumal was the CM and Modi, a general secretary looking after Himachal, recommended him as the ‘natural’ choice.Dhumal didn’t see the pre-poll smoke signals. The BJP refused to declare him as its CM candidate. Dhumal lost his seat and it should have forestalled his ambitions. Nonetheless, he harboured a sense of ‘entitlement’ that also came, in part, from the presumed patronage of his son and MP Anurag Thakur. Dhumal’s cheerleaders organised a show of strength when the BJP dispatched Nirmala Sitharaman and Narendra Singh Tomar to Shimla to elect the leader of the legislature party.Dhumal was told in no uncertain terms that his adversary Shanta Kumar got many more of his candidates elected than him despite being pensioned off to the BJP’s margdarshak mandal. But he was reticent about it. Jai Ram Thakur was elected and the choice exemplified a seamless generational transition, regarded as a hallmark of the Modi-Amit Shah regime.Not every changeover is as painless as the BJP’s ‘high command’ visualises, not every former state chieftain is as compliant as the Delhi bosses would want. Vasundhara Raje, former Rajasthan CM, is back to being defiant despite Delhi’s assiduous efforts to marginalise her. Last week, Raje’s supporters, who included some legislators, launched the Samartak Rajasthan Manch that called for declaring her as the BJP’s CM nominee right away, although the next elections are due only in 2023.If Raje’s backers had stopped with the clamour, probably the ‘high command’ would not have lost sleep. However, on social media, they released a list of parallel state committees with their own office-bearers. It was a message to the central and state leaders (the latter are carefully chosen Raje critics and rivals) that she still had a significant base and following in the Rajasthan BJP and the repercussions of ignoring her could be grave. Raje’s name had been excluded from the posters of BJP events in the recent past.Although the BJP has not begun nurturing another state leader, the perception is that Central minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is a favourite of Modi and Shah. Raje has tried to frustrate the efforts. A war of attrition is on and it remains to be seen if Raje survives like BS Yediyurappa, the Karnataka CM, or drops by the wayside.Karnataka remains a pressure point on the BJP command, largely because warhorse Yediyurappa used every skill in the playbook of political endurance and trumped his in-house enemies to live another day. The leaders have not found an alternative to him. But he never had it easy in his tenures at Bengaluru’s Vidhan Soudha. He finally expanded his Cabinet last week after endless consultations with Shah and JP Nadda, the BJP president, hoping to buy peace with the legislators hungering for a slice of the power pie.Most of them are defectors from the Congress and Janata Dal (Secular), with no use for an ideology coloured in saffron, blue or green. They wanted to become ministers, but Yediyurappa couldn’t please them all. The exercise left a bad taste after allegations of blackmail through an incriminating CD and Yediyurappa’s son ‘distributing’ positions surfaced.Regardless of the veracity of the charges, the episode proved that the BJP’s credo of using means to justify the end of ensconcing in office and repudiating ethics has an unsavoury underside. The renegades were clear about what they wanted while switching political allegiances; the BJP wanted to pare their expectations and shoehorn them into a ‘system’ that will not brook ‘indiscipline’. The breach between promise and denial is rarely, if ever, healed but it could lead to instability.The Karnataka scenario was replayed in Tripura, a state the BJP wrested from the Left Front with fanfare. Like in Karnataka, its first government in Agartala is sustained by turncoats from the Congress and the Trinamool Congress who are not ideologically motivated. The CM, Biplab Kumar Deb, who was never an MLA or an MP but was rooted in the RSS, cannot negotiate the interminable demands from his legislators and looks to Delhi for succour when up against a crisis.There’s a lesson from Karnataka and Tripura for the BJP in West Bengal. Right now, it is acquiring a ‘trophy’ a week from the Trinamool Congress: prize catches of MPs, MLAs and ministers. The price to wrest and, importantly, retain power on its terms might be the biggest challenge for the BJP in the months to come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pressure-points-on-the-bjps-top-brass-200962
20-01-2021||---||Constitutionally, farm laws on shaky ground||IN Minerva Mills vs Union of India (1980) and BR Kapur vs State of Tamil Nadu (2001), it was held by the Supreme Court, “People of the country, organs of the government, legislature, executive, and the judiciary, are bound by the Constitution, which is the paramount law of the land and nobody is above or beyond the Constitution”. In the light of the ongoing debate on the farm laws, is it time for the apex court to suo motu examine the law and the spirit of the law? Do these Acts fall under the ambit of the “basic features of the Constitution”?Unlike the unwritten British Constitution, the Indian Constitution isn’t the creation of Parliament — it is the other way around. “We, the people of India” created the Constitution on November 26, 1949. And the Constitution created Parliament. Hence, the Constitution is sovereign, supreme and superior to all laws created by Parliament. A fact subtly, and succinctly, reminded by the Supreme Court: “The Constitution is the mechanism under which laws are to be made and not merely an Act which declares what law is to be” (M Nagaraj vs Union of India, 2006).Thus, the Constitution is the “philosophy, polity, society and law, all in one”, thereby making the supremacy thereof indisputable; it cannot be challenged in any court of law. This unique status and exalted position, however, isn’t available to other laws made by Parliament. To quote Justice DD Basu from his 15-volume magnum opus Constitution of India (Volume 1): “Since the people constitute the ultimate sovereign who set up the Constitution and the government established thereunder, the law laid down by the Constitution must necessarily be superior to the laws made by the legislature, which is an organ created by the Constitution itself.”In Indian Constitutional Law (6th edition, 2010), Constitution expert MP Jain writes: “The Constitution, being written, constitutes the fundamental law of the land. This has several implications. It is under this fundamental law that all laws are made and executed: all government authorities act and validity of their functioning adjudged. No legislature can make a law and no government agency can act contrary to the Constitution.”That brings us to a legal and constitutional look at the new farm Acts, the introductory part of which runs thus: “As the agriculture sector has immense potential to make a significant contribution to the economic growth, there is a need to find long-term solution...” It’s “an Act...on farming agreements... to engage with agri-business firms... and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.”The peculiarity of the issue needs a revisit in the light of various factors considered by the Constitution makers, who collectively, consciously and conscientiously didn’t assign any agriculture law-making responsibility to the federal government or Parliament, owing surely to the country’s vastness and diversity of agricultural produce, soil, farming methods, management and ancillary acts connected to it. Hence, of the 97 subjects under the Seventh Schedule of the Union List, not once has ‘agriculture’ been mentioned, or referred to, for law-making purpose.The word ‘agriculture’ has been mentioned four times — for the purpose of not ‘touching’ the issue; Item 82 of the Union List pertains to “taxes on income other than agricultural income.” Item 86 is about “taxes on capital value of the assets, exclusive of agricultural land...”; Item 87 is on “estate duty in respect of property other than agricultural land,” while Item 88 deals with “duties in respect of succession to property other than agricultural land.”Clearly, agriculture, the mainstay of a majority of India’s demography, was given a special status owing to it being the traditional pivot, feeding millions of people every day. The wise men of the Constituent Assembly, who sat from 1946 to 1949, must have had in mind the recurring famines of India owing to reckless profiteering and loot by traders, merchants and monarchs of England that devastated the Indian population first in 1770, within five years of the arrival of the British East India Company, and ending with the famine of 1943 that killed three million people.Unsurprisingly, therefore, the makers of the Indian Constitution clearly and categorically put ‘agriculture’ as item 14 of State List II: “Agriculture, including agricultural education and research, protection against pests and prevention of plant diseases”, thereby assigning agriculture to the states, and not to Parliament or the federal government.And, that is legal crux of the matter. Whereas Items 82, 86, 87 and 88 of the Union List specifically deny Parliament or the federal government any role, Items 46, 47 and 48 of List II, under the State List, give full responsibility to the provincial/state legislatures/government. They read thus: Item 46: Taxes on agricultural income; Item 47: Duties in respect of succession to agricultural land; Item 48: Estate duty in respect of agricultural land. Then there is Item 18 that refers to “transfer and alienation of agricultural land...and agricultural loans”, followed by Item 30 on “relief of agricultural indebtedness.”All those referred to above are covered by the State List, not the Union List. Thus, the Constitution allotted agriculture to the states.The Concurrent List has 47 items. ‘Concurrent’ implies that both federal government/Parliament and state/legislatures can make laws on these listed items. Strikingly, however, both the Centre and the state have to contend with Item 6: “Transfer of property other than agricultural land...”Further, the only instance when both the Centre and the state are assigned work on ‘agricultural land’ is Item 41: “Custody, management and disposal of property (including agricultural land) declared by law to be evacuee property.” In other words, Item 41 of the Concurrent List pertains to the refugees’ agricultural land; not the vast swathes of agricultural land and millions of people directly or indirectly connected to agriculture for their livelihood.That brings us back to the Constitution: “We, the people of India... In our Constituent Assembly, this twenty-sixth day of November 1949, do hereby adopt, enact, and give to ourselves this Constitution.”The point is loud and clear. In case a law made by Parliament or state legislature is not in consonance with the spirit of the Constitution, it’s the duty and responsibility of the Supreme Court to give a verdict.As judged by the Supreme Court in AK Gopalan vs State of Madras (1950), “The Constitution has imposed definite limitations upon each of the organs of the state, and any transgression of those limitations would make the law void. It is for the courts to decide whether any of the constitutional limitations has been transgressed or not.” Because the Constitution is the organic law, subject to which ordinary laws are made by the legislature, which itself has been set up by the Constitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/constitutionally-farm-laws-on-shaky-ground-200961
