21-01-2021||---||Amid farmers’ stir, spare a thought for cops||Most of the people rightly sympathise with the agitating farmers camping at the borders of Delhi. They have been showing determination for over 50 days in this winter, freezing at times, with rain in between. Sitting there day and night, away from families and homes, is a big thing. But there is another group of people braving the same conditions day and night and in a much more difficult situation physically and psychologically, who deserve praise but hardly get it, and that is the police personnel of Delhi, Haryana, UP, and those belonging to the Central Armed Police Forces who are managing the agitation.There are over 100 access roads to Delhi from Haryana and UP and by any stretch of imagination, guarding or taking care of these access points round the clock from both sides is a big task. At the main borders of Singhu and Tikri from the Haryana side, over one lakh farmers are camping, about 65,000 at the Singhu border and about 45,000 at the Tikri border. Then there are farmers at the Noida border and some at other borders. Almost 10,000 police personnel are deployed on either side of the border with Delhi who perform the duty of guarding the frontiers to prevent the entry of farmers into Delhi. The police personnel belong to the state police forces and Central Armed Police Forces like the CRPF, RAF, BSF, CISF and ITBP etc.Whereas the farmers can do what they like during the day and sleep at night, most of the policemen have to stand guard at the barricades round the clock in uniform to keep a vigil. Just think about a policeman on the alert at the barricade at night in this freezing winter to do his duty when the farmers are sleeping under blankets! No complaints, of course, as it is his job. Moreover, he is always on tenterhooks, not knowing when the agitators may suddenly decide to cross the barricades. In fact, some of the policemen did get injured in a scuffle on November 27. The policemen also have to keep a watch on the activities of the protesters, especially to look out for the possible involvement of anti-social and anti-national elements.There is also a bit of unseen hostility towards them as they are the face of the government. So, their task is quite challenging. Many of the policemen also spend sleepless nights, including at the higher levels, to ensure that peace remains. They are also confronting Covid-19 and many of them got infected, including senior police officials of the rank of DCP.The policemen also help the farmers when in need. For example, when someone needs medical help or to facilitate their visits to Vigyan Bhawan for talks etc. Any reverse help is not welcome because then those agitating might say, and they did say in one case, that they are generous in looking after even their adversaries. There is another serious difficulty for the policemen belonging to Haryana. On the one hand, they rightly have sympathies with their farmer brother, and on the other, they are adversaries, being in the police. So, they have to face flak at home, in community and while commuting to their place of duty sometimes. Imagine their plight?The challenge is not over yet. In fact, it is likely to have a serious dimension with January 26 approaching for which the farmers have resolved to march towards Delhi on tractors. The build-up will increase in the days to come unless the march is called off. It might lead to clashes with the police, howsoever much the policemen may avoid, as they will have to enforce the law. Sometimes, even a minor spark can flare up.Let us give it to the policemen. They have handled this agitation so far with remarkable degree of patience and tact. They only match their wits with the farmers at barricades by use of containers, JCBs and other heavy stuff which can be rammed into with tractors by the farmers from the other side. No human touch is involved which is so heartening for all of us. Though they have anti-riot equipment with them and a few weapons as a show of strength, there hasn’t been much need to put these in use. Of course, there were complaints of use of water cannons on a few occasions but that can hardly be called use of a weapon by the police. Of course, farmers have also been quite cooperative by and large.And this duty being performed by the policemen is in addition to their normal duties of crime investigation, traffic, patrolling, collection of intelligence and many other functions.The situations which the policemen always have to handle are not their own creation, nor can they resolve it and yet they have to be inside and face the flak because they are the face of the government. In agitations, it becomes more difficult when the crowd breaks the law or the barricades. Fighting with own people is easier said than done. And yet no kudos, but only brickbats. That is the irony of the situation. Neither the politicians nor anyone else, including the media, praise their work. In fact, some only look for an opportunity to blame the police to secure brownie points forgetting that it is their own force. Let us at least raise a hand in their favour and appreciate them by clapping for what they do like the excellent work they did during the pandemic for which they are called warriors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/amid-farmers-stir-spare-a-thought-for-cops-201384
21-01-2021||---||Farmers deserve assured minimum price||Can the farmers be offered a guaranteed remunerative price for their produce? The government, some economists and the media would have you believe that this is impossible, both logistically and financially. They are wrong. They either do not understand what the farmers demand, or have not calculated the costs; or they mislead, deliberately. If there was one moment to bust this myth, it is now, when lakhs of farmers are preparing to march to the Capital on Republic Day.Fortunately, we don’t have to start from scratch. The Central government declares minimum support price (MSP) for 23 crops every year. So, in principle, the government does recognise that the farmers need and deserve a minimum price for their produce. It has a mechanism, however faulty and disputed, for computing and announcing this price. And it acknowledges, though not in legal terms, its responsibility to “support” the farmers in terms of their price.The problem is that it does not do much to actually offer this support. In reality, less than one-fifth of the farmers get this support, as the government steps in only for two or three crops and that too in a few regions. For most farmers, this MSP remains a maximum securable price, almost a dream price. In the current season, the MSP of maize is Rs 1,850 per quintal, but farmers had to sell it in the past three months between Rs 1,100 and Rs 1,350. Bajra fetched an average price of Rs 1,340 this January in Rajasthan, its largest producer, against the official MSP of Rs 2,150. Growers of pulses like urad, moong and tur face a similar situation. The farmers want and demand that the government must ensure that they get what the government itself admits to be minimum. They demand a law that would place an obligation on the government to make necessary interventions to ensure MSP.Is this possible? Let us first get rid of the faulty notion of what such a support might mean. Guaranteed MSP doesn’t mean that the government should purchase every quintal of every crop. That would be impossible, unaffordable and unnecessary. Government procurement at MSP can and should be expanded beyond current levels, but it is only one of several mechanisms that can be used to support the farmers. Procurement for the public distribution system should be expanded to include millets, pulses and oilseeds. That would also help meet the nutrition needs of crores of families. Providing 1 kg of pulses to each of the 750 million PDS beneficiaries would generate a demand for about 13 million tonnes of pulse crops, giving a boost to pulse production that currently stands at about 25 million tonnes.The second mechanism could be a robust and timely market intervention whenever the market prices fall below MSP. This would mean expanding the operations of existing agencies like Markfed and Nafed with better funding, storage and marketing capacities. They need to purchase only a part of the crop, say 10-20%, and this would shore up the prices for the farmers in the rest of the market too. Such a scheme does exist, but its funds need a quantum jump. If this fails, the government can use a third mechanism by way of deficit payment. The government can compensate the farmers for the difference between the MSP and the price they actually secured. This was tried in Madhya Pradesh, as the Bhavantar scheme, but the experiment failed due to poor designing. It should be designed afresh and sufficient funds allocated for this purpose.The fourth and the last resort mechanism is to make it illegal to trade below MSP. This is not a silver bullet solution and can boomerang if not supported by the first three. Used sparingly, penal provisions for the violators would act as a deterrent to ensure that the market officials implement the provisions.A prudent mix of these four methods can indeed ensure that no farmer receives a price lower than the official MSP.Finally, is this affordable? Government spokespersons have pooh-poohed this demand by claiming that it would cost Rs 17 lakh crore, more than half the Union Budget. This is a mischievous figure. This is what it would cost the government if the entire produce of all crops is purchased by the government at MSP and then destroyed or dumped in the Indian Ocean. This calculation assigns zero value to the purchased crop.To get a realistic estimate, we have calculated the difference between the MSP and the average actual market price of the crop, using the official data for 2017-18. This is what it would cost the government if it procures the crops at higher than the market price or makes deficit payment to the farmers. The average market price is derived from the average (modal) daily prices in markets across the country reported by AgMarknet during the entire season, weighting the modal prices with the quantum of sales for each day.For instance, the MSP of maize that year was Rs 1,425 but the weighted average market price was only Rs 1,159. Using the estimated marketed surplus production that year of 25.29 million tonnes, the total price deficit suffered by the maize farmers is calculated to be Rs 6,727 crore. In 10 out of the 13 crops (paddy, maize, wheat, bajra, tur, urad, moong, chana, masur, soybean, groundnut, mustard and cotton), the average market price is significantly lower than the MSP.So, if the government were to bear the entire cost of the price deficit suffered by the farmers for 13 crops (out of the 23 for which MSP is declared) in 2017-18, the bill would have been Rs 47,764 crore. If you add the remaining 10 minor crops, the bill would have been about Rs 50,000 crore. This is less than the MGNREGA budget that year. The actual government expenditure would be smaller since market intervention and legal provisions would raise the market price and reduce the amount to be paid by the government. A higher cost is presented if the government raises the MSP itself at 50% above the Comprehensive Cost (C2), as recommended by the MS Swaminathan Commission. In that case, the maximum cost to government would have gone up to Rs 2,28,000 crore. That is about 1.3% of the GDP, about 8% of the Union Budget. This is stiff, but not impossible. The cost could be shared between the Central and the state governments.Can the country afford this? Well, it depends on what you think this country is and what is the worth of annadata. This is a question of political will. This is the question crores of farmers are asking today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/farmers-deserve-assured-minimum-price-201344
21-01-2021||---||India’s vaccine diplomacy||The Covid-19 pandemic has thus far afflicted around 96 million people worldwide. The death toll has crossed 2 million. It is now internationally recognised that this pandemic has been handled responsibly, maturely, and with wisdom in India, and indeed, in many countries across the world. The last global pandemic that humanity had faced ended around a century ago. The 1918 ‘pneumonic’ pandemic led to the death of an estimated 50 to 100 million people worldwide. An estimated 17-18 million people died in India. There has, in present times, been a global effort since April 2020, to jointly address the challenges posed by the Covid-19 virus.The past nine months have been marked by unprecedented efforts to get people across the world to respond to the challenges posed by the virus by observing personal practices like washing hands regularly and wearing face masks. This has been accompanied by the adoption of measures for personal testing of millions of people to ascertain if they have been infected. With growing production of new vaccines to deal with the epidemic, one can be confident that while the world has been shaken badly by these developments, there are now good prospects for the threats from the virus being contained and then eliminated. This optimism arises from the fact that scientists across the world have worked tirelessly to develop vaccines. But, even as this process proceeds, one has to be prepared for new strains of the virus emerging with the passage of time. One has, however, to also recognise the fact that rich countries have done little to help developing countries to meet the challenges posed by the pandemic.The pandemic is now at a stage where the largest number of cases and casualties are in some of the most advanced countries. The US has suffered the largest number of fatalities in the world, with over 24 million cases and 4 lakh deaths. Even European countries have faced extraordinarily high casualties. The challenges have, however, been met most successfully by countries like Japan, China and Vietnam in East Asia. The New Year has begun with relief and optimism. India, with the recoveries rising, is also facing reduced numbers of new cases. Moreover, we are now hoping, and are reasonably confident, that this trend will continue, especially in Asia. Moreover, thanks to some innovative methods we adopted, the contraction in India’s GDP in the current financial year has been estimated at a manageable 7.4%. But what are the trends one can see in the coming years? One can hope that while there may be ups and downs, there will be enough momentum in coming months, to achieve a growth rate of 7.6% in the coming financial year. But the pandemic has brought significant changes in lifestyles and working practices, which are going to be radically different from what we observed earlier, thanks to the innovative practices adopted at the height of the pandemic.With the pandemic holding the global centre stage, India has become the focus of growing world attention. The affluent western world, notably the US and Europeans, are focused almost exclusively on their own problems. There appears to be relatively little interest or intent in helping developing countries, who would, in any case, find US and European vaccines unaffordable. In a short while, however, India, which is the largest producer of vaccines in the world, is the country to which fellow developing countries are turning to meet their urgent needs. New Delhi has set itself the target of immunising 300 million of its citizens by July, from both its AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech Industries. While initial exports were scheduled for Bangladesh, Saudi Arabia and Morocco, commitments have also been made for larger supplies to SAARC neighbours like the Maldives, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Bhutan and Nepal. This is an occasion for India to earn the long-term goodwill of its immediate neighbours. One hopes this exercise is carried out imaginatively, for also strengthening our relations with other countries in our extended neighbourhood, across the Indian Ocean. We would be well advised to finance such shipments from our assistance programmes for cash-strapped neighbouring countries, which desperately need such assistance.Another feature of the past year which merits mention is the unity and determination with which India responded to the Chinese aggression in Ladakh, amidst the pandemic. The movement of Chinese troops across the LAC commenced, almost immediately after China attained some control of the Wuhan virus. India was then preparing to meet the health hazards ahead. The strategic aim of the Chinese assault was quite clear. It was to threaten crucial lines of communication to the strategic airfield in Daulat Beg Oldie and, thereafter, move into the Karakoram Pass. It was the resolute resistance from India which thwarted this move. Moreover, just before the ceasefire became effective, India had taken control of strategic hill-tops along the southern banks of the Pangong Lake. One sincerely hopes that 2021 will see the de-escalation of tensions on our borders, on the basis of ‘mutual and equal security’, as enunciated by the Army Chief.Despite the tragic loss of lives in India, arising from the pandemic, we could look back on India’s achievements and successes in the past year with satisfaction. Like in the past, the people of India reacted to the pandemic in a way that was remarkable. Displaced workers from large cities, who fled to their homes, suffered the most. This could have been anticipated earlier, and dealt with more imaginatively. Workers in large numbers have now steadily returned to their places of work. The fortitude displayed by the displaced workers and their families needs to be recorded imaginatively for future generations. India can also draw satisfaction from how it is responding to requests for vaccines from countries ranging from Brazil to Bangladesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indias-vaccine-diplomacy-201338
