22-01-2021||Former Bureaucrat||Draw from past lessons for new science policy||Government policies are often marked by characteristics that normally stem from the processes followed. First, the draft is prepared in the ministry concerned by its officials or a committee formed for this purpose. It is then circulated to other ministries, which examine it from their own perspective. Based on such feedback, the draft is modified and placed in the public domain for comments. On receipt of responses from individuals and institutions, the draft is further refined and placed before the Cabinet for approval.The process appears to be appropriate and consultative, and therefore, the product, i.e., the policy document, widely acceptable.However, in the bureaucratic method adopted, questions that arise include: Was there a need for a new policy? Does it highlight the failures of earlier approaches and seek to resolve them with a forward-looking vision in sync with the times ahead? If an expert committee is formed to prepare a report, how are the members selected? Does the committee represent diverse and sometimes contradictory views? Once the draft is placed in the public domain for eliciting views, how does the committee or the ministry process such responses? Does it alter the draft on the basis of the favourable ones and ignore the opposing suggestions?Clearly, this is not an easy task. Consequently, most policies end up seeking more funds, creating new institutions and structures, and accommodating concerns of other ministries. The final document reads like a list of pious intentions, sometimes with no linkages established between them, and couched in a language that sounds right but is too terse to penetrate into. No wonder, informed public debate on such documents is rare to come by.Whilst the summary and some key features of the draft Science, Technology and Innovation Policy (STIP), recently unveiled by the Ministry of Science and Technology, have been covered by the media, STIP has not created any ripples so far.The problems ailing Indian science — and, by implication, technology and innovation — have been underscored over the past few decades. In Whodunit — Pathology of Modern Indian Science: Genesis of its Ecosystem (2019), Rajiva Bhatnagar has raised pertinent questions about the centralisation of science and technology and the way the epicentre of research has moved away from our university system.The National Education Policy-2020 (NEP) seeks to address this question, inter alia, through the establishment of a national research foundation, the overarching goal of which “will be to enable a culture of research to permeate through our universities.” How the measures proposed in the STIP synchronise with the relevant ones in the NEP should be dealt with in greater detail. This draft “fully endorses the new NEP” and wishes to ensure the synergetic efforts of both policies! But how?The STIP acknowledges earlier initiatives like the Scientific Policy Resolution (1958), Technology Policy Statement (1983), Science and Technology Policy (2003) and Science, Technology and Innovation Policy, 2013. What have been the inadequacies of the STIP (2013), for example, that another policy has been necessitated in seven years begs a clear answer.If the current pandemic is making us rethink our approach and the demands of an Atmanirbhar Bharat have prompted this move, the people would like to understand the departures from earlier documents that specifically address such concerns.Ideationally, this draft has many progressive features. Promoting ‘open science’ that would empower the public to access outputs of research funded by the governments, is one such. Setting up a national STI observatory as a ‘central repository for all kinds of data related to and generated from the STI ecosystem’ and a dedicated open-access portal for this purpose are important points delineated.Similarly, to ensure all students and researchers access journal articles, ‘one nation, one subscription’ has been recommended in which the Central government would negotiate with and pay the journal publishers. Equally important are sophisticated software requiring periodic renewal. Besides journals, therefore, such software should also be brought under its umbrella. These initiatives, as many others, appear laudable, provided they avoid duplicity of efforts and are cost-effective, with security of data fully protected.It is proposed that a Research Excellence Framework for higher educational institutions be evolved aiming at assessment of research. Would it conflict with the role of the assessment architecture of the NEP? Similarly, the ideas to establish higher education research centres in reputed research-focused universities/institutes, and to transform the existing R&D institutions to research universities require to be fleshed out in detail. Shouldn’t converting a scientific R&D institute to a research university negate the liberal idea of a university espoused in the NEP?The draft recommends the expansion of the STI funding landscape and various measures to achieve the desired level of funding from the public and private sources.Our R&D investment being sub-optimal by every conceivable standard, enhancement of funding is a fundamental necessity. But is there a need to set up a national STI financing authority and an STI development bank? Modifying/waiving the General Financial Rules for large-scale programmes and projects of national importance is also problematic. While bureaucratic and audit requirements often dampen innovation, they are also meant to ensure discipline and public accountability. This is an area where public consultations can provide meaningful solutions.Other interesting features include fostering S&T-enabled entrepreneurship and mainstreaming grassroots innovation and traditional knowledge systems. While indigenisation of technology has been pursued for decades, it is not evident how a strategic technology development fund would be helpful. Including equity and inclusion “as a sub-text to all STI policies and programmes”, expanding women’s reservation to at least 30 per cent in all decision-making bodies, including in selection and evaluation committees, and promoting the representation of LGBTQ+ community are progressive measures, per se.While the importance of scientific communication and public engagement has been duly highlighted, the significance of doing so in regional languages deserves to be highlighted.Despite some inadequacies, the draft STIP is a crucial document that should spur wide discussion in the scientific and non-scientific communities. The final document should also begin with the vision and not have it at the end, as in the draft.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/draw-from-past-lessons-for-new-science-policy-201864
22-01-2021||Senior Financial Journalist ||Budget should prioritise health, education||THE forthcoming Budget is the first to be presented since Independence under the shadow of a worldwide pandemic. The Finance Minister has described it as a Budget that will be like none before. This may not be true as budgets have been presented in the past in times of great global distress such as the 2008 financial crisis. But it is perhaps the first time that the government’s financial accounts will be presented to revive an economy battered by a disease, rather than by global or domestic economic developments. The Budget is, therefore, being awaited anxiously this year. Just as in the US after the presidential election, the public was looking forward to a generous stimulus package, citizens here too are waiting for a comforting recovery plan. The difference, of course, is that the US is a superpower with huge resources while India is an emerging economy facing a grave revenue shortfall in the current fiscal.Even so, it is time for the Finance Minister to loosen the purse strings beyond the roughly one per cent of the GDP that has been expended in the relief packages unveiled in 2020. Several sectors need special attention. The first is small business. The package for small and medium enterprises that was unveiled last year was simply not enough to rescue companies that were struggling from loss of income and unable to pay employees or restart operations after the lockdown. The economic revival now being witnessed is largely an impetus coming from bigger corporates which had the resources to bear the stresses of a pandemic. The services segment, especially the hospitality sector including hotels and small restaurants, also continues to be badly hit. This sector encompasses millions of small enterprises with a vast number of formal and informal workers. Estimates are that the entire small and medium business segment employs 110 million workers but many have either closed down or reduced their workforce. No wonder the CMIE data is showing job losses at an all-time high in recent months despite the apparent economic recovery.The credit package unveiled last year helped some small businesses, but those in the micro category and the informal segment have been overlooked completely. Units trying to avail of relief under the new scheme as well as those seeking fresh loans are facing bureaucratic hurdles, according to industry associations. A more meaningful relief package needs to be worked out for a segment that contributes as much as 30 per cent of the country’s GDP.The second area that needs to be paid special attention in the Budget is health. It is clear that even without any stimulus, the economy will revive if the country is able to achieve herd immunity to the Covid virus. A successful vaccination drive could actually be the biggest boost to economic growth. As soon as people feel confident enough to move around without any fear, demand will automatically rise and industrial growth will step up. While it has to be said that the vaccination drive has begun well and India is lucky to be a hub of vaccine producers so that sufficient stocks are available, all is not well with the healthcare sector.The pandemic exposed the infirmities of healthcare infrastructure, especially in smaller towns and rural areas. The dismal fact is that this country spends only 1.5 per cent of its GDP on health; Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul concedes this is low by any standards. China’s spend on health is 5 per cent while for European countries it is 7 to 8 per cent. The result is that despite the much-vaunted pharmaceutical industry base in the country, the actual availability of healthcare services to the common man is abysmal. The Budget needs to start shifting the focus back to this basic element of development. One of the priorities should be to take care of key frontline health workers, the accredited social health activists (ASHA). During the pandemic, reports have come about these workers spending their own funds for gloves, masks and sanitisers. They were not supplied with adequate protective equipment despite being involved in contact tracing, nor were they given priority or free testing facilities. The very least that can be done is to raise the compensation and improve facilities to these critical frontline workers who have been standing in for doctors in small towns and rural areas throughout the pandemic.The third area that merits attention is education. Here too, spending as a percentage of the GDP is only around 2.8 per cent. This is another sector where many lacunae have been exposed during the pandemic. The need for online learning has revealed that most children here do not have digital education facilities. Though India may be touted as a software superpower, the majority of schoolchildren do not have access to mobile phones, televisions or laptops to help them through the learning process. The reliance on mid-day meals as a source of nutrition has also emerged starkly as many states found that the closure of schools was affecting the health of children.The 2021-22 Budget may end up with a wider than expected deficit and is bound to give incentives for investments in large infrastructure projects. But the time has come to pay attention to small businesses which are the biggest employers and need the maximum handholding to survive. The focus also needs to be on health and education as the pandemic has revealed the glaring shortfalls in these basic areas of development. The crisis showed that the country’s hospital infrastructure is inadequate to meet the needs of an emergency. It also showed that health workers need far more support than ever before if even the basic modicum of healthcare is to be provided to the common man. As for education, an entire generation of children will lose out unless the digital gap is bridged sooner rather than later. This Budget, thus, has to be more than just an accounting exercise; it needs to completely shift the direction of developmental goals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/budget-should-prioritise-health-education-201867
22-01-2021||The protesting farmers of Punjab and Haryana have threatened to organise a tractor procession through well-trod streets of Delhi on Republic Day. This procession should not clash with the government’s Republic Day parade or other celebrations. The farmers will lose public support if they do that. In fact||The might of kisan & jawan||No political slogan should be raised that day. All sections of the populace, even those that the ruling party dubs anti-national, should be one on this day.The best solution would be to have a celebratory parade of their own in another part of the city after prior notice to the Delhi Police and obtaining its permission to celebrate the sacred day. If they can muster the support of armed forces veterans, it would be a sort of coup! The armed forces are studded with soldiers, sailors and airmen from kisan families, who will surely be sympathetic to the cause of the farmers.‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ is a cry that is extremely popular with the common man and that cry has reverberated through the ages. No political party can afford to belittle it. So, if service veterans are added to the parade of tractors with farmers’ families atop tractors, a memorable supporting parade can be organised in another prominent area of Delhi, distant from Rajpath.If given due publicity, it will draw sufficient attention. There will be no antagonist feelings floating around — in truth, the atmosphere created should be deliberately fraternal. No political slogan should be raised that day. All sections of the populace, even those that the ruling party dubs anti-national, should be one on this day.After all, the Prime Minister and Home Minister Amit Shah have both repeated often that their sole intention in introducing the three farm laws is the good of the farmers. They affirm that farm incomes will double. The farmers do not think so! They feel that the big industrial houses will fatten themselves on the farmers’ sweat and blood! Who is right? Can or will the farmers wait to find out? Or is it that they know better since it is they who till the fields and sow and harvest the crops. The politicians and experts' knowledge, according to the farmers, is based on theories that have not been tested, though genuine research should never be brushed aside.The Supreme Court has dared to enter the arena where wiser men had feared to tread. There was no constitutional or legal adjudication involved, and yet it rushed in with eyes wide open. By doing so, the court gave the government some breathing space. More importantly, it gave the government time that could weaken the resolve of the protesters. The latter cannot afford to neglect their fields for such prolonged periods. And that is the possible gamble that seems to be enfolding.As of now, both sides are adamant. Our Prime Minister is a man of steel, like his role model, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. He refuses to budge, though he is willing for a compromise. The farmers fear that the government’s experiment will fail, like demonetisation did. They refuse to take part in an experiment that may leave them ruined permanently.But let us leave this political debate to the politicians and the object of their supposed largesse, the farmers, and revert to the issues that propelled me to write in the first place. I was influenced by an email I received from an old friend, a committed Modi supporter and a lady paediatric cardiac surgeon, who once was a co-trustee with me in the Public Concern for Governance Trust (PCGT) in Mumbai. Dr Ratna Magotra felt that the CCG, a group of retired IAS, IFS and IPS officers who write to the PM and other constitutional authorities on things that matter, should also write to the farmers’ leaders not to disturb the Republic Day celebrations, in particular, and not to defy the PM and his government in the manner they were now doing.Since I agree with her view that Republic Day should be treated as sacred by every Indian, I had made my stand clear in one of my previous articles which had escaped her attention. I cannot in any conscience agree with her that no one should disagree with the PM, for that would mean that I agree that he is the repository of all knowledge. For instance, his calculations about demonetisation were proved wrong. I believe that a dose of humility in every human bosom will make the world a much better place to live in.I understand my friend’s frustration when she finds that her hero is being baulked on his way to achieving stardom and a place in history. But even normal mortals face obstacles to success. In the case of world leaders, like Modiji, the tests will be infinitely more difficult. That is to be expected. The felicity and ease with which he tackles these difficulties will determine his place in history.I do not pretend to know who is right in this debate between the government and the farmers. Will the three new farm laws double the income of the farmers? The government is certain they will. The farmers think just the opposite. If they were just playing a political game, they would have given up their protest long before. The government will require to think out of the box to cut this Gordian knot.Staunch followers of Modiji should find a way to advise their idol to convince intended beneficiaries in advance that laws they intend to ram through Parliament, without much debate, are truly for the good of the beneficiaries, and not for the benefactor’s financiers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-might-of-kisan-jawan-201904
