23-01-2021||---||TV journalism at the crossroads||If the Mumbai Police are to be believed, then we now have documentary evidence that India’s television ratings system is rotten to the core. The evidence I am referring to is, of course, the alleged WhatsApp chats between the former chief of BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council), India’s main TV ratings agency, and the country’s top reality TV entertainer, Arnab Goswami. The chats reveal a high degree of collusion between Goswami and Dasgupta, where the then BARC CEO was actively helping Republic TV score higher in the ratings rat race, and hobbling other channels.You could argue that BARC is a private body, and has the right to help its clients if it wants to. However, it is not any ordinary company: It was founded as a joint venture of sorts, between broadcasters and advertisers. The broadcasters’ body IBF (Indian Broadcasters Federation) owns 60% of the company and the remaining 40% is owned by two advertising bodies – ISA (Indian Society of Advertisers) and AAAI (Advertising Agencies Association of India). BARC’s bread and butter comes from advertising agencies and broadcasters who buy the viewership data it collects.So, if BARC’s then CEO was directly helping one channel at the cost of others, it could well be seen as an economic offence. From the point of view of advertisers too, it can be considered to be a case of cheating. Advertisers use the ratings data to decide where they should place their commercials so that they reach their potential customers. If the viewership data is fudged, then advertisers will make wrong marketing decisions, which will ultimately affect the sales of the products. This, again, is tantamount to deliberate misinformation that could cause financial loss.Rigging ratings is not just about one channel fraudulently getting more advertisements than its competitors. It has a much wider impact on the nature of content itself. This is especially true in the world of news television. To understand this, we have to do a deeper dive into the kind of programming that Republic TV does; not just its political and ideological tilt, but also what it prioritises as show format.French political scientist Christophe Jaffrelot, who has studied right-wing politics in India for the past 30 years, has recently analysed debates on Republic TV between May 2017 and April 2020. His study shows that for every debate that was critical of the BJP, the channel did 16 debates that were either pro-BJP or anti-opposition. Each week, when BARC would release its ratings data, it would appear that this kind of pro-government and anti-opposition news agenda is exactly what viewers want. So, every news channel felt compelled to tilt towards the Right and bat for the Modi government, in the hope that it would give them higher viewership.There is another aspect to this, which is not easily discernible. That is the format of news content that editor-anchors like Arnab Goswami have promoted. Since the late 2000s, debate shows have replaced news bulletins. Viewers can no longer get to know about what happened in different parts of India or the world — they only get to see one topic being debated by a group of ‘experts’, who barely manage to get their point across, if they do at all. It is a type of ‘news circus’, a spectacle that recreates heated debates between friends, over emotive issues.The apparent success of such shows — which could well be a result of fraudulent ratings — has meant that old-school reportage has all but disappeared from Indian TV screens. Much of broadcast journalism today has been reduced to reporters chasing newsmakers, thrusting their camera and mike in their faces, and hyping it up on live television. What is passed off as ‘investigative journalism’ is often just handouts from anonymous netas, babus and security agencies, with an agenda or an axe to grind. Such plants are then re-presented to us as ‘source-based’ inside info.This has affected the balance of power in TV newsrooms. Reporters who gather news are of no importance anymore. News editors with an eye on easy ratings and theatrical anchors decide what viewers will get to watch. They push out entertaining fare, and ‘train’ viewers into wanting more of it. News stories that hook people emotively are kept running for days, till viewers get exhausted and the stories die a natural death. The story of Sushant Singh Rajput’s alleged ‘murder’ is a prime example of this.When you combine these three — a right-wing political agenda, a loud anchor-entertainer, and rigging of ratings — you have a dangerous combination that weakens the entire edifice of TV journalism. When such a news channel appears to be overwhelmingly successful, it sets up a model for everyone else to emulate. This has already happened in India, where most channels have become part of an extended PR arm of the government. Even those who have not succumbed to the political agenda have stopped doing the old-school news bulletins, which showcased proper journalism.This has been a dangerous turn for India’s democracy, because it has helped in manufacturing consent. It has actively backed those in power and those with money, while hounding those who ask questions, dissent or protest. It has engendered a public discourse that is riddled with a paranoid form of jingoism. It has effectively promoted a culture of compliance and obedience to authority, which is the very antithesis of democracy.Will the Republic TV TRP scandal help clean up this mess? It can only happen if India’s corporates, who advertise on news channels and thus keep them afloat, collectively decide to only back genuine journalism. This would not just mean speaking truth to power, but also making the subaltern visible to us. That will mean moving out of the studios to the ground, where the real India lives, with its real hopes and sorrows.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tv-journalism-at-the-crossroads-202269
23-01-2021||---||FATF push may not alter Pak strategic interests||The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) pressure is increasing on Pakistan with the global anti-terror watchdog all set to evaluate Pakistan’s progress in counter-measures against terror financing. The group’s findings will be presented at the Asia-Pacific Joint Group meeting and the decisive plenary session scheduled in February. Pakistan was put on the grey list of FATF in June 2018. News-breaking and eye-catching counteractions from the Pakistani regime have gained momentum sequentially in the last few months with the decisive deadline of February 2021 issued by the FATF approaching. Islamabad certainly does not want to be on the blacklist of the FATF. It anxiously wants to move out of the grey list which would relax the international financial aid and investment channels for the country, giving a breather to Pakistan’s frazzled financial situation. Even though the all out assistance from its iron brother, China, has been lavish for Pakistan, and Beijing recently rescued Pakistan by helping it to repay a substantial part of the Saudi loan of $1 billion, Pakistan needs external financial assistance to revive the ailing economy.In a much predictable move, Pakistan claims that its actions of targeting UN-designated terrorists should not be linked to the FATF deadline. But the fact remains that Pakistan waited and pushed the required actions till the last moment in the hope that it might somehow berescued from adhering to the strict FATF guidelines. Pakistan’s response to the suggested FATF compliances has been on three fronts: First, in mid-2020 (even though it was placed in the grey list in mid-2018), parliament passed two bills after much uproar from the Opposition parties — the Anti-Terrorism (Amendment) Bill 2020 and the United Nations (Security Council) Amendment Bill 2020.Secondly, the FATF, in its plenary meeting held in June last year, decided to sustain Pakistan on the grey list given its failure to control financial transactions of the terror groups, including Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM). The final meeting is due next month and we see a surge in actions by the Pakistani regime. A number of UN-designated terrorists have been arrested and convicted. An arrest order has been issued against Masood Azhar, chief of Jaish-e-Mohammad, in a terror-financing case (not for an act of terrorism). Other important arrests on the charges of terror financing include that of 26/11 attacks mastermind Zaki-ur- Rehman Lakhvi.Thirdly, Pakistan has been very active in recent months in revising its anti-India narrative. For decades, Pakistan built and sustained the narrative of victimhood and positioned India as a major threat to its sovereignty. In recent months, Pakistan’s India narrative has been focusing on projecting India as a dangerous state being run on a Nazi ideology under the BJP government and as a sponsor of terrorism in Pakistan. It submitted a terrorism dossier against India in the United Nations and blamed India for the January 3 terrorist attack in Balochistan which has been claimed by the Islamic State. By adopting an offensive posture with a revised anti-India narrative, Pakistan is attempting to counter India’s position on Pakistan’s strategy of terrorism.Narratives have been a critical part of Pakistan’s strategic posturing at the international level to build alliances and seek military assistance from major powers, attract support from the Muslim world and build consensus amongst the Pakistani diaspora all across globe. At the domestic level, the anti-India narrative supports continued military dominance, significant investment in the military and nuclear build-up at the cost of the nation’s development and justifies the use of sub-conventional war. Two recent developments have further added to Islamabad’s discomfort: first, the US move to redesignate Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and Lashkar-e-Taiba as terrorist groups, and second, India being scheduled to chair the Counter-Terrorism Committee in 2022 as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.While Pakistan will actively try to swing the FATF decision in its favour, the international community needs to realise that these actions are not reflective of a change in Pakistan’s strategic reliance on terrorism. Pakistan is attempting to intensify its covert war strategy in Kashmir with the freshly formed “The Resistance Front”.Pakistan’s linkages with the Al-Qaeda are well acknowledged and it was not too long ago when Prime Minister Imran Khan, in parliament, addressed Osama bin Laden as a ‘martyr’. Pakistan continues to rely on a dual policy in Afghanistan where, on the one hand, it proudly takes the credit for facilitating the US-Taliban agreement, and on the other, continues to support terror groups and create instability in Afghanistan with an objective of establishing a pro-Pakistan regime in Kabul. Prime Minister Imran Khan, during his maiden trip to Afghanistan late last year, was greeted by anti-Pakistan slogans and demonstrations in Afghanistan. According to a UNSC report, approximately 6,500 Pakistani terrorists are operating in Afghanistan.Although recent legal actions in Pakistan have been targeting global terrorists, Pakistan’s strategic calculus remains unaltered. However, the positive side of the recent FATF-instigated actions is that for the first time, Pakistan has recognised and accepted the presence of these terrorists within the country and their role in terrorism-related activities!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fatf-push-may-not-alter-pak-strategic-interests-202265
23-01-2021||---||India-China tensions unlikely to ease||Far from any signs of an end to the military stand-off between India and China, or that tensions between the two will ease, China’s mood towards India is hardening. The current confrontation could presage a period of sustained, protracted pressure on India. Well-informed Chinese analysts now suggest that the military confrontation in the Himalayas is likely to escalate.China has meanwhile stepped up domestic publicity, albeit limited, of its narrative on the military stand-off in Ladakh. While reiterating its territorial claim on Ladakh, China’s official media describes China’s actions in Ladakh as a counter-offensive provoked by India’s aggressive “forward policy” which infringes Chinese sovereignty. It has been reporting the uninterrupted build-up of Chinese forces and mentioned the possibility of clashes as weather conditions ease in April-May.Important for understanding the official Chinese thinking are two recent articles by Hu Shisheng, Director of the Institute for South Asian Studies at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations (CICIR). The CICIR is one of China’s most influential institutes and is directly under the Ministry of State Security (MoSS), China’s external intelligence establishment. Its close ties with China’s foreign intelligence arm were underscored in 2007, when CICIR president Geng Huichang was appointed the Minister of State Security. Hu Shisheng is CICIR’s leading expert on South Asian affairs, especially India and Pakistan.In a 33-page article titled ‘The behavioural logic behind India’s tough foreign policy toward China’, in the latest issue of CICIR’s official publication, Hu Shisheng asserted the conflict in Ladakh was “inevitable” and a result of the “high-risk, high-yield” policy followed by the Modi government. He identified the main reasons for rivalry as “India’s long-term pursuit of absolute security and dominance in the regional order” and the Modi government’s ambition to “overtake China by taking advantage of India’s favourable external strategic environment”. Acknowledging that India’s international stature has risen to its highest since independence after Prime Minister Modi came to power, he attributed this to the intensifying China-US confrontation and efforts of the US and West to contain China. He claimed this has given Modi’s government “more courage and confidence to be tough on China”.Painting a pessimistic outlook for China-India relations, Hu Shisheng said conservatives in India hada “deep strategic mistrust and apprehension about China due to the structural problems existing between the two countries.”The increased influence ofconservative forces had shrunk the space of the liberal groups — traditionally made up of diplomatic and business elites — and “even done away with the strategic culture of swinging between the sides of China and the US.”Relevant for the future of India-China ties is Hu Shisheng’s assertion that the two “were doomed to have a serious collision of interests or even military conflict from the very beginning of their independence and since establishing frontier and regional order”. Equally frank was his observation that more complicated than border issues are the contention for influence and dominance and “order in the region involving relations among China, India and their neighbours”. He anticipated that as they grow in strength, “the two major regional powers would have an increasing overlap of interests in the same area”. Avoiding any mention of friendly ties, he said they nevertheless need “to design a stable and far-reaching path for the future development of relations”.Stating that China-India relations have each year “witnessed a benign beginning and a sad ending”, he described the conflict at the Galwan Valley as “anything but the end”.Hu Shisheng assessed that the contest over the border will move from “reconciliation through dialogues” to a new stage featuring “contention for control with real power”, which will inevitably lead to border clashes. Interesting is his observation that over time, “the bottomline of tolerance will become a redline lying between the border troops of both countries” — hinting this could eventually result in a defined line of actual control.A subsequent article by Hu Shisheng in Global Times was more blunt. It accused India of a negative and obstructionist approach towards China. The article asserted that “India tends to disrupt China’s agenda in multilateral mechanisms” to prevent China’s rise and accused India of not promoting internal unity in the BRICS and SCO, but trying to dismantle them from within. He anticipated that as the gap between India and China widens, differences on regional and global governance issues would grow and “the favourable atmosphere for China-India cooperation” would fade. He added too that India’s political elite ideologically aligns with the US and West against China.Among other articles warning of increased tension, one article on a PLA-maintained website on December 24 claimed the Indian Army is “waiting for an opportunity to cause trouble next year”. It said China and India “have prepared for a long-term confrontation in the disputed border area” and “it is expected to continue for several years”. It advised the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to move more mechanised units into the area by the beginning of spring, averring that “military deterrence is always more important than negotiation”. It added, “India must be the one that pays the greater price. India will waste decades on the misjudgement of Modi and Jaishankar’s strategy”.The publication of the articles by Hu Shisheng have obviously been approved at a high level in the Chinese leadership and are intended to give an insight into how China views its relationship with India. At the least, the articles reflect the views of China’s intelligence establishment. At the tactical level, he and other Chinese commentators anticipate higher levels of tension with the likelihood of clashes in the current year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-china-tensions-unlikely-to-ease-202267
