24-01-2021||I Recently turned 70 and decided it was time to start giving away some things. After all||Letting go, & not||Ironically, I used to make so much fun of an earlier generation who were hoarders par excellence. From pins to jewellery, they could not bear to let go of anything. Yet while I could understand the attachment to gold and diamonds, it was their hoarding of useless stuff — old plastic bottles, broken clocks, jammed mixies, old X-rays — I didn’t consider treasures. Alarmed at our determined cleaning sprees, my mum-in-law started stashing her treasures in her Godrej cupboard and kept the keys firmly attached to her waist as long as she lived. It was only months after her death that we opened her personal Fort Knox and what did we find? Old letters, scraps of drawings made by some child, torn saris, old spectacle cases… the list was hilarious. We laughed then but today, as I sit in front of my own cupboard and face the dilemma of letting go, I see people like her differently.Theirs was a generation that grew up during the great World Wars, when everything was rationed. It was natural for them to hoard and guard whatever they were able to get. Added to this was the thrift and austerity then considered public virtues. So, anything that could be retrieved and re-used was never thrown away. Torn clothes were neatly darned or recycled to extract whatever value they still had and every machine was repaired for as long as it could be made to work. I am certain you all have memories of old refrigerators that made deathly rattles as they wheezed and lasted many years, or old cars that were regularly serviced and served at least two generations of a family. As for old schoolbooks and second-hand novels, where would we all be without the joy they provided to middle class children whose parents could never find the funds to indulge their army of voracious readers?As the third child in my family, I don’t think I ever went to school in a uniform that had not been worn by my two older sisters or read from books that had not been decorated with comments and doodles by some cousin. At the end of the year, we carefully tore out the unused pages of our notebooks to be used as rough books or for my writer mother to write her short stories and novels on. Old envelopes were similarly re-used by turning them inside out to make lists later. Often, we wished we could throw away something but permission to do so was granted only after the object was declared unfit for further use by a family committee of wise aunts, uncles or grandparents.I also realise now that this is how memories were carried from one generation to another and pity those children who are growing up today without the stern overseeing that our generation grew up under. The huge amount of waste that modern societies generate has drawn the attention of the world today, yet how few are willing to wear old clothes as hand-me-downs or repair machines before tossing them aside as junk. I pray that future generations will learn from the mistakes we have all made in turning our backs to doing with less.And now for some preening about ourselves. Although I am no cricket buff and have little knowledge of the game, yet I am immensely proud of the victory of the Indian team in Australia for several reasons. First of all, for their exemplary behaviour on the field, despite the racial and bodily abuse the Aussies threw at them. Our boys not only refused to rise to the bait, but gave the arrogant Australian cricket players and fans the answer they deserved. The world applauded Indian grit and determination and the historic victory at Brisbane’s Gabba stadium, a venue where the home team had not been defeated in three decades. And look at the social composition of Team India! They were picked from villages and small clubs, had grown up playing gully matches, used tennis balls in the absence of leather ones, went to no posh schools and academies but when they played for their country, they played like the kings and princes who have played Indian cricket in the past.This is the new India, a generation that does not get overawed by white skin, foreign locations or bad hotels. They made no demands, threw no tantrums and brought back a trophy that made us all cheer. Well done, India!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/letting-go-not-202684
24-01-2021||---||Why charismatic Netaji casts a long shadow over politics||SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE, an icon of our Independence movement, is in the news for all the wrong reasons: the West Bengal Chief Minister and head of the Trinamool Congress, Mamata Banerjee, is invoking his name, as is the Bharatiya Janata Party in the run-up to the state elections. What Netaji would have thought of it is another matter. The Centre’s unilateral decision to celebrate January 23, the birth anniversary of Bose, as ‘Parakram Diwas’ (Day of Valour) seems to have caught the TMC on the back foot. The TMC wants it to be celebrated as ‘Desh Nayak Diwas’ (Day of the National Hero). On a different note, it is also worth reflecting why we, as a people, revere certain individuals so much that any criticism of them can lead to threats, and even violence.The late Dom Moraes once wrote a book on Bombay, as it was then called. I was asked to interview him on Doordarshan. Dom had written something on Shivaji that the Shiv Sena, named after the Maratha warrior-king, found offensive. Their goons assembled outside the studios, threatening to attack us. Doordarshan hastily cancelled the programme. In Maharashtra, you need to think twice before saying anything against Shivaji. Founder of the Shiv Sena, the late Bal Thackeray, an admirer of Hitler, is fast becoming another sacred figure whom you criticise at your peril. Likewise, West Bengal has three icons: Subhas Chandra Bose, Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore, and filmmaker Satyajit Ray. None of them can do any wrong. My late father, Khushwant Singh, once had the temerity to say that he did not think Tagore was a good writer of short stories. Hey Ram! The West Bengal legislature passed an all-party resolution condemning him. When he landed at Calcutta, as it was then called, there was a demonstrating mob to greet him. They clearly did not believe the adage that writers should be read, not worshipped.Let’s now turn to Bose (born incidentally in what is now Odisha). A brilliant mind, he qualified for the prestigious Indian Civil Service. However, to his barrister father’s fury, he turned it down to join politics and the freedom movement. He had a visceral hatred for the British, unlike his main rival, the Anglophile Jawaharlal Nehru, who had a sneaking admiration of them. In 1938, when he was just 41, Bose was elected president of the Congress, defeating Mahatma Gandhi’s candidate. It was the first time there had been a contest for the leadership. There was acrimonious correspondence between him and Nehru, indicating that the two did not see eye to eye. Gandhi’s non-violence also ran counter to Bose’s avowed militancy. “Give me blood, and I promise you freedom,” became his rallying card, far removed from Gandhi’s pacifism. Bose had no time for Vallabhbhai Patel, whom the BJP has made their mascot. He contemptuously likened the ‘Iron Man’ to a “country bumpkin”.As the Second World War loomed, Bose warmed towards the “national socialism” of Hitler and Mussolini. For him, any enemy of Britain was his ally, such was his hatred for the British and their rule. For Nehru, on the other hand, the fascism of Hitler and Mussolini was a greater threat than British imperialism. With the outbreak of the War, Bose made a blunder. He threw in his lot with Germany and Italy. When the German troops were trapped at Stalingrad and with the Axis powers staring at imminent defeat, he turned to the Japanese, who had overrun Southeast Asia and were knocking on India’s doors. With Japan’s blessing, he formed the Indian National Army (INA) from Indian PoWs taken by the Japanese troops after the fall of Singapore, Malaya and Burma. He believed that the INA would march alongside the victorious Japanese army into India and liberate it from British rule. To imagine that the Japanese would then simply hand over India to Bose was, to my mind, wishful thinking. Instead, the Japanese were halted at Imphal and Kohima. They then suffered reverse after reverse. The INA simply melted away.In August 1945, atomic bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Bose knew the game was up with the Japanese, so he turned to Joseph Stalin! He was on a plane to Moscow when it crashed in what was then Formosa (now Taiwan). He died soon afterwards in a hospital. He was cremated and his ashes taken to Tokyo. Yet, so powerful was his image and charisma that the myth persisted that he had not really died and would one day reappear to lead India. Anthony Read and David Fisher in ‘The Proudest Day’, put it thus: “Bose had been a failure as a conspirator, as a military leader, as a revolutionary. But whatever his shortcomings, he never lacked courage, and he still casts a long shadow over Indian politics. He set out to create a myth, and he succeeded — so much so that some Indians, mostly Bengalis, do not believe he died at all. They say he is in Russia, or is living as a hermit in the Himalayas, and that one day, like King Arthur or the Emperor Barbarossa, he will awake from his long sleep, and emerge to claim his Kingdom.”Clearly, history is not the strong point of our political parties. Bose was an extraordinary, charismatic figure who, had he lived, would have been a strong challenger to Nehru. But his hatred for the British perhaps blinded him to such an extent that he expected that Germany and then Japan, after their victories, would hand him his beloved country on a platter.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-charismatic-netaji-casts-a-long-shadow-over-politics-202683
24-01-2021||I WAS posted as an instructor in Ahmednagar and was detailed on temporary duty to teach the Technical Staff Course at the Institute of Armament Technology||Away from home, with a bigger family||Come morning, I was off on a bus to Ahmednagar, a three-hour journey, hoping to surprise my family. As I reached home around midday, I found my kids playing outside. They looked at me with shock and surprise. When I told them I had come to celebrate our anniversary, they laughed, “But mom left in the morning for Pune.” Apparently, when she went to Army School, where she was teaching, carrying a cake to celebrate with the other teachers, the principal asked her to take the day off and go to Pune. Those were days when there were no cellphones and it was near impossible to get through on landlines too. So we were both stuck in opposite cities.Fortunately, I managed to convey a message to the staff at IAT to ensure she stayed put, as I headed back to Pune in the first bus I could hop on to. We then landed up at my former regimental officer’s house late in the evening. The couple were equally shocked and surprised to see us both, but made sure we were served and toasted in style. Our 10th was a memorable one, the military way.Fifteen years later, in 2002, was our silver jubilee. I was posted as a Brigade Commander along the Line of Control in J&K. Leave was planned, but things started hotting up along the LoC and any chance of getting home was dashed. The staff did make plans for celebrations and thought about calling the COs for lunch, but I vetoed the idea and instead asked for all the young officers manning the forward-most posts to be invited, with the proviso that they stay for the next couple of days.But then, it started snowing at night and continued till the morning, with two feet of snow all around. Accordingly, a message was sent to the units that the youngsters be held back and we went ahead with a small get-together. Around 1 pm, we heard a knock at the door of the Officers’ Mess. In walked a young Lieutenant, drenched in snow, all wet and shivering away. We quickly got him next to the fireplace and gave him brandy to warm him up. This boy’s post was the furthest from the Brigade HQ and he had to leave early along with his patrol so as to make it in time. He was already on the move before his post could be informed about the cancellation.Before he left to change his clothes, he came up to me, saluted smartly, shook my hand, and wished me a very happy anniversary. Then, to the complete surprise and bewilderment of all of us, he dug into his vest, pulled out a dry card from under his otherwise drenched clothes which read, ‘Happy anniversary from CO and all ranks, 6 Mahar (Borders).’ There were moist eyes all around as I hugged the boy — the most precious card ever received, which lay next to the warmth of his heart for six hours of his journey.During service, one doesn’t get many such occasions to celebrate due to exigencies, but when you do, they are memorable ones. And in places where there is more love, affection, warmth and camaraderie, a hallmark of our armed forces.A word about our youngsters — they not only deliver cards on such occasions, they deliver in each and every operation that they are called upon to, putting their lives in the line of fire. They make us proud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/away-from-home-with-a-bigger-family-202682
24-01-2021||---||The day I escaped blast in J&K||Today, I thought I would recall some of the events occurring in Jammu and Kashmir in the late 1990s where I was then posted as DGP. I would normally visit the place wherever a serious terrorist incident had taken place. I would usually travel by the state helicopter and then drive to the scene of crime as the geographic distances in J&K are huge and a large territory had to be covered in a short time. Going by helicopter reduced the level of force deployment along the route and also decreased the risk element. A serious crime had taken place in a village near Rajouri and I took the helicopter to visit the village. My staff officer was with me and the village was a short distance from the helipad. We reached the village and interacted with the villagers, along with the police station staff, who had reached earlier. While flying to Rajouri, I had told my staff officer to fix a meeting of the local officers at the Police Lines after the visit to the village.The idea was to discuss the local law and order situation. The helipad was very close to the Police Lines but as we were approaching the site on our return, I abruptly told the SO that I wanted to skip the meeting and go to the helipad directly. The SO correctly pointed out that the officers had already arrived and it would take a few minutes only to attend the meeting. I was, however, adamant and we went to the helipad directly. Just as we took off, we heard an explosion from the direction of the Police Lines and on enquiry were told that it had taken place in the office where the meeting was to be held and it was close to the chair I would have occupied. Luckily, the officers had been waiting outside and there were no casualties and we therefore did not need to land again to oversee the fallout. Also, experience had taught us about the possibilities of a secondary explosion which might be encouraged by my presence. So, was it a coincidence? Sixth sense or divine intervention? Call it what you may, but many police and armed forces personnel have had similar experiences (the case was worked out subsequently). I narrate this and the subsequent incident so the reader may get a sense of what transpires in troubled areas where violence and its brutal aftermath are a constant part of daily life, and how it requires both professionalism and providence to survive and succeed.I had gone to J&K on deputation from the Punjab cadre on the instructions of the MHA and with the full concurrence of the Chief Minister, Dr Farooq Abdullah. The CM, at the very outset, had assured me that he would not interfere in the internal administration of the Police Department and would only help at the infrastructure level and in the modernisation of the police force. The goal was to rebuild the J&K Police and enable it to combat the proxy war and terrorism in the state. In this, we had the full support of the MHA. To put things in perspective, J&K was a war zone in the late 1990s, culminating in the Kargil war. The CM was true to his word and neither he nor his family members ever interfered in any matter. However, when it came to his ministers and MLAs, it was another story. Since I was an outsider and not known to them, they did not approach me, or if they did, no favours were done. This put immense pressure on the CM, but he managed to forestall it most of the time.One day while attending office, I got a message from the CM’s office that he wanted me to see him immediately. Since I knew he was attending a Cabinet meeting, I replied that I would come after the meeting. However, I was told to go immediately and proceed to the room where the meeting was taking place. This set some alarm bells ringing but I proceeded to the meeting. On entering, I found the atmosphere quite frigid and ominous. The CM was grim-faced and asked me to take a seat. For those who do not know him, Doctor Sahib has a great flair for drama and can create the atmosphere he wants to. He had a good look at his ministers and told them that the DG was there and they should talk about their grievances directly instead of pestering him all the time. The ministers let go of their pent-up feelings, but it was all about recruitment at various levels and postings and transfers. When this had gone on for some time, the Chief Minister looked at me and asked me to answer them. Briefly, I explained that the recruitment was being done in a fair manner and in fact I was personally recruiting some boys from the border villages and everybody was very happy (except the ministers and MLAs). Of course, there were no quotas for ministers, MLAs and so on. As for postings and transfers, they were on merit basis and in this war we were fighting there could be no room for any interference. The single most important element in the anti-terrorist war was the placement of the right officers in the field. They had to be men of courage, vision, capable of strategic and tactical planning and above all, had to be leaders of men. Leaders who led from the front. Each one was carefully selected by myself and a team of senior police officers, briefed by us and then fully backed in the field. The CM knew all this and was aware and supportive of this.Coming back to the meeting, the CM then turned around to the Cabinet and in a very persuasive manner said that the MHA had sent this DG and if he failed because of their interference, he would go scot-free and the blame would be on them. In case they did not interfere and he failed, the onus would be on the DG and the MHA. There was pin-drop silence after this and no more arguments. He subsequently turned around to me and told me that I could go but that he would expect results. I came out full of admiration for the finesse with which he had dealt with the situation.There are new actors there in the theatre of J&K now. It is an age-old story — the history of nations is the history of wars. Men are always trying to draw dividing lines on maps and impose their will on the people. J&K has had many rulers; the Mughal empire ruled for centuries, followed by the Afghans during the decline of the Mughals and that period is remembered for immense cruelty. The Sikh empire freed the region of the Afghans and it was a short time of relative peace, followed by the Dogra rule under the tutelage of the British. In 1947, Kashmir acceded to the Indian Republic. There have been many rulers of the land with the passage of time. What will be remembered will be the kindness, fairness, prosperity or cruelty of the period. History will record it, people will remember it. Generations have been brought up now which have not experienced the beauty of the gardens and lakes of Kashmir — Shalimar, Nishat, Chashma Shahi, the great lakes of Dal, Wular and Nagin… the vibrancy of life which was associated with them, the tourists who thronged these markets and the trade which happened… all pages of history and memories. For my part, I walked with giants — quiet men, they know who they are and what they did in the defence of the Republic.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-day-i-escaped-blast-in-jk-202681
