25-01-2021||---||Islamabad’s futile blame game on terror||Abevy of Pak leaders, including PM Imran Khan and Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi have tried to project various Pak-based terrorist organisations, especially the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), as affiliated to India. Aimed at an international audience, such accusations are, however, just a charade to mask Pakistan’s own failures and worse, complex links with them. Consider the following in the case of TTP.Mullah Fazlullah, head of the TTP, before being killed, was actually a hero of the army. According to Pak media, on April 3, 2009, Fazlullah led the prayer at his home village, Mamdirai. Those who prayed behind him were Brigadier Tahir Mubeen, Syed Javed Hussain, the Commissioner of Malakand region, Khushhal Khan, the district coordination officer of Swat, and Danishwar Khan, Swat’s district police officer. Following the prayers, Fazlullah gave a threatening speech that was heard with respect by the key military and civil officials. This was at a time when the Swat police had registered at least 60 cases relating to suicide bombings, kidnappings, attacks on civilians, police and armed forces against Fazlullah.Media reports also indicate that the then DG, ISI, Shuja Pasha, had in a letter to the TTP commander Wali-ur-Rehman Mehsud in 2011, asked the TTP leadership to give up its armed struggle in return for financial and military support in every possible way. Additionally, Pasha invited Mehsud for a secret meeting to be arranged by Naseer-ud-din Haqqani, the son of Jalaluddin Haqqani, head of the Haqqani network. He also referred to the TTP as a necessity for Pakistan and recalling the Mehsud involvement in Kashmir (in 1947), invited the TTP to join the Pakistan army in the “Ghazwa-e-Hind” war against India as a true and just jihad.Imran Khan, while in the Opposition, had written at least two letters to the then TTP chief Hakimullah Mehsud, in 2011 and 2012, seeking permission to hold rallies in South Waziristan. This was the time when Khan was holding protests against US drone strikes. Incidentally, Mehsud carried an FBI reward of $5 million and a Pak government reward of Rs 50 million. Yet, Imran Khan had no hesitation in seeking Mehsud’s permission.Moreover, in early 2014, in response to the then PM Nawaz Sharif’s offer of talks, the TTP nominated five political and religious leaders to mediate on their behalf. Imran Khan was the first person on the TTP list that included other ‘luminaries’ like Maulana Sami-ul-Haq, the father of the Taliban, and Maulana Abdul Aziz, of Lal Masjid ‘fame’.More recently, media reports indicate that Sirajuddin Haqqani, head of the Haqqani network, was meeting and negotiating with the current TTP head Noor Wali Mehsud at the request of the Army chief Bajwa and ISI chief Faiz Hameed.Then there is the curious case of Aamir Ali Chaudhury, a TTP operative, specialising as an electronics and explosives expert. The UN’s 1267 Al-Qaeda Sanctions Committee had listed him on October 18, 2012 for being associated with the Al-Qaeda and the TTP. He was also linked with the bomb used in the failed May 2010 attack in Times Square, New York City, and proscribed by the US Department of Treasury.Despite this record, it now emerges that in September 2020, Pakistan had sought the de-listing of Aamir Ali from the UN sanctions list.In 2020, the former TTP spokesman Ehsanullah Ehsan, ‘escaped’ from Pak army custody. The army, however, has given no explanation.Given such damming evidence, the moot question is why would Pakistan resort to such charades and self-goals to blame India? There are possibly three reasons.First, as a report of the Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies (PIPS) released on January 3 instant shows, Pakistan has been slipping on the terrorism front. According to it, there were a total of 146 terrorist attacks in 2020 that claimed 220 lives and injured 547. Of these attacks, the TTP perpetrated 67 or about 46 per cent of the total.However, according to the TTP, it carried out 177 attacks in 2020, killing 200 and injuring 219, all of them being from the army/police/intelligence. Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, where Imran Khan’s party has been in power for the last seven years, witnessed the highest number of attacks. Quite clearly, the government has failed to tackle terrorism.Second, the TTP’s operational strength has increased manifold after former splinter groups recently merged with it. Moreover, a recent UN report indicated that there were 6,000 to 6,500 TTP militants in Afghanistan. Pakistan is apprehensive that such a large number, when combined with the consolidation of the TTP, would be able to revive its operational capabilities and pose a very serious threat. This threat would also increase security concerns about the safety of Chinese projects and personnel. In the past, the TTP has warned China about retaliatory action for its persecution of the Uighurs.These statistics clearly belie the Pak army’s claims that it had succeeded in wiping out terrorism. Hence, the desperation to look for a scapegoat. And no better scapegoat to find than India!Thus, Pakistan has accelerated its efforts to project India as supporting the TTP. Such articulation is aimed at seeking an alibi for failing to control terrorism despite a large number of operations. It is also aimed at influencing the incoming Biden Administration to press the ‘pause’ button in the strategic relationship with India. It also aims to push India on the defensive during its non-permanent membership of the Security Council over the next two years. And finally, it is to convince the Chinese that India would be responsible for any attacks on its interests.However, given Pakistan’s documented support to terrorism and links with various shades of terrorists, its patently false charges have not found resonance internationally that it had hoped for. Despite this, Pakistan will continue to score self-goals.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/islamabads-futile-blame-game-on-terror-203307
25-01-2021||---||Back in the game||In more than seven decades, no American President’s inaugural address has ever struck such a starkly sombre note as did that of Joe Biden. Its constant call for unity to help “resolve the cascading crises of our era” and strong assertions of resolve to see the nation through “this dark winter” could not mask its despondency. To his credit, Biden did not gloss over the deep divisions that have currently split American society and polity down the middle; in fact, he acknowledged “the foes we face: anger, resentment, hatred, extremism, lawlessness, violence, disease, joblessness and hopelessness”.This daunting list of negative national emotions based on fundamentally different national visions sharpened by the enormous human and economic toll of the pandemic would be a supremely difficult challenge for any new President. In Biden’s case, it will be manifold more so if Donald Trump continues to remain a viable political force, as he has threatened he would. How else can his words that he will be back “in some form” be interpreted? Indeed, if the Senate does not confirm his impeachment and rule that he is unfit to hold any office in the future, Trump will cast a long and deep shadow over the Biden presidency despite all the efforts of the liberal media and political establishment; for there would be a fair chance that he would aim for presidency in 2024.Biden’s primary focus has necessarily got to be domestic. The difficulty is that even while this will be so, America simply cannot abandon its global role. If it does so, China would attempt to fill the void amidst elements of substantial turbulence in world order. The Biden administration would therefore have to simultaneously contain the raging pandemic which has impacted America the most, encourage economic growth and restore the traditional patterns of the exercise of influence and power abroad. The executive decisions that Biden took immediately on entering the Oval Office shows that his administration has begun work in that direction. In many cases, these decisions repealed those of Trump and restored the positions of the Democratic Party in both internal and external policy areas.Biden’s first domestic task is to get Americans to take the pandemic seriously. While America has been more severely hit by it than any other country, its people have never shown sufficient serious intent and discipline to reduce its spread. Nothing illustrates this more than the controversies that have continued over months on the importance of wearing masks. Biden’s order that it would be compulsory to put on masks in federal buildings is a clear departure from Trump’s approaches. The response of the Trump faithful and other right-wing groups to this and the ramping up of the vaccine campaign would be early indications of their attitude to Biden’s appeal for unity in his inaugural address.Another fundamental issue that will engage the Biden administration concerns race relations. There are deep anxieties in large sections of white communities about not only the changing racial landscape in population terms, but also in inter-racial power and affluence. Barack Obama and now Kamala Harris showcase the change in American political life but the financial and economic sector will more and more witness the ingress of non-white players and groups. The opportunities of the digital age are also inevitably leading to these changes. Biden has shown that America must embrace it to become truly multi-racial but that is not acceptable to many whites steeped in notions of white control of all the levers of power. This powder keg will not die out in the foreseeable future.In the foreign policy area, Biden was expected to return America fully to the WHO and to rejoin the Paris Climate Change Accord. He has done so immediately on assuming office, signalling that America will revert to attempts to resume leadership on global issues. But, by now, the blatant ‘America first’ sentiment has gone deep not only among the fringe groups in that country; hence, a response to such swift abandoning of Trump’s approaches may invite a reaction. These are important issues in the Biden administration’s external agenda but they will be overshadowed by the most important issue—China.During his confirmation hearings in the Senate, Lloyd Austin, Biden’s nominee as Defence Secretary, said that China’s goal was to be a dominant world power. In this, he was no doubt expressing the view held by the American establishment. The question is how Biden will handle China’s aggressive quest for dominance. Austin argued for a whole of government approach but significantly also said there could be American-Chinese cooperation where it was in America’s interest to go in that direction. For India, Biden’s approach to China and towards India’s immediate and extended neighbourhood will be of vital concern.Those who will hold senior positions in the Biden administration have supported comprehensive cooperation with India. There is no need to suspect this intention but Indian decision-makers will have to ensure that the shadow of the areas in which America and China cooperate does not fall on India. India will also have to be wary of the Biden administration's apparent desire to go back to military-to-military cooperation with Pakistan, and as indicated in Austin’s testimony, its open acknowledgement of the importance of that country in addressing the Afghan issue.With Democrats holding the presidency and both the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Modi government will have to brace itself for interventions on human rights issues. It need not get overly fazed by these because they would not impact on India-America cooperation as a whole. However, they will give Indian opposition parties opportunities to embarrass the government. In any event, instead of shunning American liberal opinion, it would, especially now, be prudent for the government to engage it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/back-in-the-game-203306
25-01-2021||---||Scripting a social revolution through water||Igrew up in a small village in Haryana. Being from a poor Dalit family, poverty and exclusion were the only flavour of life. The daily schedule of my parents hinged on securing two square meals for their family. My father worked as a shoe-maker, while my mother toiled hard as a wage labourer. I remember her ordeal, walking tirelessly up to the designated well, each day, just to fetch drinking water. Her resolve to secure drinking water for her children gave her the grit to brave all physical and social hardships she faced in the process.As a child, I distinctly remember my eagerness to listen to the Republic Day and Independence Day speeches. They offered the only ray of hope amidst the gloomy darkness of poverty. Each year, I would await an announcement on providing drinking water to our houses as it directly affected my mother and my family. Much to my amazement and disgust, the brittle promises were often made and then broken.Later in life, I was fortunate enough to witness piped water connections in my village, but this time, the caste-class matrix dictated the esteemed beneficiaries. The poor and marginalised were again devoid of their basic right to clean drinking water. Years passed and by 2019, we as a nation, could provide piped water supply to a mere 3.23 crore rural households out of a total of 18.93 crore.It was after 72 years of Independence, in 2019, that from the precincts of the Red Fort, our Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his resolve to provide piped water connections to every rural household under the government’s flagship programme — Jal Jeevan Mission. Present at the Red Fort at that historic moment, my past flashed in front of my eyes. I remembered the words of Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji. In 1990, while on a visit to my village to perform the kanyadaan of my sister, he termed piped water supply as a conduit to secure dignity of life for each household. That moment, I considered myself fortunate to serve in the newly formed Jal Shakti Ministry and work towards fulfillment of his vision. It was a god-sent opportunity and the entire team, led under the dynamic leadership of our Prime Minister, is working tirelessly to accomplish the monumental task.As we march towards Republic Day celebrations, instead of making tall promises, I seek to put forth our report card in public domain. In a short span of just one year, 3.04 crore households have been provided piped water connections as against the coverage of 3.23 crore households since independence. Goa has emerged as the first state to achieve 100% coverage under JJM and as on date, 51 districts, 652 blocks, 37,956 gram panchayats and 70,848 villages have achieved the target of Har Ghar Jal. The drudgery of women and girls has reduced and there has been an improvement in their “ease of living”.But there is something more significant that is happening as an implication of this mission.A water connection is being provided to one and all irrespective of caste, community, religion and race etc with an approach that “no one is left behind”. Villages with a majority of SC/ST population are also considered as priority areas under the scheme which aims to secure 55 litres per capita per day (LPCD) of water. This secular and inclusive approach is primarily benefiting the people from backward castes and is proving to be a silent revolution.The mission mandates provisioning of water supply infrastructure on an unprecedented scale. It requires skilled manpower like plumbers, masons, electricians, fitters, pump operators etc., which shall be met by skilling people from the respective villages, thereby opening up vistas for their employment. So far, skill missions have tried to address the supply side constraints by imparting skill trainings. This mission shall address both the supply as well as demand side constraints by generating the demand for requisite skills in all the villages.The entire mission follows a bottom-up approach. It requires formation of village water supply committees/paani samitis that shall prepare a village action plan for themselves. Interestingly, these committees must have 50% women members since they are known to have a first-hand experience of problems faced on account of fetching water from a distance for day to day use. They are also known to be more efficient in the delivery of smooth operation of any scheme. Women and water are the very source of life. The mission seeks to leverage their innate potential and channelise it into a tool for their empowerment.Lastly, information technology has been leveraged to collate and display nationwide data on a portal, www.ejalshakti.gov.in, for ensuring real-time monitoring, transparency and public probity. A Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh (RJJK) has been set up for accepting donations/contributions from people who have moved from villages, but still nurture a love for their native place. Soon, they will be able to donate, at the click of the mouse, for specific water supply related works by interacting with the members of the paani samiti through this portal.Hence, Jal Jeevan Mission is not merely a scheme. Its multi-dimensional impact on our society shall be positively etched in Indian history. Its outcome is not limited to the aggregate of connections provided. It is the resolve of Atmanirbhar Bharat to address the long-standing need of providing potable water to every rural household by ushering in a social revolution marked by people’s participation, empowerment, convergence, inclusion and equity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/scripting-a-social-revolution-through-water-203308
