26-01-2021||---||Congress grappling with organisational issues||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) has raised more questions relating to the party organisation than it has answered. The move to defer the Congress organisational polls is something that cannot be brushed under the carpet.Other than the organisational polls, which are under the glare of the Election Commission, there are many issues begging for a response and action. The post of the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha is going to fall vacant on February 15. Ghulam Nabi Azad is unlikely to get re-elected. The question doing the rounds at 24, Akbar Road, and in party circles is whether Sonia Gandhi would make Mallikarjun Kharge the new Leader of the Opposition or consider Jairam Ramesh, who is the chief whip of the party in the Upper House, or would it accommodate the critic, Anand Sharma.The countdown for the Bengal Assembly polls has begun. However, Bengal Congress unit chief, Adhir Ranjan Choudhury, is continuing in the post of the leader of the party in the Lok Sabha. The Budget session of Parliament is commencing later this week and is scheduled to end in early April. Theoretically, Choudhury can continue on both posts, but those familiar with Congress conventions and practices say he should be immediately relieved of his parliamentary responsibilities in keeping with the party’s informal norm of ‘one man, one post’ and as a signal towards according primacy to the Bengal Assembly polls. In the Lok Sabha, the Congress has veterans aplenty.The subject of appointment of new floor leaders is urgent. Equally important is finding a successor to Ahmed Patel, who was acting as an interface between the party leaders and Gandhis. The role of a political secretary to Sonia Gandhi or a crisis manager is crucial in the context of growing disquiet within the grand old party. There has been a genuine and general complaint that visiting Congress leaders from various states do not have a ‘go-to’ person in New Delhi to hear them out or meet them. This was a role Patel had played to near perfection.Of late, senior Congress leader Ambika Soni has become proactive. Soni had served shortly as the political secretary to Sonia. Her influence was so enveloping that Congress leaders used to grudgingly describe her as ‘Sonia’ minus ‘a.’ Soni had many camp followers such as Kamal Nath, Salman Khurshid, Kumari Selja, Pawan Bansal etc., who are reportedly closing ranks to emerge as a powerful group. But party insiders say the prospects of Soni staging a comeback are little because Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi have their own coterie and a worldview which is at variance with that of the senior party leaders.At present, there is a lot of spotlight on Priyanka and her possible future role. There is a growing feeling in the party that Priyanka’s occupation with Uttar Pradesh should end abruptly simply because it is not bringing any dividends. Moreover, she is increasingly required to fire-fight organisational sparks and do crisis management. Informed sources go to the extent of saying that she and her team have already started a process of disengagement, something that could not be independently verified.Assuming that there is an element of truth in it, is Priyanka contemplating a bigger role in the Congress organisation? Congress leaders expounding this school of thought insist that she would not be upstaging Rahul in any manner.Rather, the duo — Rahul-Priyanka — would act as a pair. Contemporary Congress history is full of instances of Gandhi-Nehru family members acting in pairs. Indira Gandhi had served as a close aide and adviser to Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. Sanjay’s influence on Indira is well documented while she and Rajiv too had worked amicably till October 1984. Rahul’s entry in politics in March 2004 did not upset the power equations for a decade when Sonia was both the Congress president and UPA chairperson.Does the UPA exist? Linked to many questions relating to the Congress organisation is the issue of the leadership of the UPA. The United Progressive Alliance had come into existence when a Congress-led alliance was forged in 2004. This rainbow coalition continued till Dr Manmohan Singh got voted out in May 2014. The enormity of the defeat was such that the UPA, as it had existed during 2004-2014, was not revived. Nor did it hold periodic deliberations. The non-NDA parties, however, did come together often in the Assembly polls of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Bengal etc. Historically, the Congress has had alliance partners in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Jammu & Kashmir.On May 20, 2019, three days before the 2019 Lok Sabha poll verdict, DMK leader MK Stalin had denied media reports that Sonia Gandhi had convened a meeting of the UPA on May 23, the day votes in the Lok Sabha elections were to be counted. “Who said there is an Opposition parties’ meeting on the 23rd? The meeting will be useful only for election results,” Stalin had told reporters, reinforcing the thought that the UPA’s rationale and mandate have been to form a government rather than to act as an umbrella of Opposition parties. Clearly, veteran Sharad Pawar and his supporters have a different view and understanding on this issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/congress-grappling-with-organisational-issues-203638
26-01-2021||---||Spirit of the Republic needs to be revived||These days, whenever I watch the Republic Day parade, I ask myself a pertinent question: Should we expect something more from our nation, beyond the spectacle that demonstrates the techno-military power of the state, or the sanitised/museumised version of India’s cultural diversity? Or is it that we have almost forgotten to believe that the Republic can renew its life-energy only with its moral and ethical power? Think of it. We have a mighty Prime Minister, and the media industry is never tired of valorising his charisma — his ability to take hard decisions, and transform India into a ‘Vishwa Guru’. And our military power, as it is said, is pretty strong; the occasional demonstrations of the ‘surgical strike’ seek to convince us that our ‘enemies’ fear us. Yes, these days, patriotism is often equated with the symbolism of militarism. Yet, if we keep our eyes open, we begin to feel the hollowness of this power, and realise that the Republic is really wounded. It seems that the spirit of liberty, equality and fraternity is fast disappearing with heightened socio-economic inequality, widespread network of corruption and visible signs of rising authoritarianism. In other words, despite the aura of the techno-military power, ours is a morally and spiritually wounded nation.It is possible to have moral/spiritual power when we feel that as human subjects, we matter; when there is a creative flow of energy and inspiration to be part of this collective because it is based on the ethics of care; and when our elected representatives make us believe that far from being our masters or agents of the rich and the privileged, they are trusted co-travellers. However, we are witnessing its exact opposite. Democracy —the cherished ideal of the Republic — seems to have lost its meaning for two reasons. First, for all practical purposes, it has been reduced into the ritualisation of periodic elections. However, democracy as a way of life — the ability to live with the plurality of worldviews, the spirit of politico-intellectual freedom to question the government, and the art of dialogue and negotiation — is seldom seen.Instead, there is inherent scepticism towards any critical voice; it is seen as ‘anti-national’. Second, in an age that has caused the standardisation of public imagination because of the huge propaganda machinery and the ever growing industry of fake news and information, it is not easy for an average voter to be guided by an informed opinion and clear thinking. All sorts of stimulant sensations in the name of caste, religion and nationalism are used to divert one’s mind from what should really matter: honest and dedicated work for collective welfare. The result is that in the name of democracy, what has emerged is the discourse of majoritarian nationalism, rising authoritarianism and the cult of narcissism.Furthermore, it is also important to look at the pathology of a culture when there is trust deficit everywhere, and all institutions seem to have lost their legitimacy. For instance, the debates in the Lok Sabha become increasingly shallow and noisy; and, to take an illustration, the farm Bills with such huge significance can be passed through the voice vote.In a way, we are all broken, crippled and cynical today. Corruption does not shock us anymore; we have accepted its normalcy and inevitability; it is everywhere — from the local panchayat to the government office; or from the corridors of power to the glamour industry. See its consequences. Nothing, it seems, can be trusted anymore except the power of money. It can fetch you the ‘best’ lawyer to fight your legal case even if you are corrupt and brutal; or the most ‘efficient’ network of ‘friends’ that enhance your social capital. No wonder, these days, even spirituality is some sort of a market-driven discourse of instant emancipation from all sins. Is it therefore surprising that our celebrity babas are always surrounded by top industrialists, Bollywood stars and ministers? Yes, money transforms everything into its opposite — vice into virtue, dishonesty into efficiency, crude business into service, and cultural/psychic morbidity into social pragmatism. No wonder, amid the glitz of the market and neoliberal ethos of consumerism, we continue to experience heightened inequality, marginalisation and ghettoisation. In fact, the tales of the dazzling wealth of the likes of Ambani/Adani, or the mythologies of Bollywood celebrities and cricket stars are not separated from what we see every day: poverty and malnutrition among the marginalised in rural India, street children in our metros begging and eventually taking to drugs, and the darkness that prevails in ghettoised localities. How can the Republic have its moral power with such gross inequality and injustice?No, the Republic Day parade does not fascinate me anymore. Instead, I feel the pain of seeing the death of the ideals that once enchanted our freedom struggle. I ask myself: Where is the Ambedkarite project of annihilating caste? Where is the Gandhian dream of a society that values the religiosity of love, peace and cultural syncretism? Where is the sensitivity that once led Tagore to remind us of the danger of the psychology of violence the discourse of militant nationalism can lead to? Or, where is the revolutionary spirit of Bhagat Singh and MN Roy? Possibly, the road to emancipation lies in the art of creative rebelliousness. The spark of this rebelliousness can be seen in people’s movements. In fact, in recent times, the farmers have aroused this hope. Hence, their tractor rally on January 26 might somehow devalue the official spectacle we are otherwise used to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/spirit-of-the-republic-needs-to-be-revived-203633
26-01-2021||---||Polarisation of societies||There has been a sigh of relief manifest across the world as Joe Biden has succeeded to the US presidency, presaging a more predictable and more ‘normal’ conduct of domestic and external affairs under an experienced and professional administration. Biden has promised to heal a deeply divided country, to promote reconciliation and unity and to restore the democratic and liberal credentials of the US as the world’s oldest democracy. This promises to be a long haul and unlikely to be achieved during one four-year administration. He would be deemed a success if he at least manages to, as he said, ‘lower the temperature.’The social and political polarisation on display in the US is increasingly manifest in other democracies, including our own. A key causal factor is the rising inequalities of wealth and income that undermine the most powerful appeal of democracy which is egalitarianism, the equality of opportunity it promises and the fairness with which the state will treat all its citizens. As economies develop, as technology advances, there will inevitably be winners and losers. A democratic state will have to continually ensure that it is able to redistribute rising incomes and wealth in a manner that helps those left behind to retain hope in a better future, if not for themselves, then at least for their children. It is not that globalisation in itself has spawned huge inequalities, nor that inequality is inherent in increasingly arcane and specialised technological advancement. The fault lies with public policy which has failed to distribute the benefits of globalisation more evenly. When the number of losers far outstrips the winners, and this state of affairs persists and even worsens, democracy will be challenged. This is what we witness in the US and in democracies across the world, India included.There is an intriguing question, however. It is the political Left (in which I broadly include the liberal constituency) which has historically mobilised support among those who are at the lower end of the economic and social scale. In the present case, the Right and nativist forces have captured the imagination of the exploited and deprived. The Left targets the rich and the corporate sector; the Right does not pay a price for associating with this privileged minority and profiting from its generous funding. What explains this oddity? That there is an alliance between the populist and the powerful elements within the corporate sector is more than apparent. But the liberal and the Left have been unable to leverage this to mobilise support among those who are, in fact, at the receiving end of this powerful nexus. The Right has been remarkably successful in co-opting the ranks of the dejected and deprived to buttress its own power. How is this possible?The Right has been able to exploit the existing social, communal and sectarian fault lines to deflect attention from its complicity in the disempowerment and the immiserisation of the majority. In the US, it is by deliberately sharpening the racial divide, stoking the fear of immigrants and loss of cultural identity that a figure like Trump was able to continue rewarding the corporate class with large tax cuts at the cost of the very services that could ameliorate the worsening economic status of the less-educated white minority. Recently, historian Rana Dasgupta has drawn attention to a very cynical insight offered by Lyndon Johnson, a former President: ‘If you can convince the lowest white man he’s better than the best coloured man, he won’t notice you’re picking his pocket. Hell, give him somebody to look down upon and he’ll empty his pockets for you.’Dasgupta points to an ugly truth: Sometimes people can be persuaded to ‘prize the removal of others’ rights above the preservation of their own.’And this is what is happening in the US. Can Biden change this?Why is the Left unable to build its constituency in the ranks of the deprived? Precisely because ideologically it sees its role as transcending the societal fault lines and uniting around a more inclusive concept of egalitarianism.We see echoes of what Johnson was alluding to in our own country. Those most affected by demonetisation were the already poor and those eking out a constantly threatened existence as small and medium enterprises and their unorganised workers. But millions were ready to stand in unending queues to get their paltry sums exchanged, their pain dulled by the belief that fat cats and money bags had been deprived of their ill-gotten gains. Except that they had not and many profited by turning their black money into white.Or if the lowliest Hindu is made to feel superior to the best among the Muslims in the country, perhaps he is ready to accept his dire economic situation and forget who may be really responsible for his deprivation.There was only one brief occasion when the current political dispensation was threatened and that was when the label of ‘suit-boot ki sarkar’ struck home but then it was never built up into an alternative political narrative. The Left in our country has failed precisely because it has become defensive about its core beliefs and started flirting with the narrow inclinations of the Right, for example, by doing its own religious rituals and spouting nationalist slogans. Nor is there stomach to shine the spotlight on the nexus among the politician-bureaucracy and big business that has come to dominate governments in democracies across the world.There are parallels between the oldest and the largest democracies in the world. Both are at critical junctures in their evolution as enlightened democracies envisaged by their respective constitutions. But I believe that the future of democracy as a political ideal may likely be determined by the trajectory that India takes in the coming years rather than the US, especially when the Chinese model of authoritarian capitalism seems to be winning admirers across the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/polarisation-of-societies-203628
