28-01-2021||---||President Biden’s foreign policy priorities||The flurry of appointments following the swearing-in of Joseph Robinette Biden Jr as the 46th President of the United States of America provides enough cues of the new administration’s foreign policy orientations. There will be less shrill rhetoric and more space for diplomacy, though a complete reversal on many issues is impossible due to the structural limitations of the domestic and international systems.There is enough literature, including articles by President Biden and his team — as many were in think tanks, fellows in various academic institutions or working for various lobbying firms in the past four years — to parse through, to make an assessment of the US foreign policy. In terms of appointments, there is a broad premium on experience, domain expertise, familiarity with the President and the expectation that the appointees will hit the ground running.Among the heads of 15 executive departments who are Cabinet members, the most important name for the outside world is that of Antony John Blinken, who had served as the Deputy Secretary of State from 2015 to 2017 under President Barack Obama and has now been given the charge of Secretary of State. Closely affiliated to the Democratic establishment through his biological father, who was the US ambassador to Hungary, Blinken grew up in New York and Paris, where his stepfather reportedly had deep connections with the French political elite. Born to Jewish parents with native fluency in French, he has repeatedly affirmed his strong belief in transatlantic relationships that the US crafted after World War II through NATO and other arrangements.Nowhere is there greater relief than in France and Germany, the two countries whose political leaderships had frequent disagreements with President Trump on a host of issues. The combined power of the US-Europe alliance gives a crucial leverage to the two on tricky global issues, like the multi-faceted China challenge, Russia or engaging with various aspects of the Middle East’s peace and security issues.At a practical level, both France and Germany have considerable weight because of different reasons. Germany, apart from being the economic power of Europe, is the fourth largest spender in the UN. It works in unison with the US in various parts of the world, particularly on Afghanistan. France is known for its diplomatic and military capabilities in its erstwhile colonies in Africa as well as some countries in the Middle East.The selection of former US ambassador to the UN and journalist Samantha Power, who shares an Irish Catholic background with Biden, as the head of USAID — responsible for administering civilian foreign aid and development assistance — is a recognition of her passion and also demonstrates a strong push to renew the US commitment to international aid, particularly in Africa. Those who have followed her role as the US ambassador to the UN, including Security Council briefings on issues in Africa and the violence perpetuated against the Rohingya in Myanmar, know that her respect for human rights is a strong component of her diplomacy and there is little beating around the bush in her crispy delivery.The appointment of the US ambassador to UN, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, a known expert on Africa with more than three decades as a careerdiplomat, makes her one of the most qualified leaders in that role. According to the New York-based International Peace Institute, in 2018, over 50 per cent of the Security Council meetings, 60 per cent of its outcome documents, and 70 per cent of its resolutions with Chapter VII mandates concerned African peace and security issues.The Middle East and Asia are the two foreign policy theatres which will immediately test President Biden. Bringing back Iran to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) will involve a number of steps, including rebuilding the trust with the Iranian leadership that got severely hit after the decision taken by the Trump administration to withdraw from the nuclear deal which was followed by the 2020 assassination of Qasem Soleimani.Though there is little scope for a complete revision in the overall Middle East strategy, a withdrawal of support forthe Saudi-led war in Yemen is expected as the situation has caused ahumanitarian crisis and embarrassment to the US. Facilitated by the Trump administration, the accords between Israel and Bahrain, and Israel and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) carry some weight, but there is little expectation of a major breakthrough on thorny issues like Israel-Palestine. Internal détente within the relatively richer Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries has already taken place as Saudi Arabia decided to end the 2017 blockade of Qatar.Coming to Asia, President Biden mentioned in his 2020 March-April article in Foreign Affairs that “China can’t afford to ignore more than half the global economy. That gives us substantial leverage to shape the rules of the road on everything from the environment to labour, trade, technology and transparency, so they continue to reflect democratic interests and values.”The China policy seems to be predicated on acknowledgment that China’s economic and even population size cannot be ignored and decoupling from China is impossible. At the same time, the Indo-Pacific strategy, firmed up during the Trump era, enjoys a bipartisan consensus with the knowledge pool in Australia, Japan, India and the US already at work on how to continue to make this a functional, multi-dimensional deterrence mechanism against China’s overzealous militaristic designs.Overriding all this will be an inter-play of domestic factors that will continue to impact President Biden’s foreign policy orientations. The progressive component of the Democratic Party’s base dominated by millennials and Generation Z will be keen that the human rights component of the US diplomacy is more visible. This will be counterpoised by the fact that 74 million Americans voted for former President Trump and are more insular on issues of foreign policy.Several issues, like the much-needed immigration reforms that could quickly give citizenship to about 11 million people without legal status, majority of whom are from different countries in Central Asia, will be pursued with caution to avoid backlash from the Conservatives in the mid-term elections that are two years from now. The political priority will be to have Democratic Party’s control of Congress and Senate, given the present 50-50 balance in the Senate and the razor-thin, six-vote Democratic Party majority in the House, and this reality will directly impact the foreign policy impulses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/president-bidens-foreign-policy-priorities-204220
28-01-2021||---||Covid-19 vaccines, drug trials hold out hope||The year 2020 shall be remembered as the year of Covid-19, a viral disease which affected and shook the whole world in less than three months. The world still does not know exactly how this virus originated in the city of Wuhan in China in December 2019; the highly contagious nature of the virus was also not realised by the local experts and the WHO, and thus, effective preventive steps like restrictions on travel were not taken initially to control its spread globally.This fast-spreading viral disease diversely affected society all over and was declared a pandemic by the WHO in March 2020. Though most of the patients are mildly symptomatic,15-20% are moderately to severely symptomatic. Many precious lives were prematurely lost as there was no definite treatment to cure this disease. The helplessness of the medical community understandably terrified the people.Realising the lack of a medical solution, lockdowns were imposed in most countries to control its spread. This certainly helped to control the initial spread and gave time to strengthen hospital care facilities to face this unusual health crisis. But of course, the lockdowns and other restrictions caused serious collateral damage to the economy and the social system. Many lost their jobs and livelihood. The photographs of migrants travelling hundreds of kilometres on foot to their far-off homes because of the loss of jobs still send shivers down the spine. The subsequent restrictions imposed for control of spread of this virus still continue to affect the social and business activities of the country. The mental agony of those who contracted this virus and their families is unimaginable.Since then, the medical community has worked tirelessly to understand this disease and find medical solutions. But all these efforts until now have failed to find the right medicine to prevent or effectively treat this disease. Of course, growing understanding of the pathogenesis and course of the disease has helped to adopt some therapeutic approaches which have saved some patients in the absence of any effective anti-viral drug.Not surprisingly, the innovative and heroic efforts of the medical researchers to find new effective drugs and vaccines have produced results. A few effective vaccines, based on their safety and efficacy studies, have been granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) approval. Two vaccines — from Pfizer and Moderna — based on the new mRNA platform, have been approved in the UK, US, and other parts of Europe. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine has also been approved in the US and the UK. In India, the Oxford and the Bharat Biotech vaccines have also been approved. These vaccines have presently been approved for EUA in view of the limited experience of their long-term safety and effectiveness.The Russian and Chinese vaccines have also given approval in their respective countries. Many more vaccines are under study and only time will tell which vaccine proves to be ideal for this disease. All the approved vaccines need two doses, varying from 14 to 28 days for the second one. Normally, it takes nearly a decade for the approval of a vaccine, but all this has presently happened in 10 months, highly creditable for medical scientists. This ensures the biggest hope of 2021, to control this pandemic. But this unprecedented speed to approve the vaccine has generated mistrust regarding the safety and long-term immunity protection. The initial data does ensure safety, but how long the immunity passport lasts, we shall learn only with time. The only precaution is to avoid certain categories like the young (below 18 years), pregnant women and those with an allergic background. The general instruction to observe a vaccinated person for 30 minutes in the hospital is to handle such rare allergic reaction.Though the vaccines are expected to control the spread of the disease, recent observations detecting significant mutations (UK and South African variants) in the virus have raised concern about the effectiveness of the available vaccines for the mutant strains. This has caused immense distress at a time when the availability of vaccine has brought comfort and hope to society. Still, it has been emphasised that these mutations do not affect the efficacy of the presently approved vaccines. The variant strains have been shown to be more contagious, but it is not clear if these are more pathogenic. Needless to say, we need to be cautious about any future pathogenic mutations.Efforts to produce effective antiviral drugs are on. New anti-viral drugs like Umifenovir and Sofosbuvir, which are going through phase 2 trials, appear promising. IL6 receptor antagonist viz Sarilumab and Tocilizumab are being evaluated and found promising in severe Covid-19 cases (in Cytokine storm). Similarly, JAK inhibitors like Baricitinib and Ruxolitinib are also being evaluated and have shown promising results in severe Covid cases. Another approach of infusing a monoclonal antibody cocktail (neutralising antibody combination) has also been shown to control deterioration from moderate to severe state. Their phase III trials are still on. Thus, we hope to have an effective antiviral drug, IL 6 inhibitors and monoclonal antibody, to treat these patients.Thus, 2021 offers new hope and optimism over having an effective drug in the near future in addition to a vaccine to control this pandemic.Till the vaccines are freely available and over 60% of the population is inoculated, which will result in herd immunity, we need to be cautious and take preventive steps. The protective measures for Covid-19, including the use of a mask, social distancing, handhygiene and avoiding closed and crowded places, need to be adopted as our social vaccine to save ourselves from the coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-19-vaccines-drug-trials-hold-out-hope-204219
28-01-2021||---||Fixing the financial sector||The serious problems afflicting the Indian financial sector have been highlighted in recent years by the collapse of non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) which make up the space of shadow banking, as also the troubles of some banks. On the one hand, leading NBFCs like IL&FS and Dewan Housing have gone under, and on the other, Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank have been in serious trouble.As an economy grows and gets more sophisticated, it must be enabled by a financial sector that moves apace. So, the financial sector needs to be fixed. As the banks are already intensively regulated, central banker RBI has come out with a discussion paper on how it wishes to tone up the regulation of NBFCs.The key issue to remember is that adding to the regulatory load does not necessarily lead to a better and more orderly functioning of a sector. Excessive regulation stifles innovation and an economy does not grow beyond a point unless new types of institutions and products emerge. So, the regulator has to keep in mind that regulation, as it evolves, must remain as minimal as possible, while remaining effective. It is against this yardstick that the new regulations proposed by the RBI must be judged.The importance of the NBFCs in the financial system can be gauged from the kind of companies which come under this umbrella. These include housing finance companies (the biggie in this is HDFC), infrastructure finance companies (IL&FS was the kingpin among them while it lived), infrastructure debt funds (those which pool investors’ money and lend to infrastructure projects), core investment companies (those which investing in companies) and stand-alone primary dealers, that is those who operate in financial markets on their own account, not just to executing orders of their clients but trading to take up speculative positions.The RBI has gone in for NBFC regulation based on scale – the smaller the size, the more minimal the regulation. At the bottom comes the base layer which will have about a thousand companies. Above it comes the middle layer which includes both non-deposit taking and deposit-taking companies. These companies are considered to be ‘systemically important’.An entity is considered systemically important when a development in it can affect the entire financial system. For example, if an NBFC of any size gets into trouble and depositors in it start to fear about the future of their deposits, then fewer sections of the public will come forward to put their savings in NBFCs, even though that would earn them higher interest. On the other hand, if a large NBFC which has considerable borrowing from a bank runs into trouble, it puts the bank into trouble also.On top of it comes the most important upper layer which will have around 25 to 30 companies. Importantly, these NBFCs will face about the same kind of regulation as banks. These have been described as ‘systemically significant’.Thereafter at the apex comes the top layer which right now is empty. The RBI’s plan is that it will transfer individual NBFCs in trouble into this category and design specific (bespoke) regulatory provisions for them. These will be considered to be those which bear ‘elevated systemic risk’. If you look at banks, the NBFCs in this category will be similar to banks that have been subjected by the RBI to ‘prompt corrective action’ – set your house in order right away.The regulation will address three issues. It will try to prevent regulatory arbitrage, that is firms trying to take advantage of loopholes in regulations so as to go around regulations which they find unfavourable for their business. This they do by restructuring transactions. Additionally, they also go in for financial engineering – use quantitative tools of analysis to find systemic loopholes which offer a line of opportunity for a new kind of business. Perhaps most importantly, regulations also try to fight geographical relocation. An NBFC may decide that there is a lot that it can do if it is not a domestic but an overseas company. So it goes ahead and floats a firm in an overseas tax haven which remains a de facto dominant investor in the domestic firm and goes ahead and does business which the domestic firm would not be able to do.Perhaps the biggest danger that NBFCs pose is through their interconnectedness with banks. A bank finds that it needs more deposits, so it has an NBFC under it to pay higher interest and garner additional deposit. The NBFC then places some of its funds with the parent bank. Conversely, the NBFC finds that it needs funds which are not forthcoming as the average risk averse investor will rather save with a bank and not an NBFC as the latter are not covered by deposit insurance. The parent bank then lends funds to the NBFC under it so as to onlend. The NBFCs can get over 50 per cent of their funding from banks.This is where the systemic risk comes in. If an NBFC with large borrowing from one or more banks gets into trouble and is unable to repay the bank(s) on time, then the banks can get into trouble. When this news spreads, then other banks can start pulling in the loans they have given to the NBFCs as a way of playing safe. And before long, there can be a liquidity crunch in the financial sector as a whole. There is what we call the domino effect – what the regulator needs to avoid at all costs.But even while the RBI lays down a lot of written rules, they are only as good as the supervision which needs to find out if the rules are being followed. For this, it has to critically have its ears close to the ground and listen to the financial gossip!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fixing-the-financial-sector-204221
