29-01-2021||---||Counter vaccine hesitancy by building trust||The first few days of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign were marked by slower uptake. This was surprising because those covered in the first phase are doctors, nurses and healthcare workers. They are supposed to be well aware of the importance of a vaccine, having been in the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 for the past one year. The slow start was blamed on various factors — glitches in vaccination management software, lack of timely information to those in the list, and also certain level of hesitancy among healthcare workers to take the jab. The software and other logistics issues were addressed and fine tuned as the drive progressed. The numbers subsequently picked up and over two million people have been vaccinated throughout the country so far. Vaccine hesitancy, however, needs a proper and well calibrated response as several million people outside the health sector are next in queue in the coming months.The World Health Organisation (WHO) defines vaccine hesitancy as ‘delay in acceptance or refusal of vaccination’ despite the availability of a vaccine. It is an umbrella term that covers hesitation and refusal of vaccine due to any reason. Well aware of this, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare incorporated it in its vaccine communication strategy released prior to the vaccination drive. Vaccine hesitancy, the document mentioned, could arise because of ‘apprehensions around vaccine safety, efficacy’ as well as myths and conceptions. Periodic surveys done by community social media platform, Local Circles, have warned of high level of vaccine hesitancy in India. The last one conducted after one week of the vaccine launch found that 60 per cent people were unsure of taking any of the two Covid-19 vaccines rolled out on January 16. Most of them said they were worried about the side-effects or not sure about the efficacy of the vaccines. An earlier survey done in 19 countries, including India, published in the journal Nature Medicine, reported varying degrees of hesitancy from all countries.People’s perceptions about a vaccine’s safety, efficacy and side-effects or adverse events decide their attitude to a new vaccine. In order to prevent hesitancy, regulators, governments and vaccine companies have to be transparent about these three key attributes of a vaccine. Perceptions are also shaped by claims and statements played out in the process of vaccine development, clinical trials, regulatory approval and rollout. In the case of Covid-19 vaccines, the government played a dual role — an official agency (ICMR) is a co-developer or partner in both Covishield and Covaxin, and the government is also the vaccinator. So, it is the government’s responsibility to gain people’s trust in both the vaccines. In this very task, the government faltered, causing hesitancy to grow.The government’s messaging on the two vaccines has been confusing and misleading at times. Instead of focusing on evidence and data, it has focused on celebrations and bravado. Within hours of phase I human clinical trials of Covaxin starting on July 18 , Health Minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted in Hindi saying ‘no side-effects seen in initial trials on humans’, among other claims. It was absurd to talk about side-effects when the first day’s data from trial sites spread across the country was yet to be collated. Even if such data was available, it has to be shared with the regulator and not the minister.On the same day, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij announced that three persons enrolled for phase I trial in Rohtak had tolerated the vaccine well and there were ‘no side-effects’. Such statements not only made a mockery of clinical trial process, but sowed seeds of confusion and doubts among the people. A few weeks later, Vij made a public spectacle of participating in phase III of Covaxin trial and then tested positive for Covid-19. The resulting controversy further dented the clinical trial process and bred hesitancy even though Vij’s Covid status had no link with his participation in the trial. In the first place, it was unethical for the ICMR and Bharat Biotech to let a trial participant who was a public figure to announce his participation. There was also the case of Serum Institute of India sending legal notice for Rs 100 crore in damages to a trial participant when he alleged serious side-effects.The confusion multiplied when the drug regulator gave ‘emergency use authorisation’ to the two vaccines in two distinct ways, without offering any explanation. Covaxin of Bharat Biotech was approved in ‘clinical trial mode’ pending data from ongoing phase III or efficacy trial. Top government functionaries had no convincing argument to defend the decision. For instance, Director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi — which is also a clinical trial site for Covaxin — declared the vaccine will be a sort of ‘back-up’. The Bharat Biotech Managing Director shot back saying there was no such thing as back- up vaccine. The Health Ministry treated the two vaccines at par in its roll out plans. Independent experts who questioned vaccine approval without efficacy data were dubbed anti-nationals and peddlers of fake news. Politicians like Akhilesh Yadav did their bit by calling it a ‘BJP vaccine’. All such voices provided a perfect cocktail for hesitancy to brew.The only way to build trust in vaccines and convert hesitancy into acceptance is to be transparent and accountable. The drug regulator should instill public confidence in its approval and regulatory processes. The government, which has a direct stake in both the vaccines, should be transparent about clinical trial and adverse events data. It should accept accountability if something goes wrong during the clinical trials, as it reportedly happened in Bhopal, and for adverse events of a serious nature. Every statement a government functionary makes about the vaccines should be backed by evidence. Instead, the government seems to be in a mood to target critical voices through force and penal action by asking the states to invoke provisions of the Disaster Management Act. Let’s remember, trust can’t be earned through authority, and vaccine hesitancy can’t be countered without trust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/counter-vaccine-hesitancy-by-building-trust-204875
29-01-2021||---||Food chain consolidation limiting choices||Every time you walk into a super market or an average looking grocery store, you are likely to be overwhelmed by ample choices. The retail shelves are packed with abundant supplies of food products — coming in attractive packages and with alluring sale offers — which give you an illusion of widening choices.In reality, the choices are getting restricted. Most of these products are being produced by a few companies, their numbers decreasing over the years. The reason — food processing and retail business is getting concentrated — dominated by a handful of companies. So much so, some agribusiness companies have been known to put on the shelves similar kinds of product under different brand names.If you think consolidation is happening only in the food retailing industry, hold your breath. Concentration and consolidation is not only happening in food retail but across the food value chain, thereby reducing choices, and leading first to monopolies and subsequently to building conglomerates that control the value chain. As Dr William Heffernan of the University of Missouri had forewarned way back in 1991, the control is going to be from ‘the gene to the supermarket shelf’.This is exactly what has happened. With first horizontal and then vertical integration, followed subsequently by global expansion, the very fundamental of the market economy — that more choices means more competition — has got severely limited. In fact, with an increasing spate of acquisitions and mergers that the world is witnessing, more so since the mid-1980s, competitiveness has been the biggest casualty. As Heffernan and some other economists had shown, when four companies gain dominance over 40 per cent of the market, it no longer remains competitive. The choices then disappear.The concentration of ownership leads to concentration of wealth and power. In the food value chain, it is this unwieldy concentration of power that decides what to produce, and what to eat. With the decision making a shift from the communities to the board room, even the food choices are getting limited. The romance with traditional foods is slowly fading away. The exponential growth in junk foods, leading to a spurt in obesity and lifestyle diseases, is a classic example. Lab-grown food will further take away food choices and bring more corporate control over food. As if this is not enough, reports say the United States now wants the private sector to act as an educational agent for food and nutrition.Over the years, the world is witnessing a convergence among the three major players — technology companies, trading companies, and the big retail — to exert a greater influence in drawing appropriate policies at the national as well as international level so as to help with consolidation. The policy of ‘get big or get out’ that the US pushed since the early 1970s has reframed public policies in agriculture to usher in consolidation across the entire food chain. This is perhaps what the Indian farmers are worried about, the protest actually aiming at protecting the farm livelihoods by ensuring an assured income by way of an assured price. What they are asking for holds the key to reclaiming the power imbalance in the food systems that has built in over the decades.Whether it is land, seed or livestock, the consolidation that has happened in the US has set a global trend. While small farmers abandoned agriculture, an interesting study entitled ‘The Food System: Concentration and its Impacts’ for the Family Farm Action Alliance in the US, tells how the share of farms above an average of 2,000 acres has doubled in 40 years, from 15 per cent to 37 per cent; and dairy farms have grown in size, with the average number of dairy cattle increasing from 80 to 1,300 in the same period.According to the 2020 Land Report, Bill and Melinda Gates are now America’s top farmland owners with 242,000 acres. The next in the list is the Offutt family, owning 190,000 acres. Considering that Ted Turner and David Rockefeller have been recipients of massive farm subsidies in the past (they too own large tracts of farm land), it will be interesting to know how much farm subsidies the Gates family is entitled to. This also points to a different form of land consolidation.Coming back to agriculture, with the big six seed companies seeing mergers and acquisitions, reducing their number to four, their share of the global seed market is around 59 per cent. With Trade-related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) agreement, and many countries now bringing in policies to stop or restrict the use of traditional seeds, the consolidation of the seed industry is further strengthened. IPR policies are also leading to privatisation of genetic resources. Seed biotech companies insert a gene in a plant species and it becomes a new variety, with ownership shifting to the company. The genetic uniformity that the seed industry is ushering in raises concerns over the destruction from monocultures.The three agro-chemical giants — Bayer/Monsanto, ChemChina/Syngenta and DowDupont — have 64 per cent share of the global pesticides market. First, the seed industry dovetailed pesticides usage in the varieties developed, and now the genetically-modified seed varieties with genes for herbicide tolerance leads to increasing sales of the particular herbicides. The use of pesticides has in fact grown after the introduction of GM varieties despite claims to the contrary.Similarly, consolidations have happened across the entire food chain.All this leads to the question as to who controls food? Consolidation is aimed at keeping food cheap, by externalising the socio-economic and environmental costs. This is going to exacerbate further with increasing concentration of food power in the hands of a few companies. The true cost of cheap food is not only health and environment destruction, but also in the resulting sufferings of farmers who are denied their rightful income for what they produce. This leads to a worrying situation where farmers quit agriculture and the companies take over. And this is what the protesting farmers are worried about.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/food-chain-consolidation-limiting-choices-204874
29-01-2021||The peaceful agitation of the farmers had put the Modi government on the backfoot. The violent turn that the protest took on Republic Day in the heart of our Capital city has given the government the proverbial edge.||Setback to farmers’ cause||Both sides must pause and take stock of the situation. Both have to tread very carefully to ensure a viable solution acceptable to all concerned. The government cannot afford to capitulate to the demands of the farmers. Scrapping the three farm laws will make a legitimately empowered government look weak. A compromise has to be reached. A possible compromise would be for the government to discuss the merits and demerits of the laws with farmers’ representatives in each state separately and make the laws applicable to those states only where the preponderance of opinion favours their implementation, with or without modifications.This suggestion is made by an uninformed observer searching for a compromise. Perhaps, this solution is not feasible, in which case it can be summarily rejected and forgotten. But those who know and can help to come to a just conclusion will have to think out of the box.How did a small section of farmers create so much damage to their own cause? Were they saboteurs, as some observers had warned the farmers about? And if they were a fifth column, was this group a creation of Gurpatwant Singh Pannu’s Sikhs for Justice, which is US based, but has some following in Punjab among youth? Or, God forbid, was the group a creation of those keen on the new laws and thought it expeditious to create a rift in the farmer’s lobby?These questions need to be answered first before the farmers, or even the government, decides on its next course of action. If the culprits are only an offshoot of the main body that had decided to assert themselves because they had ideological differences with the acknowledged leaders, then the solution will be a lot easier to find despite the flip side of a split in the ranks.If the fifth column has been the creation of foreign-based Sikh organisations, both the protesters and the government will have to tread slowly. The wounds caused by ‘Khalistani’ terrorism on the body politic are still not fully healed. Great care and caution has to be exercised that no wrong move is made, specially by the government, which may provide the impetus for the revival of an anti-national movement. There are always disgruntled elements ready to join such malcontents even when they have experienced marginalisation in the Bhindranwale years and the subsequent era of ‘Khalistani’ terror.Fortunately, the Modi government has the expert services of Ajit Doval to guide it through such a crisis if it should arise. Doval, in turn, has the services of Datta Padsalgikar, a level-headed, low-key deputy, to advise him on internal security matters. Those two ex-IPS officers are capable enough to guide their political bosses through potential dangers.The danger of relapsing to terrorism is a live one. The farmers’ agitation is a live, potential hazard that can lead to such a pass. It has to be navigated by proven mariners like Ajit Doval and Datta Padsalgikar. If, however, the recalcitrant group has the blessings of the authorities, then that would be a different ball game altogether. I do not see such a game succeeding and I do hope and pray there is no such game. I have seen the authorities in Maharashtra creating a Frankenstein by secretly encouraging the Shiv Sena to get the better of the communists. I have seen the birth of ‘Khalistani’ terrorism on the back of a religious leader pushed centre stage to neutralise the Akalis. I would not advocate such strategies. They invariably boomerang and are best avoided.So, the first task that the farmer leaders will have to undertake is to unearth the culprits of yesterday’s fiasco. That should not be difficult. Their identities have been captured on camera and CCTVs. The police will almost surely be on their tails by now. If they are dissidents from their own ranks, it can be confirmed from the photographs.If they are planted by foreign-based organisations or inimical governments, that will be only a shade more difficult to detect but finally a conclusion will surely be reached. And here, the government will be in a better position to investigate. In fact, the government had already warned the farmers to expect a disturbance from such foreign elements! Obviously, this type of intelligence would be available only to the authorities.If, however, the ones involved in the violence were planted by the authorities, then it will be almost impossible to ascertain the truth. Already there appears on television screens an image of Deep Sidhu, a Punjabi actor and a man closely connected to the ruling party at the Centre, allegedly involved with the person who supplanted the Nishan Sahib, the Sikh Panth’s flag, at the Red Fort. This man’s name did not figure in the first FIR registered by the Delhi Police about the mayhem within the monument’s precincts. It must be ascertained who it was that set him up. Till his exact role is established, a doubt will linger about the government’s role in fomenting the riots.If a government department is involved, then the true culprits will not be brought to book and you will see a repeat of NE Delhi’s riots investigation and the consequent arrest of farm leaders, instead of the real culprits responsible for sabotaging the peaceful nature of the protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/setback-to-farmers-cause-204823
