30-01-2021||---||Hospitals should gear up for post-Covid phase||A marked decline in the number of daily infected persons and consequent decrease in the number of deaths are redeeming, but should these developments lull the healthcare personnel and the population into complacency? For prevention of a second wave, measures like avoiding crowded places, social distancing, mask-wearing and hand hygiene should continue. Regular exercise, sunshine, good sleep and nutrition, besides shunning smoking and alcohol, could be added to the list to prevent long-term complications in the post-Covid phase.A vaccine may also help in the prevention of infection, but its long-term efficacy is yet to be established. In any case, it has no role in the prevention of post-Covid complications. In fact, mild adverse symptoms and occasional death have been reported after vaccination. Whether the vaccinated person can be a super-spreader or himself develop complications like long-haulers in the long run is not known at present.Those who appear to have recovered also need extended supervision by the hospitals. They can develop clinical signs and symptoms weeks and months later — extreme fatigue, brain fog, sleep deprivation, heart palpitations, shortness of breath, chest pain, dizziness, pins and needles in hands or feet, nausea, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, loss of appetite, fever, dry cough, headaches, sore throat, loss of sense of smell, taste or vision, skin rashes, joint pain, depression and anxiety. While serious cases will need hospitalisation, the mild ones can be treated at home under supervision. If the hospital cannot extend such services, the family physician should be treated as an extension of the hospital. The need for setting up multi-specialty post-Covid clinics in every hospital is paramount.Besides Covid-19, the pent-up demand of non-Covid patients of communicable as well as non-communicable diseases is bound to explode as normal hospital services remain suspended. How long can these chronic and co-morbid patients who needed ongoing health maintenance wait? The euphoria of dealing with the coronavirus or its vaccines while neglecting childhood vaccinations and maternal services of millions, besides obesity, diabetes, hypertension, heart diseases, asthma, tuberculosis, nutritional and environmental ailments cannot usher in a healthy society.According to a study in The Lancet, more than 75% of the people hospitalised for Covid still had at least one symptom six months after recovering. The distressing symptoms may come suddenly even among those who had mild signs at the time of primary infection. In addition, there were asymptomatic patients, who never came on record, but had definite virus infection.That makes a huge number of vulnerable persons who may require medical attention or hospitalisation in the coming months on account of post-Covid complications. Why the relapse of symptoms? Persistent viraemia due to weak antibody response, relapse or re-infection, inflammatory and other immune reactions, de-conditioning, and mental factors such as post-traumatic stress may all contribute. Some cases of kidney damage, brain fungal and spinal infections also came to notice in those sick for months.Complications related to heart and blood vessels due to clots can result in sudden deaths. While large clots can cause heart attacks and strokes, much of the heart damage caused by Covid-19 is believed to stem from very small clots that block tiny blood vessels in the heart muscle. Imaging tests, months after recovery, showed lasting damage to the heart muscle, even in people who experienced only mild Covid symptoms. This may increase the risk of heart failure.Similarly, the pneumonia often associated with Covid can cause long-standing damage to the lungs and consequent breathing problems. Brain involvement, even in young people, can cause strokes, seizures and a temporary paralysis. Many people who had recovered can continue to suffer chronic fatigue syndrome, a complex disorder characterised by extreme fatigue that worsens with physical or mental activity, but doesn’t improve with rest. Obesity and Covid make a deadly cocktail.The novel coronavirus makes the body vulnerable to stress and the use of antibiotics and other medicines can likewise debilitate the immune system. Try to have a well-organised eating regimen loaded with organic products, vegetables and safe poultry items to compensate for the lost appetite. The immune system and vitamin D blood level have a close relationship. If you want a strong immune system, vitamin-D level of 50 to 80 ng/ml is recommended. However, there are other vitamins and minerals necessary for a strong immune system: Vitamins A, B5, B12, C, E, minerals iron, selenium, magnesium, zinc, copper, probiotics and Omega-3 fatty acids. Don’t hope to resume your normal exercise routine right after you get back home or test negative for the virus. Keep in mind that you have quite recently battled an illness that severely attacked your immune system.Some guidelines on exercises for convalescing patients are: Mild symptoms — limit activity to walking or equivalent; increase rest periods if symptoms worsen; for persistent symptoms like fatigue, cough, breathlessness and fever, limit activity to slow walk or breathing exercises until two to three weeks after symptoms resolve; patients who had lymphopenia or required oxygen need respiratory assessment before resuming; patients who had cardiac involvement need cardiac assessment.There is a need to have pulse oximeters handy. If the oxygen level is less than 90%, report to the hospital. If there are symptoms like breathlessness, palpitations and blue lips, call your doctor. If many of such recovered patients require services, it can overwhelm the already stressed and financially strapped healthcare system, full of burned-out providers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/hospitals-should-gear-up-for-post-covid-phase-205231
30-01-2021||---||China may trigger fresh crisis along LAC||The standoff at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh is set to continue through the winter. There is minimal possibility of any significant military moves during the winter months, and it has been reported that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has already moved 10,000 soldiers from depth areas back to their permanent garrisons in Xinjiang and Tibet military regions. The Indian Army, even if it wishes to, will find it more difficult to pull out soldiers. With the roads to Ladakh closed, both the moving out of troops and their re-induction in an emergency, is extremely difficult.Even as soldiers battle the winter conditions, the greater challenge for the Indian Army lies in anticipating events and preparing for contingencies in the coming summer months. The overall political intent of the Chinese leadership in precipitating the crisis along the border is still open to differing interpretations, but eight months into the standoff, there is greater clarity to their military aims. The PLA military strategy appears to be focused on two objectives — strengthening control over the disputed areas along the LAC and overcoming their war-fighting weaknesses in Tibet.It is becoming increasingly evident that the primary element of the PLA’s military strategy is to change the nature of disputed areas to give permanence to their claims. In Ladakh, this is being attempted by physically occupying the disputed areas on the north bank of Pangong Tso or physically preventing the Indian patrols from going up to their claim lines at Depsang. Despite nine rounds of military-level talks, there has been no movement forward on disengagement from these two areas.The construction of a village in the disputed Longju sector of Arunachal Pradesh is another ploy to firm up China’s claims. While this area has been under Chinese control since 1959, the fact that India also has a claim to this area is well known to both sides. It had been an accepted norm that both countries should avoid any provocative move in the disputed areas. In 2014 and 2016, the PLA had objected to the construction of small irrigation projects at Demchok, claiming this was a disputed area. However, all protocols and norms have now lost their sanctity.In 2005, both countries signed an agreement on the ‘Political Parameters and Guiding Principles for the Settlement of the India-China Boundary Question’. Article VII of the agreement states, “In reaching a boundary settlement, the two sides shall safeguard due interests of their settled populations in the border areas.” By building villages and settling civilians in disputed areas, India could be presented with a fait accompli during the border negotiations.The second element of the PLA’s strategy is to overcome its war-fighting weaknesses in Tibet, and many of the steps undertaken by the PLA in this regard precede the Ladakh standoff. The most obvious disadvantage is faced by the PLA Air Force due to the rudimentary support facilities at the airfields and the problems in operating from high-altitude facilities, which limit the fuel and weapon payloads that can be carried by an aircraft. Some of these weaknesses are now being attempted to be overcome through the development of new military facilities. A September 2020 Stratfor report by Sim Tack pointed out that after the Dokalam incident of 2017, China “started constructing at least 13 entirely new military positions near its borders with India.”The new constructions include three air bases, five permanent air defence positions, and five heliports. Four air defence positions are coming up within the existing airbases, along with other facilities such as additional runways and blast pens. The report states that the recent Chinese infrastructure developments are aimed at “strengthening its ability to project air power along the entire Indian border.”Another area where the PLA has a deficiency is its training standards and the ability to fight a high-altitude war. Here again, some attempts to improve standards are visible. In the last few years, the Chinese Army has attempted to introduce realism in training by setting up “blue forces” in the combined-arms training centres that act as an enemy to PLA units.Coming specifically to Tibet, the PLA Army and Air Force training exercises have steadily increased over the years. These details have been comprehensively covered in an Observer Research Foundation paper, “PLA joint exercises in Tibet: Implications for India.” What is noteworthy is that in 2018, 2019 and 2020, major PLA exercises were held in January and February, the coldest months of the year. However, for now, the Indian Army still retains its superiority in high-altitude warfare.The 2020 Ladakh incursion by the PLA was an operation that was preceded by many months of preparation and military infrastructure development in Ladakh. It also shows that China is now moving aggressively to establish its claims over the disputed areas and has discarded all the agreements that had kept the peace along the LAC.What does this mean for the coming summer months? It would be strategically prudent for the Indian Army to prepare for a contingency in which the PLA attempts to move into more disputed areas along the LAC, particularly in Arunachal Pradesh. To counter this, we must aggressively secure these areas now before the snows melt and the PLA movements become easier across the Himalayan watershed defining the LAC.An argument is often made that the existing stalemate resulting from our firm stance is a victory for us because we are not acquiescing to Chinese demands. There is certainly some merit in this argument because a stalemate is generally considered a setback for the superior power. However, remaining entirely on the defensive could also mean that we have passed on the initiative to the Chinese and will continue to react to their actions. With talks not making any headway, the summer months could see military jockeying in the disputed areas. Strong and visible military preparation in these areas would serve as deterrence to any PLA action and strengthen our hand in future negotiations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-may-trigger-fresh-crisis-along-lac-205186
30-01-2021||It was as if a Republic Day tableau took a violent life of its own and ended in a sad||Pause, rethink, restart||Does a negotiation hold any meaning if one side has to win and the other lose conclusively and completely? Pause. Every mass movement ought to stop to catch breath when its just demands are met halfway. When the government on January 20 agreed to suspend the contentious farm laws for 18 months (with one of the negotiators suggesting even two years), the farmer leaders should have agreed to reciprocate this gesture. Mature leadership demands a transactional strategy of giving in to take more or ceding to claim the moral high ground. The farmer leaders ought to have sought a longer period of suspension — say, two or three years — and returned home like victors and giant-killers. That a duly elected government agreed to suspend a law for about two years was in itself a great victory for the protesters. Suspension, after all, was just one step short of the repeal or withdrawal of the laws.But this offer was not accorded the respectful deliberations it deserved, and instead was rejected by certain hotheads. It was widely reported that 15 of the 32 farmer unions from Punjab had voted to suspend the agitation and return home. That was the turning point. The 17 who made the 15 succumb to their wishes were taking over the agitation in a show of majoritarian strength and not in the true spirit of democratic decency towards the minority opinion. The more extreme elements who voted against accepting the government’s offer should be held responsible for all that went wrong on Republic Day. The intriguing details of hooliganism by some protesters — like former BJP supporter Deep Sidhu — turn the entire drama at the Red Fort into a multi-act conspiracy play with more prompters backstage than actors upfront.The farmer agitation was a sort of pilgrimage for many Punjabis. Those who chose to see only multi-million tractors, blaring speakers worth lakhs, pizzas and foot massages obviously did not look at those who walked hundreds of kilometres to reach the protest site — a practice of piety for Indians across the country. It was this sombre, prayerful protest that got discredited because some of the units of the Bharatiya Kisan Union decided to take a maximalist position. Does a negotiation hold any meaning if one side has to win and the other lose conclusively and completely? That does not happen even in an outright war unless it is something akin to the destruction of the LTTE and its maximalist chief V Prabhakaran, which resulted in untold misery and racial humiliation to an entire community. The 17 hotheads need to analyse the loss of integrity of the farmer agitation.Rethink. When the President, while addressing the joint sitting of Parliament, on Friday reiterates the government's commitment to respect the Supreme Court’s decision to keep the farm laws on hold, soon after the government’s representatives offering to suspend the laws, the farmer unions ought to recalibrate their next move. The government’s suggestion to suspend the laws, obviously, was a face-saving exit from the cul-de-sac of its own making. Now, by not accepting this proposal, the farmers are walking into a dead end of another kind. They need to rethink their strategy all over again, while keeping the idealistic embers burning for the long haul.For all we know, this Gandhian agitation had the potential to throw up a political alternative for the next general election. By the end of two months, there were comparisons drawn between the farmer agitation and the Anna Hazare movement against corruption that destroyed the credibility of the UPA government and laid the ground for the BJP’s return to power in the 2014 election. The anti-corruption protests had never descended into violence or chaos and were carefully crafted to create a new political platform, which became a nationwide phenomenon, putting the Aam Aadmi Party and Arvind Kejriwal in positions of power. Instead of taking a similar trajectory, the farmer protests have been reduced to an identity play with religious symbolism and brainless bravado as the primary scripts. Non-stop protests by hotheads who mistake negation for negotiation can only promise a comic show of athleticism atop a slippery pole, which the entire Republic Day fiasco was finally all about.Restart. The gains thus frittered away could be best recouped by taking a break now for a new beginning. Government procurement had helped lift masses of farmers from poverty. They would all gradually get aligned with the protesters if they continue to walk the narrow path of non-sectarianism and non-violence, transforming the movement into a national campaign. But that requires the masses to be reassured that this is a farmers’ movement and not a clash of inflamed egos of a few wealthy Punjabi landowners. A decent interval can bring down the tempers and soothe bruised minds and rebuild the protest, if required. On its part, if the government has understood the mood of farmers and does not attempt to implement these laws at all, then the slogan of ‘repeal’ becomes an empty threat of disruption. Our farmers should not turn victory into defeat. How unfortunate it is not to realise that you have succeeded and to keep chasing a mirage!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pause-rethink-restart-205182
