31-01-2021||Anticipated for a few days||Srinagar to Poonch, by air||After our scheduled arrival next morning, pre-flight checks detected a snag in the helicopter. Hot cups of coffee did not dispel the dismay arising out of a delayed departure. As soon as the defect was repaired, 45 minutes later, the pilots suggested that we make a circuit over Srinagar for checking out the serviceability of the machine before heading out. Taking off from the lee of the Zabarwan Range past the impressive seven-terraced Mughal-era Pari Mahal, we headed towards the northern banks of the Dal Lake, then an expanse of caliginous water bereft of its daytime brilliance, and its impassivity broken only by the wake of an occasional shikara. Soon, we were abeam of the Hazratbal dargah, the marble dome of which was bathed in a remarkable pink-orange blush by the sun emerging from behind promontories overlooking the lake. Together with its minaret and the golden leaves of chinar trees, it made for a sublime sight. Satisfied with the aircraft’s performance, the pilots turned around. The Durrani Fort atop Hari Parbat, a 500-foot hillock in downtown Srinagar, came into view. Building upon fortifications commenced in the 16th century, the fort was completed in the early 19th century. Its slopes comprehensively betoken the syncretic culture of Kashmir: the temple of Jagadamba Sharika Bhagwati, the shrine of Hamza Makhdoom (a 16th century Sufi saint) and a gurdwara of the sixth Guru adorn its western, southern and eastern slopes, respectively.Within moments, we were flying past Jamia Masjid in the heart of the old town, the most important mosque of Kashmir valley built in the early 15th century. Encompassing a 3.5-acre grassy courtyard with a large fountain, the mosque sports turrets with pagoda-like roofs on each of its four covered arcades. No dome and no minarets; the building influenced by Indo-Saracenic architectural traditions denotes acceptance of other cultures. My well-informed acquaintances had explained that the roofs of the entire structure are supported by lofty deodar columns, some of 6-foot girth. A privileged aerial view is the only way to appreciate the grandeur of this well-formed and impressive structure.With this unexpected but quick, yet fulfilling, aerial tour of Srinagar, we headed south past the Shankaracharya Hill and its famed 9th century temple dedicated to Lord Shiva and venerated equally by Hindus and Buddhists.Following the narrowing but shimmering Jhelum river several hundred feet below, maturing crocuses on the plateau beyond Pampore preparing to deliver saffron in a few weeks and a bumper apple crop west of our course provided a window into the sources of prosperity of this region. Another dimension of nature’s bounty was evident in the pageant produced by the blaze of autumn colours by ‘flaming’ chinars dotting the valley. My gratifying reverie was interrupted by the Captain, who declared that if the crossing of the Pir Panjal Range was to be achieved, proposed visits to Anantnag and Kokernag would have to be abandoned. He had been eyeballing the clouds gradually enveloping Banihal Pass and the massifs to the west of it, and had determined from the Meteorological Section at Awantipore that there was unlikely to be a let-up. I had no option but to submit.Just before the aircraft banked right to establish a south-westerly course, in the distance, I got a great view of the quadrangular Aishmuqam Ziarat constructed in the 15th century to mark the substantial contribution of Sheikh Zain-ud-din towards promotion of the mystical Rishi (Sufi) culture in Kashmir. Adnan Sami was obviously swayed by the widely held belief that none returns empty-handed from this shrine; he had chosen this venue for his moving rendition of “Bhar do jholi” for the Salman Khan-starrer movie ‘Bajrangi Bhaijan’.Before we crossed Peer ki Gali, a pass at 11,400 feet, into Poonch area of Jammu region, we were treated to a view of the Aharbal waterfall gushing down into a pool of crystal-clear water. On the other side of the pass was Noori Chhamb, a waterfall named after the wife of Mughal Emperor Jehangir high enough to create a permanent mist. Aliabad Sarai and Hirpur Sarai, two Mughal time resting places, were on our flight path; both appeared to have deteriorated significantly.Staying with the 16th century Mughal Road and descending about 8,000 feet, it did not take long to reach Poonch. The helicopter was set down on hallowed ground; an airstrip built by 6,000 refugees in six days in December 1947 soon after the year-long siege of Poonch town commenced. Entrenched positions of the raiders were strafed by Indian aircraft such that construction remained uninterrupted. Soon after, Baba Mehar Singh, legendary IAF pilot, landed the first aircraft on that 600-yard airstrip, under enemy gunfire. His daring effort led to the setting up of an air bridge; Dakotas flew in supplies day and night and extricated refugees on return flights; artillery flown in countered Pakistani bombardment.With the pilots declaring that return to Srinagar was not possible, I wound my way back by road savouring the sights along the 140-km Mughal Road, once traversed by Mughal kings on their way to Kashmir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/srinagar-to-poonch-by-air-205670
31-01-2021||Never before has Pakistan been so pleased at India’s success in cricket than during this January. The Indian team’s outrageous performance in Australia seems to have gladdened the hearts of fans of cricket across the border||The ageing Khan turns partisan||India’s 2004 tour of Pakistan is undoubtedly the peak of brotherliness among fans of the two countries; however, then the hospitable spirit of the Pakistanis, generous and eager to please, played a part in the fans cheering India even as their own team lost. But in India’s wins in Melbourne and Brisbane, and the draw in Sydney, over the last five weeks, Pakistani fans had no personal stake; what they had was love for cricket, support for the underdog and affinity for India — possibly mixed with some dislike for the Australian team. Pakistan’s cricketers, writers and fans showered praise for Ajinkya Rahane and his men, and it clearly came from the heart.Two years ago, when India won a series in Australia for the first time, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan congratulated Virat Kohli and his team. This time, even though the win was more thrilling and valuable, Imran said nothing — two years ago, he was yet to complete a year in office and was leading a people who placed great hopes in him; now there’s disaffection in the country, his words about India are sharp, and there are more important things on his mind than cricket.As Sanjay Manjrekar narrates in his book, when it came to cricket, Imran was no partisan. About an incident of Imran showing concern over his failure and giving him advice on his batting, Manjrekar writes: “I was just floored that my hero liked my batting enough to follow that tour and be disappointed with my failures. This was a Pakistani following the progress of an Indian and wanting him to do well.” Imran then turned to Maninder Singh and expressed concern over his changed action and reduced effectiveness. Clearly, once he walked off the field, Imran did not see borders among cricketers.19 wins out of 24Imran didn’t congratulate Rahane, but two days ago, he did boast about his captaincy record against India. “I must have captained in 24 One-day matches against India,” Imran said. “We won 19! We were always better than them. It was a small board (Pakistan Cricket Board), but as long as the country had confidence, we used to excel in every field!” Amazingly enough, in the middle of a speech on Pakistan’s current situation, Imran could summon from his memory the numbers signifying his success against India. This showed how competitive he was against India, and how much that success still matters to him.Two years ago, Imran hailed India’s win in Australia as “the first ever win by a subcontinent team in a Test series in Australia”. Clearly, he does have a sense of belonging to the Indian subcontinent — his mother was born in Jalandhar and moved across the new border after Pakistan was created.Imran, though he identifies himself as a Pashtun or Pathan, was truly a cricketer sans borders — a Pathan who can’t speak Pashto or Hindko, dated actresses and socialites from India and the West, married a British woman of Jewish heritage with whom he has two sons in England.In a TV interview a few years ago, Imran said he was in a good position to give advice on “our” morals to young people. “A man like me, who has seen the western culture very closely… is more qualified to tell young people what they should guard against… they should not copy another culture like monkeys,” Imran said.Perhaps the young Imran was following the imperatives of young hormones; the older Imran is following the imperatives of older hormones.Being unmoored from social and cultural ties can be very emancipating — Imran was a free bird in his youth; yet, being unmoored can also be unsettling, more so as you age. Imran seems to be experiencing that — in his recent speech, Imran also railed against “Indian culture”. In the past, he has waxed eloquent about “our culture” when talking about Turkish TV show Ertugrul; last year, in a press conference with Turkish President Erdogan, he happily said that “the Turks ruled Hindustan for 600 years”. Having forgotten Pashto, speaking Urdu and not Punjabi, and showing aversion for “Indian culture”, Imran seems to have voted for Turk/Mughal imperialism over British imperialism.But it’s likely that, as a cricketer from the subcontinent, Imran would be gladdened by a team from the region doing well in Australia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-ageing-khan-turns-partisan-205671
31-01-2021||If reality is so harsh and crude||Reality becomes  mirror to fiction||Utopia too was fiction in a way, so was dystopia. Can fiction be a reflection of reality that can depress or excite at will? More important is the question if reality itself is a mirror of fiction. There are numerous cases where the mind envisaged something and it came to pass. What I am trying to get at is that much of fiction is so depressing that reality seems to follow where fiction has led before.For two months last year, I read about 30 or more novels — was a member of a jury and so had to. The dismal caught my attention, but we need to start with the celebratory. Dionysius must take the chair. Though there were just two notable volumes of short stories, one by Aruni Kashyap, who teaches creative writing at Georgia, USA, and one by Kalpish Ratna, Mumbai surgeons Kalpana Swaminathan and Ishrat Syed who write jointly under one name. In their book ‘Synapse’, Kalpish Ratna rightly make fun of Vedic science and Brahminical eugenics and tackle ghostly seductresses. If I may venture to say, even flesh and blood seductresses are hard to tackle!The finest novel I read in 2020 was ‘Kintsugi’ by Anukrti Upadhyay, who has post-graduate degrees in management and literature, works with a wildlife trust and writes in Hindi and English. Anukrti divides her time between Singapore and Mumbai, and has worked in Hong Kong. She knows her beat well. Her research in jewellery-making in Jaipur is flawless and her narrative is seamless. She gives a feminist angle by showing women can also be good sunars. Kintsugi is the Japanese art of repairing broken pottery with gold dust, and here it is used as a metaphor for patching up lives. The narrative starts with jewellery-making. A work of fiction is known by the strength of the narrative, and the depth the writer brings to it. Hers is the story of a girl Leela, daughter of a dead goldsmith, and the Japanese Haruko who comes to Jaipur to learn the sunar’s craft, not just designing, and runs into a bull and gets a broken leg. The section on Japan is flawless, even though it ends with a lesbian suicide. The rest of the novel is sunny. It gladdened my heart to read it.But we need to move towards the depressing if not dystopian. Is that a reflection of an age? Are writers disenchanted with what is happening around us in India? Or is it the norm the world over? Dystopia has almost become a fashion. The narrative would go along perfectly till it nears the end. A woman goes to her ancestral house in Assam where her mother had been badly treated, since she had married outside the community. Then, unaccountably, the novelist dispenses with her in a flood, and she drowns. What is more noteworthy, as in the novel ‘A Burning’ by Master of Fine Arts student Megha Majumdar, the villain triumphs in the end. We have a right-wing madam who becomes Chief Minister and raises a PT Sir, physical trainer at the college, to a party boss. An innocent woman is hanged because the PT Sir does not pass on her mercy petition. Right-wing goons attack a Muslim house, kill the family, loot gold bangles, then open the ice box. There are chickens in it, no beef! That’s the modern version of epiphany. The MFA student-novelist has made a political point, but the plot creaks, whines, squeals like a bad machine badly in need of lubrication.What about blurbs? Amitav Ghosh writes, “The best debut novel I have come across in a long time.” The publishers, Penguin Hamish Hamilton, say, “Taut, symphonic, propulsive and riveting right from the outset, ‘A Burning’ has the force of an epic.” Cyrus Mistry in his novel ‘The Prospect of Miracles’ puts his characters in Kerala. The protagonist marries a pastor, who is a debauch. In the end, she goes off her rocker, the insanity triggered off by the pastor’s widow meeting the gardener Yesu Das. The name Yesu acts as a trigger for setting off hallucinated meetings with Jesus and angel Gabriel. In ‘The Cliffhangers’ by Sabin Iqbal, a right-winger, Balannan, gets into a clinch with a foreigner and rapes her. When he confesses, the Inspector files the case as ‘inconclusive’. Charging him would invite mayhem.Is our fiction a mirror to our reality? Do both act as depressants?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reality-becomes-mirror-to-fiction-205676
